Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive primary malignant tumor of the adult central nervous system, with nearly 90% of cases recurring within two years despite standard surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play critical roles in GBM recurrence, but their characteristics in recurrent GBM remain insufficiently defined. Krüppel-like factor 10 (KLF10) regulates metabolism, mitochondrial function, proliferation, and apoptosis; however, its role in GBM-associated TAMs remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-sequencing data from 16 GBM samples were analyzed to identify recurrence-associated TAMs. Functional features were assessed using GO, KEGG, and CellChat analyses. Marker genes were used to construct a prognostic signature through LASSO and Cox regression. The association between KLF10 and clinicopathological features was evaluated using TCGA data. A GBM cell-macrophage co-culture system was established to examine KLF10 induction, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were used to assess effects on GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.A five-gene prognostic signature comprising KLF10, ZFAND2A, SMAD7, GPR84, and ARHGAP12 was identified. KLF10 expression was associated with WHO grade, IDH mutation, MGMT promoter methylation, 1p/19q co-deletion, molecular subtype, and overall survival, with high KLF10 predicting poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that KLF10-associated genes were linked to ECM-receptor interaction, cell-cycle-related pathways, and cytokine signaling. In vitro, co-culture with GBM cells upregulated KLF10 expression in THP-1-derived macrophages, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were associated with increased GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.KLF10-high macrophages were associated with GBM progression and may serve as a candidate prognostic marker requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chen, Fan, Chen, Cao, Hu, Zhou, Xu and Wang.
To investigate the role of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer (OC). Cisplatin-resistant OC cell lines were employed to construct HDAC2 overexpression and knockdown models, and their effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were examined. Chromatin immunoprecipitation, immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to investigate the regulation of SMAD7 protein stability and promoter activity by HDAC2. Expression of DNA damage repair-related genes was detected by qRT-PCR. A xenograft mouse model was established for in vivo validation. HDAC2 was highly expressed in cisplatin-resistant OC cells. Overexpression of HDAC2 enhanced drug resistance and inhibited apoptosis and DNA damage, whereas knockdown of HDAC2 exhibited the opposite effects. Mechanistically, HDAC2 directly deacetylated the SMAD7 protein to prevent its degradation rather than suppressing its transcription via H3K27 deacetylation. The HDAC2/SMAD7 axis promoted drug resistance by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and modulating DNA damage repair-related genes. In vivo experiments confirmed that HDAC2 knockdown significantly inhibited tumour growth and enhanced the sensitivity. HDAC2 enhances cisplatin resistance in OC by deacetylating and stabilising SMAD7 protein, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and promoting DNA damage repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543772 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a common but serious extra-articular manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RA-associated ILD (RA-ILD), which often presents with the usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) pattern, can resemble idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), though the treatment and progression of these two conditions differ. However, the immunologic and molecular mechanisms associated with RA-ILD and IPF development have not been well elucidated at the single-cell level.To investigate the underlying mechanisms associated with RA-ILD and IPF development, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from five RA-ILD patients and five patients with IPF with a matched age and sex distribution.A high-quality scRNA-seq dataset comprising 31,416 peripheral immune cells was generated. Overall immune composition was similar between groups; however, a significant elevation of NK cells was seen among the RA-ILD PBMCs, with increased expression of cytotoxic and inflammation-related genes (GZMB, GZMH, PRF1) as well as interferon‑related genes (STAT1, STAT3, IRF9, IFNG). Myeloid subsets displayed distinct transcriptional programs in IPF and RA-ILD: IPF CD16⁺ monocytes were enriched for TGF‑β-driven fibrotic signaling, whereas RA-ILD monocytes exhibited type I/II interferon pathway activation. Fibrosis‑related genes (TGFB1, SMAD3, SMAD7, TGIF1) were specifically upregulated in IPF.RA‑ILD and IPF share similar peripheral immune cell compositions, but exhibit distinct transcriptional activation patterns. RA‑ILD is characterized by increased NK‑cell-driven cytotoxic and interferon‑related responses, along with interferon‑activated monocytes. In contrast, IPF shows a TGF‑β-dominant fibrotic program, with transcriptional activation of CD16⁺ monocytes and upregulation of fibrosis‑related genes.
When massive hepatic necrosis (MHN)-associated acute liver failure (ALF) occurs following severe damage, liver progenitor cells (LPCs) exit quiescence and enter differentiation programs during which they acquire hepatocyte-like functions. To date, how LPCs maintain quiescence under physiological conditions and orchestrate activation following MHN remains largely unknown. Here, we elucidate an essential role of TGF-β in regulating LPC quiescence and activation. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell sequencing revealed that LPCs receive multiple signals, particularly TGF-β, HGF, and EGF from surrounding hepatic stellate cells and macrophages in patients and zebrafish with MHN-induced ALF. Physiologically, TGF-β inhibits LPC proliferation by blocking the G1-S phase transition, an effect that was reversed by Smad7 overexpression in a murine injury model. Intriguingly, extensive LPC proliferation was observed in ALF patients despite strong TGF-β-p-SMAD signaling. Immunostaining further revealed concurrent activation of HGF/MET, EGF/EGFR, and downstream STAT3/ERK pathways in LPCs. In vitro, HGF or EGF overcame TGF-β-mediated growth arrest and promoted LPC proliferation. Beyond acting as a mitogen, HGF additionally induced hepatocyte gene programs (e.g., Hnf4a, Hnf1a) in LPCs. Strikingly, TGF-β signaling was required for HGF-dependent hepatocyte gene induction, indicating a dual role in restraining LPC proliferation and promoting functional maturation. These findings position TGF-β as a context-dependent determinant of LPC activation and lineage specification during ALF.
Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is widely utilized for skin rejuvenation and tissue regeneration; however, its biological effects vary according to leukocyte content and molecular composition. We investigated the mechanism by which leukocyte-rich PRP (L-PRP) enhances extracellular matrix (ECM) regeneration in aged skin, focusing on the CCL1-CCR8/pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) signaling axis. First, we demonstrated that L-PRP contains significantly higher levels of CCL1 than platelet-poor plasma (PPP). In senescent human dermal fibroblasts, L-PRP increased CCL1-CCR8 interactions in a manner linked to enhanced formation and nuclear translocation of PKM2 dimers. This enhancement was accompanied by Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway activation and the upregulation of STAT3-dependent anti-apoptotic proteins (Bcl-2, Bcl-xL) and proliferative markers (Cyclin D1), resulting in increased fibroblast proliferation. Furthermore, L-PRP increased PKM2 tetramer levels, promoted PKM2-SMAD7 binding, and reduced SMAD7-mediated inhibition of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β signaling, leading to enhanced SMAD2/3 activation. These molecular events augmented the synthesis of collagen types I and III in senescent fibroblasts. In aged mice, intradermal L-PRP injections elicited dose-dependent increases in fibroblast proliferation, collagen fiber deposition, and skin elasticity. Nuclear PKM2 dimer/STAT3 signaling and PKM2 tetramer/TGF-β signaling were both more strongly activated in the L-PRP group. Our findings identify PKM2 as a central metabolic and signaling integrator linking immune-derived chemokines to fibroblast rejuvenation. This study provides mechanistic insights concerning how L-PRP promotes ECM regeneration in aged skin via coordinated regulation of fibroblast survival, proliferation, and collagen synthesis.
Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common endocrine malignancy. While papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) generally has a favorable prognosis, anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is rare but highly aggressive, with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Macrophages are a major component of the immune infiltrate in TC, and their abundance is associated with poor prognosis. We recently identified upregulation of the immune checkpoint TIM3 (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing protein 3) on M2-like macrophages both in vitro and in ATC xenografts. In addition, we have shown that transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) promotes macrophage polarization toward an M2-like phenotype. However, the role and clinical significance of TGFβ1 in regulating TIM3 expression in TC-associated macrophages remains unclear. We found that TGFβ1 secreted by ATC cells significantly increased HAVCR2 (TIM3) mRNA expression in human monocytes. Analysis of patient samples demonstrated elevated TIM3 expression in both PTC and ATC tissues compared with adenoma and normal thyroid counterparts. Analysis of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets further showed increased TIM3 expression in T cells from both tumor types. Notably, TIM3 upregulation was also localized to M2-like macrophages within the thyroid tumor microenvironment (TME), and positively correlated with TGFB1/CD163 expression, suggesting the involvement of a TGFβ-TIM3 axis in macrophages in TC. Combined targeting of the TIM3 and PD1 pathway in an immunocompetent mouse model of ATC led to a significant reduction in tumor growth. Together, these findings highlight TIM3 as a promising immunotherapeutic target in TC, with the potential to suppress macrophage-mediated pro-tumor activity while enhancing T-cell-driven anti-tumor immunity within the thyroid TME. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Fibroblasts are linked to stress responses in a broad number of diseases. Here, we used immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts (iMEFs) to elucidate their signaling behavior in response to proinflammatory lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and angiotensin II (Ang-II). To test for the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), iMEFs were cultured in glucose- and galactose-containing media promoting glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively. In addition, we used alternative oxidase (AOX), a ubiquinol oxidoreductase that serves as a naturally evolved rescue mechanism in case of ETC disruption. We found that within 24 h of treatment, LPS upregulated a number of proinflammatory genes, namely Tlr4, Il6, Tgfb1, Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il1b; largely, the effect was more pronounced in galactose-containing media and attenuated by AOX. The increase in transcripts resulted partly in elevated cytokine secretion. Twenty-four hours of Ang-II treatment also induced these genes, albeit to a lesser degree and less sensitive to AOX. Cellular oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) were higher in galactose media but remained unaffected by either stimulus. Our results suggest that fibroblasts undergo a similar proinflammatory phenotypic shift in response to different stressors. This response is shaped by ETC activity, which, surprisingly, is not reflected in altered OCRs.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common inflammatory disorder of the nasal mucosa triggered by allergens and characterized by sneezing, nasal congestion, and itching. This study aimed to identify and validate potential biomarkers associated with immune dysregulation in AR via bioinformatics analyses initiated with chemokine-related genes. MATERIAL AND METHODS AR-related datasets (GSE75011 and GSE50223) and 69 chemokine-related genes were analyzed via differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify candidate genes. Random forest analysis was used to select optimal features. Expression analysis identified potential immunoregulatory biomarkers that were downregulated in AR samples. A nomogram incorporating these biomarkers was constructed as an exploratory tool to estimate individual AR probability and support future diagnostic model development. RESULTS Early growth response protein 2 (EGR2) and transforming growth factor-ß1 (TGFB1) were identified as chemokine-related biomarkers in AR. Immune infiltration analysis showed significant correlations between TGFB1 and M2 macrophages, as well as activated memory CD4+ T cells. Drug prediction identified tretinoin as a potential therapeutic agent targeting both biomarkers; molecular docking confirmed stable binding of the 3 top-ranked predicted drugs with TGFB1. Pilot reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated downregulation of EGR2 and TGFB1 in AR samples, providing preliminary supportive evidence. Gene set enrichment analysis indicated involvement in the MAPK and p53 signaling pathways, suggesting roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle regulation, and stress responses. CONCLUSIONS EGR2 and TGFB1 offer potential immunoregulatory biomarkers for AR diagnosis and may provide preliminary insights into AR pathogenesis and potential treatment strategies.
The heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma lead to poor prognosis. Autophagy, as a key cellular process, interacts with tumor immune infiltration and jointly affects the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, but its core regulatory genes and mechanisms are still unclear.This study integrated three lung adenocarcinoma transcriptome datasets from the GEO database and performed cross-analysis with the human autophagy gene set to screen for differentially expressed autophagy-related genes. Identify core prognostic genes by constructing protein interaction networks and combining them with machine learning algorithms (Cox regression, SHAP analysis). Use the independent dataset GSE68465 to validate the model through a combination of 100 algorithms. Further elucidate the function, cellular localization, and association with smoking risk of core genes through enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, single-cell transcriptome analysis, and network toxicology.A total of 276 shared autophagy‑related differentially expressed genes were identified. Using machine learning, five core genes-ENG, CDH1, KLF4, IL6, and MMP9-were selected. In the independent validation cohort, the prognostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.9). Enrichment analysis revealed that the core genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cellular senescence, autophagy, and FoxO signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages and naïve B cells were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues, whereas resting dendritic cells were downregulated. Single‑cell analysis identified specific expression of genes including CDH1 and TGFB1 in type II alveolar cells and immune cells. Network toxicology and molecular docking confirmed that nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoke, exhibits high‑affinity binding to the core genes CDH1, HIF1A, KLF4, TGFB1, and BCL2.This study successfully identified and validated a robust prognostic feature consisting of five autophagy-related genes. These genes play a key role in the development of lung adenocarcinoma by regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, cell communication, and responding to external risk factors, providing new potential targets for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Investigating the molecular mechanism of granulosa cell dysfunction is vital to understand the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).Based on bioinformatics analysis, we analyzed the differentially expressed genes and their enrichment pathways between PCOS patients and normal samples. We also analyzed the levels of CD14 and miR-296-3p in PCOS patients. Pearson correlation coefficient was used to analyze the correlation between CD14 expression and PCOS-related inflammatory factors. CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR and western blotting were performed to explore the mechanism of CD14 modulated via miR-296-3p in KGN cells in vitro.The gene expression data of PCOS and normal individuals in the GEO database, as well as the experimental data in KGN cells.KGN cells were subjected to the following interventions: Transfection with miR-296-3p inhibitor to suppress miR-296-3p expression; Transfection with small interfering RNA targeting CD14 (si-CD14) to knock down CD14; Co-transfection with si-CD14 and miR-296-3p inhibitor to evaluate the rescue effect. The detections included CCK-8, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR and Western blotting.The expression of CD14 in patients with PCOS and KGN cells, and its correlation with inflammatory factors; The expression of MiR-296-3p in patients with PCOS, and its regulatory relationship with CD14; The effect of MiR-296-3p/CD14 on the viability and apoptosis of KGN cells; The influence of MiR-296-3p/CD14 on the NF-κB pathway.CD14 was up-regulated in PCOS patients and KGN cells, and the expression of CD14 was positively correlated with the expression of inflammatory factors (CAT, CCL2, ICAM1, IL10, MMP9 and TGFB1) related to PCOS. miR-296-3p was the upstream regulatory factor of CD14, and miR-296-3p inhibitor could promote cell apoptosis and inhibit cell viability. On the contrary, knockdown of CD14 in KGN cells inhibited apoptosis and promoted cell viability. Importantly, KGN cells co-transfected with si-CD14 and miR-296-3p could reverse the effects of miR-296-3p inhibitor and si-CD14 on the biological behavior of KGN cells. Moreover, miR-296-3p/CD14 axis mediated activation of NF-κB pathway in KGN cells.Down-regulation of CD14 attenuated the miR-296-3p inhibitor-induced increase in apoptosis and decrease in cell viability by suppressing NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings contribute to further understanding of the pathogenesis of PCOS and provide potential biomarkers for PCOS.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) encompasses a progressive spectrum of hepatic injury, with alcoholic hepatitis (AH) and alcoholic cirrhosis (AC) representing clinically severe and mechanistically interconnected stages. Despite significant disease burden, therapeutic strategies targeting core molecular drivers of disease progression remain limited. Identifying conserved regulatory determinants across AH and AC may provide a rational framework for mechanism-driven therapeutic intervention. S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe), a key metabolic intermediate involved in methylation and redox homeostasis, has shown hepatoprotective potential; however, its direct molecular targets in ALD remain poorly characterized.An integrative in silico framework was employed to identify conserved molecular signatures and evaluate SAMe-target interactions. Publicly available transcriptomic datasets from the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analysed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AH and AC, followed by Venn-based intersection to determine shared DEGs. Functional enrichment (GO and KEGG) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were conducted to identify key regulatory hub genes. Selected hub proteins were subjected to molecular docking with SAMe and the stability of the resulting protein-ligand complexes was further evaluated using 100ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in conjunction with MM/GBSA binding free energy calculations.This integrative analysis identified 826 shared DEGs enriched in pathways associated with intracellular signalling, transcriptional regulation and extracellular matrix (ECM) organization. Network analysis revealed TGFB1, COL1A2, ESR1, PDGFRA, LUM and BCL2 as central hub genes. Molecular docking demonstrated favourable binding interactions of SAMe with these targets, with TGFB1 exhibiting the highest binding affinity (-7.0 Kcal/mol). MD simulations confirmed stable conformational dynamics of SAMe-bound complexes, particularly TGFB1, characterized by reduced structural fluctuations, increased compactness and sustained hydrogen bonding. Binding free energy analysis further supported the thermodynamic stability of these interactions, with the TGFB1-SAMe complex showing the most favourable energy profile.Collectively, these findings identify conserved molecular signatures linking AH and AC and suggest potential molecular interactions between SAMe and key regulatory proteins implicated in disease progression. By integrating transcriptomic, network and structural analyses, this study provides a systems-level framework for understanding the molecular landscape of ALD and offers a basis for future experimental studies aimed at evaluating therapeutic strategies targeting shared disease determinants.Copyright © 2026 Nandagopal, Munieswaran and Manickam.
A positive effect of sleeve gastrectomy on the structural and functional characteristics of the left ventricular myocardium in rats with normal body weight and post-infarction CHF was demonstrated. Sleeve gastrectomy attenuated the upregulated myocardial expression of the Trpc6 and Tgfb1 genes involved in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarction. These findings attest to a reduction of the negative effects of post-infarction cardiac remodeling.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignancy characterized by abnormal myeloid proliferation. Despite therapeutic advances, relapse is frequent. Understanding the tumor microenvironment (TME), particularly the dysfunction and interactions of natural killer (NK) cells, is essential for improving immunotherapeutic strategies such as chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) and chimeric antigen receptor natural killer cell (CAR-NK) therapies.This study aimed to characterize the AML TME using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), focusing on NK cell dysfunction and their interactions with immunosuppressive cell populations.We investigated single-cell RNA sequencing data from 59 samples, comprising 40 AML and 19 healthy donor (HD) samples, obtained from public sources and processed using standard methods. After quality control and doublet removal, 284,687 high-quality cells were retained. Acute myeloid leukemia malignant cells were identified using cluster-specific occupancy scores and inferred copy number variations. Batch effects were corrected with Harmony, followed by clustering and cell-type annotation using SingleR and established markers. We performed pathway activity profiling with gene set variation analysis (GSVA), explored intercellular communication using CellChat, and inferred cellular trajectories with Monocle3. Functional characteristics of NK cell subsets were evaluated using curated gene sets, and transcriptional regulation was assessed with pySCENIC.Single-cell RNA sequencing of 40 AML and 19 HD samples identified 76 cell clusters, including patient-specific malignant cells with elevated copy number variations (CNVs). Acute myeloid leukemia samples showed altered immune composition, with increased plasma cells and hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)/progenitor populations. T-cell analysis revealed higher proportions of exhausted CD8+T_LAG3 and immunosuppressive CD4+T_FOXP3 cells in AML, while CD4+T_GZMK cells were more abundant in HD samples. Natural killer (NK) cells exhibited AML-specific subtypes, notably NK_CD56dim_DNAJB1, characterized by terminal exhaustion and high stress scores. Myeloid analysis showed elevated LAMP3+ dendritic cells and macrophages in AML. Notably, enhanced interactions between NK_CD56dim_DNAJB1 and CD8+ T cells via TGFB1-TGFBR signaling suggest key immunoregulatory mechanisms in AML progression.This study highlights the cellular heterogeneity and complex immune interactions within the AML microenvironment, offering insights into immune evasion and informing future immunotherapeutic and targeted treatment strategies.
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) medical therapy is a major advancement for Crohn's disease (CD) management, yet many patients fail to respond. This study aims to develop and evaluate a multi-modal ensemble model to predict anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric patients with CD using pre-treatment magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) and non-imaging clinical data.This retrospective study included 92 pediatric CD patients (median [IQR] age, 14.6 [12.7, 16.6] years; 65.2% male; 37 responders and 55 non-responders) who underwent MRE within 3 months before initiating anti-TNF therapy between 2009 and 2021. Responders achieved mucosal healing within 36 months; non-responders did not, underwent surgery, or changed therapy. Four pre-treatment feature sets were used: (1) radiologist MRE assessment, (2) radiomic features from bowel regions, (3) deep learning features from representative bowel images, and (4) non-imaging clinical features. A 2-stage stacking ensemble model was trained and evaluated. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was the primary performance metric.The multi-modal ensemble model integrating all MRE-based features achieved an AUROC of 0.771 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.745, 0.797], outperforming models using individual feature types (radiologist assessment: 0.706 [0.691, 0.721]; radiomic: 0.710 [0.691, 0.729]; deep learning: 0.724 [0.700, 0.749]). Combining MRE and clinical features (0.739 [0.696, 0.781]) achieved the highest AUROC of 0.817 [0.793, 0.842], though not significantly (P = .10). Radiomic features reflecting intensity distribution and texture heterogeneity were most predictive of treatment response.A multi-modal ensemble model combining MRE-based radiologist assessment, radiomic, deep learning, and clinical features accurately predicted anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric CD patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Corneal neovascularization (CoNV) treatment via ocular drug delivery remains challenging because rapid ocular clearance and limited tissue penetration result in low bioavailability, reduced therapeutic efficacy, and the need for frequent administration. Although polymer-based delivery systems can provide sustained release, their clinical translation may be limited by low drug loading, suboptimal release kinetics, and potential toxicity associated with polymer degradation products. Here, we developed a carrier-free subconjunctival depot platform composed of pure regorafenib crystals, including microcrystals (∼5 µm) and nanocrystals (∼260 nm), to achieve sustained release through a dissolution/diffusion-controlled mechanism without the need for a polymer matrix. Both formulations maintained crystallinity and their initial particle size during 12 months of storage at 4 °C. Nanocrystals exhibited faster dissolution and clearance, whereas microcrystals provided prolonged local retention, maintaining detectable regorafenib levels through eight months after a single administration. In vivo imaging and histological analyses demonstrated the formation of dense monolithic depots within the subconjunctival space, supporting sustained release and local retention. In prophylactic CoNV models, nanocrystals enhanced tissue penetration and produced greater early inhibition of angiogenic sprouting than microcrystals (p < 0.05). In therapeutic models of established neovascularization, a single 2 mg subconjunctival injection of either formulation induced comparable and sustained regression of neovessels for up to eight months, with efficacy significantly greater than that of 0.5 mg bevacizumab administered at 2-month intervals (p < 0.01). In addition, the 1 mg microcrystal formulation reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, and VEGF expression relative to saline-treated controls and were associated with improved corneal epithelial healing compared with bevacizumab. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that carrier-free pure drug crystal depots can provide sustained ocular delivery for at least eight months following a single administration, while crystal size governs the balance between initial tissue exposure and long-term retention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a highly prevalent and lethal digestive system malignancy worldwide, which mostly develops through a multi-step progression from normal mucosa to adenoma and finally invasive carcinoma. Lack of specific biomarkers for precancerous lesions limits early screening and intervention efficacy. This study aimed to investigate the differential expression of Dickkopf-related protein 4 (DKK4) in CRC and its correlation with clinicopathological features, and to construct a DKK4-based risk prediction model for CRC.Bioinformatics analysis was performed to predict the biological functions and immunoregulatory roles of DKK4. A risk prediction model was established using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression. The correlation between DKK4 expression and pathological features in colorectal adenomas (CRAs) and carcinomas was analyzed through hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and immunohistochemistry (IHC).DKK4 was lowly expressed in normal colorectal mucosal tissues, significantly upregulated in CRAs with low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (LGIN) and high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (HGIN) with the peak expression in HGIN tissues, and notably downregulated in invasive CRC tissues compared with adenomas (P<0.05). Its expression correlated with tumor mutation burden (P=0.008) and was functionally enriched in the Wnt signaling pathway. DKK4 showed differential expression in CD4+ T cells, macrophages (P<0.05) and modulated immune-related genes, including: Immunostimulatory genes (CD80, ENTPD1, IFNA2, IFNG, PRF1), Immunosuppressive genes (ARG1, CD274, EDNRB, VEGFB) (P<0.05). The LASSO-derived risk model (λ=0.00413) demonstrated predictive performance with areas under the curve (AUCs) in Training set: 0.676 (1-year), 0.695 (3-year), 0.657 (5-year) and Validation set: 0.634 (1-year), 0.596 (3-year), 0.561 (5-year). IHC revealed higher DKK4 was predominantly localized in colorectal glandular cells, and its stage-specific expression pattern was closely associated with glandular structural atypia and adenoma-carcinoma transition.The DKK4-based risk prediction model shows moderate predictive value for 1-3-year short-term survival in CRC patients. DKK4 exhibits a stage-specific expression pattern during colorectal tumorigenesis and primarily acts in the precancerous stage of adenoma-carcinoma transition, which makes it a potential specific biomarker for CRC precancerous lesion screening, providing a new molecular target for early CRC screening and intervention.© AME Publishing Company.
Inflammatory response-related signaling pathways are associated with Atherosclerosis (AS), yet the particular inflammation-related genes underpinning this process are still not fully characterized.In this study, we integrated two independent transcriptomic datasets with a manually curated inflammation-related gene collection. To identify inflammation-related genes with altered expression, we intersected inflammation-related genes (IRGs), differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between atherosclerosis (AS） and controls, and inflammation score-associated genes (ISRGs) obtained from weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) for downstream analyses. The shared genes among these sets were designated as differentially expressed inflammation-related genes (DEIRGs). We then used the DEIRGs to assemble a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and screen for potential hub genes. Univariate logistic regression, together with least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, was used to screen candidate inflammation-related biomarkers. Their expression was then validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). On the basis of the validated biomarkers, we constructed a diagnostic model. As a final analysis, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) was used to clarify the major signaling pathways and regulatory networks associated with these biomarkers.Nineteen DEIRGs were obtained as the intersection of the IRG, DEG, and ISRG gene sets. Then, 16 critical genes were identified following PPI analysis. Next, 13 feature genes were filtered using logistic analysis, of which 11 were protective elements, and 2 were risk elements. Four biomarkers (PIK3R5, ADM, RGS16, and B7RP1) were screened by LASSO analysis and RT-qPCR. IPA showed that these inflammation-related biomarkers are mainly enriched in humoral immunity and pathogen-related signaling pathways. Meanwhile, analysis of the regulatory network indicated that STAT3 and KLF6 activated ADM expression and IFNA2 activated IFNAR1 expression.In this study, we identified four inflammation-related biomarkers of AS (ADM, PIK3R5, B7RP1 and RGS16) that may serve as novel indicators for the diagnosis of patients with atherosclerosis.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Allergic asthma and allergic rhinitis (AR) are among the most frequent chronic conditions in the pediatric age. They frequently coexist in children and are sustained by type 2- driven airway inflammation and impaired epithelial-immune interactions. Immunonutritional and postbiotic strategies have been proposed as adjunctive therapeutic approaches for these diseases.To explore the clinical and immunomodulatory potential of a multicomponent immunonutritional supplement containing postbiotics in children with concomitant allergic asthma and AR.The ImmuneNutrition Against Pediatric Respiratory Allergies (INAPRA) study was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled exploratory pilot trial. Forty children aged 5-12 years with asthma and AR sensitized to Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus were randomized (1:1) to receive a daily multicomponent supplement (sodium butyrate, heat-inactivated L. rhamnosus GG, fructooligosaccharides, vitamin D3, docosahexaenoic acid, quercetin, and Perilla frutescens extract) or placebo for 6 months. Co-primary outcomes were changes in respiratory symptom control assessed by Childhood Asthma Control Test (c-ACT), CARATkids, and Total Nasal Symptom Score (TNSS). Secondary outcomes included cytokine production, regulatory T-cell rate and tolerogenic gene expression (gfb1, Ptgs2, Csf2, and Ifna2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Immunological assays were performed in vitro on PBMCs collected before intervention.Baseline clinical characteristics were comparable between groups. In baseline-adjusted analyses, children receiving the study product showed more favorable 6-month outcomes than those receiving placebo across all three prespecified symptom-control measures. The adjusted between-group difference was 4.625 points (95% CI 3.705 to 5.545; p < 0.001) for c-ACT and - 3.960 points (95% CI -4.890 to -3.030; p < 0.001) for TNSS. For CARATkids, a significant treatment-by-baseline interaction was detected; at the mean baseline score, the adjusted conditional between-group difference was -7.019 points (95% CI -8.143 to -5.895; p < 0.001). The use of rescue medications was higher in the placebo group. No adverse events related or unrelated to the study product were reported, and adherence exceeded 90%. In in vitro experiments, co-incubation with the study product attenuated allergen-induced Th2 cytokine secretion (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13), increased IL-10 production, enhanced CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T-cell rate, and upregulated Tgfb1, Ptgs2, Csf2, and Ifna2 expression.In this exploratory pilot RCT, six-month supplementation with a multicomponent immunonutritional formulation was associated with improvement of allergic asthma and rhinitis control in children. The clinical improvement paralleled with beneficial modulatory actions in immune cells.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT07308288.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cow's milk allergy (CMA) is one of the most common food allergies in childhood frequently associated with body growth impairment and micronutrient deficiencies. Immunonutrition approach with selected bioactive compounds may have beneficial effects on nutritional status and immune tolerance mechanisms. We evaluated the effects of an immunonutrition approach, based on the use of a novel multicomponent food supplement containing prebiotics, postbiotics, vitamin D3, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), Perilla frutescens extracts, and Quercetin in children with CMA.Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot trial, involving 30 pediatric CMA patients (both sexes, age 36-60 months) randomly assigned to receive the study product or placebo (maltodextrins) for 6 months. The active study product and placebo were provided as powder sachets with identical features. Primary outcomes were changes in body growth. Co-primary exploratory outcomes were serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) and DHA levels. Secondary endpoints included the evaluation of Th2 interleukins (ILs) and IL-10, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and growth factors and cytokines modulating ILs production (Tgfb1, Ifna2, Ptgs2, Csf2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) collected from CMA pediatric patients.All participants completed the study without adverse events and with >90% adherence to the allocated treatment. At 6-month follow-up, children in the study product group showed greater improvement in body weight, and height, compared with the patients in the placebo group. Serum 25(OH)D and DHA concentrations significantly improved only in the active study group. In PBMCs collected from the patients, the active study product, but not the placebo exposure, resulted in an inhibition of Th2 cytokines (IL- 4, IL-5, IL-13) response to the stimulation with antigenic peptide β-lactoglobulin and in an increase in IL-10 production and Treg activation rate. The expression of Tgfb1, Ifna2, Ptgs2, Csf2 resulted also upregulated, suggesting an overall modulation toward immune tolerance in these patients.This novel multicomponent food supplement improved growth parameters and nutritional status while modulating immune tolerance mechanisms in children with CMA. These findings support the potential of an immunonutrition-based approach using this innovative supplement in managing pediatric food allergy.clinicaltrial.gov, identifier NCT06751810.© 2026 Carucci, Caldaria, Oglio, Iorio, Mauriello, Masino and Coppola.
Prediabetes is accompanied by early β-cell stress and oxidative imbalance before overt hyperglycemia. Circulating extracellular vesicle (EV) microRNAs (miRNAs) may capture early metabolic disturbances, but their mechanistic relevance remains unclear. Plasma EV miRNA profiles were analyzed across normoglycemia, prediabetes, and newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, with validation in an independent cohort (n = 150). Functional studies were performed in pancreatic β-cells exposed to glucolipotoxic stress to examine miRNA regulation, IFN-α signaling, mitochondrial redox status, and insulin secretion. Six EV miRNAs, including miR-186-5p, were consistently reduced in prediabetes and correlated with glycemic and insulin resistance indices. In β-cells, glucolipotoxic stress selectively suppressed miR-186-5p, leading to derepression of IFNA2, activation of IFN-α-JAK/STAT signaling, increased mitochondrial ROS, impaired ATP/ADP dynamics, and reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Restoration of miR-186-5p or pharmacologic JAK inhibition mitigated these defects, and luciferase assays confirmed IFNA2 as a direct target of miR-186-5p. EV-associated miR-186-5p represents an early marker of metabolic stress in prediabetes and provides mechanistic insight into IFN-α-driven oxidative and secretory dysfunction in β-cells.
Screening soluble protein ligands is essential for understanding signaling interactions and enabling drug discovery. Currently, screens require arrayed formats because ligand diffusibility causes non-cell-autonomous effects. To enable multiplexed pooled assaying, we developed Obligate Autocrine Signaling In situ Screening (OASIS). Using lentiviral delivery of genetically barcoded ligands fused to a tethering domain, we anchor proteins to the expressing cell's outer membrane, exclusively enforcing autocrine signaling. Validation using IFNA2 and EGF demonstrated uncompromised autocrine signaling with significantly reduced paracrine activity. We leveraged OASIS to perform a pan-ligandome fitness screen of all 770 validated human ligands in KOLF2.1J hiPSCs, identifying potent self-renewal factors, including FGF family ligands, which we experimentally validated in soluble form. Finally, we performed single-cell Perturb-Seq to map the transcriptional remodeling induced by the pan-ligandome library. OASIS provides a generalizable framework to accelerate functional interrogation of the human ligandome and novel peptide binders within live cells and diverse lineages.
The yak, a livestock breed native to Qinghai Province in China. However, the low intramuscular fat (IMF) content of yak meat negatively impacts its taste and flavor, reducing its relative economic value. The experiment was conducted by inhibiting the expression of miR-127 and miR-375 in yak precursor adipocytes. To explore its effect on the proliferation and differentiation of yak adipocyte precursors, and then analyze the molecular regulatory mechanisms of miR-127 and miR-375 on IMF deposition in yak. Furthermore, using RNA-Seq analysis, this study identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and functional pathways regulated by miR-127 and miR-375 that influence IMF deposition. Cellular functional validation experiments showed that inhibiting miR-127 can suppress the proliferation of yak intramuscular preadipocytes and promote their differentiation. Meanwhile, the inhibition of miR-375 had the opposite effect, promoting proliferation and inhibiting differentiation. RNA-Seq analysis revealed that miR-127 inhibition altered the expression of several DEGs, including IFNB1, IFNA2, FABP4, CCL5, ITPKA, and IP6K3. Similarly, the inhibition of miR-375 affected the expression of genes such as IFNB1, IFNA2, FABP4, CCL5, FOS, and IL6. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that many of these DEGs were involved in key signaling pathways, such as the Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase-Protein Kinase B (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway, the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, and the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway. Of these, the TLR signaling pathway showed the most significant enrichment of DEGs. Notably, IFNB1, IFNA2, and IL6 appeared to regulate the proliferation and differentiation of intramuscular preadipocytes in yaks by activating the TLR signaling pathway, thereby influencing IMF deposition.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Altering inflammation can impact the recovering heart's structure and function following myocardial infarction (MI). MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 2 (MK2) regulates the stability of several pro-inflammatory cytokines. Hence, this study was to determine if MK2 deficiency impaired the inflammatory phase of post-MI wound repair. Myocardial infarctions were induced by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery in 12-week-old male MK2+/+ and MK2-/- mice. Five days post-MI, survival was 100% in MI-MK2-/- (n = 20) and 79% in MI-MK2+/+ mice (n = 29; Mandel-Cox test: p < 0.05). Systolic and diastolic LV diameters were greater in MI-MK2+/+ than MI-MK2-/- mice. Infiltration of neutrophils or monocytes did not differ significantly. Cytokine and chemokine transcripts were quantified in infarcted and non-infarcted LV tissue using qPCR arrays. Three days post-MI, Ifna2 was increased and Il16 was decreased in infarcted tissue from MK2-/- hearts, compared with infarcted MK2+/+ tissue, whereas in the non-infarcted MK2-/- myocardium Il27 increased and Tnfsf11, Ccl3, and Il1rn were decreased. Five days post-MI, Ctf16 and Il10 increased in infarcted MK2-/- tissue whereas in the non-infarcted MK2-/- myocardium Ccl9, Nodal, and Xcl2 increased and Il15 decreased. These findings suggest MK2 deficiency is an advantage during the inflammatory phase of cardiac wound repair post-MI.© 2025 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Adipose tissue regulates metabolic homeostasis and serves as a reservoir for mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), which differentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes, balancing bone and lipid metabolism. Bone loss and fat accumulation are common in individuals living with HIV, prompting us to investigate how R5- and X4-tropic HIV modulates adipocyte differentiation and tissue homeostasis using an in vitro model of MSC-derived adipogenesis.The study used an in vitro model of MSCs to examine how R5- and X4-tropic HIV strains affect adipocyte differentiation and function. Researchers assessed adipogenesis by analyzing lipid droplet formation, expression of adipogenic transcription factors (C/EBPα, C/EBPβ, PPAR-γ), lipogenic/lipolytic enzymes, SREBPs, cytokine secretion, and the effects of CXCR4 and CCR5 with specific inhibitors.HIV exposure influences adipogenesis, increasing lipid droplet size in a tropism dependent manner and upregulating key adipogenic factors such as C/EBPα, C/ EBPβ, and PPAR-γ. This process involves the regulation of lipogenic and lipolytic enzymes, lipid droplet-lysosome interactions, and potential lipid droplet mitochondria cross-talk to fuel lipid accumulation. Additionally, HIV modulates sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs), which control fatty acid, triacylglycerol, and cholesterol synthesis. Notably, SREBP2 downregulation correlates with increased type I interferons (IFNa2, IFNb1), linking lipid metabolism to immune responses in HIV infection. HIV-infected adipocytes also exhibit an increased leptin/adiponectin ratio and enhanced IL-1b and IL-6 secretion, contributing to the inflammatory state observed in people with HIV. CXCR4 plays a key role in adipocyte differentiation, as its inhibition with AMD3100 reduces adipocyte number, size, and lipid droplet accumulation under X4-tropic HIV exposure. In contrast, CCR5 does not appear to be significantly involved in adipose tissue homeostasis under R5-tropic HIV exposure.These findings, derived from an in vitro model, suggest that HIV alters MSC differentiation into adipocytes, impacting adipose tissue homeostasis and function.Copyright © 2025 Freiberger, López, Sviercz, Jarmoluk, Palma, García, Quarleri and Delpino.
Diabetic lung injury (DLI) is a severe complication of diabetes, characterized by pulmonary vascular endothelial cell damage, inflammation, and pyroptosis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates the role of G-protein-coupled receptor 84 (GPR84) in DLI and its regulation of pyroptosis via the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway. We first established a DLI rat model and found that GPR84 expression was significantly upregulated in lung tissue. RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis identified a strong correlation between GPR84 and cGAS-STING pathway-related genes, including TBK1, CGAS, IFNA2, and STING1. Molecular docking analysis revealed that β-sitosterol, a natural compound from Sophora japonica, exhibited strong binding affinity to GPR84. In vitro experiments demonstrated that β-sitosterol effectively inhibited the cGAS-STING pathway, reducing pyroptosis and inflammatory cytokine secretion in pulmonary vascular endothelial cells. Furthermore, in vivo studies confirmed that β-sitosterol administration significantly attenuated lung inflammation, suppressed cGAS-STING activation, and reduced pyroptosis in diabetic rats. These findings highlight β-sitosterol as a novel GPR84 antagonist with therapeutic potential for mitigating DLI by inhibiting cGAS-STING-mediated pyroptosis. This study provides new insights into the pathogenesis of diabetic lung injury and potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Type-I interferons (IFN-I) and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) are central to antiviral defense, while dysregulation can drive autoimmunity. IFNB1 expression is controlled by a highly ordered multiprotein complex composed of IRF3/7, NFκB, and ATF2/c-Jun (AP-1) that recruit coactivators and chromatin-remodeling proteins to expose the IFNB1 promoter for the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) transcriptional machinery. Here, we identified the paraspeckle protein non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) as a critical facilitator of innate immune activation. Loss of NONO enhanced replication of multiple orthoflaviviruses including West Nile virus due to impaired induction of IFN-I and ISGs. NONO did not affect upstream signaling but instead promoted chromatin accessibility and promoter access for RNA Pol II to drive expression of IFNB1, ISGs, and proinflammatory cytokines. These findings position NONO as a key regulator of antiviral gene expression and reveal chromatin-levels of control that determine effective antiviral immunity.
The pathogenesis of Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been fully elucidated at present. While METTL14 is crucial in innate immunity, its specific role in HBV-related liver disease progression is unclear. We analyzed METTL14 expression in patient tissues and bioinformatics datasets. Mouse models of HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC were established to evaluate liver injury, fibrosis, and tumorigenesis. Mechanistic studies utilized MeRIPqPCR, RIP, and Actinomycin D assays, and hepatocyte-stellate cell co-cultures to investigate METTL14's impact on cGAS mRNA stability, the cGAS-STING pathway, and IFNB1 secretion. METTL14 was downregulated in HBV infection, cirrhosis, and HCC. METTL14 knockdown aggravated liver injury, fibrosis, and tumor formation in mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that METTL14 overexpression in HBV-infected hepatocytes promoted the degradation of cGAS mRNA by increasing its m6A modification, thereby suppressing the cGAS-STING pathway activation and IFNB1 release. Consequently, METTL14 overexpression inhibited stellate cell activation, which was reversed by cGAS-STING agonists. Downregulation of METTL14 reduces the degradation of cGAS mRNA through m6A modification, facilitates the cGAS-STING pathway activation and IFNB1 release, thereby accelerating HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC progressions.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a clinical challenge characterized by an alarmingly low survival rate. Despite surgical advances and new chemotherapy combinations, currently available treatment fails to improve the overall survival of PDAC patients largely due to an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Radiation can induce cell death and reprogramme the tumor microenvironment by promoting anti-tumor immune response. The cGAS-STING and RIG-I-MAVS pathways are central components of the innate immune system that detect cytosolic nucleic acids and initiate type I interferon production. This study aims to leverage radiation-induced DNA damage together with inhibition of DNA repair and cell cycle checkpoints to potentiate type I interferon response and thereby enhance anti-tumor immunogenicity in PDAC.Two different PDAC cell lines (KRAS wild-type BxPC-3 and KRAS-mutated PANC-1) were used to test two different radiation modalities (X-rays and carbon ions) and regimens (single and hypofractionated dose) in combination with ATR and CHK1 inhibitors as well as the STING agonist diABZI. Cell survival, immunogenic cell death, accumulation of cytosolic dsDNA and micronuclei, gene expression profiles, and STING- and NF-κB-dependent immune signaling were assessed. Immune activation was evaluated by incubating immune cells with supernatants from PDAC cells, followed by analysis of activation markers using spectral flow cytometry.Here we demonstrate that ATR inhibition sensitizes BxPC-3 cells to the cytotoxic effects of radiation and potentiates the immunogenic effects of carbon ions and hypofractionated X-rays (3x8 Gy). Increased accumulation of cytosolic dsDNA and micronuclei was coupled with STING-dependent IFNB1 secretion and genome-wide induction of inflammatory gene expression programs, ultimately resulting in the activation of monocytes. This was not the case for PANC-1 cells, where radiation alone exerted immunosuppressive effects on monocytes.Our results support further evaluation of ATR inhibition in combination with radiotherapy in KRAS wild-type pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) is one of the most common fungal infections, affecting most women during their reproductive years. A core characteristic of VVC is the interplay between Candida albicans pathogenicity and dysregulated innate immune responses. While these inflammatory responses generally underlie VVC severity, epithelial type I interferon (IFN) responses have been associated with improved epithelial resistance to infection and dampened downstream neutrophil activation. Yet, the role of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in epithelial resistance to C. albicans infection remains unclear. Here, we investigated the threshold for mounting type I IFN responses in A-431 vulvovaginal epithelial cells (VECs), and the role of interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) in epithelial resistance and inflammation. We found that increasing C. albicans burdens corresponded to increasing epithelial cytotoxicity and the release of neutrophil chemoattractant IL-8. Further, expression of IFNB1 and ISGs, specifically ISG15 and MX2, was induced at fungal burdens, before the induction of significant cytotoxicity at later time points. We observed intracellular ISG15 accumulation following C. albicans infection, yet detected reduced unconjugated intracellular ISG15, suggesting its conjugation to other proteins. Mechanistically, we show that ISG15 silencing reduced epithelial cytotoxicity and IL-8 responses to C. albicans infection. Concurrently, a C. albicans infection-specific downregulation of the gene encoding the cell death regulator Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1) was observed. Accordingly, ZBP1 silencing, similar to ISG15, exhibited reduced tissue damage and IL-8 responses. Collectively, our data suggest that ISG15, expressed by VECs upon C. albicans infection, may exert negative feedback on epithelial resistance to infection induced by type I IFNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and its product nitric oxide (NO) were historically linked to poor melanoma outcomes, yet recent evidence shows NO supports anti-tumor immunity. This study examines how iNOS shapes anti-PD-1 efficacy, particularly through interferon signaling.B16-D5 melanoma tumors were implanted in wild-type (WT) and iNOS knockout (KO) mice to compare tumor growth and response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Flow cytometry, apoptosis assays, and RNA sequencing assessed NO production, PD-L1 expression, and interferon-related gene activation. In vitro, melanoma cells were treated with NO donors (DETA NONOate, SNAP) to assess proliferation and apoptosis. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 27 melanoma patients receiving anti-PD-1 therapy were analyzed with multiparameter flow cytometry to correlate NO-associated immune subsets with progression-free survival (PFS).Tumors grew significantly faster in iNOS KO mice, and anti-PD-1 therapy had no effect, demonstrating that iNOS-derived NO contributes to treatment efficacy. NO donors inhibited melanoma proliferation and induced apoptosis in vitro. Transcriptomic analysis showed anti-PD-1 upregulated interferon pathway genes (STAT1, IRF1, IFNB1) in WT but not iNOS KO mice. In patients, a NO-producing dendritic-cell subset (DAF-FM+CD11c+) was associated with improved PFS (hazard ratio 0.453; 95% CI = 0.270-0.992; p=0.048), indicating a NO-dependent enhancement of interferon-driven immune activity.iNOS-derived NO is necessary for effective anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in melanoma, promoting interferon signaling and immune activation. Loss of iNOS impairs tumor control and immune responsiveness, supporting NO as a potential biomarker and therapeutic adjunct to be explored while challenging assumptions about its deleterious role in melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Nguyen, Kim, Le, Garg, Balkaran, Bhathivi, Chamizo, Dukes, Ward, Brohl, Karapetyan, Khushalani, Eroglu, Tarhini, Mulé and Markowitz.
Maternal exposure to deoxynivalenol (DON) disrupts gut homeostasis and impairs offspring health, but the mechanism linking DON to lactation dysfunction remains unclear. Here we show that DON impairs lactation performance in mice, as evidenced by reduced offspring growth, decreased milk fat and milk protein contents, and defective mammary gland function. DON also disrupts intestinal barrier integrity and reshapes the maternal gut microbiota, including enrichment of Brachyspira hyodysenteriae (B. hyodysenteriae), whose abundance is negatively associated with milk quality. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from DON-exposed dams reproduced the lactation phenotype in recipient mice. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from DON-associated microbiota similarly transferred this defect. Among DON-enriched candidate bacteria, B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs accumulated in mammary tissue, induced mammary inflammation and were sufficient to impair lactation performance in vivo. Mechanistically, B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs acted through macrophages to suppress lactation-related programs in mammary epithelial cells. Pharmacological inhibition and genetic ablation experiments showed that NLRP3 and STING signaling contributed to this response, with EV-associated protein and DNA fractions preferentially linked to the NLRP3-IL-1β and STING-IFNB1 pathways, respectively. Together, these findings identify B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs as microbial mediators of DON-induced gut-mammary communication and reveal a vesicle-dependent mechanism linking mycotoxin-induced dysbiosis to lactation dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Steatohepatitis integrates metabolic stress and mitochondrial damage, but single-node interventions often incompletely quell inflammation and fibrosis. We tested a dual-node strategy that reduces the trigger and blocks the adaptor of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING pathway in a high-fat diet plus streptozotocin mouse model. Male C57BL/6 J mice with steatohepatitis (SH) received urolithin A (UA; mitophagy enhancer), C176 (murine STING inhibitor), or their combination. Endpoints included liver injury (ALT/AST), lipids (serum and hepatic triglycerides, cholesterol), glycemia/insulin resistance (fasting glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR), cGAS-STING/type-I interferon signaling (Ifnb1, Cxcl10, IFN-β, CXCL10; p-STING, p-TBK1, p-IRF3), mitochondrial damage signals (cytosolic mtDNA, mtTFA), autophagy/mitophagy (LC3-II/I, cleaved-PINK1, p-PARKIN, p62), inflammasome/cytokines (NLRP3, IL-1β, TNF-α), and fibrosis (hydroxyproline, Col1a1, Tgfb1/TGF-β1). Compared with SH, UA or C176 monotherapy improved injury, lipid, interferon, and fibrotic readouts, with UA preferentially lowering mtDNA/mtTFA and C176 more strongly suppressing p-STING-TBK1-IRF3 and IFN-β/CXCL10. The combination produced the largest, pathway-concordant effects across domains, frequently approaching CTRL. Formal combination analysis on fractional inhibition showed predominant synergistic activity (ΔBliss and ΔHSA > 0 for most endpoints). A precision-weighted correlation map linked insulin resistance, mitochondrial stress, cGAS-STING activation, and fibrosis, while mitophagy restoration markers correlated inversely. By pairing a mitophagy enhancer with a STING inhibitor, we provide first evidence in this model that coordinated upstream and downstream targeting of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING axis yields superior, multi-domain control of disease biology and is immediately translatable via IFN-β/CXCL10, cell-free mtDNA, and imaging readouts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) produce robust type I interferons (IFN-I) within hours of viral sensing, while epithelial cells at mucosal surfaces mount a delayed response dominated by type III interferons (IFN-III). Both cell types express pattern recognition receptors that activate similar downstream transcription factors, yet they produce distinct subsets of IFNs. The mechanisms underlying these differences have remained unclear. Here, using Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) in primary human pDCs and intestinal epithelial cells, we show that IFN-I and IFN-III gene loci carry opposing, constitutively established chromatin accessibility landscapes that determine cell-type-specific interferon induction. The IFN-I locus is broadly open in pDCs and constitutively closed in epithelial cells, while the IFN-III locus displays the reciprocal pattern. Motif enrichment analysis of accessible regions at the IFN-I locus in pDCs revealed unexpected and significant enrichment of ETS family binding motifs alongside IRF motifs, which determines the cell-type-specific locus accessibility. The ETS factor PU.1 and IRF8 bind IFN-I promoters, at composite ETS-IRF elements positioned at the Positive Regulatory Domain IV (PRDIV) site of IFNB1 promoter and adjacent to the TATA-proximal IRF motif of IFNA promoters. IFNL gene promoters lack ETS recognition sequences. PU.1-IRF8 composite factor binding extends across intergenic regions of the IFN-I locus, where candidate enhancer elements marked by H3K4me1, H3K27ac, and RNA Pol II occupancy were identified. We propose that this network of ETS-IRF composite-element-anchored enhancers maintains the IFN-I locus in a constitutively poised state in pDCs, licensing the rapid and robust IFN-I response that defines pDCs. In epithelial cells, the absence of PU.1 and IRF8 renders the IFN-I locus epigenetically silent, while the IFN-III locus is constitutively open. Despite this, the delayed IFN-III gene expression in epithelial cells is due to intrinsically weaker promoter activity relative to IFN-I. These findings reveal that the divergent IFN induction of pDCs and epithelial cells is determined by the chromatin architecture prior to infection. Overall, these observations show that lineage-specific ETS-IRF regulatory factors and promoter strength determine the cell-type-specific IFN activation.
The gut microbiota plays a critical role in shaping host antiviral immunity, particularly through the regulation of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling. Infants are highly vulnerable to viral infections, largely due to their adaptive immune immaturity. Identifying specific commensal bacteria capable of enhancing IFN-I responses represents a promising strategy to boost antiviral defense in this vulnerable population.Forty-five bacterial strains were isolated from fecal samples of infants aged 0-3 years. Their ability to modulate virus-induced IFN-I expression was evaluated using qPCR-based assays in cell lines infected with Sendai virus (SeV). One strain, Escherichia coli JNL-EC1, was selected for further genomic analysis, virulence gene profiling, and hemolysis testing. We assessed IFN-I and ISGs expression, as well as the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3, under conditions of cGAS-STING activation, TBK1 or IRF3-5D overexpression, and HSV-1 or SeV infection. The active components of its metabolites were fractionated using ethanol and chloroform extraction. Antiviral effects were evaluated in HEK293T, INT407, and THP-1 cells, as well as in a SeV-infected mouse model.Among the 45 isolates, metabolites of E. coli JNL-EC1 significantly enhanced SeV- and HSV-1(herpes simplex virus 1)-induced IFN-I signaling activation. Genomic analysis confirmed that E. coli JNL-EC1 resembles a commensal strain, lacking typical pathogenic determinants and exhibiting a non-hemolytic phenotype. The metabolites potentiated cGAS/STING- and TBK1-mediated IFN-I signaling but did not further enhance IRF3-5D-induced gene expression. Moreover, the metabolites increased the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3 following HSV-1 or SeV infection. Active components were present in both water-soluble (0-60% ethanol) and chloroform-extracted fractions and were heat-stable, suggesting the involvement of multiple non-proteinaceous metabolites. Functionally, metabolite pretreatment reduced the replication of GFP-tagged HSV-1 and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) in vitro. E. coli JNL-EC1 significantly upregulated Ifnb1 expression in the spleen and modulated both the composition and activation status of immune cell populations.These findings identify E. coli JNL-EC1 as a gut commensal with broad antiviral-enhancing properties and reveal a microbiota-mediated mechanism that primes antiviral immunity through the IFN-I pathway.Copyright © 2026 Li, Pan, Wang, Zhang, Geng, Yu, Shi, Liu, Jin, Shang, Wu and Wu.
Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), containing homologous EZH1 or EZH2 as the catalytic subunit, is a conserved methyltransferase complex that represses gene transcription by transferring methyl group from SAM to H3K27. Gain-of-function mutations of EZH2 and aberrant H3K27 methylation have been linked to human cancers. SAM-competitive EZH1 and EZH2 dual inhibitors have been approved by the FDA for treating B-cell lymphoma and other cancers. Here, we characterized a small molecule C36, which potently inhibits EZH2/PRC2, but not EZH1/PRC2, with a novel SAM non-competitive mechanism. Cryo-EM structures revealed that C36 binds to a pocket at the interface of SET-Activation-Loop (SAL), stimulation-responsive motif (SRM), and I-SET domain of EZH2, and WD40 domain of EED. C36 binding induces conformational changes and disrupts allosteric communication between EZH2 and ligand-bound EED. C36 efficiently inhibits H3K27 trimethylation and PRC2 target gene expression in tumor cells and xenograft tumors with low hematotoxicity. Multi-omics analyses employing C36 uncovered the direct regulation of IFNB1 by EZH2/PRC2. The combined treatment of syngeneic LLC lung cancer with C36 and a PD-1 antibody significantly enhances anti-tumor efficacy. Our study identifies a new allosteric mechanism of PRC2 inhibition and paves the way for the development of highly selective EZH2/PRC2 inhibitors for combination therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Introduction. Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a common gynaecological disorder characterized by an imbalance in the vaginal microbiota, leading to increased risk of infection and recurrence.Hypothesis/Gap statement. Although the role of microbiota dysbiosis in BV is established, the dynamic changes in microbial communities and inflammatory factors during BV formation and recurrence, as well as reliable biomarkers for predicting recurrence, remain inadequately explored.Aim. This study aimed to systematically analyse the changes in vaginal microbiota and inflammatory factors during different stages of BV formation and recurrence, and to identify potential biomarkers for predicting BV recurrence.Methodology. Vaginal swab samples were collected from 135 women, including 55 BV patients, 50 intermediate BV (IBV) patients and 30 healthy controls. Twenty-six recurrent BV (Re-BV) samples were obtained within 1 year after treatment. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed to profile the vaginal microbiota, and ELISA was used to measure IL-6, IL-10 and IL-1β levels. Statistical analyses included diversity metrics, correlation analysis and predictive modelling using LASSO regression and receiver operating characteristic curves.Results. Microbial richness was significantly higher in BV, Re-BV and IBV groups compared to controls. Lactobacillus abundance decreased progressively from IBV to BV, while Gardnerella, Prevotella, Sneathia, Fannyhessea and Dialister increased. These genera were positively correlated with vaginal pH, human papillomavirus (HPV) status and enzymatic activity. IL-6, IL-10 and IL-1β levels were elevated in BV, IBV and Re-BV groups. IL-10 and IL-1β were further increased in recurrent cases. A combined predictive model integrating microbial and cytokine markers achieved an area under the curve of 0.928 for BV recurrence.Conclusion. Distinct shifts in vaginal microbiota composition and inflammatory factor levels occur during BV formation and recurrence. The integration of microbial and cytokine profiles offers a robust approach for predicting BV recurrence, with important implications for clinical management and prevention strategies.
The roles of Enterococcus faecium (E. faecium), Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis), and Bacillus subtilis (B. subtilis) in colitis remain poorly defined, with existing literature presenting inconsistent and often contradictory evidence. This study aimed to elucidate their contributions to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) using both infectious (non-typhoidal Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, S. typhimurium) and chemical (dextran sulfate sodium, DSS)-induced colitis models. Colitis was induced in C57BL/6 mice via a single oral dose of S. typhimurium (ATCC14028) and/or administration of DSS for seven days. E. faecium (ATCC51559), E. faecalis (ATCC700802), and B. subtilis (MTCC25292) were orally administered. Disease progression was assessed through body weight monitoring, disease activity index (DAI), biochemical assays, and histopathological evaluation of colon tissues. Administration of individual E. faecium strain or E. faecalis strain did not significantly alter disease parameters. However, administered strain of E. faecalis exacerbated colitis severity in the S. typhimurium-induced model. Co-administration of DSS with S. typhimurium resulted in a pronounced aggravation of disease severity, as evidenced by clinical, biochemical, and histological markers. Notably, treatment with B. subtilis showed colitis attenuation, demonstrated by improvements in DAI, colon length, fecal calprotectin levels, and histopathological scores. These disease-modifying effects were associated with decreased colonic expression of pro-inflammatory mediators (CXCL-1, TNF-α, IL-1β) and increased levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Tested strain of E. faecalis does not induce colitis under steady-state conditions in this model but may aggravate pathogen-induced colitis, whereas E. faecium strain shows no significant effect under the applied experimental conditions. Combined DSS and S. typhimurium exposure induces robust colitis, wherein B. subtilis exhibits potential disease-modifying effect.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study aimed to identify a candidate immune-related biomarker for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and examine the functional relevance of ARG1 in intervertebral disc degeneration. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE146904 transcriptomic dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and determine the core target. A puncture-induced rat disc degeneration model was then established, followed by in vivo ARG1 gain- and loss-of-function interventions. In vitro assays were used to evaluate the effects of ARG1 on chondrocyte biological behavior, extracellular matrix metabolism, inflammatory responses, and arginine metabolism. In addition, 57 patients with LDH and 68 healthy controls were retrospectively enrolled to assess the diagnostic value of serum ARG1. After multidimensional screening of the high-effect candidate DEGs, ARG1 was the only gene that met the prespecified immune-process, immune-pathway, and skeletal-system annotation criteria and was therefore prioritized for experimental validation. ARG1 was expressed at a low level in degenerated intervertebral disc tissues. ARG1 up-regulation attenuated puncture-induced disc injury and pain sensitization, promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased SOX9 and COL2A1 expression, and reduced MMP13 and ADAMTS5 expression. Clinical testing showed that serum ARG1 levels were reduced in patients with LDH and were negatively correlated with Pfirrmann grade and VAS pain score. The area under the curve of serum ARG1 for distinguishing patients with LDH from healthy controls was 0.818. ARG1 was associated with attenuation of puncture-induced disc injury and early degenerative changes and may serve as a candidate auxiliary serum biomarker for LDH assessment and a potential target for future studies of immune-metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common and harmful syndrome associated with sepsis. It is difficult to predict and has an adverse impact on both short- and long-term prognosis. Two urinary biomarkers, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2 (TIMP-2), and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7) have been validated for predicting moderate and severe AKI and improving the recognition of organ failure in critically ill patients with sepsis. We aimed to evaluate the performance of these markers for predicting sepsis-related AKI and its evolution in a cohort of patients admitted to the Emergency Department with infectious disease and high risk of sepsis. This single-centre, prospective, observational study included adult patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) with suspected infection. Patients were included in the study if they had a National Early Warning Score 2 (NEWS 2) of 3 or higher. Three blood samples were drawn during the first 24 h, and we defined AKI according to the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) definition. The first urine sample during ED stay was collected for urinary [TIMP-2]•[ IGFBP7] determination. Higher admission levels of urinary [TIMP-2]•[IGFBP7] were associated with the development of AKI moderate-severe within 24 h (adjusted Odds Ratio 1.24; 95% Confidence Interval 1.07-1.43; p < 0.01). The biomarker showed only modest overall discrimination (AUC 0.67). Still, predefined cut-offs revealed complementary diagnostic roles: low values (<0.3) may help exclude AKI with a negative predictive value of 0.86, whereas the highest values (>2.0) increase its likelihood. Creatinine trajectories and inflammatory profiles were largely similar across groups, except for elevations in IL-10 and IL-1RN in high-risk patients. In conclusion, urinary [TIMP-2]•[IGFBP7] measured on presentation to the ED had only moderate discrimination for sepsis-associated AKI. However, values (<0.3 units) could help to rule out the risk of developing AKI, while values >2.0 indicated high risk.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS on behalf of Société de Réanimation de Langue Française (French Intensive Care Society).
Sjögren's disease (SjD) is a systemic autoimmune disease showing clinical characteristics similar to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) at early phases, complicating diagnosis.In this cross-sectional study, blood was obtained from 65 SjD, 34 SLE, and 44 SSc patients and 56 healthy donors (HD). Numbers and percentage of circulating leukocytes and expression of HLA-DR, PSGL-1, ADAM8, IL-10 and IFNα were determined by flow cytometry.Compared to HD, SjD patients showed generalized immune system activation and global reduction of circulating leukocytes, except for plasma cells, which were increased. IFNα levels were reduced in SjD CD16- monocytes, dendritic cells (DC), B cells and basophils, but increased in SjD CD16+ monocytes and T cells, showing a positive correlation between IFNα T cell levels and percentage of circulating plasma cells. ADAM8 expression levels were reduced in CD16+ monocytes and B cells. In plasma cells and plasmablasts reduction of ADAM8 expression levels were observed during disease activity. SjD patients had reduced percentage of PSGL-1+ neutrophils and increased percentage of PSGL-1+ B cells (PS1B), which expressed higher levels of IL-10 than those from HD. Low percentage of PSGL-1-expressing neutrophils, basophils, T cells and NK cells and low PSGL-1 expression level in pDC associated with the presence of cutaneous manifestations. Low PSGL-1 expression level in basophils, cDC and both CD16- and CD16+ monocytes was associated with the presence of anti-SSB autoantibodies. Remarkably, we found two cellular biomarkers: PS1B/%pDC ratio (PPr) distinguished SjD patients from HD (accuracy: 78%) and from SSc (accuracy: 84%) and PS1B discriminated SjD from SLE (accuracy: 70%). Both biomarkers improved diagnostic accuracy when combined with current serological markers.Dysregulated PSGL-1 and ADAM8 expression in SjD circulating cells is associated with important clinical manifestations in SjD patients, supporting their potential relevance as therapeutic targets in this disease. Additionally, we found PS1B and PPr as new cellular biomarkers that could help improve SjD diagnostic accuracy, particularly in seronegative or ambiguous cases during the early phase of disease.Copyright © 2026 Ramos-Manzano, Sánchez-Abad, San Antonio, Uriarte-Ecenarro, González-Álvaro, Saez-Martínez, Dueñas-Ochoa, García-Pérez, Ancochea, Vicente-Rabaneda, Castañeda and Urzainqui.
Cigarette smoke is a major risk factor for respiratory infections and chronic inflammatory lung diseases, yet the mechanisms through which it alters host-pathogen interactions remain incompletely understood. Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic Gram-negative pathogen that causes severe infections, particularly in susceptible individuals. This study investigated the effects of cigarette smoke extract (CSE) on K. pneumoniae virulence-associated traits and host immune responses.Three multidrug-resistant, extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing clinical K. pneumoniae isolates were exposed to CSE. Bacterial growth, virulence gene expression (mrkA, luxS, and AcrB), biofilm formation, antimicrobial susceptibility, macrophage invasion, neutrophil phagocytosis, and cytokine responses in THP-1-derived macrophages were evaluated using microbiological, molecular, and cell culture assays.High concentrations of CSE (≥25%) suppressed bacterial growth, whereas 5-10% CSE had minimal effects. Exposure to 10% CSE significantly upregulated mrkA, luxS, and AcrB expression. Biofilm formation increased by 20.8-37.0%, and minimum inhibitory concentrations of ciprofloxacin and tigecycline increased two-fold following CSE exposure. CSE enhanced bacterial invasion of THP-1 macrophages and impaired neutrophil phagocytosis, reducing bacterial uptake by 17.8% and 29.9% after 30 and 60 min, respectively. Furthermore, CSE promoted a pro-inflammatory response characterized by increased TNF-α and IL-1β expression and reduced IL-10 expression across multiple time points.CSE enhances the virulence potential of K. pneumoniae while disrupting innate immune defenses and immune regulation. These findings demonstrate a harmful synergy between cigarette smoke and bacterial infection that may contribute to the increased susceptibility and severity of respiratory infections observed in smokers.Copyright © 2026 Eltwisy, Abdel-Fattah, Elsayed, Assiri, Seif Eldin, Elkhawaga, Khalifa and Ahmed.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
Artesunate is a worldwide prevalent antimalarial medicine, which has also been demonstrated for anti-tumor, anti-virus and anti-autoimmune diseases. Yet the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Here, we examined immunological features of 5 immune tissues (spleen, bone marrow, thymus, lymph nodes and peritoneal cavity) of mice with artesunate administration through label-free proteomics and high-dimensional single-cell mass cytometry (CyTOF). Label-free proteomics uncovered dramatic alterations for the interferon-I (IFN-I) induced proteins, especially BST2 and IFIT1 downregulation in spleen and bone marrow. CyTOF analysis further indicated that the percentage of MDSCs was significantly elevated in spleen and bone marrow. The follow-up in vivo LPS-induced inflammatory model confirmed that pretreatment with artesunate attenuated the inflammatory damage, and the expression of BST2 was decreased in the spleen of mice with artesunate administration. Together, our findings presented an immune landscape of multiple tissues of mice with artesunate administration. These datasets provide comprehensive biological resources to develop therapeutic strategies for inflammatory diseases.© 2026 The Authors.
Cyanidin-3-O-galactoside(C3G) has a variety of biological activities. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease. To define its pathogenic networks, we performed transcriptomic sequencing of lung tissues from five mouse groups: WT_Control, WT_Model, WT_Model_C3G, Control_Ccl3-/-, Model_Ccl3-/-. Comprehensive assessment of immune infiltration, weighted gene co-expression network, and functional enrichment verified that PF is tightly linked to immune microenvironment dysregulation. Seven machine learning algorithms identified five core immune-related targets: Ccl3, Xcl1, Pyy, Il31ra, Ppbp. Subsequent analysis prioritized Ccl3 and Ppbp as the key core pathogenic genes. Molecular docking clarified their binding modes and key interaction sites with C3G. Histopathological and biochemical assessments showed that the WT_Model group exhibited elevated expressions of Ccl3 and Ppbp, accompanied by marked inflammatory infiltration and collagen deposition. C3G intervention significantly ameliorated these PF phenotypes. Ccl3 knockout improved survival and ameliorated fibrotic pathology. Interaction modeling and correlation analyses identified Slc2a3 as a key Ccl3 downstream target. WB and IHC validation revealed reduced expression of Ccl3, Slc2a3, and α-SMA proteins in Model_Ccl3-/- compared to WT_Model, which suggested Ccl3 may positively regulate the expression of Slc2a3. Through transcriptome and external metabolome verification, it was found that Slc2a3 can regulate PF through metabolic pathways. In conclusion, this study confirmed the potential role of C3G in regulating Ccl3-related inflammation and metabolic pathways in bleomycin-induced PF, which is expected to become a new strategy for targeted therapy of PF and provide a theoretical basis for the development of clinical treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The macromolecular monoclonal antibodies targeting CTLA-4/PD-1/PD-L1 have revolutionized cancer immunotherapy. However, their clinical efficacy is limited by poor tissue penetration, strong immunogenicity and frequent cytokine release syndrome (CRS) risk. In contrast, natural small molecules can effectively overcome these challenges due to their strong penetration, minimal immunogenicity and low CRS risk.Developing natural small molecule-mediated immunotherapeutic drugs represents a promising strategy for improving current cancer immunotherapy.A non-traditional T-cell immunomodulatory anti-tumor model was utilized to explore these potential molecules.LDH release assays and ELISA were used to assess T-cell immune killing activity against tumor cells and cytokine production. The mouse colon cancer lung metastasis model was used to evaluate anti-tumor efficacy in vivo through emodinanthrone monotherapy and combined with anti-PD-1 treatment. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses, combined with blocking and rescue experiments, were employed to investigate the underlying mechanism.The natural product emodinanthrone (EA), a precursor of emodin, was first identified as a potential T-cell immunomodulator. Mechanistic studies revealed that EA exerts immunomodulatory effects on T cells to eliminate multiple tumor cells, mainly by enhancing the JAK3-STAT1/3 signaling axis, leading to increased expression of granzyme B, perforin, and IFN-γ. In vivo, EA treatment significantly reduced the number of lung metastatic nodules by approximately 72.4% and extended overall survival by approximately 42.8%. Furthermore, combination treatment with anti-PD-1 antibody markedly decreased the metastasis rate from 59% to 12.8% and improved the survival rate from 30% to 70%.This study first reveals that emodinanthrone possesses T-cell immunomodulatory anti-tumor activity. In vivo findings further support its development as a promising candidate to improve anti-PD-1 efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Alopecia universalis (AU) is a severe autoimmune disorder characterized by complete loss of scalp and body hair. The introduction of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors has expanded therapeutic options for patients with severe disease; however, treatment responses remain variable, particularly among individuals with extensive and longstanding hair loss. Reporting cases with atypical or limited responses to therapy remains important for understanding the spectrum of clinical outcomes observed in practice. We describe a 30-year-old man with a 23-year history of AU who demonstrated minimal response to multiple prior therapies, including tofacitinib (pan-JAK inhibitor) and ritlecitinib (JAK3/TEC inhibitor), without meaningful scalp, eyebrow, or eyelash regrowth. Following six months of treatment with deuruxolitinib, the patient experienced his first clinically significant regrowth, limited to the eyebrows and eyelashes, while scalp involvement remained largely unchanged. This case highlights the potential for site-specific hair regrowth in longstanding, treatment-refractory AU and suggests that eyebrow and eyelash regrowth may occur even in the absence of substantial scalp hair recovery.Copyright © 2026, Kogan et al.
The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) represents the only viral antigen at the surface of infected cells, making it an ideal target for antibody-based therapies. Most antibodies elicited in people with HIV (PWH) do not recognize Env in its native "closed" conformation but readily bind to Env when it samples the CD4-bound "open" conformation. Downregulation of CD4 at the surface of infected cells by the viral accessory proteins Nef and Vpu prevents the premature opening of Env and has been shown to protect infected cells from antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) mediated by PWH plasma. Here, we report that deletion of Nef and Vpu from primary infectious molecular clones renders infected cells vulnerable to antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) mediated by PWH plasma. This is in part linked to the premature engagement of Env with CD4. In agreement with an "open" Env being vulnerable to ADCP, small CD4-mimetic compounds (CD4mc) sensitize in vitro-infected cells and ex vivo-expanded CD4 T cells to ADCP mediated by autologous monocytes in the presence of PWH plasma. This effect was further improved by increasing cell surface Env through IFN-induced BST-2 upregulation.IMPORTANCEDeveloping new therapies to eliminate HIV-1-infected cells is essential to decrease the size of the HIV-1 reservoir. Fc-effector functions, such as antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), have shown potential in eliminating in vitro-infected cells and ex vivo-expanded infected cells from people with HIV, decreasing the size of the reservoir, and delaying viral rebound in humanized mice. Here, we report that antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) can also be harnessed to eliminate HIV-1-infected cells. We show that infected cells harboring "open" Env conformations are susceptible to ADCP-mediated killing in the presence of plasma from people with HIV. A better understanding of the contribution of different Fc-effector functions in the elimination of infected cells could help guide the development of new therapeutic approaches toward an HIV-1 cure.
Background: Janus kinase inhibitors (JAK inhibitors) have expanded therapeutic options for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), although factors associated with treatment response in routine clinical practice remain incompletely defined. Objectives: This study aimed to evaluate clinical, treatment-related and pharmacogenetic factors associated with response to different JAK inhibitors in patients with RA. Methods: An ambispective observational real-world cohort study was conducted in patients with RA treated with tofacitinib, baricitinib, filgotinib, or upadacitinib. Disease activity was assessed at 3 and 6 months using the Disease Activity Score in 28 joints based on C-reactive protein (DAS28-CRP). Clinical response was evaluated according to European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR) response criteria, low disease activity (LDA), and remission thresholds. Clinical, laboratory, and treatment-related variables were collected, and selected single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in JAK1, JAK2, and JAK3 genes were genotyped. Bivariate and multivariable analyses were performed to identify variables associated with treatment outcomes. Results: Lower baseline inflammatory burden and lower disease activity were consistently associated with higher probabilities of EULAR response, LDA, and remission across JAK inhibitors. Treatment-related factors were also associated with improved outcomes. Pharmacogenetic associations were heterogeneous and drug-specific, with the most recurrent exploratory signals involving JAK2 variants. However, these genetic findings showed variability across outcomes and time points. Conclusions: In this real-world RA cohort, clinical and treatment-related factors were the most consistent variables associated with response to JAK inhibitors. Pharmacogenetic variation within the JAK pathway, particularly involving JAK2, may contribute to drug-specific variability in response, but these findings should be considered exploratory because of the limited sample size, multiple comparisons, and sparse genotype subgroups. Larger independent studies are required before JAK genotyping can be incorporated into individualized treatment strategies.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a common industrial chemical primarily used in the manufacture of plastics, and it has been found in more than 90% of people worldwide. As an endocrine disruptor, BPA can impair reproduction, development, immunity, metabolism, and cognition; it also disturbs immune balance and thus fosters chronic inflammation. A number of population-based studies have indicated a link between environmental BPA exposure and atopic dermatitis (AD). Nevertheless, the detailed molecular pathways connecting BPA to AD remain poorly understood. AD is the leading chronic recurrent inflammatory skin disorder, characterized by severe itching and repeated eczema-like lesions. Its prevalence is roughly 13% among children and 5% among adults, and its global incidence continues to rise, imposing heavy health and economic burdens on societies. To clarify whether and how BPA may promote or worsen AD, we carried out a comprehensive computational study that integrated network toxicology, transcriptomic data, machine learning, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. From the CTD, ChEMBL, and SwissTargetPrediction databases, we collected 5701 potential BPA targets; from GeneCards and OMIM, we obtained 3270 genes linked to AD. The overlap between these two gene sets gave a group of common candidate genes. Enrichment analyses using GO and KEGG showed that these common genes were significantly overrepresented in the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, Th17 cell differentiation, and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway-all central to immune and inflammatory regulation. We then built a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network by submitting the common genes to the STRING database and employed Cytoscape to extract hub genes from that network. By integrating human AD transcriptomic profiles with the hub genes and applying two machine learning techniques (LASSO and SVM), we identified six core toxic targets of BPA in AD: TIGIT, JAK3, IL22, S100A8, CCL2, and FCER1G. These six targets fall into two main functional categories: immune dysregulation and inflammatory cell infiltration. Subsequent molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation experiments confirmed that BPA binds well to all six targets and can form stable complexes with them. Collectively, our findings offer a preliminary experimental foundation for future investigations into the pathogenesis of BPA-induced AD and provide important molecular evidence for understanding how environment-gene interactions contribute to complex inflammatory skin diseases such as AD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508199 is a review article
Neovascularization of the posterior eye is a progressive disease state, marked by an inflammatory initiation, angiogenic growth, and subsequent fibrotic degeneration of endothelial cells (ECs). Although implicated in age-related macular degeneration and proliferative diabetic retinopathy as a leading cause of irreversible vision loss worldwide, the mechanisms underpinning retinal EC dysregulation in neovascularization and fibrosis are not well understood. This study presents a transcriptomic investigation of cultured primary human microvascular retinal EC dysregulation following exposure to 10 ng/mL of six retinal neovascularization-associated signaling molecules [IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, TGF-β2, thrombin, and vascular endothelial growth factor-A] both individually and as a combined treatment for 24 hours. Tumor necrosis factor-α, thrombin, and TGF-β2 alone induced significant enhancement of inflammatory and angiofibrotic pathways, including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt, NF-κB, and SMAD. BGN, CD34, COL1A2, CXCL8, IGFBP5, INHBA, SERPINE1, SNAI1, TGFB2, and TNFSF11 were identified as having overlapping, nodal roles in the pathologic dysfunction of retinal ECs. Cotreatment with all six ligands significantly enhanced differential gene expression, revealing 889 unique differentially expressed genes. Using a novel network-based gene correlation engine, GeneBunny, the cocktail group was found to mimic published retinal and choroidal EC transcriptomes from tissue of patients with age-related macular degeneration more accurately than individual treatment groups. These findings provide a biologically relevant characterization of the pathologic mechanisms driven by key retinal neovascularization-associated signaling molecules in retinal, enabling the identification of novel anti-fibrotic therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561706
Multi-response superhydrophobic coating of the textile electrodes show great promise for anti-icing and deicing applications; however, multi-response and mechanical abrasion often compromise their long-term hydrophobic stability and durability. Herein, we fabricate a superhydrophobic textile electrode (SMP-HFe-C@APT) by integrating conductive MWCNT/MXene network (C) onto an etched polyester fabric (APT), followed by spraying Fe3O4 nanoparticles modified with hydrolyzed octadecyltrimethoxysilane (OTMS, denoted as HFe), and then by coating with a shape memory polymer (SMP). The resulting electrode exhibits excellent superhydrophobicity (WCA = 162.3 ± 0.5°), prolonged icing delay (1241 ± 10 s), and rapid deicing (82 s) under synergistic dual electrothermal and magnetothermal response. Covalent bonding between HFe nanoparticles and the SMP matrix reduces the glass transition temperature to 15.8 ± 0.5 °C, establishing a modulus mismatch between the softened SMP coating and the rigid ice droplets, and accelerating ice detachment. Additionally, the combination of highly absorptive inner layers (C and HFe) and a reflective SMP outer layer gives rise to an internal thermal cycling, which enhances heat confinement and utilization during deicing. The thermal effect simultaneously induces EP (epoxy resin) and PDMS (polydimethylsiloxane) molecular rearrangement in the SMP coating, enabling recovery of nano-material microstructure and low surface energy. This work provides a new strategy for fabricating durable anti-icing and deicing coatings that integrate interfacial thermal management and dynamic self-healing.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559859 is a review article
Medical waste management is a central pillar of the Green Hospital approach, yet evidence on effective strategies and system-level barriers remains fragmented. This systematic review synthesises direct medical-waste-management evidence together with healthcare-sustainability and transferable waste-system evidence relevant to the Green Hospital framework.We conducted a systematic review in accordance with PRISMA 2020. The review protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD420251168204). Six bibliographic databases and one grey-literature source were searched for original empirical, intervention, case-study, modelling, and optimisation studies published online between 1 January 2020 and 27 August 2025 that examined medical waste management or provided clearly relevant healthcare-sustainability or transferable waste-system evidence. Two reviewers independently screened records, extracted data, and appraised methodological quality using design-appropriate criteria: the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool for empirical studies and an adapted model-appraisal framework for modelling, optimisation, framework-development, and technology-evaluation studies.Of the 21 included studies, 15 provided direct medical-waste-management evidence, five provided healthcare-sustainability or planetary-health contextual evidence, and one provided transferable waste-system evidence. Behavioural compliance, education, or segregation was addressed in 11 studies (52%); workflow or operational optimisation in four studies (19%); digital or decision-support systems in five studies (24%); environmental or economic assessment, modelling, circularity, or resource recovery in 10 studies (48%); and systemic or organisational barriers in seven studies (33%). Studies could contribute to more than one synthesis theme; therefore, these categories were not mutually exclusive.Sustainable medical waste management within the Green Hospital framework requires an integrated socio-technical strategy combining behavioural reinforcement, operational improvement, decision-support technologies, environmental and economic assessment, and enabling governance. These findings can be interpreted through a Human Factors and Ergonomics lens, although formal HFE interventions were not consistently evaluated in the included studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of International Society for Quality in Health Care.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542254
This phase 2 study's objective was to determine whether venanprubart is superior to placebo for inducing remission of rash and/or arthritis in patients with at least moderately active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).Patients (N = 85) were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to venanprubart (N = 42) or placebo (N = 43) in a multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 2-arm, phase 2 clinical trial. Treatment (450 mg venanprubart or placebo) was administered subcutaneously every 2 weeks along with standard of care for 24 weeks. The primary endpoint was remission of rash and/or arthritis as defined by the Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) 2000 at week (W) 24. Patients who discontinued the study or violated concomitant medication rules were imputed to nonresponse.The study was terminated early based on lack of efficacy at the interim analysis. Venanprubart did not separate from placebo in inducing remission of rash and/or arthritis in 54 patients (26 on venanprubart; 28 on placebo) with SLE at W24. Patients treated with venanprubart were not significantly different from placebo for SLEDAI-4 response or Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Responder Index-4 response through W24. The number of treatment-emergent adverse events was similar across treatment groups. Patients treated with venanprubart reported 4 (9.5%) serious adverse events, whereas patients treated with placebo reported 1 (2.3%). No deaths occurred during the study. B and T lymphocyte attenuator receptor occupancy approached saturation on B cells, CD4+ T cells, and CD8+ T cells at all postrandomisation time points.Venanprubart did not demonstrate superiority to placebo in achieving remission of rash and/or arthritis. Venanprubart was safe and well tolerated.© 2026 Eli Lilly and Company.
Restoring effective antiviral immunity remains a major challenge in HIV infection. Emerging immune checkpoint leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1 (LILRB1) and LILRB2 have been proposed as therapeutic targets, yet their in vivo function remains undefined due to the lack of cross-reactive blocking antibodies for relevant preclinical models. Here, we developed a dual-specific blocking monoclonal antibody, mac20G10, targeting cynomolgus macaque LILRB1 and LILRB2 and assessed its immunomodulatory activity in an SIV model of infection. Pharmacodynamic analyses demonstrated that mac20G10 persisted in circulation and engaged target myeloid cells for up to 14 days without detectable adverse effects. A single administration prior to SIVmac251 infection enhanced early myeloid immune activation, characterized by increased frequencies of CD80+ plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) and CD80+ monocyte/macrophage subsets in blood and lymphoid tissues. These changes were accompanied by increased plasma levels of interferon lambda (IFN-λ), IL-8, and IL-1RA during acute infection. Although viral replication remained unchanged, mac20G10 treatment promoted the development of SIV-specific memory CD8+ T-cell responses. Together, these data show that LILRB1/B2 blockade modulates early myeloid activation and is associated with enhanced SIV-specific memory CD8+ T-cell responses. These findings support further evaluation of LILRB1/B2 blockade as part of combination immunotherapeutic strategies in settings such as ART-treated infection and analytical treatment interruption.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
A 14-year-old female with type 1 diabetes for over six years presented with abdominal pain for two days and vomiting for three hours. Her regimen includes NovoRapid before meals and glargine at bedtime, but she has irregular meal patterns, inconsistent blood glucose monitoring, and poor insulin adherence. She has a history of recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and related hospitalizations.The patient is alert but mildly weak, with adequate responsiveness. Breathing is slightly increased, deep, and regular. Extremities are cool. Radial pulses are strong, but dorsalis pedis pulses are diminished bilaterally. There is scattered right abdominal tenderness. The liver is palpable 5 cm below the costal margin, with medium texture and blunt borders, and percussion tenderness is positive.Venous blood glucose was 21.86 mmol/L, and HbA1c was 10%. Arterial blood gas showed pH 6.933, pCO2 31.4 mmHg, and BEb -25.3 mmol/L. Insulin was below 1.39 pmol/L, and C-peptide below 0.003 pmol/L. Urinalysis revealed glucose 4+ and ketones 1+, leading to a diagnosis of type 1 DKA. Liver function was abnormal, with hepatomegaly and blood lactate at 9.85 mmol/L. Metabolic, infectious, and immune causes were excluded. Liver biopsy confirmed glycogenic hepatopathy, establishing a diagnosis of Mauriac syndrome with lactic acidosis. Serum uric acid ranged from 434 to 545 mmol/L, indicating hyperuricemia. Whole-exome sequencing identified a homozygous HFE mutation, suggesting hereditary hemochromatosis, though ferritin was normal and no iron deposition was seen on pathology.Continuous intravenous insulin therapy was initiated, along with diabetes education, dietary guidance, exercise, glucose monitoring, and symptomatic care. An insulin pump was subsequently used for continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (with Gansulin R before meals). Later, the pump was discontinued and switched to a four-injection subcutaneous regimen, consisting of NovoRapid before meals and insulin glargine at bedtime. Bicyclol Tablets was given for hepatoprotection.The patient was hospitalized for 13 days, remained afebrile, and reported no discomfort. Blood glucose ranged from 3.1 to 15.2 mmol/L. Liver size slightly decreased, but tenderness persisted. Liver function and lipids were mostly normal at discharge. Two months later, she was readmitted for DKA; liver function was normal, but hepatomegaly with tenderness persisted.Copyright © 2026 Fu, Yang, Guo, Huang, Li and Zhang.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hemochromatosis is a treatable disorder of iron metabolism in which iron progressively accumulates in the liver, heart, pancreas, and endocrine organs, leading to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, cardiomyopathy, diabetes, and other end-organ injury. Prior nationwide U.S. mortality analyses predate the ICD-10 era, and contemporary trend data are limited. We assessed trends and disparities in hemochromatosis-associated mortality in the United States (1999-2024). We conducted a retrospective serial cross-sectional analysis of national death-certificate data (STROBE- and RECORD-compliant) using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Wide-ranging Online Data for Epidemiologic Research (WONDER) Multiple Cause of Death (MCD) database (1999-2020 bridged-race file; 2021-2024 single-race file). Hemochromatosis-associated deaths were identified by ICD-10 code E83.1 (underlying or any contributing cause). Age-adjusted mortality rates (AAMRs) per 100,000 (2000 U.S. standard population) were stratified by sex, race and Hispanic origin, U.S. Census region, age group, state, and urbanization. Temporal trends were assessed with the Joinpoint Regression Program version 6.0.1 (grid search; 0-4 joinpoints; Monte Carlo permutation test, 4,499 permutations; log-linear model), reporting annual percent change (APC) and average annual percent change (AAPC) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Segment 1 refers to the period before any identified joinpoint; segment 2 refers to the period after. Between 1999 and 2024, 16,113 hemochromatosis-associated deaths were recorded; annual counts rose from 562 to 841 (+49.6%). The overall AAMR was 0.21 per 100,000 in 1999, 0.14 in 2015 (nadir), and 0.19 in 2024. Joinpoint regression identified one inflection at 2015 (95% CI, 2011-2018): a 16-year decline (APC -1.75%, p < 0.001) and a nine-year rebound (APC +3.07%, p = 0.002); AAPC -0.04% (p = 0.917) masked this two-segment trajectory. Burden was demographically concentrated: men 10,665 (66.2%), non-Hispanic White (NHW) decedents 13,883 (86.2%), and adults aged ≥65 years 9,706 (61.8% of age-classified deaths) - and the male-to-female AAMR ratio widened from 2.23 to 2.55. The post-joinpoint rebound was confined to NHW decedents (joinpoint 2013; segment-2 APC +3.16%, p < 0.001); non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic rates declined monotonically (AAPCs -1.77% and -2.57%, both p < 0.001). The South and West reproduced the two-segment pattern (joinpoints 2014, 2015); no inflection was detected in the Northeast or Midwest. Crude mortality in the 85-and-older stratum rose from 0.96 to 1.76 per 100,000 (+82.4%), with annual deaths rising from 40 to 113. Chronic liver disease was co-listed on 7,412 (46.0%) certificates, followed by diabetes with 2,408 (14.9%), primary liver cancer 1,739 (10.8%), heart failure 1,715 (10.6%), sepsis 1,193 (7.4%), hepatitis C 745 (4.6%), and cardiomyopathy 674 (4.2%). This 26-year nationwide analysis identified a statistically significant reversal in U.S. hemochromatosis-associated mortality in 2015, with a 16-year decline followed by a nine-year rebound concentrated in older NHW men. Non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic mortality declined monotonically, widening race and ethnic disparities, and the end-organ comorbidity profile remained stable. Distinguishing coding, cohort, and penetrance contributions will require individual-level data linking HFE genotype, treatment exposure, and clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026, Khan et al.
Neutrophils are required for production of protective antibodies in response to the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), however, the mechanisms behind that are not known. Here, using a mouse model, we found that depletion of neutrophils at the time of vaccination in female mice led to aberrant T cell responses in the spleen resulting in increased regulatory T cells (Tregs) that was accompanied by a dysregulated cytokine environment. We found that following vaccination, neutrophils influx into secondary lymphoid organs and increase expression of T cell engaging/inhibiting markers. When we depleted Tregs in neutrophil deficient mice at the time of vaccination, the opsonic activity of the antibodies and the ability of the sera to protect naïve hosts against pneumococcal infection significantly increased compared to controls. Importantly, we examined responses following PCV administration in human female participants and found that PCV altered neutrophil phenotype. Additionally, in vitro coculture of donor neutrophils with their PBMCs at one week following vaccination resulted in lower percentage and proliferation of FOXP3+ T cells, showing the clinical relevance of this phenotype. This work reveals a new mechanism by which neutrophils ensure protective antibody responses to vaccination by suppressing Tregs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Do particular pairs of individuals modeling sexual pairs exhibit differences in the induction of semen-mediated long-lasting tolerance in support of pregnancy?Yes, factors from both sexes contribute to the variability in the induction of long-lived regulatory T cells (Tregs) in response to semen, with factors related to the recipient seeming to slightly outweigh the factors related to the semen donor.Semen contains multiple immunomodulatory factors that can influence reproductive tract immunity in the recipient, promote tolerance to antigens from the semen donor (designated henceforth as 'paternal'), and ultimately support successful pregnancy. These factors include the soluble fraction containing prostaglandins and cytokines, as well as a very high concentration of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Both soluble and vesicular fractions of semen have been shown to promote tolerogenic phenotypes and migration in antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and to induce Tregs. This study was undertaken to understand the variation in tolerance induction between pairs of individuals modeling sexually active couples.We designed an in vitro pairing study using random semen donors (N = 11) and peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from random self-identified female recipients (N = 3). Semen was fractionated into vesicle-enriched (semen extracellular vesicles; SEVs) and soluble (vesicle-depleted semen plasma; VDSP) fractions. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) from each of the recipients were exposed to semen fractions from each donor, then cocultured with autologous naïve T cells to assess tolerogenic responses, specifically, generation of Tregs (FOXP3+ CD25Hi CD127Lo CD4+ T cells) and their phenotypic differences (TIGIT+, PD-1+ CTLA-4+, or AREG+ Tregs). These cells were then screened for T cell receptor-dependent activation by activation-induced marker (AIM) expression assay. These responses were compared across all pairs of semen donors and recipient cells. In addition, semen fractions were screened for candidate mediators of tolerance, such as human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) and adenosine-generating enzymes.This study used an in vitro human cell culture approach in which primary blood-derived immune cells were exposed to semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions. Blood samples were obtained from healthy self-identified female donors, and semen samples were obtained from healthy participants who provided initial screening specimens for a contraceptive study. Semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions were characterized by western-blot analysis for markers associated with immune tolerance. Primary immune cells were exposed to these semen fractions, and the major endpoints included changes in Treg phenotypes and subset frequencies, as well as AIM expression. These outcomes were assessed by flow cytometry. No animal models were used.HLA-G content in semen (SEV and VDSP) varied markedly across donors, ranging from undetectable to high concentrations. Similarly, semen's capacity to generate adenosine from ATP differed by ∼4-fold among donors. Induction of Tregs by SEV and VDSP from 11 semen donors was highly variable, from 2.8% to 63.4% of CD4+ T cell population. Semen fractions from a few donors consistently elicited lower tolerogenic responses across all recipients. However, when we considered the combined effects of both semen fractions, none of the semen donors failed to elicit a measurable tolerogenic response. On the other hand, one recipient was a consistently low responder to tolerance induction. Thus, both recipient immune cells' features and semen-intrinsic properties are significant determinants of tolerogenic responsiveness. Semen re-exposure enhanced Treg AIM expression. The strongest effect was observed when Tregs were exposed to VDSP-loaded MoDCs. In contrast, SEV-loaded MoDCs caused a much weaker response.N/A.One limitation of our study is that we used semen and circulating recipient cells from random donors not selected for any clinical characteristics, such as history of infertility. In addition, we did not correlate HLA-G content and adenosine-generating enzyme expression levels with the Treg and AIM readouts. We show, via Treg activation, that semen induces tolerance to its antigens, but we do not demonstrate which specific antigens are recognized. We posit that the variation in semen-induced tolerance observed between couples plays a role in reproductive outcomes; however, larger studies in clinically characterized cohorts and using cells from the tissue microenvironment will be required to establish this link.Our findings demonstrate that semen-induced tolerance is highly variable and may be more strongly shaped by recipient factors than by semen donor factors. In addition, the generation of Tregs with enhanced activation to previously encountered semen supports the concepts of trained immunity and antigen-specific tolerance that arise cumulatively following exposure to semen from the partner. These Tregs are poised to expand and support pregnancies with fetuses expressing paternal alloantigens.This work was supported by the following grants: National Institutes of Health/Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (R01AI153342) to L.V., National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Drug Abuse (R01DA040386) to F.H., National Institutes of Health/National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (KL2TR002317) to G.G.G.The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) was discovered as an extracellular matrix protein with an EGF-like domain and angiogenic and vasculogenic functions. It has also been shown to play a role in immunological evasion of tumor cells through attenuation of extravasation of immune cells by reducing the expression of cell adhesion molecules on vascular endothelial cells. Furthermore, microRNA-126 (miR-126), which is encoded within the intron of Egfl7, has been reported to be a vasculogenic factor. However, its immune-related functions in tumors remain unclear. Here, we examined the roles of tumor-derived EGFL7 and miR-126 in in vivo tumor progression using Egfl7/Mir-126 knockout and rescue tumor cell lines. Tumor growth was significantly suppressed in Egfl7/Mir-126-deficient cells and was restored by re-expression of miR-126, but not EGFL7. These differences in in vivo tumor growth were not observed in immunodeficient mice, suggesting the involvement of the adaptive immune system. CD4+ or CD25+ cell depletion suppressed the growth of miR-126-expressing tumors, whereas CD8+ cell depletion enhanced the growth of miR-126-deficient tumors. Histological analysis revealed an increased Foxp3+/CD8+ cell ratio in miR-126-expressing tumors during the early phase of tumor establishment. Bilateral tumor models further demonstrated that miR-126-expressing tumors promoted the growth of contralateral miR-126-deficient tumors, and a similar effect was observed using apoptotic miR-126-expressing tumor cells In vitro analyses using extracellular vesicles derived from dying tumor cells showed the transfer of miR-126 to CD4+ T cells and a higher proportion of Foxp3+ cells. Together, these findings suggest that tumor-derived miR-126 promotes tumor progression through non-local immune modulation, potentially involving maintenance of Treg-associated populations.Copyright © 2026 Akazawa, Mizote, Ekawa, Yoshida, Kumamoto, Harada, Ogawa, Watanabe, Hatoya, Inoue and Tahara.
Human epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is characterized by profound immune dysregulation with a tumor microenvironment (TME) dominated by immunosuppressive populations such as regulatory T-cells that actively limit anti-tumor responses. Spontaneous ovarian tumors in older laying hens (Gallus gallus domesticus) closely resemble human EOC development and histopathological features, making them an ideal model to study human EOC. Here, we examined pathological and immunological changes in ovarian TME from hens with spontaneous ovarian tumors (OT). Histopathological characterization was consistent with the endometrioid subtype of ovarian adenocarcinoma, while the immunohistochemistry analysis showed reduced intratumoral T cell infiltration compared to control. The OT tissue gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of FoxP3, CD25, CD40 PD-1, LAG-3 and GITR genes, accompanied by an increased IL-10 transcription compared to control, indicating regulatory T cell expansion and effector T cell exhaustion. Furthermore, significant reduction in the IL-1β, chTNFα and iNOS transcription suggested suppressed cellular inflammatory activation. These findings demonstrate that ovarian tumors in laying hens undergo a transition from an inflammatory state to an immunoregulatory, checkpoint-dominant TME, an observation resembling human EOC. This work supports the laying hen as a translational model for studying human ovarian cancer and developing diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Obesity is characterized by chronic inflammation and impaired glucose homeostasis. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) preserve immunometabolic balance, and their reduction contributes to metabolic disturbances. Although IL-2/anti-IL-2 complex (IL-2C) and hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy expand Tregs, their combined effects on obesity remain unclear. Male C57BL/6 mice fed a low-fat diet (LFD) or high-fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks and treated with IL-2C and/or HBO. Both interventions significantly reduced HFD-induced body weight (9-22%, P < 0.05) independent of caloric intake, with no significant changes in LFD groups. Glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity improved, showing significant reductions in IPGTT and IPITT area under the curve values (20-25% and 30-35%, respectively, P < 0.05) compared to the HFD control. Combination therapy produced the most consistent metabolic improvements. Histological analysis demonstrated reduced adipocyte hypertrophy and crown-like structures in epididymal adipose tissue (P < 0.05). Treatments restored CD4+FoxP3+ Tregs, suppressed pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, and decreased hypoxia-inducible factor-1α expression (P < 0.05). Consistent with these findings, histological examination revealed tissue-specific structural remodeling, characterized by restored multilocular adipocytes in iBAT and reduced adipocyte hypertrophy in iWAT under HFD conditions. These findings suggest that IL-2C and HBO improve immunometabolic dysfunction associated with obesity, in parallel with favorable adipose tissue remodeling and metabolic adaptation. Thus, IL-2C and HBO may represent complementary therapeutic strategies for enhancing metabolic health.© the author(s).
Although oral immunotherapy has shown clinical efficacy in treating food allergies, its broader implementation is constrained by the occurrence of adverse effects. Consequently, inducing allergen-specific immune tolerance during early life can be a preventive strategy to reduce the development of food allergy.Here, we developed a novel fusion protein cholera toxin B (CTB)-ovalbumin (OVA) expressed on Bacillus subtilis (B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA) spore surface and investigated whether B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA spores prevent OVA-induced food allergy in a mouse model and explored the potential underlying mechanisms.Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blot were used to confirm that CTB-OVA was expressed on B. subtilis spores. Female BALB/c mice were orally administered with B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA spores and B. subtilis spore control (B.s-CotC and B.s-CotC-CTB) for 4 weeks. Then, sensitization and challenge with OVA were performed on mice. Fecal OVA-secretory IgA (sIgA) and serum OVA-IgE, IgG1, and IgG2a levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The gut microbiome was analyzed by 16S rDNA sequencing. After challenge, diarrhea score, anaphylactic reactions score, splenocyte interleukin (IL)-10, IL-4, and interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and Treg levels were measured. mRNA of IL-10, IL-4, IFN-γ, and Foxp3 were measured. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) was used to explore the mechanisms of microbiome in B. subtilis on food allergy.Recombinant CTB-OVA was successfully expressed on the surface of B. subtilis. Oral administration of B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA can increase fecal OVA-sIgA, alleviate food allergy symptoms, and decrease serum OVA-IgE in mice with significance (p < 0.05). Moreover, oral administration of B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA can significantly reduce serum OVA-IgG1, OVA-IgG2, IL-4, spleen mast cells, and eosinophil levels and significantly increase serum IL-10 and Treg levels (p < 0.05). Additionally, microbiome analysis shows that oral administration of B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA can significantly increase the relative abundance of Muribaculaceae and significantly decrease the relative abundance of Alistipes. FMT partially reproduced the reduction in serum OVA-specific IgE, but did not significantly improve allergic symptom or diarrhea scores, suggesting that gut microbiota alterations may partially contribute to the immunological effects of B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA.These findings suggest that B.s-CotC-CTB-OVA spores may serve as a preventive oral antigen-delivery strategy to promote antigen-specific immune regulation and partially modulate microbiota-associated immune responses in OVA-induced food allergy.Copyright © 2026 Xiong, Liu, Deng, Zhang, Yang, Zhao, Ding, Liu and Zhou.
Bovine digital dermatitis (BDD) is an infectious hoof disease associated with multiple Treponema species, causing significant economic and welfare concerns in the cattle industry. Studies regarding T-cell mediated immune responses are limited in BDD. Using a mouse model, this study analyzed different T-cell subsets involved in immune responses against BDD-associated treponemes. Additionally, this study measured Treponema-specific IgG antibody titers to elucidate humoral immune responses. Mice were experimentally infected with 2 × 109 cells/mL of live T. phagedenis HNW1, T. pedis GNW45, T. pedicariei and their combination. After 1, 3, and 6 weeks, mice were sacrificed, blood serum was collected and T-cells were isolated from the spleen. Treponema-specific IgG antibody titers were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and T-cell phenotypes were analyzed using flow cytometry. All Treponema-infected groups recorded a high Treponema-specific IgG antibody titers from 1 week to 6 weeks post-infection. A reduction in subpopulation percentage of CD44+ expressing T-cell on both CD4+ and CD8+ were observed in Treponema-infected groups from 1 week to 6 weeks post-infection suggesting a decrease in T-cell activation. Higher subpopulation percentage of CD44+, CD62L+ expressing T-cells on both CD4+ and CD8+ were observed in Treponema-infected groups at 1 week post-infection which might indicate a reduction in the activity effector T-cells, thereby decreasing their effector functions against Treponema infection. Higher subpopulation percentage of CD8+, CD44+ T-cells expressing IRF4+ and CD27+ without CD127 expression were observed in all Treponema-infected groups from 1 week to 6 weeks post-infection. These findings may be associated with altered cytotoxic T-cell differentiation and exhaustion-like T-cell features. The significantly higher subpopulation percentage of CD4+ T-cells expressing Foxp3+ compared to other CD4+ helper T-cell subsets suggests that Treponema spp. infection may be associated with a regulatory T-cell-related immune response. Our findings reveal that BDD-associated Treponema spp. has the potential to impair key aspects of T-cell mediated immunity as indicated by alterations in subpopulation percentage of different T-cell subsets. Collectively, our result advances our understanding of the immunological interactions between BDD-associated treponemes and the host offering valuable insights into the immunopathogenesis of BDD.Copyright © 2026 Valete, Jung, Espiritu and Cho.
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564398 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563993 is a review article
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
Autophagy is a key host defense mechanism against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). The autophagy‑regulating gene, immunity-related GTPase M (IRGM), may influence tuberculosis (TB) susceptibility.To investigate whether two IRGM single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), rs4958847 and rs72553867, are associated with TB disease and/or TB infection (TBI).An unmatched case-control study was conducted at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases L. Spallanzani-IRCCS, Italy. Logistic regression analyses evaluated the effects of individual SNPs and their diplotypes on TB status.Among 709 participants enrolled in Italy with diverse European ancestries, 644 individuals with complete data were included. Individual SNP analysis of 194 TB patients, 194 TBI individuals, and 256 TB-free controls revealed no significant associations with TB status. However, diplotype analysis identified an association between the rs4958847-rs72553867 GG-AC vs GG-CC diplotype with TB diseases with respect to TB-free group (OR=2.56, 95% CI:1.18-5.56).Although the individual IRGM variants were not associated with TB, combined diplotype analysis indicated a potential role for IRGM-mediated autophagy in TB disease within European populations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Increased matrix stiffness is a biomechanical feature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that functions as an important promoting factor driving tumor progression. Characterization of the mechanosensors and the underlying downstream mechanisms driving HCC could help identify potential treatment strategies. In this study, we developed a standard procedure for screening and identifying mechanosensors, revealing two HCC mechanosensors, SDC4 and PKD2. These two mechanosensory pathways collaboratively mediated matrix stiffness-promoted DNA damage repair. Specifically, SDC4 and PKD2 modulated matrix stiffness-increased BANF1 nuclear translocation through increasing PP2A assembly and activity. Subsequently, nuclear BANF1 promoted the formation of MRN complex and phosphorylation of its downstream effectors to enhance DNA damage repair. These findings not only expand the theoretical understanding of matrix stiffness-regulated DNA damage repair but also offer a screening/identification approach for mechanosensors in cancer.
The innate immune response to pathogens often involves metabolic reprogramming, such as disruption of the Krebs cycle, leading to the accumulation of various metabolites that can further influence innate cell responses during infection. Of these, the immunomodulatory metabolite itaconate has been shown to positively or negatively influence lung immune responses, depending on the pathogen. In the current study, we found that mice deficient in aconitate decarboxylase (Acod1-/- mice), the enzyme that produces itaconate from cis-aconitate, cleared the opportunistic mold Aspergillus fumigatus from the lung more effectively than wild-type (WT) control mice. Augmented fungal clearance in Acod1-/- mice correlated with increased type 17 responses, which themselves correlated with higher IL-1β, PGE2, and γδ T cell levels. Intriguingly, we show that alveolar macrophages and neutrophils from naïve Acod1-/- mice kill A. fumigatus more efficiently. Conversely, the addition of exogenous itaconate to alveolar macrophages and neutrophils from naïve WT mice reduced their antifungal capacity. Mechanistically, alveolar macrophages, but not neutrophils, from naïve Acod1-/- mice demonstrated enhanced ROS production when stimulated with A. fumigatus. We further show that mice with macrophage-specific, but not neutrophil-specific, Acod1 deficiency cleared A. fumigatus more effectively. Itaconate deficiency also protected against fungus-induced mortality during corticosteroid-mediated immunosuppression. Finally, itaconate reduced the antifungal activity of human monocyte-derived macrophages. Collectively, these data identify an immune regulatory role for itaconate during A. fumigatus fungal pneumonia and potentially identify a new therapeutic target for enhancing protection against A. fumigatus.IMPORTANCEFungal infections by invasive molds such as Aspergillus fumigatus are leading causes of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised individuals, such as patients with hematologic malignancies, and recipients of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT), solid organ transplant (SOT), and cellular therapies. A major shift in the increased incidence of these infections is a result of a rapidly expanding global immunocompromised population due to targeted immunotherapies and biologics for the treatment of cancer, combination therapies, cellular therapies, and bispecific and trispecific antibody therapies. The advancement in these immunomodulatory/immunosuppressive therapies is outpacing our understanding of mechanisms that lead to the development of infections such as invasive aspergillosis. Therefore, the continuing evolution of our understanding of protective and immunoregulatory responses would be expected to reveal new mechanisms that govern susceptibility to fungal pneumonia. To this end, in the current report, we show that the TCA cycle intermediate itaconate hinders lung clearance of A. fumigatus via regulating multiple immune mechanisms. Overall, our study uncovers a new mechanism of immune regulation during fungal pneumonia.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants is frequently accompanied by neurodevelopmental impairment, yet the central neuropharmacological actions of dexamethasone (DEX), a commonly used therapy for severe or evolving BPD, remain incompletely understood. In particular, whether DEX exerts timing-dependent neuroprotection in the developing brain and the mechanisms underlying such effects are unclear.We investigated the neuroprotective effects of DEX in a neonatal rat double-hit model combining prenatal maternal lipopolysaccharide exposure with postnatal hyperoxia. A tapered DEX regimen was initiated on postnatal day (P)1, P3, or P8 to evaluate the therapeutic window. Lung pathology, survival, hippocampal injury, microglial reactivity, behavioral outcomes, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), targeted metabolomics, and microglia-neuron coculture experiments were used to characterize pharmacological efficacy and mechanism.Among the tested regimens, DEX initiated at P3 produced the most consistent protective effects, improving alveolar structure, survival, hippocampal pathology, and microglial reactivity. P3-initiated DEX also improved recognition memory, exploratory/anxiety-related behavior, spatial memory retention, and motor coordination, and was associated with partial restoration of hippocampal functional connectivity. At the molecular level, DEX partially restored hippocampal glutamate/GABA balance, reduced Synapsin I phosphorylation, and normalized VGLUT1/VGAT associated synaptic abnormalities. Mechanistically, microglia-derived IL-1β promoted neuronal ERK/Syn1 activation, whereas DEX interrupted this inflammatory signaling axis in a microglia-neuron coculture system. Targeted metabolomics and perturbation experiments further showed that DEX increased Acod1-dependent itaconate reprogramming under inflammatory priming, thereby suppressing microglial IL-1β and downstream neuronal P-Syn1/Syn1 signaling.These findings identify a developmentally sensitive therapeutic window for DEX neuroprotection in neonatal BPD-associated brain injury and suggest that microglial Acod1-itaconate-dependent regulation of IL-1β/ERK/Syn1 signaling contributes to its central protective effects. This study expands the pharmacological interpretation of DEX beyond pulmonary benefit and supports an immunometabolic framework for understanding corticosteroid actions in the developing brain.Copyright © 2026 Jia, Chen, Chen, Liu, Zhang, Yang, Shi and Wang.
Senescence, the endpoint of normal cells' replicative lifespan, is accompanied by a complex sequence of molecular events. One such event is the dramatic reorganization of CTCF into senescence-induced clusters (SICCs). However, the molecular determinants, genomic consequences and functional purpose of SICCs remain unknown. Here we combine three-dimensional genomics, super-resolution imaging, DNA tracing and functional assays with modeling to dissect SICC emergence. We find that, on senescence entry, cells repurpose SRRM2-a key component of nuclear speckles-and BANF1-a 'molecular glue' for chromosomes-to cluster CTCF and rewire genome architecture. This CTCF-centric reorganization in reference to nuclear speckles helps instruct the senescence splicing program, because disruption of SICCs almost fully reverts alternative splicing patterns and delays senescence onset. We therefore uncover a paradigm whereby human cells translate changes in nuclear biochemistry into architectural changes directing splicing choices to commit to the fate of senescence.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite the high prevalence of pediatric asthma, the molecular basis of its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, in part due to the complex and heterogeneous nature of the disease.In this study, we performed bulk RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 183 children (114 asthma cases, 69 controls) across two independent cohorts as a minimally invasive approach to capture the gene expression changes underlying asthma status and severity.Our analysis identified robust signatures of pediatric asthma, including differential expression of a canonical asthma gene (RAB7B) and two novel genes (RPP38-DT, NCAL1), which encode long non-coding RNAs. Additionally, severity-stratified analyses revealed upregulation of several immune-related genes (CCL8, ACOD1, CXCL9, SLAMF1, EPN2) and downregulation of an uncharacterized transcript (ENSG00000288973) as asthma severity increased. Enrichment and co-expression analysis further implicate impaired type I interferon signaling in asthma disease severity.Our results demonstrate contributions to the pathobiology of asthma among several novel molecular candidate genes, which may support future efforts towards molecular stratification of pediatric asthma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and ovarian cancer share many molecular features and are primarily treated with surgical resection and aggressive chemotherapy regimens. Unfortunately, survival rates for patients with advanced metastatic disease are poor, highlighting the need for innovative therapeutic approaches.Using the DepMap database, we first sought to identify genes that were highly expressed and more essential for proliferation/viability in TNBC cells relative to other breast cancer subtypes. Candidate genes were validated using gene-specific siRNAs in a panel of TNBC and estrogen receptor positive breast cancer cells. CTPS1 expression, and its functional significance, was further evaluated in ovarian cancer models, including chemotherapy- and PARP inhibitor-resistant cell lines. Pharmacologic inhibition was assessed using STP938, a first-in-class selective CTPS1 inhibitor, in TNBC and ovarian cancer cells as well as in ex vivo and in vivo patient-derived xenografts (PDX).Six genes (CTPS1, HUS1, PRKRA, RAD1, RAD9A, and RHOA) were identified as potential TNBC selective dependencies. Among these, CTPS1 was prioritized for further study given that it was highly expressed, further upregulated in chemotherapy- and PARP inhibitor-resistant cell lines, and resulted in the greatest anti-neoplastic effects when depleted. Knockdown of CTPS1 confirmed its selective essentiality and resulted in rapid and durable S-phase cell cycle arrest. Pharmacologic inhibition of CTPS1 with STP938 led to robust anti-neoplastic effects at nM concentrations across both chemotherapy-sensitive and -resistant TNBC and ovarian cancer cell lines. Significant anti-neoplastic activity was observed in 6 independent ex vivo ovarian cancer PDX models. Further, STP938 significantly inhibited progression of an ovarian cancer PDX model in vivo.These findings identify CTPS1 as a critical dependency in TNBC and ovarian cancer. Selective pharmacologic inhibition of CTPS1 using STP938 is a potent inhibitor of tumor cell proliferation/viability and has anti-cancer activity in patient derived ex vivo and in vivo tumor models. These findings suggest that therapeutic targeting of CTPS1 represents an alternative approach for the management of patients with advanced and aggressive forms of these diseases.© The author(s).
The gut's impact on kidney health can be observed through its influence on the gut-kidney axis. However, using paraprobiotic and postbiotic agents may improve gut health and kidney function by affecting signaling pathways. This study aims to assess the anti-inflammatory and autophagy-inducing properties of native postbiotics and paraprobiotics to enhance kidney health by targeting the gut-kidney axis.In this animal experiment, colitis was induced in male C57Bl/6 mice using dextran sulfate sodium (DSS), and mice were treated with postbiotics and paraprobiotics consisting of four Lactobacillus and two Bifidobacterium strains. A quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay was conducted to evaluate the gene expression involved in the autophagy process in the kidney.A significant decrease in weight and colon length and an increase in disease activity index and pathological changes were observed in the DSS group. However, the paraprobiotic and postbiotic mixtures, with more emphasis on postbiotics, were effective in preventing these changes caused by DSS. Exposure to DSS resulted in the downregulation of autophagy-related genes, but this difference was not statistically significant. Both the paraprobiotics and postbiotics increased the expression of genes. The postbiotic mixture had a more pronounced effect in increasing the expression of atg7, atg12, and beclin.Our native postbiotics and paraprobiotics indicated an effective role in reducing inflammation, especially gut and kidney inflammation, through the gut-kidney axis. The administration of these beneficial agents with the least side effects could be considered a suitable complementary treatment for controlling symptoms in patients with inflammatory-related disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
The Polycomb repressive complexes can be considered a paradigm of chromatin-based gene regulation in animals. Two of the proteins involved in such complexes are the Ring finger protein 1 (RING1) and the intrinsically disordered protein RING1A and YY1 binding protein (RYBP), which binds to RING1 in some of the Polycomb complexes. Peptidyl arginine iminohydrolases (PADIs) are enzymes involved in the post-translational modification of arginine to citrulline. PADI4, one of the five isoforms of PADI in humans, citrullinates RING1B and RYBP at specific arginines at their C-terminal (Arg231) and N-terminal (Arg53) regions, respectively. In this work, we studied in vitro and in silico whether isolated peptides from each protein, encompassing those wild-type arginines and their citrulline-modified counterparts, were capable of binding to PADI4. The isolated peptides, either in wild-type or modified form, were monomeric and disordered as indicated by far-UV CD and NMR. The affinity constants of peptides for PADI4, as measured by fluorescence, biolayer interferometry (BLI) and isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), were in the low micromolar range (dissociation constants around 10-20 μM), and the affinities were smaller for the citrullinated variants. Molecular docking simulations showed that the isolated peptides from each protein, either in wild-type form or modified variants, targeted the active site of PADI4, corresponding to the catalytic residue Cys645. These findings suggest that the isolated peptides were capable of binding to the enzyme with affinities similar to those of intact RING1B or RYBP, and that citrullination of the arginines diminished the affinity for the enzyme.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
IRF2 is an interferon regulatory factor with context-dependent roles in cancer. We examined IRF2 expression and function in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) using immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, western blot, and functional assays in cell lines and a xenograft model. IRF2 was upregulated and predominantly nuclear in NPC, correlating with advanced T stage and higher EBV DNA load. ROC analysis indicated diagnostic value (AUC = 0.837). IRF2 overexpression promoted proliferation, migration, invasion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and suppressed apoptosis, whereas knockdown inhibited these phenotypes and reduced tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, IRF2 activated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway by upregulating β-catenin and facilitating its nuclear translocation. These findings establish IRF2 as an oncogenic driver in NPC and suggest the IRF2/Wnt/β-catenin axis as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Authors.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronically infects approximately 250 million people worldwide, and reliable curative therapies are lacking. A broader understanding of viral-host interactions could accelerate efforts to find new host-centric therapeutic targets. However, inefficient cell culture systems and limited replication markers compatible with pooled screening have precluded the widespread use of genetic perturbation screens. Here, we performed the first pooled, genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 knockout (KO) screen with authentic HBV infection and integrated these results with two orthogonal pooled screens to identify host factors. We selected 72 genes for a multi-step assessment that included arrayed validation assays using both HBV infection and pgRNA transfection. We then independently tested thirteen genes using high-efficiency bulk KO experiments to guide further investigations of both antiviral and proviral factors. In both KO and siRNA-mediated knockdown experiments, depletion of the top antiviral factor, EXOC1, enhanced multiple HBV replication markers, and transcriptomic analysis revealed activation of hypoxia- and HIF-1 gene signatures. Three proviral factors, IRF2, WDR48, and ZCCHC14, were investigated in vivo using a human liver chimeric mouse model, which demonstrated that ZCCHC14 KO greatly reduced HBV replication and spread. Together, these complementary in vitro and in vivo platforms expand the catalog of HBV host factors and provide a scalable framework for host target discovery.
Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is the most aggressive thyroid cancer type harboring TP53, TERT promoter and MAPK signaling alterations. Additionally, EZH2 overexpression leads to epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor and cell differentiation genes. Here, we investigate the mechanism of EZH2 transcriptional activation in ATC. We used several luciferase reporter constructs with deletion of transcription factor (TF) binding sites identified in silico to determine EZH2 minimal promoter in ATC. MAPK signaling blockage with U0126, TF overexpression and knock-down strategies were used to evaluate EZH2 expression and reporter plasmid response, and the cross talk with TFs. As a result, we observed that EZH2 transcription is regulated by a minimal promoter of 107 bp (E3/4 region), that contains binding sites for TF NFYA, YY1 and FOXM1, highly expressed in ATC, that when deleted reduced EZH2 promoter activation. MAPK blockage reduced EZH2 and influenced YY1 and FOXM1 TF levels, while overexpression of NFYA, YY1 and FOXM1 resulted in pro-tumoral effects and EZH2 upregulation in papillary thyroid cancer cells. On the other hand, FOXM1 knock-down reduced EZH2 activation in ATC cells. Thus, we identified the minimal promoter region essential for EZH2 activation in ATC that is controlled by MAPK signaling in crosstalk with TFs.
Inducing ferroptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells represents an important therapeutic strategy, but intrinsic resistance mechanisms often limit efficacy. Therefore, elucidating the mechanisms underlying ferroptosis resistance in HCC cells can facilitate the development of effective therapeutic strategies. Here, we performed genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 library screens to identify TRIM27 as a key determinant of ferroptosis resistance. TRIM27 knockdown markedly potentiated erastin-induced ferroptosis in HCC cells, whereas TRIM27 overexpression suppressed the expression of fatty-acid metabolic enzymes including ACSL4 and reduced oxidized lipid accumulation. Mechanistically, TRIM27 directly binds with ACSL4 and promotes its K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation, thereby attenuating ferroptosis in HCC cells. Furthermore, we developed TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs with robust editing efficiency. These engineered EVs were readily internalized by HCC cells and preferentially accumulated in the liver. Functionally, TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs inhibited HCC cell proliferation by enhancing ACSL4-mediated ferroptosis and significantly improved the anti-tumor efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in HCC. Collectively, our findings suggest that TRIM27 confers ferroptosis resistance via facilitating K48-linked ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of ACSL4. TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs restore cellular sensitivity to ferroptosis, inhibit HCC proliferation, and sensitize HCC lesions to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42507757 is a review article
Phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), isolated from cruciferous vegetables, exhibits anticancer activity against various human cancer cells. Our previous studies demonstrated that PEITC suppresses the growth of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) 8401 cells in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we investigated the effects of PEITC on autophagy and its underlying molecular mechanisms in GBM 8401 cells. PEITC altered the morphology of GBM 8401 cells and triggered acidic vesicular organelle and autophagosome formation, as confirmed by acridine orange (AO) and monodansylcadaverine (MDC) staining, respectively. PEITC-treated cells transfected with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain 3 (LC3) exhibited punctate autophagosomes, and autophagosome formation was further confirmed via transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Treatment with chloroquine (CQ) inhibited autophagy, resulting in a decrease in the number of autophagosome puncta. CQ also enhanced PEITC-induced cytotoxicity in GBM 8401 cells. Furthermore, the expression of autophagy-associated proteins including GβL, mTOR, mTORSer2481, Raptor, Rictor, and, Beclin 1 was decreased, whereas the expression of AMPKαThr172, AMPKα1Ser485/AMPKα2Ser491, PI3K class III, VPS34, autophagy protein 5 (Atg5), Atg7, Atg12-Atg5, Atg16L1, Atg3, sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1/p62), and LC3 II was increased. Confocal laser scanning microscopy further revealed decreased Beclin 1 and increased LC3 levels following PEITC treatment. After CQ pre-treatment, the expression levels of SQSTM1/p62 and LC3 II were elevated. PEITC induces protective autophagy via the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin (AMPK/mTOR) signaling pathway in GBM 8401 cells. Elucidation of the molecular mechanism of PEITC in GBM 8401 cells in vitro may provide a potential therapeutic approach for glioblastoma in the future.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Immunotherapy resistance presents a formidable challenge in tumor biology. While fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) serves as a pivotal oncogenic driver in a multitude of cancers, the exploration of its role in immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) resistance remains scarce, thus impeding a deeper understanding of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) in the era of immunotherapy. Employing patient-derived urothelial carcinoma (UC) organoids and co-cultured systems, along with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), whole-exome sequencing (WES), bulk RNA-seq, and CUT& Tag epigenomics in UC cohorts, we identified and characterized the key downstream mediators of FGFR3. The TIME associated with FGFR3 mutations exhibited a depletion of NK and CD8+ T cells, while simultaneously harboring an accumulation of exhausted effectors, correlating with diminished ICI response. Erdafitinib reprogrammed this "cold" TME into an inflamed state through a novel FGFR3-STAT5-IRF2 signaling cascade. These findings, corroborated by a wealth of evidence, advocate for the combination of FGFR3-targeted therapy with immunotherapy for UC, bridging critical pre-clinical and clinical insights.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) have emerged as promising cancer therapeutics; however, predicting their pharmacokinetics (PK) in humans remains challenging, particularly during early development. Therefore, we aimed to develop a practical translational approach to estimate the human PK profiles of ADCs and their cytotoxic payloads using nonclinical data. PK data from nine FDA and PMDA approved ADCs were analyzed. Allometric scaling (exponent = 1.0) was applied to the PK parameters in monkeys to predict the clearance and volume of distribution in humans, which had a high accuracy (within two-fold of the observed clinical values). Subsequently, compartment models were constructed for four ADCs, and the payload release rate constant (krel) was estimated by fitting the monkey ADC and payload concentration-time profiles. The estimated krel values were then directly applied to simulate human payload concentration-time profiles. The predicted human payload exposures were mostly within three-fold of the clinical data, regardless of differences in the linker type. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the use of a simple, single species scaling method using direct antibody measurements for the robust prediction of ADC and payload PK in humans. Our approach provides novel and efficient dose selection and risk assessment with minimal preclinical data.Copyright © 2026 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Soil salinization is a major challenge for the sustainable development of global agriculture. Cl⁻-dominated anion toxicity is less studied than Na⁺ because its uptake and transport are more complex. Thus, it has become a key issue for understanding salt tolerance in soybean and other plants. Our previous studies attribute the superior salt tolerance of Glycine soja over Glycine max to greater root Cl⁻ retention, reduced shoot transport, and stronger root GsCLC-c2 expression under salt stress. However, the upstream transcriptional regulators governing CLC-c2 gene expression in G. max and G. soja remain unclear. Using G. max (cv. N23674) and G. soja (acc. BB52), we combined yeast one-hybrid (Y1H), subcellular localization, hairy-root transformation, and transgenic Arabidopsis assays to reveal how the ERF transcription factors Gm/GsERF160 regulate CLC-c2 expression to enhance salt tolerance. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that GsERF160 has five extra amino acids than GmERF160, with only one difference in the conserved domain and nearly identical three-dimensional structures. Both the GmERF160 and GsERF160 genes exhibited markedly salt stress-inducible expression. GmERF160 and GsERF160, which are localized in the nucleus, can bind to the promoter region of GmCLC-c2 and subsequently activate its expression. Compared with GmERF160-Cas9 or WT plants, overexpression of Gm/GsERF160 in soybean hairy-root composite plants and Arabidopsis seedlings under salt stress alleviated salt damage. This was reflected by increased chlorophyll and relative water content (RWC) in leaves or shoots, as well as reduced malondialdehyde (MDA), relative electrolyte leakage (REL), and Cl⁻/NO3⁻ and Na+/K+ ratios in both roots and shoots. Together, these results demonstrate that the conserved, salt-inducible Gm/GsERF160-CLC-c2 module positively regulate GmCLC-c2 expression, thereby mediating root Cl⁻ uptake and shoot transport to maintain shoot Cl⁻ homeostasis and confer salt tolerance in soybean. These findings provide valuable regulatory targets and candidate genes for breeding of salt-tolerant soybean cultivars.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cold stress severely limits plant growth and crop productivity, necessitating the identification of key regulatory genes that enhance tolerance. In this study, we performed a genome-wide identification and expression analysis of the GRAS transcription factor family in pepper under cold stress. In total, 64 GRAS genes (CaGRAS1-CaGRAS64) were identified in the pepper genome and distributed across 10 different chromosomes. Additional in silico analysis provided key insights on the identified CaGRAS genes, including their conserved domains, exon-intron organization, evolutionary relationships, gene ontology and synteny, and protein-protein interaction network. Further, their expression analysis under cold stress suggested that CaGRAS43 could be a candidate gene regulating cold stress response. Subsequent silencing of CaGRAS43 via virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) increased plant sensitivity to low temperatures, resulting in elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, higher malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, increased relative electrolyte leakage (REL), and reduced antioxidant enzyme activity. In contrast, transient overexpression of CaGRAS43 in pepper and stable overexpression in Arabidopsis significantly improved cold tolerance, maintained chlorophyll content, reduced ROS and membrane damage, and enhanced the expression of cold-responsive and antioxidant defense genes. These results suggested that CaGRAS43 functions as a positive regulator of cold stress tolerance, orchestrating both physiological and molecular mechanisms. Moreover, the results of this study highlight CaGRAS43 as a promising candidate for engineering cold-resilient pepper and other crops.© 2026 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) arises from a bone remodeling imbalance in which osteoclast-mediated resorption exceeds osteoblast-driven formation. However, current therapies primarily target osteoclasts without restoring osteoblast function, underscoring the need for mechanism-driven dual-action approaches. Here, we identify neddylation as a post-translational modification that reciprocally regulates osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation. In bone tissue from patients with PMOP, NEDD8 and its activating enzyme NAE1 were significantly upregulated, indicating heightened pathway activity. Mechanistically, c-Cbl neddylates NFATc1 to promote osteoclastogenesis, whereas Rbx1 neddylates Runx2 to suppress osteoblast maturation. Pharmacological blockade with the NAE1 inhibitor MLN4924 counteracted both effects and, in ovariectomized mice, reduced osteoclast activity while preserving osteoblast function, preventing deterioration of bone mass and microarchitecture. In human PMOP bone tissues, elevated NEDD8 and NAE1 expression was associated with increased NFATc1 in osteoclast-lineage cells and reduced Runx2 in osteoblast-lineage cells, suggesting translational relevance. These findings reveal neddylation as a unifying mechanism that coordinates opposing effects on osteoclast and osteoblast master transcription factors and highlight its potential as a mechanism-driven dual-action therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
While preserving tolerance toward commensals, dendritic cells (DCs) also orchestrate response against pathogens. The noncanonical RelB NF-κB pathway in DCs curbs tolerogenic Tregs in the intestine. Whether RelB-dependent DC regulations also impact intestinal immunity remains less clear. Here, we show that genetic ablation of RelB in DCs compromises IL-23-dependent immune response in the intestine, imparting vulnerability in RelbΔCD11c mice to infection with Citrobacter rodentium, an enteropathogen. Our mechanistic studies revealed that RelB supported the expression of RBP-J from a κB site-driven promoter, tuning Notch2 response in DCs. This RelB-mediated Notch2 control specified a solitary isolated lymphoid tissue-resident DC subset, which served as a dominant source of IL-23 in infected mice. Indeed, we found that IL-23 supplementation readily rescued the immune deficiency of RelbΔCD11c mice, improving bacterial clearance. In sum, we illustrate a previously unrecognized crosstalk between RelB and Notch2 underpinning IL-23-secreting DCs critical for gut immunity.
Solute carrier (SLC) family genes govern transmembrane transport and cellular metabolism, yet their systematic roles from Helicobacter pylori infection to gastric cancer (GC) remain undefined. By integrating multiple GEO datasets with weighted gene co-expression network analysis, differential expression, and machine learning algorithms, we identified seven core SLC genes (SLC9A9, SLC43A2, SLC16A6, SLC7A14, SLC28A3, SLC4A11, SLC5A2) for H. pylori infection and nine (SLC1A3, SLC2A3, SLC15A3, SLC19A3, SLC2A12, SLC16A4, SLC25A4, SLC9A7, SLC28A3) for GC. Logistic regression models achieved high diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.976 and 0.874, respectively). Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct correlation patterns: SLC4A11 and SLC5A2 associated with activated mast cells, neutrophils, and M2 macrophages in infection, while SLC1A3 and SLC2A3 correlated broadly with M1/M2 macrophages and activated CD4+ T cells in GC. Enrichment analyses confirmed involvement in transmembrane transport, immune-related pathways, and cancer signaling. Transcription factor prediction identified CEBPB, RELB, and STAT5A as key upstream regulators. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinities between SLC proteins and repurposable compounds (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, CHEMBL1182312, quinine). This study provides the first systematic characterization of SLC family expression across the H. pylori-GC continuum, identifying potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) may influence prognosis in leukemia. This study aimed to explore the effects and mechanisms of Treg subclusters on the prognosis in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq).scRNA-seq was performed on sorted T cells from adults with newly diagnosed (Dix) B-ALL and healthy donors (HD) to establish the training cohort. Treg phenotypes, functions, and prognostic relevance were evaluated. A scRNA-seq dataset from the GEO database, including Dix and relapsed B-ALL, served as the validation cohort. Key findings were confirmed by flow cytometry. Transcription factor and cell-cell interaction analyses were conducted to clarify the mechanisms linking Treg subsets to prognosis.Tregs were divided into CCR7high and CCR7low subclusters. The proportion of CCR7low Tregs was higher in B-ALL than in HD and in Rel than in Dix. Patients with higher CCR7low Treg signature scores had a poorer prognosis. Compared with CCR7high Tregs, CCR7low Tregs exhibited enhanced activation, proliferation, and immunosuppression. Trajectory analysis suggested differentiation from CCR7high to CCR7low Tregs. IKZF2 and JUNB showed consistently increased activity and expression in CCR7low Tregs across cohorts. CCR7low Tregs showed increased interactions with terminal effector and exhausted CD8+ T cells through the LGALS9-P4HB/HAVCR2/CD44 pathway.An increased proportion of CCR7low Tregs correlated with poor prognosis in B-ALL, potentially due to enhanced activation, proliferation, and immunosuppression. IKZF2 and JUNB upregulation may promote CCR7low Treg differentiation and function. Moreover, CCR7low Tregs may impair CD8+ T cell immunity through the LGALS9-P4HB/HAVCR2/CD44 signaling.
A DMAP-catalyzed Michael addition/cyclization cascade reaction has been developed for the efficient construction of a bispirooxindole-cyclopentene-isoxazolone framework. Under the optimized conditions (10 mol% DMAP, CH2Cl2, room temperature), the desired product was obtained in 92% yield with >20:1 diastereoselectivity. The reaction exhibited broad substrate scope, tolerating various substituents on both the isoxazolone and oxindole rings, and affording the corresponding products in 72-96% yields. The relative configuration of a representative product was determined as rel-(2'S,3R,3'R) by X-ray single-crystal diffraction. The utility of this method was further demonstrated by a gram-scale experiment (82% yield). This cascade reaction provides a concise and efficient route to structurally novel spiroisoxazolone derivatives bearing a cyano group and multiple spiro chiral centers.
Rho related BTB domain containing 1 (RhoBTB1) is highly expressed in placenta and functions to deliver protein targets to the Cullin-3 (CUL3) E3 ubiquitin ligase where they are targeted for ubiquitination and degradation. The targets of RhoBTB1 in placenta have not been identified. Using RNAscope, we show that RhoBTB1 is mainly expressed in syncytiotrophoblasts (SCT) in the human and mouse placenta. We employed ascorbate peroxidase 2-mediated targeted proteomics to identify RhoBTB1 binding proteins in immortalized human extravillous trophoblast (HTR8/SVneo) cells. We selected 9 RhoBTB1-interacting proteins to examine functionally. Two of these, S-Phase Kinase Associated Protein 2 (SKP2) and Rho GTPase-Activating Protein 29 (ArhGAP29), increased in abundance when Cullin activity was blocked by the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 and co-immunoprecipitated with RhoBTB1. SKP2 increased in abundance in CRISPR-Cas9 HEK293 cells that lack CUL3, and in HTR8/SVneo cells after siRNA-mediated inhibition of RhoBTB1. SKP2 was ubiquitinated by a RhoBTB1- and CUL3-dependent mechanism providing evidence that its stability is regulated by RhoBTB1/CUL3. Like RhoBTB1, SKP2 is highly expressed in the placenta. Reanalysis of single cell RNA sequencing data sets revealed that SKP2 exhibits co-expression with RhoBTB1 in SCT precursor cells, SCTs, and cytotrophoblasts. These findings identify SKP2 as a RhoBTB1/CUL3 target in the placenta.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Gordon syndrome (Pseudohypoaldosteronism type II) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by hyperkalemia, hypertension, and metabolic acidosis. Among the four causative genes, CUL3 mutations produce the most severe phenotype, yet endocrine manifestations beyond growth delay remain poorly described. We report a 22-year-old male who presented with chronic hyperkalemia, hypertension, insulin resistance with steatohepatitis, and testicular hypoplasia with elevated gonadotropins, consistent with compensated primary testicular dysfunction. Genetic analysis identified a de novo heterozygous CUL3 c.1207-26A>G splice-site mutation resulting in exon 9 skipping. Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide normalized blood pressure and serum potassium while improving metabolic and hormonal abnormalities. Notably, these improvements reversed upon treatment discontinuation. This case suggests that certain endocrine manifestations in CUL3-related Gordon syndrome may be secondary to chronic electrolyte imbalance rather than direct genetic effects, highlighting the importance of comprehensive endocrine evaluation and sustained thiazide therapy in affected patients.Copyright © 2026 Fatahichegeni, Ansarian, Lv and Fu.
Gene network enrichment analysis (GNEA) offers a robust approach for interpreting the complex molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic variability. Despite its utility, prevailing GNEA methodologies are predominantly optimized for binary phenotypes, leading to substantial information loss when applied to continuous biological traits such as drug sensitivity, cancer progression, etc. Additionally, traditional enrichment strategies often exhibit conceptual inconsistency between their null models and test hypotheses, as they rely on permuting phenotype labels rather than genes. To address these limitations, we introduce cell line-specific gene network enrichment analysis (CellGNEA), a computational strategy designed to identify pathway-level molecular interactions associated with continuous phenotypes in a cell line-specific manner. CellGNEA constructs gene regulatory networks tailored to individual cell lines and assesses molecular interplays within these networks by integrating multiple network-derived metrics, including clustering coefficient, PageRank, and regulatory effects. Associations between gene networks and continuous phenotypes are quantified using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov-based statistic, with statistical significance determined via a gene permutation strategy that aligns the null model with the tested hypothesis. Monte Carlo simulation studies indicate that CellGNEA exhibits robustness and enhanced sensitivity in detecting network enrichment linked to continuous phenotypes. Applications of CellGNEA to drug sensitivity-specific gene networks enable the identification of leukemia-related pathways with molecular interactions significantly associated with therapeutic response. Notably, our analysis revealed that imatinib, quizartinib, and ruxolitinib consistently correlate with network-level remodeling across acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and chronic myeloid leukemia pathways, and identified resistance-associated genes including PTPN11, MS4A1, and BTK. Overall, CellGNEA establishes a systematic, scalable framework for functional network analysis of continuous phenotypes, facilitating comprehensive characterization of cell line-specific biological properties and providing valuable insights for systems biology and precision medicine.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
This retrospective real-world cohort study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of recombinant human growth hormone therapy in Chinese children with Noonan syndrome, with a predefined comparison between short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone during the first 2 years of treatment. Twenty children with Noonan syndrome were included; 16 were boys, and the median age at recombinant human growth hormone initiation was 5.55 years. The baseline height standard deviation score was-3.01. During the first 2 years, 10 patients received short-acting growth hormone and 10 patients received long-acting growth hormone. The median height standard deviation score increased to-2.20 after 1 year and-1.84 after 2 years, with significant longitudinal improvement over time. The cumulative change in height standard deviation score did not differ significantly between short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone at year 1 (0.58 vs. 0.71) or year 2 (1.01 vs. 1.30). First-year growth velocity was comparable between groups, whereas the apparent second-year difference was no longer significant after excluding short-acting growth hormone-treated patients who entered puberty and received adjunctive therapy. Among 16 patients with PTPN11 variants, the median cumulative change in height standard deviation score was 1.20 and 56.3% achieved an HtSDS of above-2 standard deviation score at the last follow-up. No diabetes mellitus, malignancy, new cardiovascular events, intracranial hypertension, or slipped capital femoral epiphysis occurred. Insulin-like growth factor-1 standard deviation score elevations were transient. Recombinant human growth hormone therapy was associated with sustained linear growth in children with Noonan syndrome, and short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone showed broadly comparable short-term efficacy under regular safety monitoring.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is a rare RAS/MAPK-driven pediatric myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm. The phenotype and survival relevance of NRAS/KRAS alterations remain difficult to interpret because of co-mutations, evolving sequencing, incomplete germline confirmation, and post-diagnostic HSCT.We retrospectively reviewed 34 children with JMML and classifiable NRAS and/or KRAS alterations diagnosed between November 2010 and September 2022. Patients were classified as NRAS-only, KRAS-only, or NRAS/KRAS co-mutated. Direct comparisons used single-subtype cases. OS was analyzed in evaluable patients, with HSCT modeled as a time-dependent covariate.The cohort included 20 NRAS-only, 12 KRAS-only, and 2 NRAS/KRAS co-mutated cases. KRAS-only cases had higher monocyte percentage (27.2% vs. 16.7%; p = 0.023) and lymphocyte percentage (48.1% vs. 39.0%; p = 0.018), whereas absolute monocyte count was comparable (4.0 vs. 4.0 × 109/L; p = 0.930). PTPN11 was the most frequent non-RAS co-mutation (7/34) and occurred in both NRAS/KRAS co-mutated cases. Methylation status was available in 11 patients and analyzed descriptively. NRAS/KRAS subtype did not significantly stratify OS (HR for KRAS-only vs. NRAS-only, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.18-1.62; p = 0.276). HbF did not significantly stratify OS, while diagnostic total hemoglobin showed only an exploratory univariable association. Exact HSCT dates were retrieved for all 11 transplanted patients; time-dependent Cox analysis showed a significant association between HSCT and better OS (HR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.02-0.56; p = 0.007).NRAS/KRAS status defined a limited diagnosis-time phenotype but did not independently stratify survival. JMML survival analyses should integrate co-mutations, germline and testing-era limitations, HbF/hemoglobin risk context, and time-dependent HSCT handling.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42500917
Background/Objectives: Lung cancer tumors are the most frequent malignant tumors and the primary cause of cancer-related deaths. Despite the improvement in survival related to the implementation of immunotherapy, a significant proportion of patients fail to demonstrate satisfactory response. As a result, the need for new biomarkers, which will predict patient response, as well as for novel therapeutic targets, is urgent. SHP-2 is an intracellular signal transduction molecule, modifying signal transduction of numerous intracellular cascades, acting primarily as an oncogene. In this study we analyzed the expression pattern of SHP-2 in a cohort of non-small-cell lung cancer cases and attempted to correlate it with available clinicopathological parameters. Methods: We performed immunohistochemistry for SHP-2 detection in a cohort of 258 NSCLC cases. H-score was estimated and statistical analyses correlated it with survival and other clinicopathological and molecular parameters. Results: SHP-2 expression was observed in 60 cases (23.3%), with an H-score ranging from 150 to 300. Positive samples were distributed among the three major histological subtypes, without statistically significant differences. Statistical analysis revealed significant positive correlation of SHP-2 expression with smoking, PD-L1 levels, and KRAS mutations. Moreover, positive SHP-2 immunohistochemistry was associated with better clinical outcome in both the total cohort and in the group of patients who received immunotherapy. Finally, the simultaneous presence of SHP-2 expression and KRAS mutation was correlated with prolonged survival. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that SHP-2 could be a useful prognostic factor and a very reliable biomarker in predicting response to immune checkpoint inhibitors.
Histiocytic sarcoma (HS) is a rare but highly aggressive neoplasm in humans, with limited knowledge on indicators markers and no standardized treatment. Dogs naturally develop HS, offering a powerful comparative model. Activating mutations in PTPN11, affecting two recurrent hotspots (E76 and G503), are the most frequent drivers of canine HS and are strongly associated with the disseminated form (DHS). While DHS is typically considered metastatic, we hypothesize that multiple independent tumor clones may arise within the same individual.We investigated clonal heterogeneity in 38 dogs affected with DHS presenting tumors in both abdominal and thoracic organs. PTPN11 hotspot mutations were analyzed by high-sensitivity droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to detect low-abundance variants. The frequency of divergent mutations between tumor sites was used to infer the proportion of cases arising from independent clonal origins.Divergent PTPN11 mutations were directly observed in 3 of 28 dogs with PTPN11-mutated tumor pairs. After correcting for the limited detectability inherent to hotspot-based analysis, we estimated that, in this cohort, up to 24-45% of DHS cases may harbor clonally independent PTPN11 mutations in distinct tumors. In addition, analysis of somatic mutations and copy number variants by Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) in two cell lines derived from the same patient confirmed the independent origin of the clones.Our findings suggest that a significant numbers of dogs with DHS develop several genetically distinct HS lesions either simultaneously or within a short time interval. This need to be confirmed in larger cohorts but this clonal diversity challenges the assumption that DHS is predominantly metastatic and has major implications for prognosis, therapeutic strategies, and the use of canine HS as a comparative model for human disease. Further exploration of clonal evolution in HS is warranted to improve treatment approaches in both species.Copyright: © 2026 Mottier et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Neuromuscular disorders (NMDs) affect approximately 1 in 1,000 individuals and are clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Despite advances in genomic diagnostics, many cases remain unsolved after initial sequencing. Bioinformatic reanalysis approaches provide opportunities to identify missed variants and establish novel disease genes.Preexisting next-generation sequencing datasets from 101 undiagnosed NMD families were reanalyzed using the RD-Connect Genome-Phenome Analysis Platform. The data comprised clinical exome sequencing (45 families), whole exome sequencing (31 families), and whole genome sequencing (25 families). Variant prioritization incorporated population frequency, Human Phenotype Ontology terms, in silico predictions, and genotype-phenotype correlation.Reanalysis identified causative variants in 17 out of 101 previously unsolved families (16.83% diagnostic yield). Eight cases harbored coding variants in known NMD genes (RYR1, AGRN, SCN4A, TTN, MYH2, GOLGA2) consistent with the observed phenotype. In five cases, intronic variants in known NMD genes (COL6A3, SGCA, DOK7, DYSF, CHRND) were considered causative following in silico predictions and careful correlation with the phenotype. One case had an extended phenotype (PTPN11), and one case had a dual diagnosis (MYH2, KIF21A). A novel ATP2A2 missense variant was identified in two unrelated families, establishing ATP2A2 as a new NMD gene.Research-based reanalysis of preexisting NGS data improved diagnostic yield of previously unsolved cases consistent with previous literature, reinforcing the utility of in-depth, phenotype-driven reanalysis with expert review. Our study provided 17 families with unsolved NMDs with a diagnosis after having waited for a decade. This supports the routine reanalysis of unsolved NGS data, highlighting its potential to reclassify variants of unknown significance and reveal novel genes and pathomechanisms in NMDs.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
RASopathies comprise a group of congenital malformation syndromes with predominant neuro-cardio-facial-cutaneous involvement resulting from pathogenic variants in RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway genes. In this study 33 patients are presented with their clinical and molecular findings as an RASopathy cohort including a family with an AMMECR1-related disorder. The diagnostic distribution of the cohort included Noonan syndrome (n = 18), neurofibromatosis type 1 (n = 8), and single cases of cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome, Costello syndrome, neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome, NF1 microdeletion syndrome, Noonan syndrome-like disorder with loose anagen hair, Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines and AMMECR1-related midface hypoplasia, hearing impairment, elliptocytosis, and nephrocalcinosis (MIM# 300990). The most prevalent clinical manifestations were dermatological findings (90.9%), skeletal features (84.4%), cardiovascular involvement (75.8%), and typical craniofacial dysmorphism suggestive of RASopathy (72.7%). Variants were most frequently identified in PTPN11 and NF1, followed by single cases involving the BRAF, HRAS, LZTR1, RAF1, RIT1, SHOC2, and SOS1. Notably, one patient harbored a variant in AMMECR1, which is not involved in the RAS/MAPK pathway. Overall, this study delineates the clinical and molecular landscape of a cohort from Türkiye and underscores that the AMMECR1-related phenotype represents a distinct entity that closely mimics Noonan syndrome.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
NLRC3 serves as a critical negative regulator of inflammatory signalling pathways and is implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple disorders, including inflammatory diseases and malignancies. However, the specific functions and underlying mechanisms of NLRC3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remain largely elusive. Here, we report that the expression of NLRC3 was downregulated in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Mice deficient in NLRC3 were hypersusceptible to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and NLRC3 exerted a tumour-suppressive function during HCC development by inhibiting the TRAF6/MYC/NF-κB signalling cascade. Mechanistically, the NLRC3-HSP90 interaction competitively inhibited the binding of the HSP90 chaperone to TRAF6/MYC and impaired the K63-linked ubiquitination and stabilization of the TRAF6/MYC proteins. In the absence of NLRC3, TRAF6 and MYC reciprocally regulated the expression of the other and triggered a TRAF6-MYC positive feedback loop that accelerated the progression of HCC. Our study reveals a novel functional link between NLRC3 and MYC signalling and indicates that HSP90 is a potential target for hindering the progression of NLRC3-deficient HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
NOD-like receptor (NLR) family CARD domain containing 3 (NLRC3), an intracellular member of the NLR family, is a negative regulator of both immune cell modulation and tumor cell proliferation. However, the role of NLRC3 and the mechanisms underlying its effect on the tumor immune microenvironment remain unclear. In this study, we report that NLRC3 promotes antitumor immunity by specifically negatively regulating the infiltration and immunosuppressive function of monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs). Mechanistically, NLRC3 inhibits the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling pathway, leading to reduced expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CCR2 in M-MDSCs, thereby limiting the infiltration and immunosuppressive function of M-MDSCs. Notably, overexpression of NLRC3 in combination with the STING agonist c-GAMP significantly inhibited tumor growth. These findings reveal a critical role for NLRC3 in modulating the immune microenvironment and provide insights into the optimization of NLRC3-targeted therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
In order to reveal the molecular response characteristics of different tissues of Megalobrama amblycephala under ammonia nitrogen stress, the liver, gill, muscle, kidney and brain tissues of juvenile Megalobrama amblycephala (12.05 ± 0.04 g) under 25 mg/L ammonium chloride stress were used as the research objects. The transcriptome sequencing technology was used to systematically analyze the transcriptional expression changes. A total of 204.42 Gb transcription data were obtained, and a total of 3039 DEGs were detected, of which 1331 genes were up-regulated and 1708 genes were down-regulated. Ten DEGs were randomly selected for quantitative qRT-PCR analysis, and the results confirmed that the transcriptome results were reliable. Multi-organ synergy analysis suggested that overlapping DEGs (e.g., ZNF239, DMBT1, NLRC3, MHC-I, and CCL8) may exhibit similar or opposing regulatory patterns across organs, potentially reflecting complementary and coordinated mechanisms in immune regulation, inflammatory responses, energy allocation, and detoxification strategies among organ systems. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes showed that ammonia nitrogen mainly affected immune inflammation-related processes, material transport and degradation, protein homeostasis maintenance, oxidative stress defense, membrane lipid metabolism remodeling, and energy metabolism regulation. In different tissues, genes related to specific functions are enriched according to their physiological roles: in the liver, genes related to detoxification and damage clearance are enriched; in the gill, genes related to barrier defense and antioxidant/detoxification are enriched; in the kidney, genes related to damage response and metabolic regulation are enriched; in the brain, genes related to membrane lipid homeostasis and protective stress are enriched; and in the muscle, genes related to energy metabolism and structural function adjustment are enriched. This study elucidated the multi-tissue response characteristics of Megalobrama amblycephala under ammonia nitrogen stress at the transcriptome level, providing fundamental data and references for further clarifying the mechanisms of ammonia nitrogen toxicity in fish and screening stress-responsive marker genes.
Background: Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease lacking reliable biomarkers for early diagnosis and risk stratification. This study aimed to identify hub genes with diagnostic potential and characterize immune microenvironment remodeling in AS. Methods: GSE43292 and GSE100927 were integrated as the training cohort (n = 168), while GSE41571, GSE120521, and GSE28829 served as independent validation cohorts (n = 48). Batch effects were corrected using the ComBat algorithm. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using limma, followed by GO/KEGG enrichment analysis. LASSO regression and Random Forest analysis were performed to identify hub genes. A logistic regression diagnostic model was constructed and evaluated using ROC analysis, 5-fold cross-validation, and external validation. Immune infiltration was assessed using ssGSEA, and correlations between hub genes and immune cells were analyzed using Spearman correlation. Results: A total of 1349 DEGs (870 upregulated and 479 downregulated) were identified. GO and KEGG analyses demonstrated significant enrichment of immune- and inflammation-related biological processes and pathways. Seven hub genes (IBSP, XAF1, SCAMP5, SAMD9L, MYBL1, PCDH12, and CDH19) were identified through the combined application of LASSO regression and Random Forest analysis. The 7-gene logistic model achieved excellent performance in the training cohort (AUC = 0.992, 95% CI: 0.981-1.000), with a mean 5-fold cross-validation AUC of 0.984 ± 0.014, and maintained robust performance in three independent validation cohorts (AUC range: 0.952-1.000). Immune infiltration analysis revealed extensive immune microenvironment remodeling, with significantly increased infiltration of 22 of the 24 immune cell types, particularly monocytes, macrophages, and myeloid cells. Spearman correlation analysis demonstrated strong associations between hub genes, particularly SAMD9L and IBSP, and immune cell infiltration. Conclusions: This study identified a robust 7-gene diagnostic signature for AS and revealed its close association with the inflammatory immune microenvironment, providing potential biomarkers for early diagnosis and risk stratification.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42497068 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42453772 is a review article
Aim: Disturbances in exhausted and classical memory B cells have been implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus nephritis (LN), but the genetic regulation of their homeostasis remains poorly understood. Methods: We analyzed the single-cell RNA-seq data of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from the NIH SLE dataset (GSE135779) and another published LN single-cell RNA-seq dataset (dbGAP database accession code phs001457.v1.p1). Overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in exhausted and classical memory B cells from SLE and LN patients were identified, and their altered expression was validated in B cells obtained from LN patients. GO and KEGG analyses were used to analyze associated pathways. The relationships between exhausted and classical memory B cells and cellular metabolic pathways were also assessed. Results: Three DEGs (IFI44L, XAF1, and MX1) were detected in both exhausted and classical memory B cells, and their increased expression was verified in classical and exhausted memory B cells obtained from LN patients during remission. The protein-protein interaction network of the DEGs suggested that STAT1 showed the highest eigenvector centrality for these DEGs. IFI44L, XAF1 and MX1 were involved in distinct biological processes and immune pathways (especially JAK-STAT). Classical memory B cells showed higher expression of genes involved in sulfur metabolism (SQRDL and TST), amino sugar metabolism (GFPT1 and UAP1), and butanoate metabolism (ACADS and ACAT1), while exhausted B cells exhibited inverse relationships with these metabolic pathways. Conclusions: Altered expression of IFI44L, XAF1 and MX1 is associated with distinct metabolic signatures and immune pathways in exhausted and classical memory B cells in SLE and LN.
Leopard coral grouper (Plectropomus leopardus), a member of the Epinephelidae family, is characterized by its distinct red coloration and excellent meat quality, making it one of the most premium species in the grouper market. Body color is an important economic trait for leopard coral grouper because it is an important factor in determining market price. In order to improve the traits in leopard coral grouper, the regulatory mechanism of body color and pigmentation is essential to explore. In the research, QTLs associated with body color in leopard coral grouper were detected using genome-wide association study analysis. A mixed population derived from 12 female and 12 male wild individuals with significant color differences was established. Meanwhile, the HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value) color model was employed to quantify leopard coral grouper body color as continuous variables. In the results, a total of 18 SNPs associated with the body color of the leopard coral grouper were discovered. Through functional annotation, we identified four candidate genes associated with body color: ASAP2, NLRC3, ALDH18A1, and E2F4. These genes were involved in chromatophore distribution, contraction and dilation, carotenoid oxidation, pigment cell proliferation and development, and immune-related processes. These findings uncovered new genetic loci and regulatory mechanisms for body color, providing a genetic basis for understanding pigmentation regulation and supporting marker-assisted selective breeding in leopard coral grouper.
Carotid artery stenosis (CAS) is a major cause of ischemic stroke, yet reliable molecular biomarkers for early identification remain limited.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), bulk transcriptomics, and in-house multi-omics data, applying WGCNA and machine learning to identify endothelial cell-derived diagnostic biomarkers, validated across independent GEO and ZZ cohorts at single-cell, transcriptomic, and proteomic levels.scRNA-seq identified endothelial enrichment in CAS and yielded 836 markers. Integrative analysis (DEGs + WGCNA) defined 80 candidates, with NRP1 and XAF1 selected by machine learning. Both were consistently upregulated and validated across multi-omics datasets, showing strong diagnostic performance.NRP1 and XAF1 represent novel endothelial cell-derived biomarkers with potential utility for early CAS screening and clinical diagnosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cerebral ischemic injury includes ischemic stroke in adults and hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) in newborns. Delphinidin-3-O-glucoside (Dp3G) is a bioactive anthocyanin abundant in vibrantly colored plant-based foods and known for its potent antioxidant properties. Previous studies have shown that Dp3G suppresses oxidative stress and inflammation in atherosclerosis, protects against myocardial ischemic injury, and sensitizes glioblastoma to temozolomide by reducing drug resistance. However, its role and mechanisms in hypoxic-ischemic brain injury remain unclear.This study investigated the neuroprotective effects and mechanisms of Dp3G using in vitro and in vivo models. An oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) model in microglia was used for in vitro assessment. In vivo, a neonatal KM mouse model of HIE was employed. Techniques included transcriptomic analysis and molecular docking to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.In a microglial oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) model, Dp3G reduced apoptosis, inflammatory responses, and oxidative stress. Transcriptomic analysis suggested that Dp3G promotes metabolic reprogramming and inhibits NF-κB signaling via NLRC3, shifting microglial polarization toward an anti-inflammatory phenotype. Molecular docking indicated a potential interaction between Dp3G and NLRC3. In a neonatal KM mouse model of HIE, Dp3G treatment reduced neuronal damage and cerebral infarction and restored regional cerebral blood flow, with mechanistic evidence supporting microglial polarization regulation.Dp3G exerts significant neuroprotective effects in models of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Its mechanism involves the modulation of microglial polarization, and interaction with NLRC3 and subsequent inhibition of NF-κB signaling. These findings identify Dp3G as a promising neuroprotective candidate in preclinical models of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Hao, Chen, Mai, Wang, Chen, Yang, Li, Xing, Yan, Cao, Sun and Wang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534933 is a review article
Current cell and gene therapies lack clinically practical mechanisms to selectively promote or suppress therapeutic cells in vivo, a limitation that is particularly acute in patients requiring ongoing immunosuppression. This includes gene therapy for immune dysregulation syndromes, and antigen-specific or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy for patients requiring immunosuppression (e.g., transplant recipients), where both pathogenic and therapeutic cells may be suppressed. Here, we develop a multiplex prime-editing platform that converts commonly used immunosuppressive drugs into tools for in vivo control of T-cell therapies via defined, pathway-specific drug resistance. Focusing initially on gene therapy, prime editing efficiently edited loci of multiple pathogenic variants associated with immune dysregulation in primary human T-cells and corrected the HAVCR2 driver mutation in T-cells from multiple patients with subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma (SPTCL). Comprehensive genomic, transcriptional, immunophenotypic, and clonal analyses demonstrated minimal off-target perturbation. Multiplexed gene correction and drug-resistance editing of T-cells from patients with SPTCL enabled selective in vivo expansion of corrected cells under immunosuppressive pressure in humanized mouse models and exhibited retained sensitivity to alternative agents permitting rapid in vivo suppression. Extending this approach, prime edited, drug-resistant antigen-specific and CAR T-cells retained effector function despite pharmacologic immunosuppression, demonstrating the generalizability of this platform to diverse cellular therapies. Together, these findings establish multiplex prime editing as a promising preclinical framework for generating drug-controllable T-cell therapies, enabling selective in vivo modulation in settings where immunosuppression cannot be withdrawn.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is a heterogeneous and highly aggressive subtype of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Approximately 30% of patients develop relapsed or refractory PTCL (R/R PTCL) due to disease recurrence or failure to achieve complete remission after first-line therapy. Despite therapeutic advances, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying treatment resistance in R/R PTCL remain unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing and single-cell T-cell receptor sequencing were performed on seven tumor samples from six patients with R/R PTCL. These approaches were used to systematically characterize the transcriptional profiles of malignant T-cell clones and reactive T lymphocytes, define the transcriptomic landscape of R/R PTCL, and identify potential epigenetic biomarkers associated with drug response.We observed significant upregulation of genes associated with cell proliferation, oncogenic signaling, and immune modulation in R/R PTCL. Within the tumor microenvironment, specific protumorigenic ligand-receptor interactions were identified, including CXCL13-CXCR5, CCL5-CCR5, and CD74-MIF interactions, which may facilitate immune evasion by malignant T cells. Longitudinal analysis of a patient who progressed following dual epigenetic therapy revealed marked downregulation of immune response-related genes, including HLA-DRA/DPA1/DRB5, CD74, C1QC, and LYZ, as well as functional reprogramming of tumor-associated macrophages. Enhanced LGALS9-HAVCR2 and CSF1-CSF1R interactions were also observed following combination treatment with chidamide and azacitidine.This study delineates the transcriptional heterogeneity of malignant T-cell clones in R/R PTCL and suggests that this heterogeneity may contribute to resistance to epigenetic therapies. These findings provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying treatment resistance and highlight potential avenues for therapeutic intervention in R/R PTCL.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Yu, Liu, Hu, Meng, Sun, Lu, Liu, Song, Li, Qiu, Qian, Meng, Gong, Zhou, Wang and Zhang.
Backgrounds: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype with a unique tumor microenvironment, and while Programmed cell death protein 1/Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) blockade represents a standard immunotherapy, most patients develop primary or acquired resistance, with few alternative immunotherapeutic targets currently available. Therefore, we aimed to identify potential immune checkpoint-related molecules involved in TNBC-macrophage crosstalk, clarify the underlying molecular mechanism mediated by small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), and provide a theoretical basis for the future development of novel immunotherapeutic targets against TNBC. Methods: Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets for various breast cancer subtypes were used. Pseudotime trajectory, cell‒cell communication and Tumor Immune Estimation Resource 2.0 (TIMER2) analyses were conducted to characterize the tumour microenvironment (TME). Immunochemistry and immunofluorescence were used to confirm the results of the above analyses. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) was conducted on three pairs of TNBC tumour and adjacent normal tissues. The functions of tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) and sEVs in TNBC metastasis were explored by Western blotting, flow cytometry and cell-based experiments. Results: A total of nearly 60,000 high-quality single cells were subjected to scRNA-seq analysis, from which seven major cell types were identified. An overall increase in immune cell proportion was observed in TNBC compared with other subtypes, with the immune cell fraction in TNBC tissues being ~1.8-fold higher than that in luminal A/HER2+ subtypes (p < 0.001). Cell‒cell communication analysis indicated that TNBC cells mainly interact with macrophages. Interestingly, HAVCR2, an immune checkpoint, is expressed mainly in macrophages in the TNBC TME. HAVCR2 is associated with macrophage pseudotime progression in TNBC, which was validated by immunofluorescence staining. Moreover, analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) bulk RNA-seq data revealed that HAVCR2 expression is significantly correlated with M2-like macrophage gene signatures and computationally inferred macrophage infiltration levels in TNBC, and this tissue-level transcriptional correlation is associated with poor patient prognosis. Notably, bulk RNA-seq data cannot define discrete cell subsets, and the identification of HAVCR2+ M2 macrophage subsets was independently validated by scRNA-seq and snRNA-seq at the single-cell level. Furthermore, treatment with TNBC-derived sEVs is associated with concurrent increases in the expression of HAVCR2 and M2-associated markers (CD163, CD206) in macrophages. These findings reflect a correlative association rather than a demonstrated causal or regulatory relationship between HAVCR2 and M2-associated marker upregulation. Conclusion: sEVs derived from TNBC cells are associated with the upregulation of M2-associated markers and concomitant HAVCR2 upregulation in macrophages, both of which correlate with TNBC progression and metastasis. We propose that HAVCR2 may serve as a candidate prognostic marker associated with M2-like macrophage features in TNBC, and these foundational in vitro findings from Human acute monocytic leukemia cell line (THP-1) macrophages warrant further validation in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages and in vivo TNBC models.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) has been extensively studied as a metabolic regulator in glioma; however, its relationship with the tumour immune microenvironment and the cellular source of its expression within the glioma tumour microenvironment (TME) remains poorly understood. This study aimed to characterise UCP2 expression at single-cell resolution and evaluate its immunological significance in glioma.This study employed an integrative multi-omics approach incorporating bulk transcriptomics, scRNA-seq (GSE70630, GSE84465, and GSE89567; n = 13,216 cells), immune deconvolution, immunohistochemistry (n = 96 glioma patients), and immunofluorescence co-staining (n = 6).Pan-cancer analysis confirmed UCP2 overexpression in glioma. Single-cell analysis revealed UCP2 expression within the TME is predominantly enriched in macrophage/microglial populations rather than tumour cells, reframing UCP2 as a tumour-associated macrophage (TAM)-intrinsic regulator. In the TCGA cohort (n = 670), UCP2-high tumours exhibited an immunosuppressive landscape enriched with M2 macrophages and regulatory T cells, with elevated ESTIMATE scores. UCP2 correlated strongly with HAVCR2/TIM-3 (ρ = 0.847) and lactate metabolism genes, supporting a UCP2-lactate-TAM polarisation axis. TIDE analysis predicted that UCP2-high tumours may be associated with immunotherapy resistance. Multivariate Cox regression confirmed UCP2 as an independent prognostic factor (HR = 1.294, 95% CI: 1.116-1.502, p = 6.66 × 10-4). UCP2 protein expression negatively correlated with Ki67 (ρ = -0.446, p = 5.23 × 10-6), and immunofluorescence co-staining (n = 6) confirmed co-localisation with CD68-positive TAMs.UCP2 functions as a TAM-intrinsic immune regulator and candidate biomarker for immunosuppressive TME characterisation and immunotherapy response stratification in glioma.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
To investigate the expression pattern of Erb-B2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) in bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) and its clinical relevance, prognostic value, and potential molecular mechanisms, thereby providing evidence for biomarker identification and targeted therapy research in BLCA.RNA sequencing expression data and clinical information were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas bladder urothelial carcinoma cohort (TCGA-BLCA). Differences in ERBB2 expression between tumor and normal tissues were analyzed, and associations with American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) pathological stage and tumor grade were evaluated. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to assess the diagnostic performance of ERBB2. Patients were stratified into high- and low-expression groups based on both the median value and the optimal cutoff, followed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox regression to evaluate prognostic significance. Differentially expressed genes associated with ERBB2 were identified, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), gene ontology (GO), and single-gene gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were conducted. Correlations between ERBB2 and immune checkpoint molecules were further analyzed. In addition, immunohistochemistry data from the Human Protein Atlas (HPA) database and reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) experiments were used to validate ERBB2 expression.HPA immunohistochemistry demonstrated stronger ERBB2 staining in BLCA neoplastic tissues, and RT-qPCR confirmed elevated ERBB2 mRNA expression in BLCA neoplastic tissues. TCGA analysis showed that ERBB2 expression was significantly higher in tumor tissues than in normal tissues (P=0.005), with overall differences observed across AJCC pathological stages (P=0.004), whereas no significant difference was found between tumor grades (P=0.238). Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis indicated a moderate discriminatory ability of ERBB2 [area under the curve (AUC) =0.689]. No significant difference in overall survival was observed between high- and low-expression groups based on either the median cutoff or the optimal cutoff (P=0.240 and P=0.148, respectively), and both univariate and multivariate Cox analyses suggested that ERBB2 was not an independent prognostic factor for OS. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that ERBB2-associated differentially expressed genes were mainly enriched in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, interleukin 17 (IL-17) signaling pathway, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway, Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling pathway, chemokine signaling pathway, inflammatory response, immune response, extracellular matrix organization, and leukocyte migration. GSEA further demonstrated positive enrichment in IL-17 signaling, PI3K/AKT signaling, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction pathways. Immune checkpoint analysis showed that CD274, PDCD1, CTLA4, LAG3, TIGIT, and HAVCR2 were significantly upregulated in the ERBB2 high-expression group, and ERBB2 expression was positively correlated with CD274 and CTLA4 (Spearman ρ=0.45 and 0.36, both P < 0.001).ERBB2 is upregulated in BLCA and is associated with AJCC pathological stage and immune checkpoint expression, showing moderate diagnostic value but limited prognostic significance. ERBB2 may contribute to BLCA progression through regulation of immune-inflammatory responses, cytokine signaling, PI3K/AKT pathway, and tumor immune microenvironment.
Muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) is an aggressive and heterogeneous malignancy with limited biomarkers to guide patient stratification and response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC). We sought to define the biological basis and clinical utility of a bladder cancer-associated ten-gene signature for predicting prognosis and therapeutic response.Bulk transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNASeq) of primary MIBC tumors were integrated to characterize the cellular context of the ten-gene bladder cancer (BLCA) signature. Machine-learning approaches were applied to qPCR-derived expression data to develop an exploratory model for survival stratification.An expression-based direction-weighted BLCA signature score was associated with worse OS, DSS, and PFI in TCGA-BLCA and marked a tumor state characterized by coordinated activation of oncogenic programs including EMT, cell-cycle, and MAPK/PI3K signaling. snRNASeq revealed enrichment of signature activity within the stromal compartment, marked by expansion of FAP+ /PDPN+ fibroblasts and MHCII+ macrophages with endothelial remodeling. High-signature tumors exhibited an immune-dysregulated microenvironment characterized by increased immune checkpoint expression (CD274, HAVCR2, TIGIT) and reduced antigen-presentation machinery. This stromal-dominant phenotype was particularly associated with Luminal MIBC. Functionally, high expression of key signature components (e.g. SDC1, VEGFA, CXCL8) predicts a distinct, targetable vulnerability to MEK inhibitors in drug sensitivity databases.Translating these findings, qPCR-derived expression of the ten-gene panel was used to build an exploratory machine-learning model for survival stratification in the NAC-treated MIBC cohort. The selected StepCox (forward) + RSF model showed moderate internal discrimination after bootstrap optimism correction (optimism-corrected C-index = 0.695, 95% CI 0.628-0.792), supporting the feasibility of qPCR-based risk modeling while highlighting the need for external validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The mechanisms underlying immune microenvironment remodeling remain unclear for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (uHCC) undergoing transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) combined with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). This study aims to identify the key features that change following the combination therapy in patients with uHCC.Single-cell transcriptomic profiling was conducted on uHCC samples from the control group, pre-treatment group, and post-treatment group. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database was obtained for prognostic analysis. Enriched genes and pathways were identified, and the association and underlying mechanisms of the identified sub-cluster of cells were elucidated in relation to other cellular components.A total of 82,687 cells were obtained from seven patients with uHCC. In the pre-treatment group, the CancerCells_1 was associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition, indicating a poor prognosis, as evidenced by data from 370 HCC patients in TCGA database. In the post-treatment group, a high proportion of macrophages_FOLR2 was observed corresponding to an elevated interferon response signature score and a diminished pro-angiogenic signature score. The exhaustion of CD8+ effector T cell (CD8Teff) was mitigated by downregulating the notable expression of BHLHE40 and CXCL13. Following treatment, there was an increase in liver sinusoidal endothelial cell (LSEC), while both angiogenesis and TGF-β pathway scores were reduced. Notable changes were observed in the interactions across different cells, particularly concerning the key signatures of LGALS9_HAVCR2, CSF1_CSF1R, and VEGFB_FLT1.After combined treatment, uHCC patients were characterized by macrophages_FOLR2, CD8Teff, and LSEC, indicating a remodeling of the immune microenvironment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) can be particularly burdensome for older adults. Real-world evidence regarding the use of omalizumab in this growing demographic remains limited. This study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of domestic Omalizumab for Injection (Enyitan®) in elderly patients with CSU under real-world conditions.In this retrospective, single-center, observational cohort study, 71 CSU patients aged ≥65 years with moderate-to-severe disease activity were treated with omalizumab (Enyitan®, 300 mg every 4 weeks) between January and February 2025. Primary outcome was the proportion of patients achieving well-controlled disease (UAS7 ≤ 6) at Week 24. Secondary outcomes included changes in UAS7, Itch Severity Score (ISS), Wheal Score (WS), Urticaria Control Test (UCT), and Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI). Safety was assessed via adverse events (AEs) and laboratory parameters.Of 62 patients completing the 24-week study, 88.7% achieved a UAS7 ≤ 6. ISS and WS scores similarly improved (p<0.001). UCT scores increased from 5.2±2.1 to 14.8±3.2, and DLQI scores decreased from 15.6±4.3 to 3.1±2.8 (both p<0.001). Treatment was well-tolerated; only mild, transient AEs were reported, predominantly injection-site reactions (9.7%) and headache (3.2%).Domestic omalizumab (Enyitan®) demonstrated rapid, sustained effectiveness and a favorable safety profile in elderly patients with H1-antihistamine-resistant CSU, supporting its use as a first-line biologic therapy in this vulnerable population.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559654 is a review article
During the phase III trial (NCT04839016), the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) inevitably caused vunakizumab interruption in patients with psoriasis. This study extracted the data from Huashan Hospital, where almost all patients experienced drug interruption, and aimed to explore the efficacy and safety of vunakizumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis and the impact of treatment interruption. A total of 90 patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis receiving vunakizumab (n = 65) or placebo (n = 25) were enrolled. Patients in the placebo group were switched to vunakizumab treatment at week (W)12. The 75% or more improvement in the Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI 75), PASI 90, and PASI 100 response rates at W12 were higher in the vunakizumab group than in the placebo group. This trend was observed at most time points over 52 weeks. Dermatology life quality index (DLQI) score, DLQI 0/1 response rate, and itch numerical rating scale score at W4, W8, and W12 were improved in the vunakizumab group compared to the placebo group. The incidence of adverse events during the induction period was numerically lower in the vunakizumab group than the placebo group. Sixty-four (98.5%) patients in the vunakizumab group experienced drug interruption, with 59 (92.2%) patients due to COVID-19 pandemic. All patients in the placebo group experienced any-cause drug interruption. In the vunakizumab group, elevated frequency of drug interruption was related to reduced PASI 75 and PASI 90 response rates at W52. Despite the high drug interruption rate in Huashan Hospital during COVID-19 pandemic, vunakizumab shows acceptable efficacy and safety for treating patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. However, the long-term efficacy of vunakizumab appears attenuated in this single-center cohort compared with the overall phase III trial population.© 2026. The Author(s).
Eczema is a prevalent, chronic skin condition that affects up to 10% of adults globally and is characterized by recurrent eczematous lesions. Intense itch is often the most burdensome symptom, leading to sleep disturbances and declining quality of life. Additionally, itch&ndash;scratch cycles perpetuate skin barrier damage and inflammation. Regular skincare with moisturizers is recognized as a cornerstone of eczema management.This study evaluated the itch relief and safety of Cetaphil&reg; Restoraderm Eczema Soothing Moisturizer (eczema moisturizer) and Cetaphil&reg; Restoraderm Eczema Rapid Relief Cream (eczema cream; Galderma Laboratories, LP, Fort Worth, TX) in individuals with eczema-prone skin.Thirty-three participants with bilateral eczema-prone skin and mild-to-moderate itch were randomized to blinded, split-body application of the products. Evaluations over 24 hours included time to onset of itch relief, grading of itch severity (11-point itch severity numerical rating scale [NRS]), self-assessment questionnaire (4-point structured scale), and safety assessments.The eczema moisturizer and the eczema cream provided rapid itch relief after a single application, with mean times to itch relief of 38 seconds and 43 seconds, respectively. Both treatments significantly reduced itch severity from baseline by 98% to 99% at 24 hours (eczema moisturizer mean NRS: 0.03; P&lt;0.0001; eczema cream mean NRS: 0.09; P&lt;0.0001). Self-assessment questionnaires demonstrated high participant satisfaction with both products after a single application.Single applications of eczema moisturizer and eczema cream were well tolerated, well perceived by participants, and provided rapid and sustained itch relief over 24 hours. &nbsp.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder marked by intense pruritus and episodic flares. While nemolizumab, an interleukin-31 (IL-31) inhibitor, has demonstrated efficacy in reducing itch severity, its broader effects on skin inflammation are not fully understood.We describe a 49-year-old male with longstanding, treatment-resistant AD who began off-label therapy with nemolizumab. Within weeks of initiation, he developed a new pruritic vesiculobullous eruption localized to the palms, clinically and histologically consistent with dyshidrotic eczema. His prior AD lesions remained stable, but the new eruption prompted temporary discontinuation of nemolizumab.The patient was treated with intravenous corticosteroids, resulting in significant improvement of the dyshidrotic eczema.This case highlights the potential for nemolizumab to exacerbate AD in some patients, emphasizing the need for caution and further research on its inflammatory effects and safety in real-world settings.
Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus is a chronic itching condition experienced by patients during and between dialysis sessions. The individualised nature of the condition makes prevalence and severity difficult to measure.The study aimed to identify the prevalence of Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus amongst patients receiving dialysis in Ireland, characterise symptom burden, severity, and frequency, factors associated with worsening symptoms, and to examine patient experiences of itching.A quantitative study with a qualitative free-text element was employed.689 patients undergoing dialysis completed a national survey.Patients undergoing haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis completed the 5-D itch scale and a qualitative assessment of itching experiences. Regression analyses examined associations between domains of the 5-D itch scale, patient clinical characteristics and the occurrence of moderate-severe itching. Content analysis was used to report qualitative findings.Sixty-two percent (85% haemodialysis; 15% peritoneal dialysis) experienced Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; 66% reported moderate-severe itching, with body/trunk region most affected (73%); however, the scalp/face region was most associated with moderate-severe itching (OR = 2.08, 95% CI 1.11-3.870). Four themes were identified: (1) the physical impact of Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; (2) the psychological burden of itching; (3) variability in treatment success; (4) itch resolving over time.Two-thirds of Irish patients experience moderate-severe Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; a prevalence rate higher than international estimates. This condition is psychologically distressing - impacting sleep, overall quality of life, and risk of infection. Patients require improved clinical attention and greater pratitioner education on management of this condition.© 2026 European Dialysis & Transplant Nurses Association/European Renal Care Association.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune skin disorder marked by IL-17-producing γδ T cell (γδT17) and pruritus, but immunoregulatory roles of itch-inducing neurons in this context remain unclear. This study addressed whether non-peptidergic (NP) afferents bearing the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor D (MrgprD/NP1) and MrgprA3/NP2 subsets had differential effects on psoriasiform immunopathology. Data show human NP1 and NP2 neurons basally expressed an array of pattern recognition and cytokine receptor genes, and psoriatic human skin had a profound dysregulation of neuropeptides and their receptors. In mice, imiquimod (IMQ) application reduced the density of MrgprD+ skin afferents, whereas NP1 neuron ablation exacerbated IMQ-induced disease. Strikingly, NP1 activation using either optogenetics or β-alanine before IMQ exposure significantly reduced epidermal thickness, psoriatic clinical score, and γδT17 cell accumulation. In stark contrast, NP2 activation increased the numbers of γδT17 cells that co-expressed amphiregulin (Areg) and exacerbated IMQ-driven skin pathology. Instead, pre-emptive NP1 stimulation shifted γδ T cell profiles away from being IL-17 and Areg dominant to IL-13+ γδ T cells expressing the transcription factor GATA3 accompanied by IL-10 secretion. Importantly, IL-10 signaling blockade reversed β-alanine-induced suppression of IMQ-induced dermatitis and γδT17 cell responses. These data show that sensory neuron subsets can distinctly modulate inflammatory skin disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547463 is a review article
Vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS) is a chronic, inflammatory skin condition that can lead to vulvar itch and pain as well as challenges in sexual relationships. Yet, little research explores how couples coping with VLS navigate sexual challenges. Informed by sexual script theory and the concept of sexual script flexibility (i.e., adapting a typical sexual routine in response to a sexual problem), we aimed to examine the sexual challenges faced by couples coping with VLS and the strategies they used to cope and maintain satisfying sexual lives. A sample of 98 couples (196 individuals) independently completed two open-ended survey questions about VLS-related sexual challenges and coping strategies, which were analyzed using a reflexive thematic and abductive approach. Couples were found to cope with sexual challenges in three main ways, by 1) using sexual aids, but with varied experiences (3 subthemes), 2) focusing on the partner, for better or worse (2 subthemes), and 3) redefining the sexual relationship as a couple (4 subthemes). Within each of the three themes and nine subthemes, we discuss how couple members' coping strategies align with sexual script flexibility or not, and couples' nuanced reactions to implementing flexible strategies in their sexual lives.
Tildrakizumab is an interleukin (IL)-23 p19 inhibitor approved for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. This study assessed tildrakizumab effectiveness and drug survival in real-world patients with prior IL-17 inhibitor (IL-17i) experience.Patients initiated tildrakizumab (October 2018 to April 2024) at or after enrollment in the PPD™ CorEvitas™ Psoriasis Registry, an independent observational cohort of patients with psoriasis under dermatologist care in North America. Outcomes included drug survival from Kaplan-Meier analysis and changes from baseline in clinician- and patient-reported outcomes, including Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI), Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), and patient-reported symptoms at 12 (± 3) months.Of 728 tildrakizumab initiators, 186 (25.5%) had prior IL-17i experience. Their mean age was 56.9 years; 54.3% were female, 137 (73.7%) had prior use of ≥ 2 biologics, including ≥ 1 IL-17i at any time, and 115 (61.8%) used an IL-17i immediately prior to tildrakizumab initiation. Over half (55.4%) had psoriatic arthritis at baseline. Baseline mean PASI was 6.0 (standard deviation [SD] (6.2) and mean DLQI was 7.2 (SD (6.8). The restricted mean tildrakizumab survival time was 27.4 months; 56.8% of initiators were persistent at 12 months. Improvements at 12 months were seen for PASI (mean 2.4, SD 4.8) and DLQI (mean 2.6, SD 5.7); 57.9%, 40.4%, and 38.9% of patients achieved PASI ≤ 3, PASI ≤ 1, and DLQI 0/1, respectively. Improvements in fatigue, skin pain, and itch were also observed.As measured by clinician- and patient-reported outcomes, tildrakizumab was effective in real-world patients in North America with extensive prior biologic experience including immediate prior IL-17i experience. The majority of IL-17i-experienced initiators persisted on treatment for at least 1 year.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic vascular complications remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial dysfunction in diabetes remain incompletely understood. Endothelial dysfunction is a key contributor to vascular pathology, and patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cell-derived endothelial cells (iPSC-ECs) provide a human platform to investigate disease-associated endothelial phenotypes under controlled conditions. Here, we identify the RNA-binding protein Quaking-7 (QKI-7) as a key regulatory factor associated with endothelial dysfunction in patient-derived iPSC-ECs. Using cells derived from diabetic and non-diabetic donors maintained under standard culture conditions, we demonstrate that elevated QKI-7 expression is associated with reduced expression of endothelial homeostatic genes (COL4A2, JUN, TMEM184A, and PPP1R15A) and impaired angiogenic capacity, including reduced tube formation. Importantly, these findings were further validated in three-dimensional blood vessel organoid models, supporting the relevance of QKI-7-associated endothelial phenotypes in a more physiologically complex vascular system. Connectivity mapping identified FDA-approved compounds, including simvastatin, halcinonide, and retinoic acid, as potential modulators of QKI-7-associated pathways. Functional validation in iPSC-ECs demonstrated that these compounds reduce QKI-7 expression and improve endothelial functional readouts. Together, these findings identify QKI-7 as a regulatory node associated with endothelial dysfunction in patient-derived iPSC-ECs and highlight the utility of human iPSC-based vascular models for identifying candidate therapeutic strategies. While these models capture endothelial phenotypes associated with diabetic donor origin, further studies in more complex in vivo systems will be required to establish causal relevance to vascular disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Dromedary camels are of increasing economic importance; however, their reproductive efficiency remains suboptimal, and the immunological mechanisms underlying male reproductive function are still poorly understood. Sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin 1 (Siglec-1) is an important immunomodulatory receptor in several mammalian tissues, but its expression and localization in the male reproductive tract (MRT) of camels have not previously been investigated. This study aimed to characterize the expression and localization of Siglec-1 in the MRT of adult dromedary camels during the rutting season. Tissue samples of testes, epididymis, and vas deferens were collected from 12 healthy adult camels (≥ 5 years old) and analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. Siglec-1 mRNA was detected in all examined tissues, with significantly higher expression in the caudal pole of the testis and vas deferens (p < 0.05). Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of Siglec-1 protein in all MRT segments. Immunohistochemistry revealed the localization of Siglec-1 in Leydig cells, Sertoli cells, spermatogenic cells, epididymal epithelial cells, and vas deferens epithelial cells. Semi-quantitative and quantitative analyses demonstrated significantly higher immunoreactivity in the caudal pole of the testis and vas deferens than in the remaining MRT regions (p < 0.05). In conclusion, Siglec-1 is widely distributed throughout the camel MRT, with prominent expression in the testis and vas deferens. To our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize Siglec-1 in the camel MRT. These findings suggest that Siglec-1 may contribute to reproductive immune regulation, epithelial barrier integrity, and sperm protection in dromedary camels.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cancer is one of the major diseases threatening human health worldwide. The numerous side effects exhibited by the traditional anti-cancer drugs can significantly limit their curative effects. In recent years, it has been found that the combination of drugs can greatly reduce the dosage of drugs, which will play a complementary role and can also enhance the anti-cancer efficacies. In this study, we advanced the structural modification of 3'-dA, yielding StLK-24, a bis-stapled peptide variant exhibiting augmented stability. Subsequent reaction with Paclitaxel (PTX) culminated in the formation of the tripartite compound 3'-dA-StLK-24-PTX, which demonstrated greater antineoplastic activity than its binary counterpart. This compound induced autophagic responses in tumor cells and promoted Ca2+ efflux from the endoplasmic reticulum into the cytosol, facilitating the calpain-mediated conversion of ATG5 from a full-length protein to its truncated form, tATG5-N, and elevating tBeclin-1C. tATG5-N and tBeclin-1C synergistically induced tumor cell apoptosis through mitochondrial pathways. These findings underscored the improved stability and potentiated antitumor efficacy of 3'-dA-StLK-24-PTX, reflecting the principle that the combined efficacy of the compound constituents exceeds their isolated actions. In conclusion, this investigation provides foundational insights for novel antitumor drug screening and offers a new dimension to cancer therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate whether the anti-atherosclerotic(AS) effect of Huanglian Jiedu Decoction(HLJDD) is associated with activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 5(ERK5) and the consequent improvement of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3(LC3)-associated phagocytosis(LAP) dysfunction in macrophages. RAW264.7 cells were randomly divided into the normal control group, oxidized low-density lipoprotein(ox-LDL) group, HLJDD group, simvastatin(simva) group, and RAW264.7-ERK5 gene knockout(ERK5-KO) group. According to the experimental protocol, cells in each group were treated for 24 h with normal control rat serum, ox-LDL, HLJDD-containing serum, or simva-containing serum. Apoptotic Jurkat cells were added to each group and co-cultured for 90 min. After removal of the supernatant, LC3-Ⅱ labeling was performed to observe LAPosomes in macrophages, and the clearance of apoptotic Jurkat cells was assessed. The expression levels of phosphorylated(p)-ERK5, ERK5, LAP-related signaling molecules [T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain-containing molecule-4(TIM-4), vacuolar protein sorting 34(VPS34), Beclin-1, RUN domain Beclin-1-interacting and cysteine-rich domain-containing protein(Rubicon), autophagy-related protein 5(ATG5), and autophagy-related protein 7(ATG7)], pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6)], and anti-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-10(IL-10), transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β)] were measured. RESULTS:: showed that, compared with the control group, the ox-LDL group exhibited decreased LAPosome percentage and reduced clearance of apoptotic cells, downregulated expression of p-ERK5, TIM-4, VPS34, Beclin-1, Rubicon, ATG5, and ATG7, increased IL-1β and IL-6 levels, and no significant changes in IL-10 or TGF-β expression. Compared with the ox-LDL group, the HLJDD and simva groups showed increased LAPosome percentage and enhanced apoptotic cell clearance, upregulated expression of p-ERK5, TIM-4, VPS34, Beclin-1, Rubicon, ATG5, and ATG7, decreased IL-1β and IL-6 levels, and increased IL-10 and TGF-β expression. Compared with the HLJDD group, the ERK5-KO group exhibited significantly reduced expression of ERK5 and p-ERK5, and all other indicators were reversed. In conclusion, HLJDD may ameliorate macrophage LAP dysfunction and exert anti-AS effects by activating ERK5.
Synaptic proteostasis is crucial for neuronal function, yet how synapses adapt to metabolic stress remains unclear. We show that nutrient stress, particularly serum withdrawal, induces autophagy-dependent remodeling of the synaptic proteome, whereas mTORC1 inhibition produces limited effects. Nutrient stress activates synaptic autophagy within 1-2 h and promotes the recruitment of the LC3 lipidation machinery via RAB5B-positive endosomal compartments in a dynein-dependent manner. Live imaging reveals enhanced RAB5B-ATG16L1 co-trafficking and increased ATG5 mobility upon serum withdrawal, indicating spatiotemporally controlled delivery of autophagy precursors to synaptic compartments. Functionally, nutrient deprivation dampens neuronal activity, while a fasting-mimicking diet induces synaptic proteome remodeling overlapping with starvation-associated autophagy cargo. In contrast, restriction of mTORC1-activating amino acids fails to induce comparable remodeling. Together, these findings identify a RAB5B-mediated trafficking pathway that links nutrient sensing to synaptic degradation, revealing how neurons maintain proteostasis under metabolic challenge.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kawasaki disease (KD) and viral infection (VD) share similar clinical features but require distinct treatments. A practical biomarker to distinguish them is therefore clinically important. Previous blood transcriptome studies identified many differentially expressed genes, but large gene panels are impractical for routine laboratories. A ratio-based Direct Leukocyte Single-cell-type Transcript Abundance (DIRECT LS-TA) assay was recently developed to quantify monocyte gene expression directly in whole blood using a monocyte-specific target gene relative to monocyte reference genes (PSAP or CTSS). Interferon-stimulated genes IFI27, IFI44L, and SIGLEC1 can be measured by this approach. In this study, three ratio biomarkers (IFI27/PSAP, IFI44L/PSAP, SIGLEC1/PSAP) and a conventional interferon (IFN) score derived from eight genes were calculated from public blood transcriptome datasets (GSE73461 and GSE68004) and compared between KD and VD. VD patients showed markedly elevated IFN-related biomarkers, with all three ratios significantly higher in VD and IFI27/PSAP giving the largest increase. IFI27/PSAP achieved the highest diagnostic performance (AUC 0.90), slightly exceeding the conventional IFN score (AUC 0.89). These findings suggest that absent or minimal IFN activation argues against VD and supports KD, and that this simple ratio assay could serve as a clinically useful exclusion test.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Dihydroaustrasulfone alcohol (DA), a synthetic precursor of austrasulfone derived from the soft coral Cladiella australis, has demonstrated cytotoxic activity against various cancer types. However, its antitumor effects and underlying mechanisms in human leukemia cells remain unknown. This study aimed to investigate the anticancer effects of DA in leukemia cell models and to elucidate its mechanisms of action.Human leukemia cell lines U937 and HL-60 were treated with DA (0-50 μM) for 24 and 48 h. Cell viability was assessed utilizing the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Apoptosis and cell cycle distribution were examined through flow cytometry using Annexin V/PI and PI/RNase staining, respectively. The expression levels of proteins related to apoptosis, autophagy, and signaling pathways were determined via western blot analysis.DA decreased cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The IC50 values for U937 cells were 15.14 μM and 13.6 μM at 24 and 48 h, respectively; for HL-60 cells, these values were 19.36 μM and 15.93 μM. DA induced SubG1-phase cell cycle arrest (11.6% at 24 h; 39.9% at 48 h) and enhanced apoptosis, as evidenced by increased Bax and PARP-1 cleavage and decreased Bcl-2 expression. At 24 h, DA temporarily induced autophagy, as shown by elevated LC3-II/LC3-I ratios and reduced p62 and Atg5 levels; however, autophagic flux was suppressed at 48 h. Furthermore, DA inhibited phosphorylation of PI3K p85 at 24 h and activated JNK phosphorylation at both time points.DA elicits a biphasic cellular response in U937 leukemia cells, characterized by transient cytoprotective autophagy followed by apoptotic cell death mediated through dysregulation of Bcl-2/Bax and suppression of the PI3K/Akt pathway. These findings indicate that DA is a promising candidate for novel antileukemic therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) remains a global health burden affecting over 39 million people worldwide, with approximately one million new infections occurring each year. Sexual transmission remains the predominant route of HIV-1 acquisition, during which the virus crosses mucosal barriers and interacts with host immune cells to facilitate infection. Dendritic cells (DCs) contribute to systemic viral spread and seeding of reservoirs by efficiently capturing HIV-1, leading to infection and subsequent transmission of the virus to CD4+ T cells. Siglec-1 (CD169) is a key receptor involved in HIV-1 capture, and its blockade may help prevent viral transmission. Here, we used newly developed single-domain antibodies, also known as nanobodies, against Siglec-1 as a candidate inhibitor to limit HIV-1 transmission. Using a Siglec-1-overexpressing cell line, we demonstrated that these nanobodies specifically blocked Siglec-1-mediated HIV-1 binding and transmission. Extending these findings to a more physiologically relevant context, the anti-Siglec-1 nanobodies neither induced immune nor cellular activation in DCs, indicating a favorable safety profile for functional applications. Most notably, the anti-Siglec-1 nanobody 2C2 effectively blocked HIV-1 binding as well as infection of DCs. Moreover, both replication-dependent and replication-independent HIV-1 transmission by DCs was also abrogated by the nanobody. Our findings not only underscore the relevance of Siglec-1 in HIV-1 capture but also highlight the therapeutic potential of utilizing host-targeting strategies against infectious diseases.Sexual transmission is the main route of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) infection, and novel interventions are needed to prevent this crucial first step. Mucosal dendritic cells play a key role by capturing HIV-1 via attachment receptors, leading to dendritic cell infection and subsequent transmission to T cells, thereby facilitating viral spread and establishment of infection. Here, we show that small, highly specific nanobodies targeting the attachment receptor Siglec-1 strongly interfere with this early stage of HIV-1 transmission. Siglec-1 nanobodies prevented HIV-1 binding to and infection of dendritic cells, thereby blocking transmission to T cells without inducing unwanted immune activation. Together, these findings identify Siglec-1 nanobodies as promising interventions and support the development of host-directed nanobody-based strategies to reduce HIV-1 spread.
Endometriosis (EMS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are both chronic inflammatory disorders with overlapping clinical features, suggesting a potentially shared etiology. Although epidemiological studies have reported an association between the two conditions, the genetic basis of this relationship remains poorly understood. This study is aimed at characterizing the shared genetic architecture of EMS and IBD, identify pleiotropic loci implicated in both conditions, and explore the potential causal relationships and underlying biological mechanisms.We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary statistics to investigate the genetic relationship between EMS and IBD. Linkage-disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlation. The PLACO method was applied to identify pleiotropic loci, which were further evaluated by Bayesian colocalization. Functional implications were assessed using MAGMA gene-set analysis, tissue enrichment analysis, and functional annotation. Bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to examine causal inference, accompanied by leave-one-out sensitivity analyses and statistical power calculations.A statistically significant but modest positive genetic correlation was observed between EMS and IBD (rg = 0.0957, p = 0.0042). Twenty-four genomic loci showed evidence of pleiotropic effects, and six of these carried strong evidence of a shared causal variant (posterior probability: PP.H4 > 0.7), including loci at 2p23.3 (ADCY3/DNAJC27), 4q12, 5q23.3, 7p15.2, 11q13.1 (CCDC88B), and 1q22. Functional analyses consistently implicated eight pleiotropic genes across multiple platforms: ADCY3, CCDC88B, GREB1, NOD2, RSPO3, SYNE1, THADA, and TRAIP. Pathway enrichment highlighted "positive regulation of gene expression" as a key shared mechanism (p < 0.05). Tissue-specific analyses revealed strong signals in whole blood, spleen, and colon, consistent with the immunoinflammatory etiology of both diseases. Bidirectional MR did not support a causal relationship in either direction (IBD on EMS: OR = 1.007, 95% CI: 0.986-1.028, p = 0.543; EMS on IBD: OR = 1.054, 95% CI: 0.991-1.122, p = 0.092). Leave-one-out analyses confirmed that no single variant drove these estimates, and power analysis indicated adequate power to detect moderate causal effects.The findings provide evidence for a shared, albeit modest, and genetic basis between EMS and IBD that is likely mediated through immune regulation, hormonal signaling, and tissue repair. The absence of significant causal effects in MR suggests that the observed comorbidity reflects common genetic susceptibility rather than a direct causal link. These results offer new insight into the mechanisms underlying the co-occurrence of the two conditions and may inform future investigation of shared therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Xinyue Cui et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is an inflammatory mediator involved in tumorigenesis; however, its role in tumor immune evasion remains elusive. Herein, we demonstrate that PTX3 promotes immune evasion in breast cancer by upregulating PD-L1.RT-qPCR and Western blot were performed to assess PD-L1 expression in human and murine breast cancer cells. Cell surface PD-L1 was assayed by flow cytometry. Small interfering RNA and CRISPR-Cas9 were used to inhibit PTX3 expression. Co-culture experiments were conducted to evaluate the suppressive effects of tumor cells on CD8 + T cell activation. An immunocompetent BALB/c mouse allograft model was utilized, and tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry.PTX3 enhanced PD-L1 protein levels through the inhibition of autophagy. PTX3 increased the expression of the E3 ligase RNF216 and caused Beclin-1 degradation, which suppressed autophagy, thereby preventing autophagy-mediated PD-L1 degradation. Co-culture experiments demonstrate that PTX3-overexpressing breast cancer cells suppressed CD8 + T cell function, as evidenced by reduced production of IFN-γ and Granzyme B, whereas PTX3-depleted cells had the opposite effects. In vivo allograft studies revealed that depletion of PTX3 reduced PD-L1 expression, enhanced CD8 + T cell infiltration, and inhibited tumor growth in immunocompetent mice.PTX3 promotes PD-L1 expression and immune evasion in breast cancer. Therefore, targeting PTX3 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to counteract this immune escape.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Few germline susceptibility genes have been well established for lung cancer. We aimed to evaluate associations between germline variants in known hereditary cancer genes and lung cancer risk.We analyzed subjects of European ancestry from two datasets: 2,272 LC cases and 185,510 controls from the UK Biobank, and 824 LC cases from Rush University Medical Center (RUSH) with 56,878 population controls from the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD). Rare pathogenic germline variants in 123 ClinGen-curated hereditary cancer genes were first tested for lung cancer risk in the UK Biobank using gene-based burden testing (robust SKAT-O). Genes with suggestive associations were further evaluated in the RUSH/gnomAD dataset. Meta-analysis of the two datasets was performed to estimate overall evidence and pooled odds ratios.Rare germline variants in ten genes showed nominally significant associations with lung cancer in the UK Biobank (p<0.05), and TP53 showed a borderline signal (p=0.11). These genes were tested in the RUSH/gnomAD dataset, and meta-analysis identified suggestive evidence supporting eight genes associated with increased lung cancer risk (p<0.05), including three previously reported lung cancer genes (ATM, BRCA2, TP53) and five novel genes (RB1, MET, CYLD, PDGFRA, CTNNA1). In the UK Biobank incident lung cancer cohort, aggregated rare pathogenic variants in these eight genes were significantly associated with lung cancer risk and earlier age at lung cancer diagnosis, independent and complementary to smoking history at recruitment.Suggestive evidence supporting associations between rare germline variants in eight hereditary cancer genes and lung cancer were obtained from two large independent datasets.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: As a major regulator, methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) catalyzes N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification in mRNA. The m6A modifications mediated by METTL3 influence RNA splicing, nucleocytoplasmic distribution, stability, and other functions, thereby playing a vital and indispensable role in genetic regulatory network. Although several studies have shown its critical role in mRNA fate, the global pattern of mRNA methylation alteration driven by METTL3 remain unclear. Methods: Here, a HEK293T cell line with METTL3 depletion was constructed, and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and methylated RNA Immunoprecipitation Sequencing (MeRIP-seq) were implemented. Additionally, quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) technology was used to confirm some of the differentially expressed genes. Result: The mRNA methylation alteration landscape was clarified and the regions altered by m6A modification due to METTL3 deletion that was annotated and characterized, with 5763 hypomethylated/269 hypermethylated genes after METTL3 silence. Several methylation-related innate anti-infection immune genes, including MYD88, RIG-1, CYLD and IRF9, were exposed through comprehensive analysis to MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq data, and these genes were principally enriched in pathogen infection and innate immune response pathways such as Shigellosis, Yersinia infection, and the HIV-1 viral life cycle. Conclusion: Our study discovered that the METTL3 association with differentially expressed genes, suggested that METTL3 and the genes it regulates might serve as targets for defense against infection.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42472105 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42463860
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype characterized by chronic inflammation with limited therapeutic options. Although thrombin activation of protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) promotes ubiquitin-dependent signaling and inflammatory responses in endothelial cells, its contribution to inflammatory effects in TNBC remain poorly understood. Here, we show that loss of the deubiquitinase cylindromatosis (CYLD) markedly increases basal phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and p65 nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) subunit to levels comparable to thrombin stimulation, without further enhancement by thrombin, indicating that CYLD primarily restrains constitutive inflammatory activity. We also show that thrombin-activation of PAR1 promotes p38 signaling through an autophosphorylation-dependent mechanism in TNBC, leading to p65 NF-κB subunit phosphorylation and nuclear accumulation independent of canonical inhibitor of κBα degradation. This non-canonical signaling drives expression of pro-inflammatory interleukin (IL) cytokines including IL-6, IL-8, IL-1α, and IL-1β. Functionally, IL-6 and IL-8 contribute to thrombin-induced TNBC proliferation and migration, respectively. Together, these findings define a novel CYLD-regulated PAR1-p38-p65 signaling axis that promotes inflammatory cytokine production and tumor-associated phenotypes such as cell proliferation and migration, identifying multiple druggable nodes for therapeutic targeting in aggressive breast cancers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a highly lethal hematologic malignancy, with relapse and therapeutic resistance largely driven by apoptosis evasion. Necroptosis, a regulated form of non-apoptotic cell death, has emerged as a potential strategy to eliminate apoptosis-resistant cancer cells; however, its upstream regulatory mechanisms in AML remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify the long non-coding RNA XIST as a previously underappreciated regulator of necroptosis-associated signaling in AML. XIST and CYLD were consistently downregulated in AML cell lines and primary patient samples, whereas miR-92a-3p was upregulated and inversely correlated with XIST and CYLD expression. Clinically, elevated miR-92a-3p expression was associated with inferior overall survival in AML patients. Functionally, endogenous activation of XIST significantly suppressed AML cell proliferation and induced G2/M cell cycle arrest without markedly increasing apoptosis. Instead, XIST overexpression increased membrane-disrupted cell death, as shown by trypan blue and Hoechst/PI staining, and induced necroptosis-like ultrastructural changes. XIST-mediated growth inhibition was partially rescued by the necroptosis inhibitor Necrostatin-1 but not by the pan-caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk. Moreover, XIST overexpression enhanced CYLD expression and activated necroptosis-associated RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL signaling, including increased phosphorylation of RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL. Mechanistically, XIST directly interacted with miR-92a-3p and negatively regulated its expression, while miR-92a-3p directly targeted CYLD. Inhibition of miR-92a-3p increased CYLD expression and recapitulated the anti-proliferative and necroptosis-associated effects of XIST. In vivo, XIST overexpression suppressed subcutaneous AML xenograft growth and enhanced necroptosis-associated signaling. Collectively, our findings suggest that XIST restrains AML progression, at least in part, by modulating the miR-92a-3p/CYLD axis and promoting necroptosis-associated cell death, highlighting a potential regulatory mechanism for overcoming apoptosis resistance in AML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization is a pivotal event in programmed cell death by apoptosis, leading to the activation of the cysteine protease caspase-3 (CASP3) and the release of mitochondrial nucleic acids. This release triggers the activation of the Interferon Regulatory Factor 3 (IRF3) transcription factor and the subsequent IRF3-mediated type I interferon production and cell death. CASP3 ensures apoptosis remains immunologically silent, though the mechanisms are unclear. We report that CASP3 cleaves CYLD, a deubiquitinating enzyme crucial for cell fate and inflammatory signaling. This proteolysis occurs at a site distinct from the previously reported CASP8 site, which is involved in limiting cell lysis and inflammation during extrinsic apoptosis. Although cleaved CYLD retains its enzymatic activity in vitro, knocked-in cells expressing CASP3-resistant CYLD show increased interferon signaling and enhanced cell death. Thus, a proteolytic code regulates CYLD to balance inflammation during programmed cell death.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448958 is a review article
Mutations in the MEFV gene, which encodes pyrin, are associated with a spectrum of inflammatory conditions called pyrin-associated autoinflammatory diseases (PAADs). Of the 400 MEFV variants listed in the Infevers database, most are classified as variants of uncertain significance. Thus, genetic diagnosis of PAADs remains challenging, and the molecular mechanisms underlying pyrin activation remain poorly understood. Here, we used a cell-based pyroptosis assay to stratify 265 missense MEFV variants and identified previously uncharacterized pathogenic variants. We then characterized the interaction between the pyrin B30.2 domain and CDC42, a key regulator of pyrin intracellular trafficking and activation. We found that classical familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)-related variants bind tightly to CDC42 to induce pyrin hyperactivation, whereas certain non-FMF variants induce pyrin hyperactivation independently of CDC42, indicating involvement of multiple pathways in pyrin activation. Our approach provides a proof of concept for a genotype-first approach, which may advance our understanding of complex human diseases.
Dentinogenesis, a process essential for tooth function, relies on the precise differentiation of dental papilla cells into odontoblasts. This lineage commitment is governed by complex transcription factor networks. RUNX2 and KLF4, known key TFs co-expressed in this process, were proven to operate synergistically, but the specific cofactors coordinating their activity at the chromatin level remain unknown. Here, we identify the chromatin remodeller BRD9 as a novel interactor of both RUNX2 and KLF4 during odontoblastic differentiation. To probe their shared function, we generated neural crest-specific conditional knockout mice. Wnt1-Cre; Brd9fl/fl mice exhibited a disordered odontoblast layer with reduced secretion of extracellular matrix proteins (DMP1 and DSPP), strikingly phenocopying the compound Wnt1-Cre; Runx2fl/wt; Klf4fl/fl mutants. In vitro, chemical BRD9 degradation suppressed odontoblastic differentiation and mineral deposition. Integrative analyses of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq revealed that BRD9 maintained chromatin accessibility at odontogenesis-associated regions enriched with RUNX2 and KLF4 motifs, specifically at the Fam20c enhancer, thereby facilitating RUNX2 and KLF4 binding for transcriptional activation. Crucially, exogenous supplementation of FAM20C protein partially rescued the odontoblastic differentiation defects upon BRD9 loss. These findings establish BRD9 as a critical epigenetic orchestrator that coordinates RUNX2-KLF4 synergy to activate key odontogenic genes like Fam20c, thus affecting odontoblastic differentiation and dentinogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
TRIB3 is upregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and associates with worse survival, yet targeted therapeutics remain lacking. Calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles offer biocompatible, serum-stable delivery for siRNA therapy. Here, we developed CaP nanoparticles loading siRNA targeting TRIB3 (NPCaP/siTrib3) and evaluated antitumor efficacy and mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.NPCaP/siTrib3 was synthesized via biomineralization, and RNase resistance was verified by PAGE. Mouse KP-1 NSCLC cells were used for transfection, apoptosis (Annexin V/7-AAD), migration (scratch), invasion (Matrigel Transwell), qRT-PCR, and Western blot of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. C57BL/6 subcutaneous tumor models received tail-vein injections for efficacy and biosafety assessment.TRIB3 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues compared with normal lung tissues and was associated with poorer overall survival. NPCaP/siTrib3 formed nanosheets with an average size of approximately 159.4 nm and exhibited a more negative zeta potential than bare CaP, indicating successful siRNA loading. The CaP shell effectively protected siTrib3 from RNase degradation. NPCaP/siTrib3 efficiently silenced TRIB3 protein expression in KP-1 cells, with gene knockdown efficacy comparable to Lipo8000 but with lower cytotoxicity. Functionally, NPCaP/siTrib3 significantly promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell migration and invasion. In vivo, intravenously administered NPCaP/siTrib3, which primarily accumulated in tumors through the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect, markedly suppressed tumor growth without affecting body weight. Mechanistically, NPCaP/siTrib3 reversed EMT by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating N-cadherin and Snail, and reduced cancer stemness by decreasing the expression of Sox2, Nanog, Pou5f1, Klf4, and c-Myc. Biosafety evaluations demonstrated negligible hemolysis, normal serum biochemistry and hematology, and no histopathological damage in major organs.NPCaP/siTrib3 is an effective and biocompatible siRNA nanoplatform that suppresses NSCLC progression through dual inhibition of EMT and cancer stemness, supporting TRIB3 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 Wu et al.
The MEditerranean FeVer (MEFV) gene is a critical regulator of the innate immune response. The prototypical disease related to the MEFV gene is familial Mediterranean fever (FMF). Heterozygous MEFV gene variants have increasingly been reported in association with a wide range of inflammatory disorders besides FMF. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic spectrum and clinical and demographic findings of patients carrying heterozygous MEFV variants. This retrospective study included pediatric patients carrying heterozygous MEFV variants who were followed up at our center between January 2012 and January 2025. Diagnosis, demographics, and clinical manifestations were reviewed. A total of 270 patients with a median age of 7 years were identified. The diagnoses of the study population included FMF (67%), IgA vasculitis (7%), PFAPA syndrome (6%), inflammatory bowel disease (3%), juvenile idiopathic arthritis (3%), chronic nonbacterial osteomyelitis (2%), Behçet's disease (1%), and other vasculitides (1%). Fourteen percent of the patients were asymptomatic carriers. During follow-up, 22 of the 74 patients (30%) initially diagnosed with other inflammatory conditions later developed clinical features consistent with FMF. Colchicine therapy was initiated not only for typical attacks of FMF but also for selected indications in other inflammatory diseases.Heterozygous MEFV variants have been reported to be associated with various inflammatory diseases besides FMF. Long-term follow-up is essential, as some patients may later develop FMF. MEFV gene testing should be considered in other inflammatory diseases with severe or atypical manifestations, particularly in populations where FMF is highly prevalent.•  Heterozygous MEFV variants have been associated with FMF and several inflammatory diseases.• This large pediatric cohort demonstrates that heterozygous MEFV variants may be encountered across a broad spectrum of inflammatory diseases, and some patients initially diagnosed with other conditions may subsequently develop FMF during follow-up.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Lung cancer (LC) is a leading cause of cancer-related death. Microwave ablation (MWA) is a promising local therapy, but its impact on systemic immunity remains unclear.In this exploratory pilot study, paired peripheral blood samples from two LC patients pre- and post-MWA were analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Cell composition, functional states, and intercellular communication were investigated. The expression levels of cytotoxic factors including GZMB, TNF-α, and IFN-γ in CD8+ T cells derived from PBMCs were determined via RT-qPCR and ELISA assays.scRNA-seq identified 9 immune cell types. Post-MWA, monocytes and NKT cells increased. Functional changes included enhanced T cell cytotoxicity, activated pro-inflammatory monocytes, and anti-tumor neutrophil differentiation. Cell communication analysis highlighted enriched LGALS9-CD45 and RETN-CAP1 interactions between T cells and monocytes/neutrophils. In vitro cellular assays revealed that the expression of cytotoxic factors (GZMB, TNF-α, and IFN-γ) in CD8+ T cells was significantly upregulated following MWA treatment.This pilot study provides preliminary single-cell evidence suggesting how MWA remodels the immune landscape in LC, however, these findings require further validation in larger cohorts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methylation has emerged as an important epitranscriptomic regulator of gene expression, yet its role in stem cell maintenance remains not well understood. Here we identify a previously unrecognized function of the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 in protecting stem cells from ferroptosis and promoting tissue regeneration. NSUN2 deletion reduced GPX4 expression, decreased intracellular GSH levels, increased Fe2+ accumulation, and enhanced lipid peroxidation in stem cells, leading to ferroptotic cell death, loss of tissue stem cells and impaired tissue regeneration across multiple organs. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzed m5C methylation of Klf4 mRNA, thereby increasing KLF4 expression and transcriptionally promoting GPX4 to suppress ferroptosis in stem cells. Importantly, KLF4 restoration in vivo rescued NSUN2 deficiency-induced stem cell defects and impaired tissue regeneration. Furthermore, NSUN2 gene therapy significantly bolstered tissue stem cells with superior tissue regeneration and repair in multiple tissues. These findings highlight the NSUN2/KLF4/GPX4 axis in safeguarding stem cells against ferroptosis for tissue repair and a promising therapeutic value of NSUN2 in regenerative medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The tumor microenvironment, particularly the tumor stroma, plays a critical role in tumor progression, immune evasion, and therapeutic resistance. However, its interaction with the immune landscape in rectal cancer (RC) remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to comprehensively characterize the stromal-immune ecosystem associated with the tumor stroma ratio (TSR) in RC and to evaluate its clinical and therapeutic relevance.We analyzed a multicenter cohort of 498 patients with treatment-naïve RC in whom TSR was assessed on H&E-stained sections. Integrative multi-omics analyses were performed, including bulk RNA sequencing (n=118) and single-cell RNA/T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing (n=10). Key findings were validated by immunohistochemistry (n=114) and multiplex immunofluorescence (n=20). Survival analyses and statistical comparisons were conducted to evaluate clinical associations and treatment responses.High TSR was an independent predictor of unfavorable disease-free survival and cancer-specific survival and was associated with aggressive clinicopathological features. Single-cell analyses revealed that TSR-high tumors exhibited a profoundly immunosuppressive microenvironment, characterized by clonally expanded terminally exhausted CD8+ T cells (CD8+ Tex-CXCL13) and activated CD4+ regulatory T cells (CD4+ Treg-TNFRSF4). Two LRRC15+ cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subsets (mCAF-CTHRC1 and mCAF-FAP) were enriched in TSR-high tumors. Among them, mCAF-CTHRC1 was associated with increased Treg abundance and activation features, with predicted interactions with CD4+ Treg-TNFRSF4 cells through the LGALS9-CD44 signaling axis. In addition, SPP1-expressing monocytes (Mon-SPP1) and malignant epithelial cells were prominent in TSR-high tumors and showed a predicted SPP1-CD44 interaction with T-cell subsets, suggesting potential involvement in immunosuppressive stromal-immune interactions. In patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy, pretreatment TSR-low tumors showed improved pathological response and survival outcomes compared with TSR-high tumors. In the neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy plus immunotherapy cohort, TSR-low tumors were associated with a significantly higher major pathological response rate, whereas pathological complete response showed a non-significant trend in the same direction.High TSR identifies a clinically aggressive subtype of RC characterized by a profoundly immunosuppressive stromal-immune ecosystem enriched for exhausted T cells, immunosuppressive CAF programs, and SPP1-associated stromal-myeloid interactions. These findings highlight LGALS9-, LRRC15-, and SPP1-related stromal-immune pathways as candidate stromal-immune therapeutic vulnerabilities that warrant further mechanistic and preclinical validation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539675 is a review article
This study investigated the role of Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) in macrophage-mediated inflammation in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with psoriasis. KLF4, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3)/a disintegrin and a metalloproteinase domain 17 (ADAM17) levels were measured in skin samples from patients. A diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis mouse model was established using imiquimod (IMQ) and treated with KLF4-overexpressing lentivirus. Glucose/lipid metabolism, skin pathology, mast cell counts, and inflammatory markers were assessed. Macrophage status was evaluated by F4/80 staining. KLF4 was downregulated in patients with T2DM with psoriasis. In mice with diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis. KLF4 overexpression improved glucose/lipid metabolism and reduced skin erythema, scaling, thickening, psoriasis area severity index, and mast cell infiltration. KLF4 also decreased inflammation and modulated the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway. These findings indicate that KLF4 ameliorates IMQ-induced inflammation via the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway in diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The restoration of liver mass after partial hepatectomy (PH) and split liver transplantation (SLT) relies on efficient liver regeneration, a process highly susceptible to metabolic dysregulation. Although remodeling of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is commonly observed during liver injury and regeneration, the specific role of succinic acid remains unclear. Here, we integrated radiomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and functional assays to systematically evaluate the association between succinic acid and liver regeneration. Multi-omics analysis of 20 SLT patients demonstrated that elevated succinic acid levels were strongly associated with impaired regenerative outcomes, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified the TCA cycle as a key regeneration-associated metabolic module. In a 70% PH mouse model, succinic acid administration was associated with reduced survival and decreased hepatocyte proliferation, consistent with impaired liver regeneration. Mechanistically, succinic acid exhibited distinct effects in different cell types: in macrophages, it enhanced inflammatory activation and increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, whereas in hepatocytes it reduced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and downstream regenerative signaling. Furthermore, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance assays supported an interaction between succinic acid and the STAT3 SH2 domain, providing structural evidence consistent with modulation of STAT3 signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that succinic acid may function as an immunometabolic regulator that contributes to impaired liver regeneration by altering macrophage-derived IL-6 signaling and hepatocyte STAT3 activation. These findings also support further investigation of the succinic acid-STAT3 axis as a potential therapeutic target for promoting liver regeneration following hepatic injury or resection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567782 is a review article
Uvaria micrantha remains insufficiently characterized in terms of its phytochemical diversity and pharmacological potential. In this study, branches and leaves were extracted and subjected to chromatographic isolation, yielding a new metabolite, uvarisinyicone, along with twenty-two known compounds, including chalcones, dihydrochalcones, flavonoids, and benzenoids. LC-MS/MS profiling combined with GNPS-FBMN enabled dereplication and visualization of metabolite clusters, revealing chemical networks consistent with isolated scaffolds. Bioassays demonstrated two major functional classes of metabolites, exhibiting anti-inflammatory and anti-neuroinflammatory activity, and regulators of osteogenesis. Differential bioactivities were observed, with certain compounds selectively suppressing IL-6, others exerting dual cytokine inhibition, and several promoting osteoblast differentiations. The discovery of uvarisinyicone, together with bioactive flavonoid and chalcone derivatives, expands the chemical diversity of the genus and identifies osteogenesis activity as a novel property. These findings suggest therapeutic potential for osteoporosis and inflammatory disorders while bridging natural product chemistry with modern pharmacological applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exophthalmia is an important but poorly documented complication of tropical theileriosis caused by Theileria annulata, especially in neonatal and young calves. It involves forward displacement of the eyeball, periorbital swelling, conjunctival congestion, excessive tearing, and enlarged regional lymph nodes. Systemic signs like fever, anaemia, depression, and weakness often occur. The condition arises through complex pathogenetic mechanisms linked to the schizont stage of the parasite, where infected leukocytes transform into rapidly dividing, invasive cells. These cells infiltrate retro-orbital tissues, creating inflammatory masses that pressure the orbital cavity, resulting in globe protrusion. Simultaneously, inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, and IFN-γ are released excessively, causing endothelial damage, increased vascular permeability, and oedema. Enlarged lymph nodes block venous and lymphatic drainage, worsening fluid build-up and infraorbital pressure, which all contribute to the development of exophthalmia in tropical theileriosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558596 is a review article
Preeclampsia (PE) is a complication of pregnancy characterized by hypertension, with limited therapeutic options and variable treatment response. Identifying novel drug targets is urgently needed.We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) to explore potential drug targets for PE using data from the UK Biobank (nCase = 184, nControl = 361,010) and the FinnGen database (nCase = 7,377, nControl = 211,957). Genetic instruments for pQTLs were obtained from five proteomic studies. Bayesian colocalization analysis and summary-data-based MR (SMR) analysis were performed to assess the causal relationship between two related signals (protein levels and PE risk). We further conducted single-cell type expression analysis and phenome-wide MR. In addition, a protein-protein interaction network of key genes was constructed via the GeneMANIA website.At a significance level of p < 5 × 10-8, MR analysis revealed seven protein-PE pairs. Gene prediction indicated that KDEL (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu) Containing 2 and Keratin 18 (KRT18) were positively correlated with the risk of PE, whereas the other five proteins (Complement Factor B [CFB], FYN Proto-Oncogene [FYN], RAN Binding Protein 1 [RANBP1], Amphoterin-Induced Gene and ORF 1 [AMIGO1], and Arginase 2 [ARG2]) were negatively correlated. None of the five proteins had reverse causality. Bayesian colocalization analysis verified the positive correlation of CFB (coloc.coloc.susie PPH4 = 1) and KRT18 (coloc.coloc.abf PPH4 = 0.74) with PE. The genes encoding the proteins KRT18, FYN, ARG2, and RANBP1 were distributed in specific cell types within PE tissues from patients with PE. Moreover, the examination of single-cell localization provided insights into the extensive distribution of the KRT18 gene, which is highly expressed in the villous cytotrophoblast (VCT) and extravillous trophoblast (EVT) populations.Our MR analysis suggested that the plasma proteins KRT18, FYN, RANBP1, AMIGO1, and ARG2 had causal effects on PE risk. These findings indicated that these five proteins might be promising druggable targets for PE and warrant further clinical therapy, especially KRT18.© The Author(s) 2026.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) poses a significant global health burden due to its high mortality. The modest efficacy of single-agent treatments is spurring the quest for combinatorial approaches. Sonodynamic therapy and gene therapy offer promising therapeutic approaches, yet they are limited by restricted tumor specificity and inefficient delivery. In this work, we developed a multifunctional mesoporous silica-based nanoplatform co-delivering indocyanine green (ICG) and CD24 small interfering RNA (siRNA) (siCD24), and the surface was engineered with lactobionic acid (LA) to enable active targeting and 2,3-dimethylmaleic anhydride (DMMA) to confer tumor microenvironment-responsive charge reversal, thereby enhancing specific accumulation and release. Under ultrasound irradiation, the nanoplatform concurrently activates dual mechanisms: ICG-mediated sonodynamic action generates reactive oxygen species, while synchronized CD24 silencing modulates downstream effectors, such as p14 alternative reading frame and MDM2. This leads to coordinated regulation of the p53, resulting in the upregulation of the Cleaved caspase-3 and p21, alongside the downregulation of Cyclin D1. Evaluations in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that combinatorial therapy exerts superior antitumor efficacy compared to monotherapy. Notably, the nanoparticles significantly enhanced ultrasound imaging. Our work validates the concept of a unified theranostic platform for sono-gene therapy and ultrasound imaging, representing a promising advance in HCC treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Identifying new drug targets is essential for improving breast cancer survival. The proteome provides a rich source for potential therapeutic targets. This study aimed to identify protein markers and therapeutic targets for breast cancer by using proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR).Protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) data were obtained from four large-scale proteomic studies, including 17,267 circulating protein markers. Genetic associations with breast cancer survival were derived from a large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (37,954 cases, 2,900 deaths). Proteome-wide MR was performed to estimate causal effects of proteins on breast cancer survival, complemented by single-cell expression analysis to identify enriched cell types. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) and druggability assessments were also conducted to prioritize therapeutic targets.Genetically predicted circulating levels of 27 proteins were found to be associated with breast cancer survival. Among these, eight proteins (ADAM15, CD83, SH3BGRL3, SNCG, ANXA1, GRHPR, ALDH2, and MTHFD2) showed the strongest evidence of association, while four proteins (ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B) demonstrated a strong but slightly weaker correlation. Notably, SH3BGRL3, GRHPR, ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B were newly identified as circulating protein markers significantly associated with breast cancer prognosis. Druggability analysis revealed that 13 of these proteins were already targeted by existing drugs, offering potential for breast cancer treatment.We identified 27 genes encoding proteins associated with overall and subtype-specific breast cancer survival, providing potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and offering new avenues for improving breast cancer management.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
The interaction between metabolic enzymes and the immune microenvironment in prostate cancer is still complex. This study aimed to examine the relationship between Arginase 2 (ARG2) expression and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in prostate adenocarcinoma patients, as well as its correlation with histopathological grading, thereby elucidating immunometabolic mechanisms within the Indonesian patient population.This observational analytic study utilized a cross-sectional design, incorporating 105 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue blocks of prostate adenocarcinoma obtained from referral hospitals in Makassar, Indonesia. Immunohistochemistry was used to find out how much ARG2 was expressed, and digital image analysis (QuPath) was used to get an objective H-Score. According to the International Immuno-Oncology Biomarkers Working Group guidelines, the density of TILs was measured on H&E-stained slides. Statistical analyses encompassed Spearman's rank correlation, the Kruskal-Wallis test, and the Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test for spatial analysis.The study population was predominantly characterized by high-grade tumors, with 45.7% categorized as Grade Group V (Gleason Score 9-10). The digital quantification of ARG2 was validated by manual scoring (r = 0.768, p < 0.001). There was no statistically significant correlation between ARG2 expression and TILs density on a global scale (r = 0.048, p = 0.630). Nonetheless, paired spatial analysis indicated a significant local disparity; tumor regions infiltrated by TILs demonstrated substantially diminished ARG2 expression relative to adjacent non-infiltrated regions (p = 0.009). Moreover, ARG2 expression exhibited a significant inverse correlation with WHO Grade Group (p < 0.001), indicating substantial downregulation in high-grade tumors.The expression of Arginase 2 is significantly reduced in high-grade prostate adenocarcinoma, signifying tumor dedifferentiation. Although ARG2 does not universally forecast immune infiltration, it influences the tumor microenvironment locally, with increased expression correlating with immune exclusion.
Macrolide-resistant mycoplasma pneumoniae (MRMP) infections are more common and severe in children, indicating that age-related immune dysregulation affects disease outcomes, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear and suitable pediatric models are lacking. This study compared juvenile and adult mice with MRMP infection to identify age-dependent immune features linked to lung injury and establish a relevant animal model for pediatric research.Three-week-old (juvenile) and 8-week-old (adult) BALB/c mice were infected with MRMP. Pathological phenotypes included lung index, bacterial load, and lung histopathology scores. Serum inflammatory storm profiles were characterized using the Olink 48-plex assay. High-dimensional immune mapping of the spleen was performed by cytometry by time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CyTOF). Integrated analyses including sparse partial least squares-discriminant analysis (sPLS-DA), correlation heatmaps, and KEGG pathway enrichment were created to explore associations among differential immune subsets, inflammatory mediators, and M. pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP) phenotypes.No statistically significant differences in bacterial load were observed among the MRMP-infected juvenile (Juv+MRMP) and MRMP-infected adult (Ad+MRMP) groups (p > 0.05). However, the Juv+MRMP group exhibited significantly higher lung indices and more severe pulmonary histopathological damage, indicating a dissociation between bacterial burden and tissue injury. Olink analysis revealed significantly higher levels of serum chemokines (CCL2, CCL12, CCL22) and proinflammatory cytokines (IL-17A, IL-1β, IL-27) in the Juv+MRMP group than in the Ad+MRMP group. CyTOF analysis revealed a starkly different immune landscape: Juvenile mice exhibited excessive innate immune activation, with significant increases in neutrophil and monocyte infiltration, as well as elevated proportions of M2 macrophages and NK cells (p < 0.05); while adaptive immune responses were impaired, characterized by reduced proportions of CD4+ T cells and Treg cells, and maintained a high reserve of naïve Th cells compared with those in adult mice, along with elevated proportions of activated Tc cells (CD69+ Tc) (p < 0.05). Correlation analysis revealed that age and infection status are key factors driving host immune variability. M2 macrophages and NK cells were potentially associated with lung tissue pathology scores. Pathogen load correlates with both initial immune cells (CD24+ naïve Th, CD24+ naïve Tc) and effector immune cells (neutrophils, monocytes, CD69+ Tc), which may contribute to a Th1-type inflammatory response involving CCL2 and CCL4. Feedback-upregulated Treg cells may also aid pathogen clearance by promoting IL-10 expression. Leukocyte migration and granulocyte chemotaxis were potentially associated with age-dependent differences in inflammatory immune responses between juvenile and adult mice post-MRMP infection.The severity of pediatric MRMP infection may be correlated with age-associated immune dysregulation-characterized by heightened innate activation with insufficient adaptive regulation-rather than by bacterial load alone. The three-week-old juvenile mouse model appears to recapitulate key features of MRMP infection in children and could potentially serve as a useful platform for mechanistic and intervention studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Breast cancer remains a global health challenge due to rising incidence, chemoresistance, and tumor relapse. In cancer management, antibiotics are often used to treat bacterial infections in immunocompromised patients. However, the direct impact of antibiotics on cancer progression and treatment outcomes is not well understood. This study investigated the effects of four antibiotics-ciprofloxacin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, tetracycline, and meropenem-on breast cancer cells, both alone and in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin (DOX).Using the MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cell line, we assessed cell viability using the MTT assay. The impact of antibiotics on apoptosis was assessed using Annexin V/PI flow cytometry. Additionally, we evaluated the expression of stem cell markers CD133, CD44, and CD24 posttreatment using flow cytometry. Finally, the Luminex assay was used to measure the cytokine and chemokine release by the cells.All of the antibiotics reduced cell viability in a time- and dose-dependent manner but reduced DOX-induced cytotoxicity. The antibiotics also induced early apoptosis in the cells but significantly reduced DOX-induced apoptosis, supporting our earlier observation that these antibiotics diminish the efficacy of DOX chemotherapy. Furthermore, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ciprofloxacin, and meropenem diminished the efficacy of DOX chemotherapy by promoting stemness in cancer cells. The antibiotics exhibited variable effects on cytokine and chemokine production.Although these antibiotics exhibit anticancer activity, their coadministration with DOX may reduce its therapeutic efficacy and promote cancer stemness. These findings highlight the need for further investigation into antibiotic-chemotherapy interactions in breast cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Benedict Broni Boadi et al. International Journal of Breast Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (SACC) is an immunologically cold malignancy with limited response to current immunotherapies. Integrated transcriptomic profiling of peripheral blood, primary tumors, lung metastases, and a two-donor single-cell dataset revealed compartment-specific expression signatures and, through computational inference, systemic immune dysregulation marked by hematopoietic suppression, T-cell exhaustion, compensatory myelopoiesis, and an immature B-cell expansion. To explore the transcriptional basis of this peripheral immune aberration, blood-derived RNA-seq was interrogated, identifying only 32 unique genes meeting |log2FC| > 1 and q < 0.05 among 34,999 transcripts; qPCR confirmed concordant upregulation of IL33 and CCL14, providing directional rather than confirmatory support, suggesting peripheral immune molecular aberrations that still require validation through broader differential gene expression validation. Complementing this transcriptomic signature, detection of MYB-NFIB fusion transcripts matching tumor tissue in one patient's blood suggested that tumor-derived signals may access the circulation, although cohort validation remains necessary. Extending these peripheral observations to tissue compartments, we applied expression stratification, correlation networks, ligand-receptor mapping, and a virtual gain-loss model to computationally predict regulatory associations involving IL17RB/OLIG1/NOTCH1 in primary tumors and a CD24/IL17RB/MYB/MYBL2/CXCL13/CXCR5 module in lung metastases. At the single-cell level, cluster 10 emerged as a cell-cycle-high tumor population with transcriptional overlap with proliferating immune progenitors, providing a potential cellular basis for tumor cell entry into the circulation. Collectively, these computational inferences generate testable hypotheses for multicompartment immune dysregulation in SACC, positioning IL17RB as a candidate molecule that warrants prospective validation in SACC-specific preclinical models.
Myxofibrosarcoma (MFS) is a common yet understudied type of soft tissue sarcoma. It is characterized by diverse cellular morphology, unusual growth patterns, and a propensity for local tumor recurrences. A 76-year-old patient underwent multiple surgical removals of MFS recurrences of the thoracic cavity and surrounding tissues with the subsequent development of metastases. Single-cell RNA sequencing was used to analyze the earlier (R7) and later (R8) MFS recurrences, with R8 removed less than a year before the detection of metastases in the lungs. The earlier MFS recurrence displays tumor clusters with multiple immunomodulatory markers (DKK1, APP, CD24, GRN) and genes involved in lipid metabolism and cell stress (DDIT3, ABCA1, ABCA10, ATF4, NEU1), combined with an anti-inflammatory TME. The later MFS recurrence shifts to a functionally less diverse phenotype, enriched in fibroblast-typical markers (POSTN, NES, COL1A1/A2), and a pro-inflammatory TME. The proliferative (MKI67, TOP2A, BUB1B) and mRNA splicing and processing (SNRNP70, SRSF2/5/11, RSRP1, LUC7L/7L3, SRRM1/2) tumor clusters are observed in both MFS recurrences, and their signatures match the previous data on primary MFS tumor populations. ScRNA-seq analysis of two subsequent MFS recurrences from one patient show a change from functionally diverse to more uniform ECM remodeling enriched tumor populations, an accompanying shift to the pro-inflammatory TME, and the presence of two common tumor clusters enriched in proliferative and mRNA-processing gene signatures.
This study aims to identify programmed cell death (PCD)-associated genes linked to breast cancer prognosis for the construction of a prognostic model. Transcriptomic and clinical information was imported from the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO databases. Modulatory genes related to 18 types of PCD were evaluated. Furthermore, the TCGA and GEO datasets were employed as the training and validation datasets, respectively. A risk score prognostic model based on PCD-related genes was generated via univariate, LASSO, and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Further, differences in drug sensitivity, tumor mutation burden (TMB), immune-related pathways and cell infiltration, and immune checkpoints were compared between high-risk and low-risk cohorts to elucidate the clinical applicability of the model. Lastly, the model gene's expression was verified by RT-PCR. The data revealed 1480 PCD-related genes from the TCGA breast cancer gene expression matrix. Differential expression analysis identified 186 differentially expressed PCD genes. Furthermore, a prognostic model was generated according to the risk scores using multivariate Cox regression. The model comprised 8 PCD-related genes (BRSK2, CD24, IFNG, LAMB3, PDX1, PMAIP1, SLC7A11, and TRIML2). Moreover, breast cancer cases were divided into high-risk and low-risk cohorts per the median risk score. The results indicated that low-risk patients had better prognoses, and the model showed good predictive performance in the GEO validation cohort. The area under the curve values were 0.819, 0.731, and 0.674 for the nomogram's 3, 5, and 8 years overall survival, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the prognostic model was markedly linked with the modulation of the immune microenvironment and tumor progression in breast cancer. Immune infiltration assessment revealed that low-risk patients had increased activity in immune-related pathways and infiltration of immune cells. In addition, the low-risk cohort had lower TMB and elevated immune checkpoint-related levels. Correlation analysis between immune checkpoints and risk scores indicated that low-risk patients were more responsive to immunotherapy. Drug sensitivity analysis showed variations in the IC50 values between the risk cohorts, suggesting potential variations in drug efficacy across different risk cohorts. Gene expression was verified by RT-PCR.A prognostic risk model for breast cancer based on 8 PCD-related genes was constructed and its predictive value was validated. The established model may provide novel biomarkers and effective therapeutic targets for breast cancer diagnosis and treatment.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Light-activatable CRISPR-Cas systems offer an effective strategy to overcome the kinetic incompatibility in one-pot nucleic acid assays; however, their practical application remains limited by high reagent cost, the lack of compatible reaction buffers, and reliance on instrument-dependent readout. In this work, we developed a cost-effective light-controlled one-pot ERA/CRISPR-Cas12a platform for rapid hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA detection. NPOM-caged crRNA was employed to temporarily suppress Cas12a activity during amplification and to trigger target-dependent trans-cleavage by a brief 30 s UV irradiation. By replacing RPA with ERA, the per-reaction reagent cost of the one-pot assay was reduced from approximately US$6.0 to US$2.0, corresponding to a reduction of approximately 66.7%, while maintaining comparable analytical performance. In addition, a PEG-free unified buffer was established through systematic optimization, enabling efficient integration of ERA and Cas12a reactions in a sealed single-tube format. The proposed platform provided dual-mode readout through fluorescence and lateral flow assay (LFA), with a limit of detection of 1 copy μL-1 and a total assay time of 30 min. Clinical evaluation using 79 serum samples showed a sensitivity of 100% for fluorescence readout and 96.3% for LFA, with excellent agreement with qPCR (Cohen's κ = 0.94 - 1.00). Owing to its low cost, high sensitivity, and operational simplicity, this platform represents a promising tool for rapid HBV molecular diagnosis in both centralized laboratories and resource-limited settings.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In vitro maturation (IVM) of germinal vesicle oocytes may broaden assisted reproductive technologies; however, developmental competence remains limited by the lack of standardized follicular somatic support. We generated an endogenous FOXL2-P2A-tdTomato reporter human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) line using CRISPR/Cas9 knock-in and reporter-guided transcription factor (TF) programming to produce fetal granulosa-like cells (FGLCs). A flow cytometric TF screen identified TCF21, WT1-KTS, and NR1H4 as the strongest FOXL2 inducers, and combinatorial optimization showed that removing TOX3/ETV5 and adding NR2F2 substantially increased the FOXL2-positive fraction. Bulk RNA-seq, principal component analysis, and TF activity inference positioned the induced cells close to early-gestational human fetal granulosa cell profiles. In a mouse IVM, in vitro fertilization (IVF), blastocyst culture, and embryo transfer pipeline, FGLC supplementation did not change nuclear maturation rates but improved downstream development, most clearly increasing offspring production from cumulus-oocyte complexes. A comprehensive safety assessment of F0 offspring derived from FGLC-treated oocytes revealed a normal sex ratio, postnatal growth, gross anatomy, gonadal histology, and modified SHIRPA neurobehavioral profiles. Next-generation natural mating and germ cell assays demonstrated preserved fertility, normal IVF outcomes, and normal sperm parameters in the F1 generation. These results establish a scalable strategy for generating fetal granulosa-like supporting cells from hiPSCs and provide an effective and multi-generational safety framework for oocyte-contact IVM interventions.
N-(1,3-Dimethylbutyl)-N'-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q), a tire rubber antioxidant derivative, accumulates in air, soil, and water and has been found in urine, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid, posing significant health risks. Although 6PPD-Q exhibits intestinal toxicity, its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains unclear. The objective of this study was to identify key molecular targets of 6PPD-Q in IBD and to validate their involvement in 6PPD-Q-induced intestinal epithelial cell injury. Using network toxicology, machine learning, molecular docking, and in vitro experiments in human intestinal epithelial cells, we identified 60 overlapping 6PPD-Q-IBD targets, enriched in lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Multi-model machine learning screened six core genes (NR1H4, ANXA5, SPARC, PCK1, PDK2, and CFB), with NR1H4 as a key mediator. Molecular docking showed strong binding of 6PPD-Q to NR1H4, exceeding that of its parent compound. In vitro experiments confirmed that 6PPD-Q caused lipid droplet and cholesterol accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction (manifested as ATP synthesis inhibition, mitochondrial ROS burst, decreased membrane potential, and mitochondrial fragmentation), and significantly upregulated the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-8, thereby triggering inflammatory responses. Moreover, 6PPD-Q exposure significantly downregulated NR1H4 expression. These findings reveal that 6PPD-Q increases IBD risk by interfering with lipid metabolism, disrupting mitochondrial function, upregulating inflammatory cytokines, and downregulating NR1H4, providing important evidence for understanding the risk posed by this emerging environmental pollutant to IBD and for developing preventive strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42520927
The genetic dissection of complex traits in livestock continues to pose a significant challenge in the field of animal genetics and breeding. Although traditional genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are capable of localizing genetic variants associated with specific traits, they are insufficient to elucidate the underlying physiological mechanisms. An integrated analysis of multi-trait GWAS and multi-transcriptomic data systematically identifies key tissues and cell types influencing complex traits in beef cattle and elucidates their genetic regulatory basis.We systematically mapped tissue- and cell-type-specific regulatory architectures underlying 20 economically important traits in beef cattle. Tissue-level analyses revealed distinct trait-tissue associations: fatty acid traits, including C16:0 and C20:4, were enriched in liver; carcass traits, including marbling score and carcass weight, in renal cortex/medulla and longissimus dorsi muscle; meat-quality traits such as pH in cartilaginous tissues; and total fat content in bone marrow. At cellular resolution, analysis of eight trait-associated tissues identified 38 discrete cell types. Myofibers were significantly associated with most carcass traits, including rib-eye area and backfat thickness, whereas hepatocytes emerged as key regulators of fatty acid and meat-quality traits, such as C16:0 and crude protein content. Transcription factor analysis identified cell-type-specific regulators: TBX15, SOX6, and TCF12 in myofibers; FOXA2 and NR1H4 in hepatocytes; and IRF8 and IKZF1 in microglia. Notably, hepatocytes and microglia showed complementary, trait-specific association patterns: hepatocytes were enriched for C16:0 associated saturated fatty-acid metabolic pathways, while microglia were enriched for C16:1 and unsaturated fatty-acid-related pathways, suggesting potential cross-tissue coordination in lipid regulation.Our study links specific tissues and cell types to phenotypic variation in beef cattle and identifies core transcriptional regulators and pathways driving trait variation. These cell-resolved maps provide mechanistic insight into how genetic variation shapes economically important traits, offering a valuable resource for functional studies, cell-informed precision breeding strategies, and the design of large-scale molecular phenotyping.© 2026. The Author(s).
Recognition of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) triggers antiviral defense mediated by PKR and OAS3/RNase L pathways through translational arrest and RNA decay. This is accompanied by assembly of distinct cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein (RNP) condensates termed stress granules (SGs) and RNase L-dependent bodies (RLBs). Here we show that adenovirus mutants engage distinct RNA-sensing pathways and promote differential assembly of cytoplasmic RNP granules. Infection with splicing-defective ∆E4 mutant leads to dsRNA accumulation and activation of both PKR and OAS3/RNase L, promoting formation of RLB-like granules. In contrast, mutants lacking virus-associated (VA) RNAs trigger PKR activation and assembly of SGs despite absence of detectable dsRNA. Proximity labeling proteomic analysis revealed distinct protein compositions of canonical SGs and RLBs, which were reflected in virus-induced granules. While ∆VA-induced granules were PKR-dependent, ∆E4 mutants induced RLB-like granules independently of PKR and RNase L. In cells lacking these sensors, granule assembly during ∆E4 infection coincided with translational arrest independent of eIF2α phosphorylation, indicating additional pathways linking nuclear dsRNA sensing to translational control and RNP granule assembly during viral infection. These findings provide novel insights into how distinct dsRNA sensors modulate translation and RNP condensates in response to stress.Copyright: © 2026 Steinbock et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Accurate and rapid detection of RNA biomarkers is crucial for early disease diagnosis and infectious disease management. Although RT-qPCR remains the gold standard, its utility for point-of-care testing is limited by run-to-run variability and dependence on specialized instrumentation. Conversely, colorimetric assays offer operational simplicity but generally fall short of the sensitivity and specificity demanded for reliable applications. To bridge this gap, we present an innovative cut-and-bind colorimetric RNA detection platform that synergistically integrates the sequence-specific programmable cleavage fidelity of CRISPR/Cas12a with zinc finger protein-mediated gold nanoparticle assembly (termed CasFinger-Gold). Strategically engineered ssDNA-dsDNA hybrid overhang probes sharpened target discrimination while minimizing off-target background, ensuring robust readouts within complex biological matrices. When coupled with reverse transcription-recombinase polymerase amplification, the CasFinger-Gold system achieved visually interpretable RNA detection with a limit of detection of 1.8 × 103 copies μL-1 for HCoV-OC43 viral RNA and 0.4 ng total RNA μL-1 for the long non-coding RNA PCA3. The platform further enabled direct, rapid (<120 min), purification-free PCA3 detection from cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) at clinically relevant vesicle inputs (down to ∼106 EVs μL-1). Notably, no cross-reactivity was observed against four phylogenetically distinct respiratory viruses or in PCA3-negative cell lines. By delivering instrument-free visual readouts comparable to RT-qPCR, CasFinger-Gold represents a versatile diagnostic modality poised to expand the molecular diagnostic toolbox toward accessible point-of-care solutions.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a potent hepatotoxin that poses significant health risks to both livestock and humans. β-Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) has potential therapeutic benefits for liver diseases. However, its mechanism against AFB1-induced liver injury remains unclear.This study investigates whether NMN supplementation reduces AFB1-induced liver injury through the modulation of the gut-liver axis and elucidates the underlying molecular mechanism.Mice were exposed to AFB1 (0.75 mg·kg-1, p.o.) for 2 weeks to induce liver injury, with or without NMN (300 mg·kg-1, p.o.). Changes in gut microbiota were assessed via 16S rRNA sequencing, while bile acids (BAs) profiles were quantified using targeted metabolomics. The farnesoid X receptor (FXR/NR1H4) pathway was analysed using qPCR, western blot and immunofluorescence. To establish causality, antibiotic depletion, faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) and intestine-specific FXR knockout (FXRΔIE) mice were utilized.NMN supplementation attenuated AFB1-induced liver injury, inflammation and oxidative stress, while restoring intestinal barrier integrity and reducing hepatic bile acids accumulation. Mechanistically, NMN reshaped the gut microbiota, increased bile salt hydrolase (BSH) activity and lowered intestinal conjugated bile acids, which correlated with activation of intestinal FXR/fibroblast growth factor 15 (FGF-15) signalling and suppression of hepatic Cyp7a1 expression. Importantly, antibiotic depletion of gut microbiota abolished NMN protection, whereas FMT from NMN-treated donors conferred resistance. Importantly, NMN failed to protect FXRΔIE mice, demonstrating that intestinal FXR is essential.NMN alleviates AFB1-induced liver injury via a gut microbiota-bile acid-FXR axis, highlighting a novel mechanism for its hepatoprotective effects.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC) is classically caused by biallelic pathogenic variants, yet monoallelic variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in PFIC-associated genes are increasingly identified in children with cholestasis, creating diagnostic uncertainty. We conducted a multicenter cohort study of children with liver disease and/or cholestasis harboring monoallelic VUS in ATP8B1, ABCB11, ABCB4, TJP2, or NR1H4. Clinical and longitudinal data were analyzed, and variant frequencies were compared with population data from gnomAD. Twenty-six children with 37 monoallelic PFIC-gene VUS met inclusion criteria, and multigenic variant burden was common (73.1%). PFIC-like biochemical patterns were observed in 42.3% but were frequently transient, and no patient met criteria for monogenic PFIC on longitudinal follow-up. Severe liver outcomes, including transplantation in two patients, occurred in a subset of patients with ABCB4 and/or ATP8B1 VUS and multigenic burden, along with competing clinical factors. Among 22 variants with population data, 11 (50%) demonstrated significant enrichment after multiple-testing correction, most commonly involving ABCB4. These findings suggest that monoallelic PFIC-associated variants currently classified as VUS are unlikely to represent monogenic disease drivers in isolation and may instead contribute within multigenic or susceptibility-based contexts. Population-level enrichment, particularly involving ABCB4, further supports careful phenotype-anchored, longitudinal interpretation in pediatric liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cardiogenic shock (CS) patients receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) exhibit profound immune and metabolic disturbances, which may influence early clinical outcomes. However, the transcriptomic features linking metabolic reprogramming, immune-cell alterations, and early outcomes after ECMO initiation remain incompletely understood. The GSE182600 dataset from the public database was analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between ECMO-treated CS samples with successful and failed outcomes. Multiple machine learning algorithms and the Shapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) framework were applied to identify biomarkers associated with metabolic reprogramming. Functional enrichment analysis, immune infiltration analysis, drug prediction analysis, and molecular docking analysis were conducted to explore regulatory mechanisms and potential compound targets. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis was further conducted to determine key cell types and expression dynamics of the biomarkers. Clinical validation was achieved through quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) assays on patient-derived specimens. PLIN2, TKTL1, NR1H4, GPX3, and NNMT were identified and selected as potential biomarkers. These biomarkers were primarily involved in metabolic, inflammatory, and immune processes. Immunological analysis revealed higher infiltration levels of CD8⁺ naive T cells in the failure group, by contrast, osteoblasts and plasma cells exhibited higher infiltration levels in the success group. Doxorubicin hydrochloride showed strong binding affinity to GPX3 and NR1H4, which may link the compound's cardiotoxicity to cardiac injury. Additionally, scRNA-seq analysis indicated monocytes as the predominant cell type, with dynamic expression of NNMT, TKTL1, PLIN2, and GPX3 along monocyte differentiation trajectories. In the RT-qPCR assay, the expression levels of TKTL1, NR1H4, and NNMT were significantly reduced in the success group compared with the failure group (P < 0.05), whereas GPX3 and PLIN2 showed consistent downward trends but did not reach statistical significance. PLIN2, TKTL1, NR1H4, GPX3, and NNMT may reflect immunometabolic features associated with early outcomes after ECMO initiation in patients with CS, with RT-qPCR providing preliminary support for the differential expression of TKTL1, NR1H4, and NNMT.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cytokine interleukin-33 (IL-33) signaling in primary sensory neurons plays a crucial role in pain. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, we investigated whether IL-33 signaling affects ion channels in nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Herein, we reported that the application of IL-33 enhanced the electrophysiological activity of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). IL-33 dose-dependently increased acid-evoked ASIC currents in mouse DRG neurons. IL-33 enhanced the maximum responses of ASICs, whereas the sensitivity to acidic stimuli remained unaffected. This IL-33-induced enhancement of ASIC currents was dependent on suppression of the tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) receptors. The enhancing effect of IL-33 on ASIC currents was prevented by the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB202190, but not by the ERK inhibitor U0126 or the JNK inhibitor SP600125, indicating the effect was p38-dependent. Moreover, IL-33 potentiated the action potentials triggered by acidic stimuli. Finally, ASIC3-deficient mice displayed attenuated mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intraplantar or intramuscular injection of IL-33. Our findings revealed that IL-33 enhanced ASIC function via ST2 and the intracellular p38 signaling pathway, which might provide a promising therapeutic approach for pain treatment by targeting IL-33/ST2 signaling.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening pulmonary disorder characterized by dysregulated inflammatory responses, excessive activation of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, severe oxidative stress, and potentially fatal cytokine storms. Conventional therapies are severely limited by poor targeting of the inflammatory microenvironment and insufficient cellular uptake by hyperactivated immune cells. To address these translational barriers, we developed a "cellular hitchhiking" nanoplatform by coating selenium-doped carbon quantum dots (SC) with bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) derived from the probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917. This biomimetic nanoparticle (SC@OMV) leverages pathogen-associated molecular patterns naturally present in OMVs to achieve precise targeted delivery and highly efficient internalization by pulmonary macrophages via pattern recognition receptors. Following cellular uptake, SC efficiently scavenges excessive reactive oxygen species and promotes macrophage repolarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype toward the tissue-reparative M2 phenotype. In vivo evaluations using an LPS-induced ALI mouse model demonstrated that intravenously administered SC@OMVs preferentially accumulate in inflamed lung tissues. Moreover, SC@OMVs effectively suppressed cytokine storms and promoted the repair of the alveolar-capillary barrier by modulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway. By synergistically integrating the targeted biological delivery capabilities of OMVs with the potent intracellular immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties of selenium, the use of SC@OMVs represents a highly promising, precise therapeutic strategy for the comprehensive management of ALI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564195 is a review article
The biological mechanisms underlying major neuropsychiatric disorders remain largely elusive. Given the frequent association of immune dysregulation with these conditions, we used blood-derived multi-omics data from 1,274 healthy adolescents in the IMAGEN cohort to identify transdiagnostic biomarkers and mechanisms that could inform diagnosis and treatment. We first conducted genome-wide analyses to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with DNA methylation and gene expression, with findings replicated in external datasets. These quantitative trait loci were further explored through Mendelian randomization analyses across 6 neuropsychiatric disorders (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, schizophrenia and insomnia), leading to the identification of 73 putatively causal CpG sites and 62 genes that were either unique to individual disorders or, as in the case of MRPL2, shared among the disorders. Notably, the identified genes were significantly enriched in pathways linked to both psychiatric and autoimmune diseases, suggesting a shared genomic architecture between autoimmune and neuropsychiatric disorders. Two-step Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses revealed potential transdiagnostic regulatory pathways, in which the expression of three genes (MAD1L1, MRPL2 and HLA-DRB1) mediated the effects of CpG methylation on schizophrenia and insomnia. Specifically, DNA methylation at cg06770790 repressed MRPL2, which was putatively causal for insomnia (β = -0.38, P = 1.29 × 10-4) and schizophrenia (β = -0.38, P = 1 × 10-4). Conversely, increased expression of MAD1L1 and HLA-DRB1, driven by methylation at several CpG sites, was potentially causal for schizophrenia. Our findings highlight key molecular mechanisms and genes implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders, offering promising new targets for therapeutic intervention.© The Author(s) 2026.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) can cause diarrheal disease in both humans and young livestock, posing substantial challenges to intestinal health. This study investigated the protective effects and mechanisms of encapsulated tannic acid (ETA) against ETEC-induced intestinal injury. ETA was successfully prepared, and in vitro digestion experiments showed that the release rate of tannic acid was 10.27% in simulated gastric fluid, with a cumulative release rate of 78.97% in simulated intestinal fluid after 360 min, indicating its excellent controlled-release property. In vivo, 500 mg/kg ETA was selected as the optimal dose and alleviated ETEC-induced growth inhibition, reduced the spleen weight ratio, and mitigated intestinal inflammation. Histologically, ETA improved intestinal morphology by increasing villus height and decreasing crypt depth, and its efficacy was better than that of TA. ETA also attenuated inflammation by downregulating TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8 and the TLR4/MYD88/TAK1 pathway, relieved oxidative stress by increasing SOD activity and decreasing MDA content, and restored intestinal barrier function. Additionally, In vitro, 0.6% ETA digestion supernatant alleviated ETEC-induced damage in IPEC-J2 cells. ETA also reshaped ETEC-induced cecal microbiota dysbiosis by reducing α-diversity, increasing the abundance of beneficial bacteria and decreasing pathogenic bacteria, and restored short-chain fatty acid levels. Mechanistically, antibiotic-induced gut microbiota depletion abolished the protective effects of ETA, while fecal microbiota transplantation from ETA-treated donors replicated these protective effects. These findings demonstrate that ETA attenuates ETEC-induced intestinal injury through gut microbiota modulation, providing a promising strategy for the prevention and treatment of bacterial enteritis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
Immune memory responses are rapid and qualitatively distinct from primary responses. They typically develop in the presence of antigen-experienced memory T and B cells and preexisting antibodies. Although the contribution of T and B cells to recall responses is well defined, the contribution of antibody "memory" and the mechanisms by which preexisting antibodies modulate the development of germinal center (GC) and plasma cell responses is not precisely understood. Here, we report on mechanisms that mediate antibody enhancement of GC and plasmablast (PB) compartments, and the parallel process by which antibodies change the affinity threshold for B cell recruitment into immune responses. The data indicate that antibody-mediated enhancement of GC and PB responses is Fc gamma receptor (FcγR) dependent and largely complement receptor 1 and 2 (CR1/2) independent. In contrast, the reduction in the affinity threshold for GC entry is independent of both FcγRs and CR1/2.© 2026 Cipolla et al.
Diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is characterized by diarrhea and is often accompanied by depression, abdominal symptoms, and emotional comorbidities. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that dysfunction of the brain-gut axis is a key pathogenic factor in IBS-D, yet the specific mechanisms remain unclear. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a major bioactive component of Bupleurum chinense DC., exhibits anti-inflammatory, antidepressant, and antitumor activities, with multi-target and multi-pathway interactions.Acetic acid and restraint stress induced an IBS-D mouse model. SSD (purity ≥ 98%, Macklin Inc.) was administered orally at low, medium, and high doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg). Visceral sensitivity, inflammatory status, intestinal barrier function, HPA axis activity, and gut microbiota composition were systematically evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing.SSD significantly alleviated visceral hypersensitivity and depression-like behavior, inhibited the peripheral HMGB1-TLR4/NF-κB inflammatory pathway, and restored intestinal barrier integrity. SSD also downregulated hypothalamic Nesfatin-1/CRH/p-CREB expression, suppressed hyperactivation of the stress-related HPA neuroendocrine axis, and reshaped the gut microbial community structure (β-diversity). Network pharmacology analysis suggested that SSD targets were significantly enriched in brain-gut axis-related pathways.The present results indicate that SSD could ameliorate IBS-D by synergistically regulating peripheral inflammation, central stress, and intestinal microbes via the brain-gut-microbiota axis, providing experimental evidence for its potential application in TCM-based treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557175
This study investigated whether gasdermin E (GSDME) deficiency attenuates caerulein/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in mice. Wild-type (WT) and Gsdme-knockout (KO) mice were assigned to PBS or caerulein/LPS groups. SAP was induced by repeated intraperitoneal caerulein injections for 2 consecutive days followed by a single LPS injection. Pancreatic injury was assessed by body weight change, pancreas-to-body weight ratio, serum amylase and lipase, and histopathology. Inflammatory responses were evaluated by serum cytokines, serum and pancreatic IL-33, HMGB1 subcellular distribution, and MPO/F4/80 immunohistochemistry. Cell death and gasdermin pathway activation were assessed by TUNEL staining and Western blotting. Compared with WT mice subjected to caerulein/LPS challenge, Gsdme-deficient mice showed less body weight loss, lower histopathological scores, and attenuated systemic inflammatory responses. Serum and pancreatic IL-33 levels, HMGB1 nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation, and circulating HMGB1 were also reduced in KO mice. Consistently, pancreatic MPO- and F4/80-positive inflammatory cell infiltration, TUNEL positivity, and the cleaved caspase-3/total caspase-3 ratio were reduced in KO mice. Cleaved and full-length GSDME were absent in KO pancreatic tissues, whereas caerulein/LPS treatment increased cleaved GSDME levels in WT mice. The cleaved caspase-1/total caspase-1 ratio and cleaved GSDMD expression increased after caerulein/LPS challenge in both genotypes, but neither was further elevated in KO mice, indicating no detectable compensatory upregulation of the canonical caspase-1/GSDMD pathway at the examined time point. Collectively, Gsdme deficiency alleviated caerulein/LPS-induced pancreatic injury and systemic inflammation, indicating that the caspase-3/GSDME axis contributes importantly, but not exclusively, to experimental SAP.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553204 is a review article
Clostridioides difficile infection is primarily attributed to toxin A (TcdA) and toxin B (TcdB), the major mediators of epithelial damage and intestinal inflammation. However, strain-dependent differences in pathogenicity have been reported, suggesting that additional bacterial factors may contribute to host inflammatory responses.To compare the inflammatory activity of culture supernatants from the single clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and reference C. difficile strains under toxin-containing and glucose-repressed conditions.C. difficile strains, including the clinical isolates LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and the reference strains VPI10463/RT003/ST046 and 630/RT012/ST54, were grown anaerobically in tryptose-yeast extract-thioglycolate broth with or without 1% glucose. Glucose-associated reduction of toxin activity was assessed by electrophoretic protein profiling, cytotoxicity assays, and Rac1 glucosylation analysis. Biological activity was evaluated in a mouse ligated ileal loop model by macroscopic examination, histopathology, cytokine quantification, and myeloperoxidase activity.Glucose supplementation did not substantially alter bacterial growth but markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated bands, cytopathic activity, and Rac1 glucosylation. Toxin-containing supernatants from LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and VPI10463/RT003/ST046 produced the most pronounced epithelial injury. Under the same conditions, LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 induced robust inflammatory responses. Under glucose-repressed conditions, epithelial damage was no longer evident, and inflammatory activity was markedly reduced in LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and 630/RT012/ST54. In contrast, supernatants from LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity, including increased TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and myeloperoxidase activity, despite the absence of overt epithelial damage.The clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity under glucose-repressed conditions despite markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated activity. This phenotype was not observed to the same extent in the other strains examined, including the RT012/ST54 reference strain 630. These findings identify a strain-specific inflammatory phenotype observed in LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and support further investigation into the extracellular factors that may contribute to inflammatory responses in C. difficile.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549541 is a review article
Pancreatic cancer resists immunotherapy due to a suppressive immune microenvironment where CD8+ T cells play a key role. Using single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics, we characterized CD8+ exhausted T (Tex) cells in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). We generated single-cell profiles from PDAC tumors and matched peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and performed T cell sub-analysis. We found CXCL13 upregulated and GZMK downregulated in CD8+ Tex cells. Cell-cell interaction analysis showed that T cells most frequently interacted with myeloid cells and cancer cells via ligand-receptor pairs; INHBA+ macrophages and cancer cells communicated most with CD8+ Tex cells. Two key LR pairs (SPP1-integrin α4β1 and PLAUR-integrin α4β1) mediated crosstalk between cancer cells and CD8+ Tex cells, confirmed by immunofluorescence, spatial mapping, and protein docking. High SPP1 and PLAUR expression correlated with poor prognosis in TCGA-PAAD. These findings provide a resource for understanding CD8+ T cell exhaustion in PDAC.© 2026 The Author(s).
Despite being a standard consolidation treatment, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in remission is still hampered by relapse and complications. While CAR-T therapy is revolutionizing later-line treatment, its role as a consolidation strategy in remission, particularly for patients ineligible for transplantation, remains unexplored. This study compared the efficacy of CAR-T therapy with that of allo-HSCT as consolidation for B-ALL patients in complete remission (CR).A retrospective, propensity-score matched study was performed from September 1, 2012 to December 31, 2024, including 75 B-ALL patients treated with CAR-T or allo-HSCT as consolidation therapy. Firth penalized likelihood Cox models and restricted mean survival time (RMST) models were built for time-to-event outcomes.The 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) and 2-year overall survival (OS) rates showed no significant differences between the CAR-T and HSCT cohorts (CR1: 2-year PFS rate: 65.8% vs. 88.9%, P = 0.146, 2-year OS rate: 83.6% vs. 91.3%, P = 0.512; CR2: 2-year PFS rate: 42.2% vs. 64.3%, P = 0.360). The RMSTs of PFS and OS also have no significant differences (CR1: RMST of PFS difference = -7.738, P = 0.496, RMST of OS difference = -2.257, P = 0.788; CR2: RMST of PFS difference = -6.176, P = 0.700, RMST of OS difference = -8.391, P = 0.477) truncated at the minimum of the largest follow-up times in each cohort (CR1, 74.6 months; CR2, 75.0 months). In multivariate analysis, patients treated with allo-HSCT had better PFS in CR1 group (HR = 4.579, 95%CI, 1.020-20.563, P = 0.038). High risk stratification was an independent factor associated with worse OS for B-ALL patients in CR (CR1: HR = 8.010; 95%CI, 1.744-36.781, P = 0.048; CR2 HR = 5.110, 95%CI, 1.167-22.378, P = 0.004).The results indicated that CAR-T consolidation regimen showed comparable survival to that of allo-HSCT in matched B-ALL patients, which might support its potential as a consolidation alternative for B-ALL patients ineligible for allo-HSCT.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Yang, Zhou, Zou and Huang.
Microglia play a key role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and their increased heterogeneity likely affects disease progression. We previously identified distinct microglial signatures that were enriched in AD donors and associated with amyloid and tau, respectively. Here we generated a snRNAseq dataset from postmortem control and AD cases and analyzed alterations in cell-cell communication pathways that might be relevant to AD pathophysiology. One signaling pathway perturbed in AD cases involved SPP1, and while this pathway was also present in control samples, microglia-microglia SPP1 signaling was restricted to AD donors. Further analyses within microglia-microglia signaling predict AD-specific induction of GAS6-AXL signaling (from inflammatory and ribosomal microglia), and SPP1-ITGAV/ITGB5 signaling (from disease-associated and inflammatory microglia, among others). Together, these findings might in part explain the increased microglia phagocytic profile described in AD. RNAscope confirmed enrichment of SPP1 expressing microglia near amyloid plaques in AD brain tissue samples. These data indicate altered cellular communications between microglia in the AD brain.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Interleukin-33 (IL-33) is a central regulator of immune responses and inflammation, and genetic variation in IL33 and its receptor IL1RL1 (ST2) is strongly linked to disease susceptibility, notably asthma. Emerging evidence suggests that IL-33 also influences hematopoietic processes and platelet biology, indicating functions beyond canonical immunity. We investigated two missense variants identified in a patient with unexplained thrombocytopenia: a rare novel IL33 variant, c.385T>C (p.Tyr129His) and the common IL1RL1 variant c.1501_1502CA>AG (p.Gln501Arg), previously associated with reduced IL-33 signaling. Structural modeling revealed that IL-33 Y129H disrupts a conserved hydrogen bond within the IL-33/ST2/IL-1RAcP ternary complex, destabilizing receptor engagement. Functional assays confirmed markedly reduced binding affinity and biological activity, establishing Y129H as a loss-of-function variant. The IL1RL1 Q501R variant affects the Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain, critical for recruiting adapter proteins such as MyD88. Modeling revealed pronounced perturbation in a peripheral helix of the TIR domain, potentially impacting adapter recruitment and downstream signaling, providing a mechanistic basis for its protective association with asthma. Together, these findings provide structural and functional insights into clinically relevant IL33 and IL1RL1 variants. Their simultaneous occurrence in a patient with thrombocytopenia further supports a potential role for this pathway in platelet homeostasis and stress-responsive hematopoiesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles that mediate intercellular communication and are being explored as carriers for antigen delivery in cancer immunotherapy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the uptake of antigen-carrying EVs by dendritic cells (DCs) remain unclear. EV uptake is influenced by the recognition of EV surface components by receptors on recipient cells. Phospholipids, including phosphatidylserine (PS), are common structural components of EV membrane. We therefore focused on the TAM receptor tyrosine kinases Tyro3, Axl, and Mertk, which are expressed in antigen-presenting cells and engage PS-exposing membranes through the bridging ligands Growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6) and Protein S (Pros1). Using the DC2.4 dendritic cell line as a model system, we investigated the involvement of TAM receptors in the uptake of small EVs (sEVs) and subsequent antigen presentation. We found that Tyro3 binding to sEVs was enhanced by Gas6 and Pros1, and that Tyro3 also associated with phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG) through these bridging ligands. Among TAM receptors, only Tyro3 markedly enhanced sEV internalization in DC2.4 cells. Deletion analysis indicated that the immunoglobulin C2-type domain (IG2c domain) of Tyro3 is required for efficient sEV association and uptake. Moreover, Tyro3-mediated internalization enabled cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens and activation of CD8+ T cells. This function required a 46-amino acid intracellular region of Tyro3, which we designated the Tyro3 antigen presentation-related domain (TAPD); deletion of TAPD impaired cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens. Finally, we observed an increase in the frequency of Tyro3 ⁺ DCs in the spleens of tumor-bearing mice. These findings suggest that Tyro3 mediates sEV uptake and antigen cross-presentation in DCs and may represent a candidate molecular target for EV-based cancer immunotherapy.Copyright: © 2026 Koyama et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
IntroductionFirst-generation EGFR-TKIs in NSCLC frequently lose efficacy as a result of the secondary EGFR-T790M mutation and a "persistent-STAT3" prosurvival pathway that sustains STAT3-survivin signaling in the face of EGFR inhibition. Preclinical evidence demonstrates that phytochemicals in the JI017 herbal formulation (2:1:1, Angelica gigas: processed Aconitum carmichaeli: Zingiber officinale) can reinstate erlotinib sensitivity in T790M-positive NSCLC, and relevant molecular mechanisms have been examined.MethodsAnti-proliferative activities were evaluated in A549 (EGFR-WT), HCC827 (EGFR Δ19), and H1975 (EGFR L858R/T790M) cells utilizing MTT assays, colony formation, and Annexin V/7-AAD flow cytometry. Mechanistic analyses included immunoblotting for p-EGFR (Tyr1068/1173), p-JAK2, p-STAT3 (Tyr705), PARP, Bcl-2, survivin, and AXL, complemented by RT-qPCR for BIRC5 and AXL transcripts. Drug interaction effects were determined using the Chou-Talalay combination index (CompuSyn). Anti-tumor efficacy was assessed in H1975 xenografts treated for 14 days with vehicle, JI017, erlotinib, or combination therapy; tumors underwent H&E staining and IHC for p-STAT3, survivin, and Ki-67.ResultsJI017 inhibited proliferation in all NSCLC cell lines tested, showing greatest effectiveness in H1975, where it triggered PARP cleavage and suppression of Bcl-2 and survivin expression. In H1975, co-treatment with JI017 and erlotinib led to synergistic growth inhibition, eradicated colony growth, and significantly elevated apoptotic cell populations compared to single treatments. While erlotinib alone reduced p-EGFR and p-JAK2, it left p-STAT3 largely unaltered, reflecting persistent-STAT3 activity. The combination regimen abrogated p-STAT3, further lowered p-EGFR and p-JAK2 levels, diminished BIRC5 mRNA, and decreased both AXL protein and transcript levels. In vivo, the drug combination achieved sustained tumor stasis relative to controls or monotherapy; combination group tumors displayed widespread necrosis and substantial decreases in p-STAT3, survivin, and Ki-67.DiscussionThese data support the suppression of STAT3-survivin as the primary mechanism by which JI017 sensitizes EGFR-T790M models to erlotinib. The consistent down-regulation of AXL indicates the inhibition of an AXL-mediated bypass that may maintain STAT3 signaling during EGFR blockade, although causality has yet to be confirmed. The marked in-vivo tumor inhibition without observable toxicity underscores the translational promise as a low-toxicity therapeutic adjunct.ConclusionsJI017 restores erlotinib sensitivity in EGFR-T790M NSCLC by inhibiting STAT3-survivin signaling and possibly reducing AXL-mediated resistance, resulting in durable antitumor effects both in vitro and in vivo. Additional preclinical studies and early-phase clinical assessment of JI017 in combination with erlotinib are justified.
Fusobacterium nucleatum (Fn) drives chemotherapy resistance in colorectal cancer (CRC) by activating hypoxia-mimicking signaling pathways, yet the molecular mechanisms linking Fn to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) resistance remain unclear. We investigated how Fn-induced hypoxia-related gene expression contributes to 5-FU resistance and identified a pharmacological strategy to overcome it.DEGs from Fn-infected CRC cells (GSE90944) were intersected with GSEA hypoxia-related genes, and Cox regression on TCGA-CRC data prioritized the top candidate, DDIT3. Its role in 5-FU resistance was characterized in vitro by Western blotting, qPCR, cell viability, and flow cytometry. LinkedOmics co-expression analysis mapped DDIT3-associated networks, and Salvia miltiorrhiza constituents were screened for DDIT3 inhibition.DDIT3 was the most prognostically significant Fn-regulated hypoxia gene in CRC (HR: 1.544 [1.083-2.201], p = 0.016). Fn upregulated DDIT3 and activated the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (mitoUPR), suppressing 5-FU-induced ROS and reducing chemosensitivity; DDIT3 knockdown reversed these effects. A DDIT3-SLC3A2-CARS axis was identified as the key downstream pathway sustaining mitochondrial homeostasis. Salvianolic acid B (SAB) selectively suppressed this axis, restored ROS cytotoxicity, and improved 5-FU chemosensitivity in Fn-infected CRC cells.Fn drives 5-FU resistance via DDIT3-mediated mitoUPR activation and ROS suppression through the DDIT3-SLC3A2-CARS axis. SAB disrupts this pathway, providing a rational basis for SAB-5-FU combination therapy in Fn-associated CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
To compare postoperative aberrometric and visual outcomes between eyes with and without a planned astigmatic axis flip after toric intraocular lens (IOL) implantation.Instituto de Oftalmologia Conde de Valenciana, Mexico City, Mexico.Comparative observational study.This study included patients who underwent uneventful cataract surgery with toric IOL implantation to minimize residual astigmatism, eyes were classified into undercorrection without an axis flip and an overcorrection with an axis flip. Postoperative evaluation included uncorrected and best-corrected visual acuity, spherical equivalent refraction, and aberrometry using the Pentacam AXL Wave (Oculus Optikgeräte GmbH). Aberrometric parameters included total higher-order aberrations (HOA), coma, spherical aberration (SA), and trefoil. Intergroup comparisons were performed using independent-samples t-tests with Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate correction for multiple comparisons. Multivariate linear regression analyses were performed adjusting for age, sex, preoperative astigmatism magnitude and type, IOL model, and axial length. A p-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.Eighty eyes of 80 patients were analyzed (mean age of 67.16 ± 11.49 years). There were no significant differences between planned axis flip and no-axis flip groups in uncorrected distance visual acuity (p = 0.628), best-corrected distance visual acuity (p = 0.685), or spherical equivalent refraction (p = 0.455). Total HOA, coma, and SA were comparable between groups (all p > 0.05). In contrast, the planned axis flip group demonstrated a higher trefoil aberration compared with the no-axis flip group (0.15 ± 0.06 µm vs 0.08 ± 0.09 µm; p < 0.001). Multivariate linear regression analysis confirmed that axis flip was independently associated with higher trefoil aberration (β = 0.075, 95% CI [0.038, 0.111]; p = 0.0001), with no significant associations found for any other aberrometric or visual outcome.Planned astigmatic axis flip during toric IOL implantation was not associated with differences in postoperative visual outcomes, despite a significant increase in trefoil aberration. These findings suggest that planned axis flip does not appear to compromise visual or aberrometric performance and may be considered among the available strategies to minimize residual astigmatism. Prospective studies incorporating functional vision metrics and longer follow-up are needed to confirm these findings.© 2026 Espinosa-Moreno et al.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42541724
The innate immune protein NLRC5 plays a key role in cancer immune surveillance. Reduced NLRC5 expression is associated with a poor prognosis for many types of cancers. Previously, we showed that mice with a myeloid-specific deletion of Nlrc5 (Nlrc5mø-KO) develop gastric lymphoid lesions to Helicobacter infection resembling early-stage marginal zone lymphoma. We hypothesized that NLRC5 deficiency may promote a tumor-permissive microenvironment mediated by tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). Consistent with this hypothesis, splenic macrophages from Helicobacter-infected Nlrc5mø-KO mice had upregulated expression of genes encoding the TAM receptor tyrosine kinases, Axl and Mertk. The levels of AXL and MERTK gene expression and MERTK phosphorylation were increased in NLRC5-/- THP-1 macrophages when compared with WT cells. In response to Helicobacter stimulation, Nlrc5-/- macrophages had significantly elevated anti-inflammatory responses (IL-10, TGF-β, Socs1, Socs3) compared with WT cells. Importantly, Nlrc5-/-macrophages showed enhanced efferocytosis and reduced antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells. Pretreatment of macrophages with AXL and MERTK inhibitors (R428, UNC2025) resulted in reduced efferocytosis and phosphorylation of downstream signaling molecules, STAT3 and ERK1/2. We propose that defective NLRC5 signaling in macrophages leads to tumor-permissive responses, thereby promoting the development of gastric lymphoid neogenesis to Helicobacter infection.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain is characterized by dysregulated expression of multiple microRNAs (miRNA), positioning them as promising diagnostic and therapeutic targets. The levels of glia-enriched miR-223 are abnormal in the brains and plasma of AD patients and miR-223 is neuroprotective in models of stroke. However, whether miR-223 can be beneficial in AD is not known. Here, we report that intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of miR-223 oligonucleotide mimic alleviated cognitive impairment, reduced amyloid beta (Aβ) pathology, and ameliorated the defects in synaptic marker expression in App NL-G-F AD model mice. Mechanistically, miR-223 induced microglial clustering around Aβ plaques with a concomitant upregulation of microglial phagocytic receptors AXL, TREM2 and CD11c, while pharmacological microglial depletion abolished the plaque-clearance phenotype. Moreover, in human iPSC-derived microglia miR-223 directly targeted multiple genes in the endo-lysosomal pathway, including AD risk gene SPPL2A , indicating that it acts as a major regulator of microglial phenotype. Lastly, long-term AAV-mediated overexpression of miR-223 recapitulates its beneficial effects on cognition, pathology, and synaptic marker expression. Our study demonstrates a novel approach for the treatment of AD using miR-223 and highlights the potential of RNAi-based therapeutics in neurodegenerative disease.
Stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) is characterized by significant heterogeneity, within which myeloid cells play crucial yet incompletely understood roles. The relationship between the functional states of myeloid cells, patient prognosis, and therapeutic response requires further elucidation.We integrated single-cell RNA-seq profiles and 443 bulk RNA-seq profiles from the TCGA-STAD cohort. By integrating myeloid cell differentiation trajectories inferred from Monocle2 pseudotime analysis with survival analysis, we identified myeloid state-related prognostic genes (MSRPGs) and constructed a molecular classification (STAD-MSC). We also explored its prognostic significance and multi-omics features. Additionally, we utilized correlation analysis to establish regulatory networks and predict candidate inhibitors. The 5-gene risk model was evaluated in a public 355-patient validation cohort, and the STAD-MSC framework was further assessed at the protein level in a 70-patient retrospective cohort using immunohistochemistry for NNMT, AXL, and COL1A1.We identified 32 MSRPGs across five distinct myeloid states. Consensus clustering stratified the patients into three subtypes, including low immune infiltration STAD (LI-STAD), moderate immune infiltration STAD (MI-STAD), and high immune infiltration STAD (HI-STAD). The HI-STAD subtype, characterized by high immune infiltration accompanied by an immunosuppressive and dysfunctional microenvironment, exhibited the poorest overall survival (global log-rank p = 0.018). The multi-omics analysis revealed subtype-specific genomic and immune landscapes. A 5-gene prognostic signature was constructed and evaluated as a risk-associated prognostic model. In silico analysis identified subtype-associated differences in predicted drug response. Exploratory pharmacogenomic analysis revealed nominal associations for dabrafenib (p = 0.0051) and ruxolitinib (p = 0.041), suggesting potential subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities. Importantly, the three-protein classifier (NNMT/AXL/COL1A1) stratified a retrospective 70-patient cohort into three subgroups with significantly different OS and PFS.Using public-cohort and protein-level clinical validation, we established STAD-MSC, a myeloid state-centric molecular taxonomy that stratifies STAD patients into subgroups with distinct prognoses and immunosuppressive microenvironmental features, providing a framework for immune-informed patient stratification.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wei, Sun, Li, Wang, Zhao, Yao, Zou and He.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in the release of microparticles from injured brain cells into circulation. These microparticles induce a systemic hypercoagulable state that rapidly transitions into secondary coagulopathy and endotheliopathy. We hypothesize that removing these microparticles from circulation could mitigate the TBI-induced secondary pathologies and improve outcomes. In this study, we investigated the role of Gas-6 (growth arrest-specific 6) as a scavenging factor for microparticles.We quantified plasma Gas-6 levels in a mouse model of TBI and administered exogenous Gas-6 either before or after TBI to evaluate its effects on endotheliopathy, coagulopathy, and outcomes. Mechanistic studies assessed Gas-6-mediated clearance of circulating microparticles in TBI mice and investigated the molecular interactions by which Gas-6 binds microparticles and macrophages to facilitate microparticle scavenging.We found that plasma levels of Gas-6 were significantly reduced in mice subjected to severe TBI. Exogenous Gas-6 given either preinjury or postinjury attenuated coagulopathy, protected the integrity of the cerebral and pulmonary endothelium, improved neurological recovery, and increased overall survival of TBI mice. Gas-6 increased the clearance of anionic phospholipid-expressing microparticles from circulation by coupling microparticles with macrophages and monocytes through the γ-carboxyglutamate and the LG1 (laminin G-like domain 1), respectively, to facilitate phagocytosis of microparticles in the liver.These findings demonstrate the therapeutic potential of Gas-6 for TBI and potentially for other acute pathologies, in which microparticles initiate and propagate coagulation dysfunction and endothelial injuries.
Clearance of dead cells by efferocytosis is a critical process for homeostasis, notably by limiting inflammation. Defective efferocytosis has been associated with autoimmune, neurodegenerative, and cardiovascular diseases, as well as chronic infections, making its regulation a potential therapeutic target. Here, we identify circulating cochlin LCCL (Limulus factor C, Cochlin, and Lgl1) domain as a regulator of efferocytosis. Using cell binding assay for recombinant cochlin LCCL domain, we establish its tropism for dead or dying cells of both immune and non-immune lineages from murine and human origins. By three independent functional assays, we demonstrate that endogenous and exogenous cochlin LCCL domain enhances macrophage efferocytosis in vitro and in vivo in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation and intranasal Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection, to a similar extent as the efferocytosis promoter GAS6. Our findings provide a role of cochlin LCCL domain in the regulation of efferocytosis, alongside its already described pro-inflammatory role, as an immunomodulator for host response and homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a nonspecific autoimmune disease, the etiology and pathogenesis of which remain unclear. Identifying new disease targets could inform clinical diagnosis and treatment.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptome data from UC patients. We screened key biomarkers and constructed a nomogram diagnostic model through three machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE, and Boruta). In situ validation was conducted on mucosal tissue sections from clinical UC and healthy controls using multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF). To investigate the intracellular mechanisms by which RNF213 regulates Tregs, we employed scTenifoldKnk and CellChat analyses. Potential targeted compounds were predicted based on the DSigDB and HERB databases.Five UC-specific ubiquitination biomarkers were identified: ZC3H12A, ENC1, RNF213, MAP3K5, and RMND5A. Among them, RNF213 demonstrated superior diagnostic performance with an AUC greater than 0.9 in both training and validation cohorts. Single-cell localization and in situ mIF quantification indicated that RNF213 was enriched in mucosal Tregs from UC patients. RNF213+ Tregs were increased in UC compared with healthy controls. In-silico RNF213 perturbation analysis suggested that RNF213-enriched Tregs may be associated with transcriptional programs related to mitochondrial proton transport and ATP synthesis. CellChat analysis further predicted altered ligand-receptor interaction patterns among RNF213+ Tregs and other immune cell populations, including monocytes, macrophages, and B cells.This study identifies RNF213 as a biomarker enriched in UC-associated mucosal Tregs. RNF213+ Tregs may represent a transcriptionally and spatially distinct Treg subset associated with inflammatory activity in UC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wu, Yang, Zhou, Chen, Ren, Li, Ma, Miao, Jia and Miao.
(1) Background: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease associated with immune dysregulation. The TYRO3, AXL, and MER (TAM) signaling pathway, comprising AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (AXL), MER tyrosine kinase (MERTK), growth arrest-specific 6 (GAS6), and Protein S, is a key regulator of immune homeostasis. This study investigated these receptor-ligand components in patients with AS. (2) Methods: A total of 45 patients with AS and 44 healthy controls were enrolled. Serum GAS6 and Protein S levels were measured by ELISA, and AXL and MERTK expression levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR. Clinical and inflammatory parameters were also evaluated. (3) Results: ESR, CRP, and IL-6 levels were significantly higher, whereas Protein S levels were significantly lower in patients with AS than in controls. No significant differences were observed in GAS6, AXL, or MERTK expression levels, although lower expression trends were detected in patients. Logistic regression analysis identified CRP, IL-6, Protein S, and AXL expression as variables independently associated with AS. ROC analysis demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for AXL expression. (4) Conclusions: Alterations in the TAM signaling pathway, particularly reduced Protein S levels and altered AXL expression, may contribute to immune dysregulation and persistent inflammation in AS.
Objective: Preeclampsia (PE) is a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity; however, reliable first-trimester biomarkers are limited. Growth arrest-specific protein 6 (Gas6), a vitamin K-dependent ligand for the TAM receptor family (Tyro3, AXL, and MerTK), is crucial for trophoblast invasion and placental remodeling. This study evaluated whether first-trimester serum Gas6 levels differed between women with PE and controls and assessed the predictive utility across phenotypes. Methods: Participants were enrolled prospectively during routine first-trimester screening at 11 + 0 to 13 + 6 weeks, and cases and controls were selected using a nested case-control design after pregnancy outcomes were known. ROC-derived cut-off values for Gas6 were selected retrospectively using the Youden index and were considered exploratory. The PE group was divided into early (n = 15, <34 weeks) and late onset (n = 65, ≥34 weeks) subgroups. ELISA measured serum Gas6. Mann-Whitney U, Kruskal-Wallis, Spearman's correlation, ROC analysis, and multivariate logistic regression were applied. Results: Gas6 levels were significantly lower in PE than controls (15.73 vs. 38.08 ng/mL, p < 0.001); control reference median (38.08 ng/mL, IQR 27.62 to 49.14), decreasing progressively to late (20.07 ng/mL) and early onset PE (6.45 ng/mL; all p < 0.001). ROC analysis showed the highest exploratory discrimination for early onset preeclampsia (AUC = 0.959, 95% CI: 0.923-0.995; sensitivity 93.3%, specificity 84.1% at a retrospectively selected cut-off of ≤13.82 ng/mL), with more modest discrimination for overall PE (AUC = 0.762) and late onset PE (AUC = 0.708). Lower first-trimester Gas6 levels remained significantly associated with early onset PE after adjustment for maternal age and BMI (OR = 0.555, 95% CI: 0.412-0.748, p < 0.001). Conclusions: Serum Gas6 levels in the first trimester are lower in PE, particularly in cases of early onset disease, highlighting its potential as a candidate biomarker that requires further prospective and external validation before any screening application can be considered.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a progressive vascular disease characterized by chronic inflammation, extracellular matrix degradation, and aortic wall remodeling, yet effective pharmacological therapies remain lacking and how macrophage state heterogeneity contributes to disease progression and defective inflammation resolution remains incompletely understood.We combined single-cell RNA sequencing of elastase-induced murine AAA with pathway, cell-cell communication, trajectory, and regulon analyses, and validated key findings in vivo by immunostaining and flow cytometry and in vitro by pharmacologic ERK inhibition, gene-expression analysis, and macrophage efferocytosis assays.Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified four macrophage subsets in AAA, comprising Thbs1+Spp1+ inflammatory macrophages, Mrc1+Gas6+ efferocytosis-associated macrophages, Cdca8+ proliferative macrophages, and Cd36+Lpl+ lipid-handling macrophages. AAA progression was characterized by expansion of Thbs1+Spp1+ macrophages and emergence of Cdca8+ macrophages, together with relative loss of Mrc1+Gas6+ and Cd36+Lpl+ macrophages. Thbs1+Spp1+ macrophages showed inflammatory, chemotactic, oxidative stress, and metabolic remodeling signatures, whereas Mrc1+Gas6+ macrophages were enriched for efferocytosis- and homeostasis-associated features but exhibited increased apoptosis-related signals and reduced expression of Mertk, Gas6, and Igf1 during AAA progression. ERK signaling was overactivated in AAA and associated with loss of these effectors and impaired macrophage efferocytosis, whereas ERK inhibition restored Mertk, Gas6, and Igf1 expression and enhanced uptake of apoptotic cells in macrophage-line models. Trajectory and regulon analyses further suggested that inflammatory and efferocytosis-associated macrophages follow distinct state trajectories, with Maf emerging as a candidate regulator of the Mrc1+Gas6+ program.AAA is characterized by an imbalance between inflammatory and efferocytosis-associated macrophage states. ERK-associated dysfunction of Mrc1+Gas6+ macrophages may contribute to defective inflammation resolution and represents a potential therapeutic target in aneurysmal disease.Copyright © 2026 Xiang, Song, Xian, Zhou, Xu, Zhou, Yang and Zheng.
Interleukins (ILs) are pleiotropic mediators of immune signaling and represent promising targets for antiviral intervention. Among them, IL-19 is upregulated in response to viral infections, yet its functional significance and mechanistic basis have been poorly defined. This study identifies an unforeseen antiviral activity of IL-19. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that IL-19 signals through the IL-20RB receptor to drive STAT3 phosphorylation, and this activated IL-20RB/STAT3 pathway then induces TRIM22 expression, culminating in enhanced IFN-λ secretion and the direct suppression of viral replication. Importantly, despite significantly curtailing HSV-1 replication in murine brain and lung tissues, IL-19 administration failed to confer a survival benefit, an effect attributable to aggravated pulmonary inflammation. These findings clarify IL-19 as a dual-function cytokine with both protective antiviral and detrimental proinflammatory properties, illustrating the intricate immunomodulatory functions of cytokines during viral infections.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Brg1 is a core ATPase subunit of the SWItch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable (SWI/SNF) chromatin-remodeling complex that regulates DNA accessibility for RNA polymerase II (Pol II), transcription factors, and DNA repair enzymes. Phosphoproteomic profiling of highly malignant ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) cell lines revealed reduced levels of several SWI/SNF components and decreased Brg1 phosphorylation within its histone-binding region. Prior work showed that phosphorylation-mimic and phosphorylation-deficient mutants alter chromatin-silencing factors, producing chromatin condensation and decondensation, respectively. Here, we performed RNA-seq in Brg1-deficient JHOC-5 cells and in isogenic cells expressing Brg1-WT, phosphorylation-mimic brg1-S1452D, or phosphorylation-deficient brg1-S1452A. PCA and hierarchical clustering separated brg1-S1452A from the other lines, indicating a strong transcriptional impact of Ser1452 dephosphorylation. JHOC-5 and brg1-S1452A shared altered expression of Pol II-promoter-regulated genes. Apoptosis genes (BCL2, FGFR2, ZC3H12A, and NFKBIA) showed reciprocal expression between brg1-S1452D and brg1-S1452A, consistent with increased and decreased apoptosis, respectively. Genes linked to cell adhesion/migration and neuronal development also differed, accompanied by reduced cell circularity in brg1-S1452A. Overall, Brg1 phosphorylation at Ser1452 shapes SWI/SNF-mediated chromatin remodeling to regulate transcriptional programs controlling apoptosis and cell morphology.© 2026 Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
LIMD1, a tumour suppressor located at chromosome 3p21.3, is frequently lost in non-small-cell lung cancer, yet its role in tumour-immune interactions remains unclear. Here, we show LIMD1 loss increases PD-L1 protein abundance across multiple lung cancer models and primary airway epithelial cells. Mechanistically, LIMD1 restrains PD-L1 through post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. LIMD1 loss can relieve microRNA-mediated repression of the CD274 3'UTR, and LIMD1 loss can also disrupt ARIH1-PD-L1 association, reduce PD-L1 polyubiquitination, and stabilise PD-L1 protein without a commensurate increase in CD274 transcript levels in isogenic models. Functionally, LIMD1-deficient tumour cells suppress CD8+ T-cell activation in vitro and show enhanced sensitivity to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in tumour-PBMC co-culture assays. Analysis of TRACERx non-small-cell lung cancer samples revealed clonal LIMD1 loss of heterozygosity in ∼40% of lung adenocarcinomas, where it is associated with increased tumour PD-L1 expression. Across independent patient cohorts receiving immune checkpoint blockade, low LIMD1 expression was enriched among responders. We identify LIMD1 as a tumour-intrinsic regulator of PD-L1 turnover and suggest that tumour suppressor loss can shape immune checkpoint biology and influence immunotherapy response.© 2026 Shah et al.
Macrophage inflammatory plasticity is a central determinant of immune-mediated tissue injury, yet the intrinsic checkpoint mechanisms that restrain inflammatory macrophage programming remain incompletely defined. Here, using acute cardiac allograft rejection as an alloimmune tissue-injury model, we found that Vsir, encoding V-domain Ig suppressor of T-cell activation (VISTA), was preferentially expressed in graft macrophages but declined as macrophages acquired inflammatory and antigen-presenting states. Single-cell RNA sequencing and pseudotime analysis revealed that VISTA downregulation accompanied macrophage progression from reparative/resident-like states toward inflammatory programs. In vitro, VISTA overexpression intrinsically restrained pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization, reduced inflammatory cytokine expression, and limited the induction of antigen-presenting molecules including MHC-II and CD80, thereby attenuating macrophage-driven CD4+ T-cell proliferation. Integrative CUT&Tag and RNA-seq analyses further showed that VISTA overexpression was associated with reduced H3K4me3 -associated chromatin remodeling at inflammatory regulatory loci, including TRAF5 and CHDH, together with transcriptional repression of NF-κB-, TNF-, MAPK-, and IL-17-associated inflammatory programs. In vivo F4/80 promoter-directed Vsir restoration shifted intragraft macrophages away from inflammatory polarization, reduced T-cell accumulation, and attenuated early rejection-associated tissue injury. Together, these findings identify VISTA as an intrinsic regulator of macrophage inflammatory programming and point to H3K4me3-associated chromatin remodeling as a regulatory layer linked to VISTA-mediated inflammatory restraint.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Classic deficiency of interleukin-36 (IL-36) receptor antagonist (DITRA) is characterized by severe, recurrent generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP) with systemic inflammation and is typically caused by biallelic IL36RN variants. However, monoallelic c.115+6T>C and c.28C>T variants of IL36RN have also been reported to underlie DITRA. To the best of our knowledge, no cases of a heterozygous IL36RN c.28C>T variant presenting with the unilateral localization of symptoms have been reported. Our present case emphasize that IL36RN-related disease should be considered even with the atypical skin symptoms, thereby broadening the spectrum of DITRA.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
With low five-year survival estimates, poor prognosis, and high recurrence probabilities, glioma is considered one of the most intractable malignant tumors. Despite the discovery of lymphatic vascular system and immune system in the central nervous system (CNS), immune checkpoint blockade therapeutics, such as programmed death ligand 1 (PDL1, also called B7H1 or CD274) antibodies, are prevented from the CNS and glioma sites due to the existence of biological barriers including the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-brain tumor barrier (BBTB). Herein, we constructed a BBB/BBTB-crossing recombinant antibody by fusing the PDL1 antibody (αPDL1) and the targeting moiety RAP22 peptide (RAP22) through a matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2)-responsive cleavable linker, abbreviated as αPDL1-mRAP22. Not only was αPDL1-mRAP22 able to block PD1/PDL1 pathway, reduce T cell apoptosis, enhance T cell killing ability towards glioma cells in vitro, but also it showed higher accumulation in the glioma site, prolonged survival time, and potent immune responses as well as synergistic effects with temozolomide (TMZ) in vivo, offering a novel strategy for glioma immunotherapy.© 2026 Shenyang Pharmaceutical University. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Sepsis is characterized by potentially fatal organ failure resulting from the host's abnormal response to infection. Due to the complex and rapid progression of sepsis, timely diagnosis and intervention are required to improve patient prognosis. Copper-dependent cell death, known as "cuproptosis," is a newly discovered mode of cell death that relies on copper. Senescence refers to a state of irreversible cessation of cell division. Both processes play significant roles in various diseases. However, the roles of genes related to cuproptosis and senescence in the pathogenesis of sepsis remain insufficiently understood. In this study, we utilized bioinformatics techniques to explore the involvement of copper-dependent cell death and its connections to sepsis and cellular senescence. We obtained 3 sepsis datasets (GSE28750, GSE54514, and GSE131761) from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and classified the raw data using R packages (R Foundation for Statistical Computing). Copper death- and aging-related genes were manually screened, and differentially expressed cuproptosis and cellular senescence-related differentially expressed genes associated with sepsis were identified. Subsequently, enrichment analysis was applied, and key genes were screened using machine learning techniques for the construction and validation of a sepsis diagnostic model. We then constructed mRNA-miRNA and mRNA-transcription factors interaction networks for the key genes, followed by differential gene analysis, immune infiltration, and enrichment analysis. We identified 17 cuproptosis and cellular senescence-related differentially expressed genes and performed gene enrichment analysis. Subsequently, using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression analysis and random forest algorithm, we identified sepsis-related cuproptosis and senescence-associated differentially expressed genes. After taking the intersection, we obtained 11 key genes. Next, through immune infiltration analysis, we found a positive correlation between pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 subunit beta (PDHB) and central memory cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) T cells, glutaminase and activated CD8 T cells, as well as prion protein, PDHB, and monocytic lineage. There was a negative correlation between PDHB and type 17 T helper cells, amyloid beta precursor protein and activated CD8 T cells, PDHB and neutrophils, and CD274 and B lineage cells. These results suggest that cuproptosis may promote the development of sepsis by affecting the immune system and metabolic functions, providing new insights into the potential pathogenic mechanisms and therapeutic targets of sepsis.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains a highly aggressive malignancy with limited therapeutic success and frequent resistance to standard chemoradiotherapy. Beyond its cytotoxic effects, radiotherapy (RT) has emerged as a potent immune modulator capable of reshaping the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the molecular mechanisms linking RT to immune reprogramming and adaptive therapeutic resistance remain incompletely defined. In this study, we identify a previously underexplored IFNγ-PD-L1-CDK6-STAT3 signaling axis as a central driver of immune evasion and oncogenic persistence in HNSCC. Transcriptomic analyses of TCGA-HNSC datasets revealed coordinated upregulation of IFNγ, CD274 (PD-L1), and CDK6 in tumor tissues, with elevated CDK6 expression associated with poorer overall survival. Using in vitro and in vivo models, we demonstrate that clinically relevant X-ray irradiation generated by a linear accelerator induces time-dependent upregulation of PD-L1, IFNγ, CDK6, and STAT3 within 12-48 h following irradiation, reflecting an adaptive immune response coupled with activation of pro-survival transcriptional programs. Pharmacologic inhibition of CDK6 with palbociclib attenuated radiation-induced PD-L1 expression, enhanced apoptosis, and potentiated T-cell- and natural killer (NK)-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. In an HNSCC xenograft model, combined RT + anti-PD-L1 + palbociclib therapy significantly suppressed tumor growth, increased infiltration of CD8⁺ and CD4⁺ T cells, promoted repolarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) toward an M1 phenotype, and reduced immunosuppressive signaling compared with monotherapy or dual-treatment arms. Mechanistically, RT acted as an immune primer, PD-L1 blockade relieved checkpoint-mediated immune suppression, and CDK6 inhibition disrupted a pro-survival feedback loop sustaining immune resistance. Collectively, this triplet strategy enhances tumor immunogenicity while counteracting RT-induced adaptive immune resistance, providing a mechanistically integrated therapeutic approach to overcome treatment resistance in HNSCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The elevation of neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) has been shown to be critically involved in unfavorable outcomes among patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The mechanism underlying NLR changes during COPD progression remains unclear. This study evaluates the association between neutrophil PD-L1 expression and acute exacerbation of AECOPD and examines its correlation with the NLR.In this prospective observational study from June 1 to December 30 2024, we enrolled 14 patients with acute exacerbation, 27 with stable conditions, and 9 healthy control subjects. Blood samples were collected for neutrophil isolation, and the CD15+CD274+ neutrophil percentage was measured using flow cytometry. We also recorded and analyzed smoking history, pulmonary function test results, and blood routine test data.The percentage of CD15+CD274+ neutrophils was notably higher in patients with COPD compared to healthy controls and was even more elevated in those experiencing acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD) than in patients with stable COPD. This increased percentage was positively correlated with NLR but negatively correlated with FEV1% (FEV1 percentage of the predicted value). The AUC of CD15+CD274+ neutrophil percentage for predicting AECOPD was 0.894 with 95% CI 0.8-0.989 and a ratio above 3.273 (odds ratio 1.386; 95% CI 1.016-1.891; P = 0.039) independently associated with AECOPD.Peripheral blood neutrophil PD-L1 expression was elevated in AECOPD and independently associated with exacerbation status in this pilot cohort. Larger, multi-center studies with mechanistic validation are required to determine its clinical utility.Copyright: © 2026 Sun et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the leading cause of cancer mortality. While the lung microbiome influences tumorigenesis, the spatial heterogeneity between the airway reservoir (bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, BALF) and the actual intratumoral niche remains underexplored. Understanding this distinction is critical for identifying true tumor-resident drivers.Paired tumor tissue and BALF samples were collected from 77 LUAD patients. 16S rRNA gene sequencing targeting V3-V4 regions was performed to characterize microbial diversity. Host transcriptomics were integrated to explore host-microbe interactions. Bioinformatics analyses utilized UPARSE for OTU clustering, PICRUSt2 for functional prediction, and CIBERSORTx for immune cell deconvolution. Differential abundance was assessed using LEfSe and Random Forest algorithms to identify discriminatory biomarkers.Comparative analysis revealed distinct ecological architectures, with tumor tissues exhibiting significantly reduced alpha-diversity compared to BALF. The genus Bacillus was identified as a key tumor-enriched biomarker (LDA > 2.0), distinct from airway colonizers. Clinically, elevated Bacillus abundance significantly correlated with tumor invasiveness. Immunologically, Bacillus load was inextricably linked to an immunosuppressive microenvironment, characterized by the upregulation of inhibitory checkpoints (VSIR, TIGIT, PD-L1) and a reduction in M1 macrophage infiltration. Functional analysis suggested Bacillus involvement in metabolic pathways facilitating tumor adaptation.This study delineates the spatial disparity between intratumoral and airway microbiomes, identifying Bacillus as a potential driver of malignant progression and immune evasion. Targeting intratumoral microbiota offers novel diagnostic and therapeutic avenues for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Yan, Yang, Feng, Qi, Kong, Yu, Zhu, Zhang, Liu and Zhang.
Pathogenic variants in the genes encoding the non-canonical TGFB signaling components TAK1 (MAP3K7), TAB2 and PKA-Cα (PRKACA) cause rare multisystem disorders, which may include congenital heart disease (CHD). To investigate the role of TAK1 signaling in CHD, we performed genetic analysis of CHD patients and discovered an increased burden of rare TAB2 and TAK1 variants in patients with extracardiac abnormalities. To address the mechanism of TAK1 in heart development, we performed experiments in cell and animal models. Zebrafish tak1 and tab2 mutants presented with cardiac and extracardiac developmental defects, and tak1 mutant hearts showed downregulation of genes encoding core cardiac transcription factors, sarcomeric proteins and extracellular matrix proteins. In vitro experiments indicated that TAK1 via TAB2 and PKA-Cα is activated at the primary cilium during cardiomyogenesis; activation at this site is enhanced by TGFB/BMP ligands. Inactivation of TAK1 inhibited ciliary signaling and cardiomyocyte differentiation, and patient-derived TAK1 variants reduced its ciliary localization. In conclusion, our data establish a pivotal role for TAK1 and its upstream regulators at the primary cilium in heart development and syndromic CHD.Copyright: © 2026 Doganli et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Preterm birth (PTB), defined as delivery before 37 weeks, is a major cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality worldwide. Evidence suggests that both epigenetic dysregulation and gut microbial imbalance contribute to the inflammatory and metabolic disturbances associated with PTB; however, few studies have examined these factors in conjunction to identify integrated predictive biomarkers.This study aimed to identify epigenetic and microbial signatures associated with PTB by integrating maternal second-trimester genome-wide DNA methylation profiles with gut microbiome composition.A case-control study was conducted with 120 pregnant women, grouped into two categories: preterm (≤37 weeks, n = 60) and full-term (>37 weeks, n = 60). Maternal blood and fecal samples were collected simultaneously. DNA methylation was profiled using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array, and gut microbiota were characterized through 16S rRNA sequencing. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and differentially abundant taxa were identified using FDR < 0.05. Sparse canonical correlation analysis and network modeling were applied to integrate the datasets and identify linked epigenetic-microbial features predictive of PTB.Women with PTB showed distinct methylation changes in immune and inflammation-related genes, including IL6, CXCL10, TNFAIP3, and PPARGC1A. Gut microbiome analysis revealed significantly reduced α-diversity (Shannon index: 2.81 ± 0.31 vs. 3.42 ± 0.36, p = 0.002), enrichment of pro-inflammatory taxa (Prevotella, Sutterella, Veillonella), and depletion of beneficial genera, including Lachnospiraceae, Faecalibacterium, and Bifidobacterium. Integrated analysis showed strong cross-domain associations (r = 0.68, p < 0.001), linking immune-gene hypomethylation with enrichment of inflammatory taxa. The combined biomarker panel achieved high predictive performance (AUC = 0.87; sensitivity = 82%; specificity = 84%), outperforming methylation-only and microbiome-only models. Functional enrichment highlighted convergence on NF-κB signaling, cytokine interactions, and butyrate metabolism.The study shows that coordinated epigenetic alterations and gut microbial dysbiosis contribute to PTB. These biomarkers are detectable during the second trimester (18-24 weeks), supporting their potential for mid-pregnancy risk stratification. The integrated methylation-microbiome signature offers strong potential for early, non-invasive prediction and supports development of targeted maternal interventions.Copyright © 2026 Huang and Cai.
Retinoblastoma (RB) lacks effective targeted therapies. Super-enhancers (SEs) are crucial for tumorigenesis, yet their role in RB was unclear.We profiled active SEs in RB cells using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-Seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). qRT-PCR, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were employed to identify the critical regulator of SE activity. The anti-tumour effect of targeted blockade of SE regulator, achieved via pharmacological degradation and specific lentiviruses, was investigated in vitro and in preclinical models of subcutaneous, intraocular, and central nervous system (CNS)-metastatic RB.Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) was identified as a key SE regulator. SE-driven oncogenic transcription was suppressed by CDK12 inhibition, leading to eliminated tumour outgrowth and metastasis. In addition, SE-associated oncogenes BIRC5 and PTPRC were identified as essential for RB cell survival and stemness. Furthermore, PTPRC overexpression rescued the anti-tumour effect of BSJ-4-116.This study defines CDK12 as a master regulator of oncogenic SEs in RB. Targeting the CDK12-SE axis, via CDK12 or downstream effectors like BIRC5/PTPRC, presents a novel therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) is a rare cause of ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome (CS), occurring in isolation or as part of Carney complex (CNC); its phenotypic and molecular spectra remain incompletely defined.To characterize phenotypic variability, genotype-phenotype correlations, and molecular findings in PPNAD through integrated clinical, histopathological, and genetic analyses.We evaluated 18 index patients with PPNAD (15 with CNC, 3 isolated) and performed cascade genetic screening in relatives (20 variants-positive). Clinical, hormonal, imaging and histopathological data were reviewed; germline and somatic analyses employed targeted next-generation sequencing and copy-number assessment.Overt CS was present in 83% of index cases; 17% had cyclic hypercortisolism. Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic germline PRKAR1A variants were identified in 70.6% probands, including four novel variants; germline PRKACA duplications were detected in two cases. Cascade screening identified eight asymptomatic variant-positive relatives, in whom mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) was observed. Somatic second-hit alterations in tumor tissue included PRKACA duplication, a PRKAR1A frameshift deletion, and 17q24.2 loss of heterozygosity. Histology most often showed classic PPNAD but also nonclassical patterns, expanding the morphological spectrum. Extra-adrenal manifestations were frequent (lentigines 61%, cardiac myxomas 22%).In this referral cohort, PPNAD/CNC displays marked phenotypic variability, incomplete penetrance with subclinical cortisol excess, and diverse molecular mechanisms, including novel germline variants and somatic second hits. Some cases lacked identifiable drivers, suggesting additional uncharacterized mechanisms. Systematic genetic screening and recognition of MACS are important for early diagnosis and long-term management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Feedback mechanisms regulate immune activation and prevent excessive tissue damage. TNFAIP3, also known as A20, serves as a crucial brake on inflammation, and mutations or haploinsufficiency of this gene are linked to diseases characterized by inappropriate inflammation. In this study, we document highly conserved patterns of cell type-specific gene expression, regulation, and induction of TNFAIP3, and employ transgenic and gnotobiotic mouse models to investigate how adaptive immunity and the gut microbiome contribute to pathology arising from impaired A20 function. Contrary to our expectations, systemic inflammation resulting from Tnfaip3 deficiency in CD11c (Itgax)-expressing cells developed independently of autoreactive antibodies, B cells, and T cells. The microbiome also proved dispensable for disease manifestations in these models. These findings suggest that in diseases caused by insufficient TNFAIP3/A20 activity, autoantibodies may reflect a downstream consequence of disease rather than a causative driver, suggesting autoinflammatory rather than autoimmune pathology. These insights carry therapeutic implications for the treatment of TNFAIP3-associated diseases.Copyright © 2026 Van Damme, Hertens, Sichien, Van der Borght, Van Moorleghem, De Prijck, Klarenbeek, Louagie, Lammens, Vanhee, Vanhove, De Bleser, Van Laecke, Dendooven, Hammad, Vereecke, Elewaut, van Loo and Lambrecht.
The Boer goat, a key global meat breed originating from South Africa, has been exported for breeding in over 70 countries, leading to diverse selection pressures and environmental adaptations. In this context, the main objectives of this study were to quantify genome-wide diversity, breed structure, and selection signatures in Boer goats from nine countries to identify shared and population-specific adaptation and production-related signals. Genomic information of 321 Boer goats from nine populations worldwide was analysed: Australia (AUS), Canada (CAN), New Zealand (NZL), South Africa (ZAF), Switzerland (CHE), Tanzania (TZA), Uganda (UGA), United States (USA), and Zimbabwe (ZWE). Genetic diversity varied markedly among populations. The ZAF population exhibited the lowest observed heterozygosity (0.360) and the highest fraction of the genome in runs of homozygosity, suggesting recent inbreeding or strong selection. Population structure analyses, including principal component analysis and ADMIXTURE (optimal K = 8), revealed clear genetic differentiation. AUS Boer goats were the most divergent, while others formed clusters indicating shared ancestry. Four complementary selection signature methods, Fixation index, Divergence index, integrated haplotype score, and cross-population extended haplotype homozygosity, identified 4 706 unique genes under putative selection. No identified genes were common to all populations, indicating strong local adaptation, but 35 candidate genes were identified across five to six populations, highlighting shared selection for core production traits like growth, metabolism, and reproduction. Key shared genes regulating metabolism, including PPP2R2B, SCP2, and PRELID2, were detected in six populations. Regulatory hub genes such as MAPK3, HIF1A, PRKACA, and CREB1 were also detected, playing crucial roles in coordinating important biological processes. Population-specific adaptations included heat tolerance genes in AUS, cold adaptation and reproductive performance genes in CAN, and disease resistance genes in ZAF. These results underscore the need to monitor local genetic diversity while improving production traits in Boer goat breeding worldwide.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer morbidity worldwide, highlighting the need for improved therapies. Metformin, a widely used antihyperglycemic agent, has gained attention for its potential antitumor properties. In this study, we evaluated the effects of the tumor suppressor genes TP53 and CDKN1A on metformin responsiveness in a KRAS-mutant CRC in vitro model using HCT116 cells harboring a G13D mutation in KRAS. Using parental (p53+/+, p21+/+) and isogenic knockout cell lines, we assessed cell-cycle distribution and transcriptomic responses following metformin treatment. In parental wild-type cells, metformin exposure was associated with a dose- and time-dependent reduction in cell viability and an increased proportion of cells in the G0/G1 phase, with significance levels across treatment conditions ranging from p = 0.03 to p < 0.0001. Loss of p53 or p21 was associated with attenuated cellular responses to metformin, with p21-deficient cells responding primarily at higher doses and prolonged exposure (72 h). Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive differential gene expression in parental cells (1399 DEGs), compared with more limited responses in p53-/- (270 DEGs) and p21-/- cells (32 DEGs). Differentially expressed genes associated with MAPK signaling (DUSP5) and inflammatory regulation (TNFAIP3) were observed across genotypes, whereas pathway enrichment of DNA replication and chromatin organization was specific to p53-deficient cells. These findings provide a transcriptomic and phenotypic characterization of genotype-dependent cellular responses to metformin and establish a basis for future mechanistic and functional validation studies.
Background/Objectives: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease marked by sustained synovial inflammation and systemic immune activation. Genetic polymorphisms in key immune-regulatory pathways are thought to influence both disease susceptibility and progression. This study aimed to characterize sequence variation within selected coding regions of TNFAIP3 and CTLA4 in Kurdish patients with RA and to evaluate circulating TNF-α and soluble CTLA-4 (sCTLA-4) levels in the same cohort. Methods: Eighty-seven participants (67 RA patients, 20 controls) were enrolled. Serum TNF-α and sCTLA-4 concentrations were quantified by ELISA. Genomic DNA was extracted and targeted Sanger sequencing of selected coding regions of TNFAIP3 and CTLA4 was performed in RA patients. Variant identification was conducted relative to GRCh38 and annotated using dbSNP and Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD). GeneMANIA was used for network-based contextualization. Results: In the 218-bp targeted region of TNFAIP3, 103 sequence-level variant occurrences were identified in RA patients, including substitutions and insertion/deletion events. In the 136-bp targeted region of CTLA4, 33 sequence-level variant occurrences were identified, also including substitutions and insertion/deletion events. RA patients exhibited significantly elevated serum TNF-α levels compared with controls (p = 0.025), whereas sCTLA-4 levels did not differ significantly. Conclusions: This study provides the first targeted characterization of TNFAIP3 and CTLA4 genetic variation in Kurdish RA patients and integrates these findings with circulating inflammatory biomarkers. Although not designed to assess disease susceptibility, the study provides a valuable descriptive genetic resource for this population and complements existing evidence implicating NF-κB regulation and immune checkpoint signaling in RA. These findings establish a strong foundation for future case-control, genotype-phenotype, and functional investigations.
Clarias gariepinus catfish fundic stomach telocytes (TCs) were identified using light microscopy (LM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and immunohistochemistry. For LM, histochemical, hematoxylin, and eosin staining, as well as toluidine blue-stained semithin sections, were employed. These approaches revealed characteristic morphological features that differentiated TCs, which possessed a cell body with a nucleus and a telopode. Specifically, mucosal TCs were identified beneath the epithelium, within the lamina propria, and dispersed throughout the secretory units of the fundic glands. There were also TCs in the submucosa, muscle bundles, and serosa. Their CD34 affinity was strong, as was their affinity for α-SMA, CD68, CD3, S100-protein, and CD21. Moreover, SEM and TEM revealed that TCs formed a three-dimensional network within the lamina propria. TCs consisted of a cell body and TPs, which included slender segments called podomeres and podoms; the presence of rough endoplasmic reticulum and secretory vesicles distinguishes podoms. Furthermore, TCs demonstrated direct contact with neuroendocrine cells and macrophages and were associated with epithelial and endocrine cells. TCs surrounded the gland and blood vessels. Telocytes' expression of CD68, CD3, and CD21 suggests they may regulate stomach immunology, emphasizing the need to explore their immune-related protein profiles.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Microscopy Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The influence of bone marrow (BM) involvement at diagnosis on hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization outcomes remains to be fully elucidated, particularly in the contemporary plerixafor era. To address this issue, this multicenter retrospective cohort study including four lymphoma treatment centers evaluated patients who underwent their first autologous HSC mobilization procedure between January 2017 and June 2023. Mobilization success was defined as achieving a minimum CD34+ cell yield ≥ 2.0 × 106 cells/kg. Propensity score matching (PSM) was performed to rigorously adjust for baseline confounders and ensure robust group comparisons. The study cohort comprised 669 patients, of whom 138 (20.6%) presented with BM involvement at the time of diagnosis. Analyzes revealed that mobilization success rates were highly comparable between patients with and without BM involvement, both before (79.0% versus [vs.] 81.2%; p = 0.563) and after (79.1% vs. 83.5%; p = 0.500) PSM. Furthermore, the median CD34+ cell yield did not differ significantly between the 2 cohorts either before (3.2 vs. 3.7 × 106/kg; p = 0.192) or after (3.2 vs. 3.5 × 106/kg; p = 0.639) PSM. These findings indicate that initial BM involvement does not significantly impair the success of HSC mobilization in patients with lymphoma, a conclusion that remained highly consistent even after controlling for baseline variables.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Dyskeratosis congenita (DC) is a rare inherited disorder characterized by bone marrow failure, pulmonary fibrosis, and cancer predisposition. X-linked DC (X-DC) is caused by mutations in the DKC1 gene, which encodes dyskerin, a multifunctional protein that is essential for telomere maintenance and multiple RNA-associated processes. Here, we first generated human X-DC HSPC models by introducing DKC1 frameshift mutations or the hypomorphic c.196 A>G mutation, into cord blood CD34+ cells from healthy male donors. These X-DC-like HSPCs recapitulated key hematopoietic features of the disease, including impaired proliferation, defective telomere maintenance and altered rRNA maturation. To correct these defects, lentiviral vectors were constructed carrying DKC1 under the PGK promoter or a weaker promoter driven by TERC regulatory sequences. While PGK-driven expression of dyskerin only restored the proliferation of X-DC-like HSPCs, pTERC-mediated expression of dyskerin also corrected the telomere maintenance and rRNA maturation defects characteristic of X-DC cells, without altering the functional properties of healthy HSPCs. These findings indicate that TERC promoter-driven dyskerin expression can functionally rescue key telomeric and extratelomeric defects in HSPCs carrying frameshift or hypomorphic DKC1 mutations, supporting further preclinical development of this strategy and providing a rationale for its evaluation as a therapeutic approach for X-linked dyskeratosis congenita.© 2026 The Authors.
BACKGROUND Early diagnosis is crucial for effective treatment and management of acute leukemia. Flow cytometry (FC) is a fast and reliable immunophenotyping technique. This study aimed to compare the diagnostic agreement between FC and histopathological evaluation using shared parameters from bone marrow samples. MATERIAL AND METHODS A total of 144 patients presenting to Adult Hematology, Pediatric Hematology, and Pediatric Oncology clinics at Çukurova University Faculty of Medicine were enrolled; bone marrow samples were processed at the Central Laboratory FC Unit. The cohort included 70 patients with acute myeloid leukemia, 59 with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and 15 with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The chi-square test, Cohen's kappa, adjusted kappa coefficient, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were used to assess FC-IHC concordance. RESULTS The concordance between FC and immunohistochemistry (IHC) was 82.6% for AML (P>0.999, PABAK=0.99) and 61.0% for B-ALL (P=0.054, PABAK=0.89). FC achieved 95% sensitivity for AML and 100% for B-ALL. CD33, MPO, and CD117 showed significant concordance in AML, with sensitivities of 94%, 91%, and 90%, respectively. CD34 was the top-performing biomarker for AML, with 93% sensitivity and 95% specificity. For B-ALL, TdT, CD33, and CD34 showed sensitivities of 77%, 75%, and 81%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS FC showed higher concordance with IHC in AML than in B-ALL and better diagnostic sensitivity for leukemic lineage classification. CD33, MPO, and CD117 were strong AML markers, while TdT, CD33, and CD34 were effective for B-ALL. To quantitatively analyze marker expression with high sensitivity, precise lineage differentiation, and a quick turnaround time, same-day reporting and rapid initiation of targeted therapy make FC essential in modern hematopathology.
Inherited bone marrow failure syndromes (IBMFS) comprise a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders and are associated with an increased risk of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). We and others recently identified pathogenic variants in SLF2 and SMC5 as the cause of Atelis Syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder accompanied by hematological abnormalities, including anemia and lymphopenia. However, the mechanisms underlying the associated hematopoietic dysfunction remain unclear. Through longitudinal follow-up and re-evaluation, we found that some patients developed MDS at a young age. To elucidate the bases of these hematopoietic defects, we analyzed hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) derived from patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells harboring compound heterozygous SLF2 mutations. Mutant HPCs exhibited impaired colony-forming capacity, defective erythroid differentiation with a myeloid bias, and markedly reduced engraftment in xenotransplantation assays. SMC5 knockdown in cord blood CD34+ cells impaired colony formation. Mechanistically, disruption of the SLF2-SMC5 axis induced genomic instability, p53/p21 activation, and a senescence-like phenotype. ATAC sequencing revealed epigenetic features characteristic of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) aging, including increased chromatin accessibility at PU.1 motifs associated with myeloid bias. These findings demonstrate that SLF2 and SMC5 dysfunction drives premature HSC aging, bone marrow failure, and predisposition to MDS, revealing Atelis Syndrome as a previously unrecognized IBMFS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
As a possible target for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapy, the process of angiogenesis has become more widely recognized in disease and is essential in normal growth and development. The current study examined the immunological activities of macrophages during angiogenesis in quail embryos. CD68 was used to identify perivascular macrophages, which also retained expression of some stem cell markers, including CD34 and CD117, and also CD21. The macrophages also expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key promoter of angiogenesis, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which degrades matrix components to facilitate the formation of new blood vessels. The growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGF-α), which are often associated with mesenchymal cell recruitment and vascularization, were also expressed in the perivascular macrophages. More recently, studies investigating macrophages have become more prominent due to their proposed effects on endothelial cells. Macrophages are also increasingly considered potential targets for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapies, and this research provides insights into protein expression and roles in angiogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ex vivo expansion of human hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) holds promise for overcoming their limited availability, a major barrier to broader clinical application. Although recent advances in culture systems can increase HSC numbers, these conditions frequently impair self-renewal and induce myeloid bias, and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we performed single-cell multiome sequencing (scMultiome-seq) on human umbilical cord blood-derived CD34⁺ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells to co-profile transcriptional and epigenetic adaptations within the same cells during ex vivo culture. Our analyses revealed reduced transcriptional and epigenetic HSC signatures, accompanied by markedly increased activity of myeloid-associated transcription factor motifs, providing molecular insight into the functional decline and myeloid bias of cultured HSCs. We further observed substantial functional heterogeneity among phenotypically defined HSCs following culture. To address these limitations, we established a niche-mimetic culture system that integrates intrinsic and extrinsic bone marrow regulatory cues, including pharmacologic inhibition of the m6A reader YTHDF2 using the small molecule Y13-27, a three-dimensional microenvironment, and N-cadherin-mediated adhesion. This condition (3D-NcadP-Y) robustly preserved long-term repopulating capacity. When combined with the self-renewal agonist UM729, the resulting platform (3D-NcadP-Y-UM) uniquely enabled the expansion of serially transplantable long-term HSCs with balanced multilineage potential. scMultiome-seq and cellular analyses demonstrated that this condition preserves transcriptional and epigenetic long-term HSC signatures, maintains multilineage-associated transcription factor motifs, and limits excessive cell-cycle activation. Together, these findings elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying culture-induced HSC dysfunction and establish a niche-mimetic strategy for expanding functional human long-term HSCs while preserving key features of stemness.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Central nervous system solitary fibrous tumors (CNS SFTs) are rare mesenchymal neoplasms. The 2021 World Health Organization (WHO) classification recognizes a single SFT entity characterized by NAB2::STAT6-associated biology. This study evaluated clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical features, with particular emphasis on STAT6, CD34, and p16 expression.We retrospectively reviewed 25 CNS SFTs identified between 2004 and 2024. Clinical, radiologic, histologic, immunohistochemical, treatment, and outcome data were collected. Histologic slides were reviewed by two neuropathologists. Immunohistochemistry for STAT6, CD34, and p16 was performed; molecular testing was unavailable.The cohort included 13 men and 12 women, with a mean age of 51 years. Among tumors with available site data, most were intracranial. WHO grades were grade 1 in 40%, grade 2 in 24%, and grade 3 in 36%. Nuclear STAT6 expression was present in all cases. CD34 expression was greatest in grade 1 tumors, whereas p16 expression was numerically highest in grade 3 tumors; neither marker showed a statistically significant association with recurrence. Tumor size increased across WHO grades. Outcome analyses were limited by few events and heterogeneous follow-up.CNS SFTs are clinicopathologically heterogeneous. STAT6 was a consistent diagnostic marker in this cohort. CD34 and p16 showed grade-related numerical patterns, but their prognostic value was not established. Larger, molecularly confirmed cohorts with standardized long-term follow-up are required.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Oral inflammatory diseases such as oral lichen planus are characterized by dysregulated chemokine production and persistent interferon-associated signaling, with JAK/STAT pathways playing a central role in epithelial-immune crosstalk. Here, we investigated whether Melissa officinalis extract (MOE), a widely used phytomedicine with incompletely defined mechanisms, modulates inflammatory signaling in oral epithelial cells. MOE composition was characterized by HPLC-HRMS, and transcriptomic, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, and cell-free kinase analyses were employed to define its biological effects in HSC2 and non-transformed epithelial cells. MOE was cytocompatible and selectively attenuated interferon-associated signaling rather than broadly suppressing inflammation. It markedly reduced interferon-stimulated gene expression, including MX1/2, IFIT and OAS family members, STAT1/2, CXCL10, and GBP1, while NF-κB-dependent CXCL8 expression remained unaffected. Mechanistically, MOE reduced JAK2 activity in a cell-free assay and suppressed STAT1 phosphorylation-associated nuclear translocation, supporting modulation of canonical interferon signaling. Consistently, MOE reduced CXCL10 expression at both mRNA and protein levels, and these effects occurred independently of reactive oxygen species modulation. Chemical profiling identified several phenolic acids, among which caffeic acid showed activity in suppressing CXCL10 production. These findings identify MOE as a pathway-selective modulator of interferon-driven inflammatory responses in oral epithelial cells, provide mechanistic insight into its clinical use, and support further investigation of Melissa officinalis-derived preparations as topical strategies for targeted modulation of mucosal inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Rasheed, Panahipour, Glabonjat and Gruber.
This study investigated immune cell distributions, cell-specific immune markers, and selected biomarker targets in pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) and extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB) using multiparametric flow cytometry (MFC). Whole blood was collected from 45 individuals, including healthy controls (HC), EPTB, and PTB patients (n = 15/group). Peripheral blood leukocytes were analysed by MFC to characterize CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, natural killer (NK), invariant NKT (iNKT) and NKT cells, classical (CM), intermediate (IM) and non-classical monocytes (NCM), and activated monocytes (AM). Expression of GBP1, CALCOCO2, IFIT3, SNX10, ARG1, PD-1, and PD-L1 was assessed across these immune subsets. Increased frequencies of NK, NKT, and monocytes were observed in PTB and EPTB compared with HC, while CD4+, CD8+, iNKT, and AM were reduced. Monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratios were incrementally elevated in EPTB and PTB compared with HC. Despite variability of expression within groups, median biomarker fold-change expression changes were found between HC, EPTB and PTB groups; (i) (>2.0FC) for ARG1 in CD4, CD8, CM and AM, for CALCOCO2 in AM, GBP1 in CD8 and NCM, PD-1 in CD4, CD8, NK, IM and AM, PD-L1 in CD4, CD8, iNKT and NKT, NK, IM and AM and SNX10 in CD4, CD8, NCM, IM and AM (ii) (<2.0FC) in TB vs HC for CALCOCO2 in iNKT and NKT, IFIT3 in NCM, PD-1 in NK and NCM, PD-L1 in NCM, IM and AM and SNX10 in AM. Statistical significance was achieved for ARG1 (P = 0.017) in CD4 cells. Our findings highlight distinct immune cell and biomarker signatures in PTB and EPTB.Copyright © 2026 UK Health Security Agency. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Interferons (IFNs) are potent antimicrobial cytokines. However, effector mechanisms mediating their function in humans are poorly understood, partly because IFNs can induce numerous effector molecules. While guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) are IFN-inducible, their role in cell-autonomous resistance to intracellular pathogens is incompletely understood. We demonstrate that human GBP1-5 significantly inhibits intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) survival, but only GBP4 mediates autophagy. GBP4 facilitates Mtb containment by promoting lysosomal acidification and autophagy via type Ⅰ IFN-dependent TFEB and FOXO3a activation. Mechanistically, GBP4 binds progranulin (GRN), reducing SORT1-mediated GRN lysosomal degradation. Moreover, GBP4 facilitates the GBP4-GRN-BIP-AKT complex assembly while inhibiting the GBP4-BIP-TRIM21 complex formation, thereby enhancing GRN-mediated BIP accumulation and AKT degradation. This leads to AKT inhibition, and concomitant TFEB and FOXO3a activation. GRN, BIP, AKT, and TRIM21 are essential for GBP4-mediated mycobactericidal activity. Our study uncovers a key role for GBP4 in regulating cell-autonomous resistance in human macrophages and may facilitate the development of host-directed therapies against tuberculosis (TB).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Severe asthma is a heterogeneous disease. The mechanisms driving airway pathology when type 2 (T2) cytokine activity is suppressed remain poorly understood. This study aimed to provide insight by identifying the airway molecular pathways of T2 biomarker-high and -low severe asthma. We analysed clinical and transcriptomic data from bronchial biopsies and brushes in the UK Refractory Asthma Stratification Programme multi-centre severe asthma cohort (18 corticosteroid-resistant T2 biomarker-high [T2-high], 23 T2 biomarker-intermediate [T2-intermediate], 11 T2 biomarker-low [T2-low]) plus 20 healthy controls pre- and post-treatment with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). Many genes dysregulated in asthma vs. health were concordantly dysregulated in healthy subjects receiving ICS. Severe asthma as a whole, independent of confounding by ICS, was characterised by upregulation of mucins, CEACAM5, typical T2-genes (POSTN, CLCA1, CCL26), epithelial mast cell genes, and CPA4. T2-high severe asthma demonstrated upregulated T2-dependent genes, epithelial barrier and keratin genes, adaptive immune responses, and impaired ciliary function. T2-low asthma showed upregulated Th1- and IL-17-associated genes (IDO1, CXCL10, GBP1, LAG3), interferon-γ signalling, neuroimmune pathways, airway smooth muscle-related genes, and neutrophil enrichment. T2-intermediate asthma exhibited a mixed molecular profile sharing features of T2-high and T2-low endotypes, with selective expression of the pathogen defence and antiviral response genes. The results were validated using bronchoscopy data from the U-BIOPRED Consortium. This study defines airway molecular endotypes of severe asthma associated with T2 biomarker high and low phenotypes, independent of corticosteroid effects. These findings offer insights for severe asthma management and the development of targeted biologic therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-based chemoimmunotherapy has become a standard first-line treatment for HER2-negative advanced gastric or gastro-esophageal junction cancer. However, most patients eventually experience disease progression, and optimal post-progression strategies, particularly immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based retreatment, remain unclear. This study evaluated the real-world feasibility of ICI-based retreatment and developed an exploratory tumor microenvironment (TME)-oriented biomarker framework to stratify patients who may benefit from immunotherapy.This multicenter retrospective study included 144 patients with HER2-negative advanced gastric cancer who received ICI-based retreatment after progression on first-line ICI-containing therapy between January 2020 and February 2025. Retreatment was classified as cross-line ICI continuation or ICI rechallenge after an ICI-free interval. Clinical outcomes included objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), progression-free survival during retreatment (PFS2), overall survival, and safety. TCGA-STAD multi-omics data were used to infer HER2-negative status and identify immune/TME subtypes. Differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis in the PRJEB25780 gastric cancer immunotherapy cohort were used to identify candidate response-associated genes. Machine-learning models were then compared to construct an exploratory immunotherapy-response classifier, termed HNGCIscore. Protein-level validation of selected markers was performed by immunohistochemistry.Among 144 patients, 73 received cross-line ICI continuation and 71 received ICI rechallenge. In the cross-line group, ORR was 6.85%, DCR was 50.68%, and median PFS2 was 3.0 months. In the rechallenge group, ORR was 5.63%, DCR was 52.11%, and median PFS2 was 5.5 months. These findings were interpreted descriptively because the two groups represented distinct real-world retreatment scenarios rather than randomized comparative cohorts. Any-grade treatment-related adverse events occurred in 58.9% and 77.5% of patients in the cross-line and rechallenge groups, respectively, while grade 3-4 events occurred in 32.0% and 34.0%. No treatment-related deaths were observed. Transcriptomic analyses identified two immune/TME subtypes. Integration of subtype-associated differentially expressed genes with immunotherapy-response-related WGCNA modules yielded 35 candidate genes. Among 14 machine-learning algorithms, XGBoost showed the best overall discrimination, and a seven-gene signature was used to derive HNGCIscore. A simplified three-gene model based on GBP1, IDO1, and CD72 showed moderate internal performance in repeated stratified five-fold cross-validation. Immunohistochemistry further showed higher GBP1, IDO1, and CD72 protein expression in responders than in non-responders, supporting their association with immunotherapy sensitivity.ICI-based retreatment after first-line immunotherapy failure appears feasible in selected patients with HER2-negative advanced gastric cancer, with measurable disease control and manageable toxicity. The TME-oriented HNGCIscore framework, supported by preliminary protein-level validation of GBP1, IDO1, and CD72, may help identify patients more likely to benefit from immunotherapy. These findings remain exploratory and require validation in larger prospective cohorts with matched transcriptomic, biomarker, and clinical response data.Copyright © 2026 Song, Wu, Zhu, He, Shi, Ren and Gao.
Sweet syndrome (SS) is an autoinflammatory neutrophilic dermatosis characterized by abrupt-onset inflammatory skin lesions and systemic symptoms, yet its molecular pathogenesis remains incompletely defined. To delineate disease-specific inflammatory programmes, we performed NanoString-based transcriptomic analysis of SS skin lesions and compared them with healthy control skin and pyoderma gangrenosum, a related neutrophilic dermatosis. SS exhibited a distinct inflammatory transcriptional signature marked by robust upregulation of type I and II interferon-stimulated genes, including CXCL9, CXCL10, GBP1, GBP5, IFIT2 and IRF7, distinguishing SS from both control groups. Cell type deconvolution analysis revealed enrichment of dendritic cells, consistent with a prominent type I interferon-driven immune response. In parallel, SS lesions demonstrated altered immunoproteasome gene expression, with upregulation of immunoproteasome subunits PSMB8, PSMB9 and PSMB10 and downregulation of the constitutive subunit PSMB7 suggesting functional remodelling of proteasomal activity. Together, these findings support a model in which dendritic cell-driven interferon signalling promotes immunoproteasome remodelling and sustains neutrophilic inflammation in Sweet. This study identifies a prominent interferon signalling as a defining molecular feature of SS and highlights potential therapeutic opportunities within the interferon-JAK/STAT and proteasome pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex and heterogeneous systemic autoimmune disease associated with poor treatment outcomes. While previous studies have indicated a genetic predisposition to SLE, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood.This study aimed to identify diagnostic targets with potential genetic associations to SLE by leveraging bioinformatics and the Mendelian randomization (MR) approach.Six datasets (GSE30153, GSE39088, GSE50635, GSE50772, GSE61635, and GSE110169) were obtained from the GEO database for differential expression analysis to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was then performed, and the most relevant module was intersected with the DEGs to identify candidate genes with potential diagnostic value. Subsequently, machine learning algorithms were applied to screen diagnostic genes, and their performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and confusion matrices. MR analysis was conducted to identify diagnostic genes with genetic associations. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core genes. Finally, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), gene set variation analysis (GSVA), and immune infiltration analysis were performed.Differential expression analysis identified 244 DEGs, and WGCNA revealed a highly relevant module. Intersecting this module with the DEGs produced 136 candidate genes. Machine learning algorithms and MR analysis further refined the selection, identifying five diagnostic genes: GBP1, IFI6, KLHDC8B, OAS3, and ZCCHC2, all of which were shown to be well-aligned with their respective drugs. The PPI network highlighted GBP1, IFI6, and OAS3 as core genes, which showed significant correlations with immune cell infiltration.Our study identified GBP1, IFI6, and OAS3 as core genes implicated in SLE pathogenesis, providing novel insights into its molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Qianqian Liu et al. Genetics Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The IFNγ-induced GTPase guanylate-binding protein 1 (GBP1) binds to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on cytosolic gram-negative bacteria and promotes pyroptosis via the recruitment and activation of caspase-4 on the bacterial outer membrane. Enteropathogenic and enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EPEC and EHEC, respectively) are extracellular pathogens that adhere to host cells and stimulate dense actin polymerisation underneath their attachment sites, generating structures described as actin-rich pedestals. Here, we show that GBP1 traffics to actin-rich pedestals in human cells infected with EPEC or EHEC in vitro and mouse colonocytes infected with the EPEC-like murine pathogen Citrobacter rodentium in vivo. GBP1 promotes caspase-4 recruitment to actin-rich pedestals, leading to pyroptosis and IL-18 release. GBP1 mutants defective in LPS coatomer formation also localise to EPEC pedestals. A novel assay that mimics pathogenic effector activity reveals GBP1 recruitment to sterile actin polymerisation sites. We conclude that cytosolic GBP1 is mobilised to sites of pathogen-induced actin remodelling independently of LPS. Our study establishes that GBP1 not only operates as a pattern-recognition receptor but also orchestrates effector-triggered immunity against pathogens that hijack the actin cytoskeleton.© 2026. The Author(s).
Granuloma annulare (GA) and cutaneous sarcoidosis (cSAR) have an overlapping immunopathology, in which the aberrant activation of macrophages by IFN-γ constitutes a central driver. Nevertheless, the molecular understanding in GA and cSAR macrophages remains limited. We reanalyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data of GA and cSAR and performed in vitro experiments with primary human cells showing that oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is a dominant metabolic pathway in IFN-γ-activated macrophages. Furthermore, we identify an IFN-γ-induced response network in GA and cSAR macrophages, sensitive to electron transport chain (ETC) inhibitors. Guanylate-binding protein 1 (GBP1) was central in controlling IFN-γ-mediated macrophage activation. Meanwhile, inhibition of IFN-γ signaling, ETC complexes, and GBP1 reduced granuloma formation in a human in vitro model. Metformin, a clinically used ETC complex I inhibitor, suppressed IFN-γ activation of macrophages and in vitro granulomas. Together, we suggest that OXPHOS and GBP1 represent druggable targets in granulomatous diseases and that drug repurposing of metformin is a possible strategy.
The immunological composition of the microenvironment has shown relevance for diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy in solid tumors but remains underexplored in acute leukemias. We investigated the significance of the acute myeloid leukemia (AML) bone marrow microenvironment in predicting chemosensitivity and long-term remission in pediatric patients. We analyzed 32 non-promyelocytic pediatric AML patients at diagnosis using a NanoString PanCancer IO 360 assay, RNA sequencing, and deep-phenotype flow cytometry analyses. The findings were validated using the pediatric TARGET AML dataset. A short signature of three interferon (IFN)-related genes (GBP1, PARP12, and TRAT1) distinguished patients with chemosensitive disease and reduced minimal residual disease after induction chemotherapy. The signature stratified patients overall, and within the clinically defined "standard-risk" group, patients with high gene expression at diagnosis had significantly longer overall survival. The leukemia microenvironment associated with this signature showed enrichment of non-exhausted CD4+ and CD8+ T cytotoxic lymphocytes and expansion of CD8+ T effector memory cells re-expressing CD45RA (TEMRA) in patients with a favorable prognosis. Our results show the importance of the bone marrow microenvironment in pediatric AML and provide tools for a refined stratification of "standard-risk" patients, lacking adequate risk-oriented therapies. They also offer a promising guide for tackling immune pathways and exploiting immune-targeted therapies.
Mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of the breast is rare and has been recently classified as a distinct entity in the fifth edition of the WHO Classification of Tumors. Here, we present a 47-year-old woman with a history of NST carcinoma in her right breast who subsequently developed a lump in the right chest wall close to the breast implant. Immunohistochemical analysis showed negativity for keratin 20 and CDX2, and positivity for mammaglobin, GCDFP15 and TRPS1 with a triple-negative phenotype. The diagnosis of primary mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of the breast was finally established. Next-generation sequencing identified likely pathogenetic mutations specifically in AKT1, EGFR, FANCA, BCL10, CTCF and RUNX1 and RP1-34H18.1::NAV3 gene fusion, making this as the first reported example in the literature harboring an RP1-34H18.1::NAV3 gene fusion identified within a comprehensive RNA-based molecular analysis, representing the 49th reported patient worldwide.
Dedifferentiated liposarcoma (DDLPS) with rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation is associated with a poorer prognosis compared to other DDLPS subtypes. This highlights the importance of exploring its clinicopathological, immune microenvironment, and molecular characteristics to inform personalized treatment strategies. In this study, we investigated five DDLPS patients with rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation, summarizing their clinicopathological features, immune landscape through immunohistochemistry, and molecular alterations via next-generation sequencing (NGS) analysis, including both DNA and RNA sequencing. Additionally, we conducted a comparative analysis between the well-differentiated (WD) and dedifferentiated (DD) components within these tumors. Our findings identified recurrent HMGA2 fusions, including HMGA2-C12orf74, HMGA2-LPP, HMGA2-BASP1, HMGA2-NAV3, HMGA2-MYF6, and MYO10-HMGA2, which were mutually exclusive with MYC amplification. Notably, these HMGA2 fusions were associated with a more favorable prognosis, demonstrating a mean relapse-free time of 24.0 months, compared to only 2 months in patients without the fusion (P = 0.039). Chromosomal alterations were frequently observed, with 12q amplification being the most prevalent across all 10 tumor samples (5 DD and 5 WD components). Furthermore, DD components exhibited significantly higher levels of copy number variations (CNVs) than their WD counterparts (P = 0.01), with 15q loss exclusively detected in DD components (P < 0.01). In terms of the immune microenvironment, both DD and WD components showed significant infiltration of T cells and M2 macrophages. However, CD20+ B cells were more abundant in WD components compared to DD components. Additionally, DD components harboring MYC amplification exhibited a more immunosuppressive state than those containing HMGA2 fusions, further underscoring the heterogeneity of these tumors. In conclusion, our multi-omics analysis identifies HMGA2 fusion as a promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for DDLPS with rhabdomyosarcomatous differentiation. The comprehensive molecular and immune landscape of this tumor subtype not only deepens our understanding of its pathophysiology but also provides critical insights for future precision medicine strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This report describes a 68-year-old woman who presented with progressive, painless protrusion of the left eye. Findings included unilateral proptosis, superonasal displacement, motility restrictions, and dilated, tortuous conjunctival vessels. MRI and CT scans revealed a well-defined 41 × 19 mm orbital tumor extending along the lateral rectus muscle. Incisional biopsy revealed a spindle cell tumor with a fascicular to storiform pattern in a myxoid to collagenous stroma, showing mild to moderate cellular atypia and skeletal muscle infiltration. Immunohistochemistry was positive for smooth muscle actin and calponin, but negative for caldesmon and desmin. Next-generation sequencing identified an HMGA2-NAV3 gene fusion and amplifications of CDK4, MDM2, and GLI1. The findings were consistent with a low-grade myofibroblastic sarcoma (LGMS). The tumor was treated with en bloc orbital resection. No recurrence was observed after 18 months. This case highlights the role of histological and immunohistochemical evaluation in diagnosing this rare cause of unilateral proptosis.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41843926
A genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified neuron navigator 3 (NAV3) as a potential genetic determinant of myocardial recovery in dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). This study aimed to understand its functional role in cardiac pathophysiology by leveraging omics approaches. Single-cell RNA-seq transcriptomic data from previously published adult human hearts indicate that NAV3 expression is highest in cardiac fibroblasts, suggesting its functional role in these cells. In vitro, stimulation of primary human ventricular cardiac fibroblasts with transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1) induced NAV3 expression in a dose and time-dependent manner. Small-interfering-RNA-mediated knockdown of NAV3 significantly attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, reducing the expression of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagens, and fibronectin. RNA sequencing of NAV3-silenced fibroblasts, confirmed by Western blot, revealed upregulation of cell cycle regulators and downregulation of profibrotic markers, suggesting that NAV3 facilitates TGF-β1-induced cell cycle arrest and fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition. Notably, NAV3 silencing did not alter canonical SMAD2/3 phosphorylation, implying a role for NAV3 in modulating fibrotic signaling through other pathways. Our findings provide functional and mechanistic insights into NAV3's novel role in cardiac fibrosis, showing that reduced NAV3 expression attenuates TGF-β1-mediated fibroblast activation by regulating cell cycle signaling. These results support further investigation of NAV3 as a potential modulator of cardiac fibrosis and myocardial recovery in DCM.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study uncovers a previously unrecognized role for NAV3 in TGF-β1-driven cardiac fibroblast activation. We show that NAV3 facilitates profibrotic remodeling through noncanonical signaling and cell cycle arrest, independently of SMAD2/3. These findings position NAV3 as a novel regulator of fibroblast phenotype and a potential modulator of cardiac fibrosis.
The size and angle of the vulva are economically important traits in pig production. Gilts with small or upward-tilted vulva are typically culled directly. Selective breeding aimed at improving vulva traits can enhance the retention rate of replacement gilts. This study aimed to systematically explore the key quantitative trait loci (QTL) and genes influencing vulva traits in Large White pigs using genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and meta-analysis techniques. Data on vulva length (VL), vulva width (VW), and vulva angle scores (VAS) were collected from 2,197 Large White gilts across three distinct populations (313 from PIC, 1,169 from Topigs, and 715 from Canada), with genotyping performed using a 50K single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array. The SNP-chip data were imputed to the whole-genome sequencing (iWGS) level. This study used iWGS data to conduct GWAS, identifying a genomic region (SSC5: 103.04-103.34 Mb) significantly associated with VAS in both the Topigs and Canadian Large White pig populations. The significance of this region was further strengthened through multi-population meta-analysis. The most significant SNP (rs3470833446), identified on chromosome 14 and associated with VW in PIC Large White pigs, explained 16.98% of the phenotypic variation (PVE). Multi-population meta-analysis identified novel significant SNPs associated with VL on SSC4, VW on SSC1, SSC4, and SSC6, and VAS on SSC2 and SSC5. Furthermore, a significant potential pleiotropic QTL (SSC4: 36.42-41.24 Mb) regulating both VL and VW was identified. Bayes fine mapping was employed to determine the confidence intervals for these novel QTLs, with the most refined confidence interval narrowed down to 30 kb (SSC4: 38.73-38.76 Mb for VW, and SSC5: 103.20-103.23 Mb for VAS). Based on the biological functions of the genes, the following were identified as novel regulatory candidate genes for vulva traits: VIP, NAV3, and ESR1. These findings reveal potential key genes and genetic mechanisms influencing vulva traits in pigs, providing a crucial molecular genetic basis for improving pig breeding and reproductive performance.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Background: Endometriosis is a chronic inflammatory condition affecting 10-15% of women of reproductive age. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have accounted for only a fraction of its high heritability, indicating the need for alternative approaches to identify rare genetic variants contributing to its etiology. To this end, we performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) in a multi-affected family. Methods: A multigenerational family was studied, comprising three sisters, their mother, grandmother, and a daughter, all diagnosed with endometriosis. WES was conducted on the three sisters and their mother. We used the enGenome-Evai and Varelect software to perform our analysis, which mainly focused on rare, missense, frameshift, and stop variants. Results: Bioinformatic analysis identified 36 co-segregating rare variants. Six missense variants in genes associated with cancer growth were prioritized. The top candidates were c.3319G>A (p.Gly1107Arg) in the LAMB4 gene and c.1414G>A (p.Gly472Arg) in the EGFL6 gene. Variants in NAV3, ADAMTS18, SLIT1, and MLH1 may also contribute to disease onset through a synergistic and additive model. Conclusions: We identified novel candidate genes for endometriosis in a multigenerational affected family, supporting a polygenic model of the disease. Our study is an exploratory family-based WES study, and replication and functional studies are warranted to confirm these preliminary findings.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), a cytokine involved in peripheral inflammation, has been shown to modulate established Alzheimer's disease (AD) loci. In this study, we hypothesized that blood MCP-1 levels may impact the associations of other genetic variants with AD risk beyond the well-established AD loci. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) using logistic regression with the generalized estimating equation (GEE) and Cox proportional hazards models to examine the combined effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and blood MCP-1 levels on AD. Three datasets were used: the Framingham Heart Study (FHS), Religious Orders Study/Memory and Aging Project (ROSMAP), and Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). We identified SNPs in two genes in the meta-analysis, namely, neuron navigator 3 (NAV3, also named unc-53 homolog 3, rs696468) (p < 7.55 × 10-9) and the homolog unc-5 netrin receptor c (UNC5C rs72659964) (p < 1.07 × 10-8), which are modified by blood MCP-1 concentration for AD risk. Elevated blood MCP-1 concentrations increased AD risk and brain AD pathology in individuals with NAV3 (rs696468-CC) and UNC5C (rs72659964-AT + TT) genotypes. Given that NAV3 and UNC5C are involved in regulating neurite outgrowth and guidance, increased MCP-1 levels may disturb the functions of vulnerable gene carriers to increase AD risk.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) represent a diverse and heterogeneous group of conditions, including neurodevelopmental delay (NDD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and neurodevelopmental encephalopathy with epilepsy (NDEE). While these disorders often share phenotypic similarities, their underlying genetic causes can vary widely, making clinical diagnosis challenging.In this study, we performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) on a family having an autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder. The proband (II-2) underwent WGS, followed by variant filtering through an in-house bioinformatics pipeline. Sanger sequencing and 3D protein modeling were performed to confirm the pathogenicity of the identified variants.A novel biallelic missense variant in the NAV3 (c.3430T>C; p.Ser1144Pro) was detected using WGS and Sanger sequencing. Subsequently, 3D protein modeling revealed significant alterations in the secondary structure of NAV3, indicating a potential pathogenic effect.The identification of a novel biallelic missense variant in NAV3 adds a new layer to our understanding of its potential contribution to autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorders. This case expands the mutational landscape of NAV3 and underscores its emerging significance in neurodevelopment.This study reports a novel NAV3 variant in association with autosomal recessive NDD, and contributes to the growing evidence that NAV3 plays a crucial role in human neurodevelopment. Functional validation and identification of additional patients will be essential to establish definitive genotype-phenotype correlations and uncover the mechanistic pathways underlying NAV3-associated disorders.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Cancer development and progression are driven by the accumulation of somatic genetic alterations, which occur in a specific temporal order. However, how the order of mutations impacts cancer phenotypes of solid tumors remains poorly understood. To address this, we developed a novel computational framework, IMOP-Cancer (Identifying Mutation Order Pairs in Cancer), to identify mutation gene pairs whose order influences cancer phenotypes. We applied IMOP-Cancer to The Cancer Genome Atlas-Lung Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-LUAD) cohort and identified 446 key mutation order pairs, with 34 pairs significantly associated with prognosis. Mutation order impacts cancer phenotypes, as demonstrated by CSMD3 and PTPRD (tumor proliferation) and TP53 and NAV3 (immune modulation), with effects validated in four independent datasets. We further presented the impact of mutation pairs on cancer phenotypes through case studies in the TCGA cohorts of bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA), and colon adenocarcinoma (COAD). We extended this analysis to 33 cancer cohorts from TCGA portal, identifying 106 034 critical mutation pairs across 17 cancers, with 3036 pairs co-occurring in multiple cancers. Shared mutation pairs across cancers also showed distinct effects on cancer phenotype. Our study highlights the importance of mutation order in cancer progression and diversity, offering new insights into the temporal dynamics of co-occurring mutations and paving the way for personalized treatment strategies and improved diagnosis.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
Astrocytes undergo reactive transformations in response to pathological stimuli and play a critical role in neuronal loss associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the intrinsic mechanisms through which astrocytes detect amyloid-β (Aβ) pathology and develop neurotoxic properties remain inadequately understood. The dysregulation of class IIa Histone deacetylases (HDACs) has been implicated in astrocyte dysfunction under pathological conditions. This study aims to elucidate the role of HDAC7 as an astrocytic mediator of Aβ that drives the formation of neurotoxic reactive astrocytes, and to propose HDAC7 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating neuronal loss and cognitive deficits in AD.We examined HDAC7 expression in APP/PS1 mice of varying ages using RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and immunostaining analysis. Astrocyte-specific HDAC7 overexpression and knockdown were achieved through adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery (GfaABC1D promoter) in wild-type (WT) and APP/PS1 mice, followed by behavioral tests, immunostaining, RT-qPCR, and RNA-seq. Mechanistic studies were conducted using primary astrocytes derived from WT and Hdac7flx/flx mice, employing co-immunoprecipitation, Western blotting, and neuron viability assays. Pharmacological inhibition of HDAC7 in APP/PS1 mice was performed via intraperitoneal injection of TMP195, and the effects on neurotoxic reactive astrocytes, neuronal and synaptic loss, and behavioral performance were measured.HDAC7 was selectively upregulated in plaque-adjacent astrocytes in APP/PS1 mice. Overexpression of HDAC7 specifically in astrocytes was sufficient to induce a neurotoxic transcriptional profile, neuronal loss, and cognitive deficits in both WT and young APP/PS1 mice. Mechanistically, upon Aβ stimulation, the upregulated HDAC7 directly interacted with and deacetylated IKKα and IKKβ, resulting in the activation of IKK, translocation of NF-κB to the nucleus, and subsequent expression of neurotoxic genes. This neurotoxic conversion was dependent on IKK activity, as IKK inhibition nullified the effects in astrocytes overexpressing HDAC7. Conversely, astrocytic HDAC7 knockdown or treatment with TMP195 attenuated IKK-NF-κB signaling, reduced the presence of neurotoxic reactive astrocytes, and rescued neurodegeneration and cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice.HDAC7 acts as an intrinsic effector within astrocytes, responding to Aβ pathology and converting astrocytes into a neurotoxic state through direct interaction with IKK. Targeting HDAC7 presents a promising strategy for astrocyte-directed therapeutic interventions in Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7), a classical HDAC family member, promotes LPS-inducible glycolysis and inflammatory mediator production in macrophages, innate immune cells that contribute to pathology in metabolic diseases. Here, we investigated myeloid HDAC7 functions in obesity-driven metabolic disease.We used gain- and loss-of-function genetic approaches in mice to investigate myeloid HDAC7 functions in hepatic inflammation and metabolic disease, as well as associations with hepatic gene signatures characteristic of advanced chronic liver disease (CLD).Transgenic expression of Hdac7 in myeloid cells increased liver inflammation and liver mRNA levels of Ccl2 and Il1b, key inflammatory mediators linked to CLD. Liver glycogen levels were also decreased, another feature of CLD. Transgenic expression of Hdac7 in myeloid cells mimicked the hepatic inflammatory phenotype that was observed in mice fed a high fat, high cholesterol and high sucrose (HFHCHS) diet, an obesity model that mimics some features of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. In myeloid Hdac7 transgenic mice fed a HFHCHS diet, relative weight gain was increased, fasted glucose levels were elevated, and glucose tolerance was dysregulated by comparison to control mice. Conversely, fasted blood glucose levels were reduced and glucose tolerance was improved in myeloid Hdac7-deleted mice on a HFHCHS diet. HDAC7 mRNA levels were also elevated in the livers of people with advanced CLD and spatial transcriptomics revealed that myeloid HDAC7 directs hepatic gene signatures characteristic of advanced CLD.Myeloid HDAC7 contributes to hepatic inflammation and systemic glucose dysregulation in a mouse model of obesity and liver inflammation.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical & Translational Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is a major precursor to heart failure, yet the transcriptional mechanisms that restrain maladaptive remodeling remain incompletely defined. Class IIa histone deacetylases (HDAC4, HDAC5, and HDAC9) modulate cardiac hypertrophy but exhibit paradoxical effects, underscoring the need for more precise therapeutic targets. Unlike other Class IIa HDACs, HDAC7 is not expressed in adult cardiomyocytes (CMs), and its role in cardiac stress responses is unknown.We used molecular, biochemical, and physiological approaches in vitro and in vivo to determine whether HDAC7 overexpression protects against pathological cardiac hypertrophy.HDAC7 overexpression attenuated angiotensin II-induced cardiomyocyte enlargement and reduced hypertrophic gene expression (ANF, BNP, βMHC) in neonatal mouse and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived CMs. In vivo, HDAC7 markedly reduced transverse aortic constriction-induced cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, and functional decline, while preventing stress-induced transcriptional reprogramming. Mechanistically, HDAC7 directly interacts with the pro-hypertrophic transcription factor MEF2D and represses its target genes (Actc1, Tnni3, Myl2). A MEF2-binding-deficient HDAC7 mutant (HDAC7-L112A) failed to confer protection, demonstrating that MEF2 repression is essential for HDAC7-mediated effects.HDAC7 is a distinct Class IIa HDAC that suppresses pathological cardiac remodeling via a HDAC7-MEF2D axis, highlighting a potential epigenetic strategy to prevent heart failure progression.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Class II histone deacetylases (HDAC) orchestrate T cell-dependent immune responses via the epigenetic control of genes and via the post-translational modification of cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins. However, the contribution of single HDAC family members to the differentiation and function of peripheral CD8+ T cells remains elusive. We here demonstrate that HDAC7-deficiency leads to the upregulation of immune checkpoint molecules, increased apoptosis and disturbed glutamine homeostasis of peripheral murine CD8+ T cells, which we could link to a MEF2D-dependent induction of FasL expression ultimately deterring the survival of HDAC7-deficient CD8+ T cells. Likewise, we observed in mouse models of lymphoma, that mice with a T cell-specific deletion of Hdac7 harbor impaired anti-tumor immune responses in syngeneic transfer models of lymphoma and we found that HDAC7 is required for CD8+ T cell-dependent memory recall responses in models of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection. Taken together, we identify HDAC7 as a central regulator of cellular exhaustion and apoptosis of peripheral CD8+ T cells, controlling CD8+ T cell dependent anti-tumor and anti-viral immunity in mice.Copyright © 2026 Yerinde, Keye, Hsiao, Durlanik, Freise, Nowak, Letizia, Schlickeiser, Obermayer, Huck, Friedrich, Wu, Kunkel, Kühl, Bauer, Thiel, Hegazy, Siegmund, Glauben and Weidinger.
Class IIa histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7) regulates transcription primarily through scaffolding functions, but its molecular mechanisms in cancer pathogenesis remain incompletely understood. Here, we establish HDAC7 as a key epigenetic regulator in colorectal cancer (CRC). HDAC7 is overexpressed in CRC tumors and correlates with advanced disease stages, lymph node metastasis, and poor patient survival. Mechanistically, HDAC7 scaffolds a repressive complex with HDAC3 and the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF3. This reduces H3K27ac/H3K18ac occupancy and blocks BRD4/RNA polymerase II (Pol II) recruitment at ATF3 regulatory regions to epigenetically silence its transcription. Consequently, this repression inactivates ATF3's tumor-suppressive functions, activating oncogenic PI3K-Akt signaling while suppressing the Hippo pathway. Genetic depletion or pharmacological inhibition of HDAC7 disrupts this repressive complex, triggering a functional switch in ATF3. This promotes BRD4/Pol II recruitment and H3K27ac enrichment at the ATF3 locus, enabling ATF3 to undergo transcriptional self-activation. Reactivated ATF3 suppresses CRC proliferation and survival by downregulating Bcl-2, upregulating p21 (CDKN1A) to induce cell cycle arrest, promoting caspase-3-mediated apoptosis, and inhibiting PI3K-Akt signaling. Xenograft studies confirm that HDAC7 depletion suppresses tumorigenicity in vivo. Our work identifies HDAC7 as a molecular mediator that governs ATF3's functional plasticity through competitive cofactor recruitment, positioning HDAC7 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy to reactivate ATF3-mediated tumor suppression in CRC.© The author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42103401
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) "membrane-cytoplasmic-nuclear translocation" occurs in EGFR-19del lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) following resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism of TKI resistance conferred by nuclear EGFR-19del.RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry were performed to assess histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7) expression in LUAD with TKI resistance. Functional assays were performed both in vitro and in vivo to assess the effects of changes in HDAC7 expression on the malignant phenotype of LUAD cells and drug sensitivity to TKIs. Mass spectrometry and dual-luciferase assays were performed to verify the effect of changes in HDAC7 expression on the Hippo pathway. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and coimmunoprecipitation assays were conducted to clarify the potential role of EGFR-19del in the cell nucleus.EGFR-19del nuclear translocation correlated with elevated HDAC7 expression in TKI-resistant cells. HDAC7 overexpression promoted malignancy and reduced TKI sensitivity, whereas HDAC7 knockdown or TSA treatment suppressed tumour growth and enhanced TKI sensitivity in vivo. Mechanistically, HDAC7 interacts with large tumour suppressor kinase 1 (LATS1) and promotes its deacetylation at K688, which reduced T1079 phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting the Hippo pathway. Concurrently, nuclear EGFR-19del acts as a coactivator to accelerate HDAC7 transcription through signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3).We elucidated the underlying mechanism by which nuclear EGFR-19del inhibits the Hippo pathway; these results indicate that TKIs and HDAC inhibitors may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy to reduce drug resistance in LUAD with EGFR-19del.© The author(s).
Low vitamin D levels during pregnancy are associated with an increased risk of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM), potentially mediated by altered vitamin D metabolism. Cytochrome P450 family 24 subfamily A member 1 (CYP24A1) plays a key role in vitamin D catabolism, but its epigenetic regulation in GDM remains unclear.This cross-sectional study included 150 pregnant women [normoglycemic (NGDM, n = 50), early GDM (eGDM, n = 50), and GDM (n = 50)] and 40 placental samples (NGDM, n = 20; GDM, n = 20). Gene expression of histone deacetylases (HDACs), sirtuins (SIRTs), and CYP24A1 was analyzed using real-time PCR. In vitro experiments using BeWo cells assessed the effects of high glucose and trichostatin A (TSA).CYP24A1 expression was significantly increased in GDM participants. Distinct alterations in HDAC and SIRT expression were observed, with HDAC3, HDAC4, and HDAC7 negatively correlated and SIRT7 positively correlated with CYP24A1. HDAC modulation using TSA regulated CYP24A1 expression under hyperglycemic conditions.These findings offer insights into the association of multiple HDACs regulating CYP24A1-mediated vitamin D deficiency in the pathophysiology of GDM. However, further mechanistic and longitudinal studies are required to elucidate the precise mechanism.
Perioperative neurocognitive disorders (PND) are common complications in elderly surgical patients, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying this condition remain poorly understood. Accumulating evidence suggests that HDAC7-a member of the class IIa histone deacetylase (HDAC) family-plays a crucial role in brain injury and can activate the NF-κB pathway independently of its deacetylase activity. In the present study, we investigated whether upregulation of hippocampal HDAC7 contributes to PND through NF-κB-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction and ferroptosis. A tibial fracture model was established in 18-month-old mice, and elevated levels of HDAC7 and phosphorylated NF-κB (P-NF-κB) were detected in the hippocampal CA3 region 3 days after surgery. Moreover, bilateral injections of HDAC7 AAV-shRNA into the CA3 region reduced P-NF-κB levels and alleviated mitochondrial damage. HDAC7 knockdown restored mitofusin 2 (MFN2) expression, reversed the upregulation of acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4) and the loss of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), normalized the levels of ferroptosis-related markers (Fe2+, MDA, GSH, and SOD), and improved cognitive performance. In vitro, HT22 neurons exposed to conditioned medium from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated BV2 microglia underwent ferroptotic cell death, which was prevented by ferrostatin-1 but not by apoptosis or autophagy inhibitors. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of the enzymatic activity of class IIa HDACs with TMP269 failed to attenuate ferroptosis, whereas HDAC7 knockdown suppressed P-NF-κB activation, restored MFN2 expression, corrected ACSL4/GPX4 abnormalities, and suppressed ferroptosis, further supporting a deacetylase-independent role of HDAC7. Furthermore, treatment with MASM7, an MFN2 activator, alleviated ferroptosis in vitro without affecting HDAC7 expression or NF-κB phosphorylation. In vivo, MASM7 administration also improved cognitive function and mitigated ferroptosis-related changes after surgery. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that HDAC7 promotes neuronal ferroptosis through the NF-κB-MFN2-ACSL4 pathway, thereby contributing to the development of PND.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Histone deacetylase HDAC7 is required for early B cell development and governs the acquisition of B cell progenitors gene identity. Its role in mature B cell biology and associated malignancies is unknown. Here, by using a conditional mouse model for specific deletion in activated B cells, we demonstrate that HDAC7 is essential for the formation of germinal centers (GC). HDAC7 deficiency results in the generation of aberrant GCB cells, diminished class switch recombination (CSR) and plasma cell (PC) formation. We demonstrate that low expression of HDAC7 in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) tumors is associated with poor prognosis of the patients. Importantly, expression of HDAC7 in DLBCL cell lines reduces the proliferative capacity, as well as DLBCL tumorigenicity in vivo. In summary, our data revealed first, the important function of HDAC7 in the establishment of the GC, and second, the potential contribution of HDAC7 deregulation in DLBCL.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
The X-linked G-protein coupled receptor GPR174 is highly expressed in T and B lymphocytes and has immunoregulatory roles in mice, but its function in humans is unknown. We describe a cohort of six individuals who have function-disrupting variants in GPR174 and a clinical phenotype of lymphadenopathy and autoimmunity. Histological analysis of two patient lymph nodes revealed necrotizing lymphadenitis and lymphoproliferation resembling Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease. In-depth analysis of three patients and related carriers revealed overaccumulation of CD8 terminally differentiated effector memory cells re-expressing CD45RA (T EMRA ). Patient cells and GPR174- deficient CD8 T cells generated from controls showed less repression of proliferation by the GPR174 ligand lysophosphatidylserine (lysoPS) and an effector-biased gene expression program. GPR174-deficient CD4 T cells were resistant to lysoPS-mediated suppression of IL2 production. In mice, chronic viral infection led to over-accumulation of GPR174-deficient effector CD8 T cells. We describe an inborn error of immunity associated with dysregulated lymphocyte responses that we propose predisposes to exaggerated lymphoproliferation and autoimmunity following viral infection.Six individuals with function-disrupting variants in the G-protein coupled receptor GPR174 provide insight into its immunoregulatory role. GPR174 loss emerges as a potential genetic risk factor for histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis (Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease) and autoimmunity via defects in T cell regulation.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by oxidative stress (OS). This study reveals a novel epigenetic mechanism linking lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in PCOS pathogenesis. A meta-analysis of 50 clinical studies demonstrated elevated systemic oxidative markers (total oxidant status, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde) and reduced paraoxonase-1 levels in PCOS patients, alongside compromised total antioxidant capacity in follicular fluid. Bioinformatic analysis identified TSP-1 as a key downregulated gene in PCOS, and the hTFtarget database predicted KAT5 as an upstream regulator of TSP-1. In vitro, H₂O₂-induced oxidative stress in KGN granulosa cells suppressed TSP-1, KAT5, and H2AK5ac levels, which were restored by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Mechanistically, KAT5 was found to regulate TSP-1 expression via H2AK5 acetylation at its promoter. Knockdown of KAT5 exacerbated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and senescence, while TSP-1 overexpression counteracted these effects. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, ovarian tissues exhibited decreased H2AK5 acetylation, reduced KAT5 and TSP-1 expression, and impaired redox homeostasis. Interventions with N-acetylcysteine or TSP-1 ameliorated ovarian pathological changes, hormonal imbalances, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cellular senescence. Collectively, these findings establish the KAT5-TSP-1 axis as a critical regulator of ovarian redox homeostasis, unveiling a novel epigenetic mechanism and proposing a dual-target therapeutic strategy for PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Acute liver injury (ALI) can rapidly progress to life-threatening acute liver failure. Liver transplantation remains the only definitive treatment, despite critical donor shortages. Macrophage-based therapies have shown promise in ALI but face challenges related to subset imprecision and limited humanized validation. VSIG4 is generally considered a marker of Kupffer cells; however, it is also expressed in monocyte-derived macrophages (MoMFs), and its role remains unclear during ALI.By integrating single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from human and mouse liver tissues with clinical ALI tissue samples, we elucidated the dynamic changes in VSIG4+ macrophages (VSIG4+ Mφ) within the liver. We developed a reversible immunomagnetic nanoparticle system for the non-destructive isolation of viable VSIG4+ Mφ. The therapeutic efficacy and potential mechanisms of VSIG4+ Mφ were evaluated through tissue and molecular-level analyses in an acetaminophen (APAP)-induced ALI mouse model, as well as in a newly established vascularized human liver organoid ALI and monocyte chemotaxis model.scRNA-seq revealed a previously underrecognized subpopulation of VSIG4+ MoMFs, which increases following ALI, while the number of resident VSIG4+ Kupffer cells decreases significantly. Clinical ALI tissue samples also confirmed the presence of CCR2+VSIG4+ cells in the livers of patients with ALI. In the APAP-induced ALI animal model, adoptive transfer of isolated VSIG4+ MoMFs dramatically decreased serum alanine transaminase, hepatic necrosis, and apoptosis while increasing anti-inflammatory cytokines. In contrast, adoptive transfer of unselected BMDM failed to improve liver injury and instead exacerbated certain pro-inflammatory responses, including elevated TNF-α and reduced CD206 expression. Mechanistically, VSIG4+ MoMFs prevented inflammatory amplification by suppressing NF-κB-dependent CCL2 transcription, thereby disrupting the CCL2-CCR2 chemotactic axis and reducing pro-inflammatory CCR2+ monocyte and macrophage recruitment. We further developed vascularized human liver organoids and APAP-induced hepatocyte injury and monocyte chemotaxis, finding that the chemotaxis-interrupting mechanism was fully recapitulated in the human liver organoid ALI model.This study identifies VSIG4+ MoMFs as a therapeutically viable subset for ALI, with clear superiority over unselected BMDM. By blocking the CCL2-CCR2 inflammatory amplification loop, these cells attenuate liver injury in both mouse and humanized models. These consistent findings provide robust preclinical evidence to support the advancement of VSIG4+ Mφ-based immunotherapies into clinical practice.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cisplatin resistance is a major barrier to effective treatment of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) including cutaneous SCC and Head and neck SCC, where resistance develops in more than half of advanced cases. Our previous work demonstrated that genetic knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of TIP60 (KAT5), a histone acetyl transferase, sensitizes cisplatin-resistant SCC cells, induces cell cycle arrest and promotes cell death, suggesting a key role for TIP60 in mediating resistance. Here, we use cisplatin-sensitive and resistant SCC cell lines, together with siRNA-mediated gene silencing, stable overexpression, pharmacological inhibition, immunodot-blot assays, and ICP-MS to demonstrate that TIP60 promotes resistance through two complementary pathways: (1) upregulation of the efflux transporter ABCC1, which reduces intracellular cisplatin accumulation, and (2) increased expression of XPC, a key component of the nucleotide excision repair pathway, involved in recognition and removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts. Elevated TIP60 levels correlate with reduced cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, enhanced removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and increased cell survival in resistant lines. TIP60 depletion reduces ABCC1 expression and increases cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, effects similarly observed with the ABCC1 inhibitor, MK-571. In parallel, TIP60 knockdown impairs removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and reduces expression of multiple DNA damage response (DDR) genes, including XPC. Combined inhibition of TIP60 with spironolactone (targeting XPB/NER) or with MK-571further reduces cell survival and increases cell death in resistant cells. These findings establish TIP60 as a regulator of cisplatin resistance that integrates drug efflux and DNA repair pathways, highlighting TIP60 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome platinum resistance in SCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
M2 macrophages are closely associated with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) and may influence drug response, but their clinical relevance in osteosarcoma (OS) remains to be comprehensively elucidated. This study developed an M2-related model to predict the risk, immune response, and drug sensitivity for patients with OS.Bulk RNA-seq data (TARGET-OS), microarray data (GSE21257), and scRNA-seq data (GSE162454) were obtained and analyzed. Single-cell data were processed using the Seurat package for cell annotation and cellular heterogeneity characterization. Intercellular communication networks were inferred using the CellChat R package. Next, based on M2 macrophage-associated genes identified through ssGSEA, we developed a four-gene prognostic model using WGCNA and LASSO Cox regression analysis. Prognostic performance of the four-gene model was evaluated by using Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival analysis and time-dependent ROC curves. Immune infiltration was assessed by ssGSEA, ESTIMATE, and MCP-counter, while drug sensitivity was predicted using oncoPredict.The scRNA-seq analysis identified myeloid and osteoblastic cells as the dominant cell populations in OS, with M2 macrophages exhibiting extensive intercellular crosstalk. M2 macrophage activity scores were computed for samples in the TARGET-OS via ssGSEA. Based on these scores, WGCNA identified the M2 module as a key module, which comprised 93 genes. Among these modular genes, four genes were selected by LASSO Cox regression analysis to establish a four-gene RiskScore. High- -risk patients showed worse survival (p < 0.05), which was also observed in the independent GSE21257 cohort. The high-risk group also exhibited lower ImmuneScore and reduced infiltration of T cells, B cells, dendritic cells (DCs), and macrophages. The RiskScore was correlated with predicted IC50 values for multiple drugs, including AZD8055_1059, suggesting a potential link between the M2 macrophage-related model and in silico drug sensitivity profiles.This study developed an M2 macrophage-related risk model based on LPAR5, MS4A4A, TNFSF8, and VSIG4, which was associated with survival outcomes, TME features, and predicted drug response profiles in OS.This study developed an M2 macrophage-related four-gene model that was closely related to the immune microenvironment features, drug sensitivity, and survival outcomes in OS. These findings offer preliminary insights into risk stratification and therapeutic treatment for OS.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
This study aimed to develop and validate an adenosynergic prognostic signature for stratifying clinical outcomes and characterizing the tumor immune microenvironment in patients with EOC.A retrospective bioinformatics analysis, complemented by experimental validation, was conducted. Adenosine signaling activity was quantified using ssGSEA, and key adenosynergic modules were identified using WGCNA. Prognostically significant adenosine-related genes (ARGs) were selected through LASSO Cox regression to construct a composite signature, which was then validated across multiple datasets. Functional enrichment analysis, immune infiltration estimation, and somatic alteration mapping were performed. In vitro validation in SK-OV-3 and A2780 cell lines included quantitative PCR, metabolic viability assays, scratch assays, and chamber-based invasion assessments.The blue module showed the strongest correlation with adenosine pathway activity. Nine independent prognostic ARGs were identified: 5 risk-associated genes (PIK3CG, VSIG4, MATK, PIEZO1, and RARRES1) and 4 protective genes (SELL, S1PR4, IL18BP, and CD40LG). The signature demonstrated robust time-dependent predictive accuracy for overall survival, with AUCs ranging from 0.62 at 1 year to 0.71 at 5 years (95% CI: 0.58-0.75 for 1 year, 0.63-0.71 for 3 years, and 0.67-0.75 for 5 years). High-risk patients exhibited significantly worse survival and inversely correlated CD8+ T-cell and macrophage infiltration (p<0.001), suggesting impaired antitumor immunity. Somatic mutation analysis revealed co-occurrence patterns such as FAT3-MGA and MUC16-CSMD3 in high-risk cases. Experimental validation confirmed elevated ARG expression in cancer cells, and VSIG4 silencing significantly inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion.This study establishes a novel prognostic signature for stratifying OC outcomes. The model quantifies immunosuppressive microenvironmental features and identifies clinically actionable targets, particularly VSIG4, to guide treatment in EOC.Copyright © Author(s).
HOMER family proteins are extensively expressed across human tissues, exhibiting aberrant expression patterns that are specific to tissues and diseases. HOMER1 has been linked to neurodevelopmental disorders, HOMER2 to hearing loss, and HOMER3 has been implicated in oncogenic processes across various malignancies [1, 2]. Homer Scaffold Protein 3 (HOMER3), a scaffold protein comprising 361 amino acids, is encoded on human chromosome 19p13.11. However, its role across different cancers remains inadequately characterized. This study aims to comprehensively evaluate the expression landscape, prognostic significance, drug sensitivity associations, and immune-related features of HOMER3 across diverse cancer types, with a particular focus on colorectal cancer (CRC), to support its potential as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in CRC.Transcriptomic and clinical data for 33 cancer types, encompassing both tumor and normal tissue samples, were obtained from public databases, including TCGA and CCLE. Differential expression of HOMER3, prognostic relevance, immune-related characteristics, and correlations with drug sensitivity were systematically assessed between tumor tissues and adjacent non-tumor counterparts. The differential expression pattern and clinical significance of HOMER3 were further validated in CRC specimens.HOMER3 expression is significantly elevated in multiple malignancies and correlates with poor prognosis, with the most pronounced increase observed in CRC. Furthermore, HOMER3 is significantly associated with immune cell infiltration, as well as with drug sensitivity and tumor-associated pathways across various cancer types.Integrated pan-cancer analyses suggest that HOMER3 may serve as a prognostic biomarker in multiple cancer types. In CRC, HOMER3 presents as a promising candidate for prognostic assessment and therapeutic targeting.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42402735 is a review article
Lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) plays a critical role in epigenetic regulation and is closely associated with the progression of various cancers, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma. However, convenient and portable methods for monitoring KAT5 activity remain limited. Herein, we report a coordination-regulated colorimetric sensing platform based on the localized surface plasmon resonance of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) for KAT5 activity detection. In this strategy, Zn2+ coordinates with ethylenediamine (en) to form Zn(en)22+ complexes, which induce AuNPs aggregation and a distinct plasmonic color change. In the presence of coenzyme A (CoA), generated during the KAT5-catalyzed acetylation reaction, Zn2+ preferentially binds to thiol-containing CoA, suppressing Zn(en)22+ formation and inhibiting AuNPs aggregation. As a result, KAT5 activity is indirectly converted into a measurable colorimetric signal with a detection limit of 1.9 pg/mL (3σ/slope). To enable portable analysis, smartphone-based image processing was integrated, using the blue-to-red (B/R) ratio for quantification. The platform was further applied to investigate histone acetylation in cancer cells and circulating tumor cell (CTCs)-like models during epithelial-mesenchymal transition, revealing dynamic changes in KAT5 activity. This coordination-mediated AuNPs strategy provides a simple and portable tool for monitoring cancer-related enzymatic activity, with potential applications in liquid biopsy, early cancer diagnosis, and precision medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a frequent complication of type 2 diabetes and is closely linked to systemic inflammation. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are markers of systemic inflammatory and metabolic stress. It is unknown if metabolism-related transcriptomic alterations in these cells is associated with DKD. Using the nCounter® Human Metabolic Pathways Panel we profiled PBMC metabolic transcripts in individuals with type 2 diabetes or DKD and in controls (n = 12/group), and integrated transcriptomic data with clinical, inflammatory, and mitochondrial parameters. Patients with DKD showed increased inflammatory biomarkers and reduced PBMC mitochondrial membrane potential and mass, consistent with mitochondrial dysfunction. Metabolism-related transcriptomic profiling identified 13 differentially expressed genes across groups. DKD subjects displayed downregulation of SLC7A11 versus controls and HLA-DQA1 versus type 2 diabetes, and upregulation of CPT1A and GBA1 versus controls. CPT1A upregulation was confirmed by RT-qPCR and supported by external GEO datasets, though ROC analyses indicated a limited discriminatory performance. Pathway analyses revealed enrichment of immune-related, fatty acid oxidation, and fructose-6-phosphate pathways and reduced cell proliferation pathways in DKD patients. Inflammatory markers correlated positively with energy-regulating pathways and negatively with anabolic processes. In conclusion, these findings suggest that PBMCs reflect immunometabolic remodeling in response to DKD, thus highlighting an association between systemic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and altered energy metabolism in circulating immune cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuroimaging with [18F]FDG PET can support the diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), but it remains unclear how genetic factors influence metabolic phenotypes.To determine whether GBA1 and APOE ε4 status are associated with diverging [18F]FDG PET metabolic patterns in DLB.We analyzed [18F]FDG PET scans from 43 patients with DLB stratified by GBA1 and APOE ε4 status, and 35 from healthy subjects. Analyses included the cingulate island sign (CIS), regions of interest, SSM/PCA disease patterns, and a machine learning multi-class model. We evaluated the similarity of the DLB patient scans in our cohort with respect to typical DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)-like patterns.APOE ε4 status mainly influenced the CIS, with APOE ε4-negative patients showing greater preservation of the DLB-typical CIS pattern (p = 0.03) compared to APOE ε4 carriers. In contrast, GBA1 status influenced global metabolic phenotype. GBA1 carriers showed a more homogeneous PD/DLB-like metabolic pattern in the machine learning model (p = 0.003) compared to GBA1 non-carriers, whereas the latter group demonstrated greater heterogeneity and higher expression of the AD-related metabolic pattern (p = 0.004). These effects were observed along a metabolic spectrum rather than as distinct clusters.APOE ε4 and GBA1 modulate distinct aspects of the metabolic phenotype in DLB. GBA1 non-carriers and APOE ε4 carriers showed a higher rate of atypical metabolic signatures, which may contribute to biological heterogeneity and increase the risk of diagnostic misclassification.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565774 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565395 is a review article
There is limited evidence evaluating the cost-effectiveness of adding subacromial decompression (SAD) to rotator cuff repair (RCR) in the treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.The purpose of this study was to perform (1) a systematic review and (2) cost-utility analysis comparing isolated RCR versus RCR with SAD in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.This was an economic and decision-analysis study; Level II.A systematic review was conducted per Preferred Reporting Items for Systemactic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines to identify Level I-II studies comparing RCR and RCR with SAD at ≥5-year follow-up. A decision tree model evaluated cost-effectiveness over a 5-year time horizon. Costs, revision rates, and utility values (EQ-5D-based) were derived from the literature. Health utility was expressed in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Cost-effectiveness was assessed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and net monetary benefit (NMB), with a $50,000/QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. Monte Carlo and one-way sensitivity analyses were done to account for parameter uncertainty.Over 5 years, RCR with SAD had a lower mean cost ($33,448) compared with isolated RCR ($34,593) and yielded slightly higher QALYs (1.465 vs 1.454). RCR + SAD demonstrated a positive incremental NMB ($1,695) and a negative incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, emerging as the dominant strategy. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis favored RCR + SAD in 99.28% of 1,000 simulations. On one-way analysis, RCR + SAD remained cost-effective with burr costs up to $1,721, additional surgical time up to 43.6 minutes, and revision probabilities up to 10%.Despite higher upfront costs, SAD during RCR remains cost-effective at mid-term follow-up. By reducing revision rates, SAD provides greater QALYs at a lower overall cost compared with isolated RCR.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
Kinesiophobia hampers positive outcomes in patients with non-specific chronic lower back pain (NSCLBP). Graded exposure therapy is a psychosocial approach aimed at increasing patients' functional capacity by challenging their fears and negative expectations.Our study aimed to evaluate the effect of a graded exposure therapy programme on patients with NSCLBP, with primary outcomes assessing changes in pain intensity (Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form [BPI-SF]) and kinesiophobia (Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia-11 [TSK-11]) from baseline to post-intervention and secondary outcomes assessing changes in pain interference (BPI-SF).A quasi-experimental pre-test and post-test design was used. Twenty-eight participants with NSCLBP for more than 3 months and a TSK-11 score ≥ 22 were recruited. Outcome measures included the TSK-11, BPI-SF and Fear of Daily Activities Questionnaire (FDAQ). The intervention included a 4-week graded exposure programme and pain neuroscience education in the first session only. Data were analysed using the parametric paired t-test and Cohen's d.Out of 28 participants, most were female (96.4%) with a mean age of 45 (± 8.2) years and reported pain for more than 12 months. Significant improvements were observed on both the TSK-11 and BPI-SF (p < 0.001). Large effect sizes were observed for both kinesiophobia and pain severity (TSK-11: d = 1.73, 95% confidence interval [CI 1.14, 2.32]; BPI Pain Severity: d = 1.21, 95% CI [0.72, 1.70]).Graded exposure therapy was effective in reducing pain and kinesiophobia in patients with NSCLBP in the short term.Future considerations should be given to implementing the graded exposure therapy in conjunction with other physiotherapy modalities.© 2026. The Authors.
Immunotherapy combined with anti-angiogenic agents and chemotherapy has emerged as a novel therapeutic option for non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (non-sqNSCLC) after resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). This study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of these regimens in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC in China.A network meta-analysis was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of ivonescimab plus chemotherapy (Ivon-Chem), sintilimab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Sint-Beva-Chem), and atezolizumab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Atez-Beva-Chem). A Markov model was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, Atez-Beva-Chem, and chemotherapy until the survival probability fell below 1% in any regimen. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and net monetary benefit (NMB) were estimated using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $41,859. Sensitivity analyses and scenario simulations were also performed.Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem improved efficacy but were associated with poorer safety profiles than chemotherapy. Compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective, with ICERs of $61,882.3/QALY, $68,657.0/QALY, and $188,820.5/QALY, respectively. Moreover, the NMBs of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem were all negative, indicating that none of these regimens was economically acceptable. Scenario analyses indicated that, compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem would become cost-effective if the price of ivonescimab were reduced by at least 47.2%. Similarly, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem would achieve cost-effectiveness following price reductions of 59.3% for both sintilimab and bevacizumab, and 84.4% for both atezolizumab and bevacizumab, respectively.These immunotherapy-based regimens provided significant survival benefits in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC. However, from the perspective of the Chinese healthcare system, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective. Substantial price reductions would be required to improve their economic viability.Copyright © 2026 Teng, Yang, Zhang, Qin and Ji.
Although powered orthotic devices are becoming more available and increasingly recognized by the medical community, several factors still prevent them from being widely adopted. These orthoses typically use a simple controller, often termed a "bang-bang" controller, which actuates a motor if the muscle's electromyography (EMG) signal is above a set threshold. A proportional controller that could actuate the elbow mechanism based on the EMG signal magnitude would enable a better human-machine connection. The real challenge for designing a proportional controller lies in the heterogeneity of the types of injury and surgeries used in this patient population, as well as the extent of recovery post-surgery. Neural networks effectively model nonlinear relationships in control system design. Recently, a novel powered myoelectric elbow orthosis (PMEO) was developed and tested on patients with a brachial plexus injury (BPI) that used a bang-bang controller. The report evaluated the possibility of using a proportional controller using a neural network-powered regression (NNR) for this exoskeleton.Data from 31 participants with a BPI were collected after receiving IRB approval. A custom apparatus was designed to measure elbow flexion torque and EMG, while participants were instructed to match their torque to a predefined target (10%-40% of MVC). A 2-layered NNR (2 hidden nodes) with a Tanh activation and 5 cross-validation folds was used to find a relationship between the properties of the EMG (moving average, root mean square, variance, standard deviation, and slope) and the elbow torque for individual participants. The collected data were divided into a training set (70%) and a test set (30%). The root mean squared error (RMSE) for the test set was calculated for each NNR model, along with the training time and prediction speed.A standard computer (Intel Core i5-10500 with 16 GB RAM) was used to train the models. The trained models required 82 seconds (range: 3-332 seconds) to train on 8.2e4 (range: 7.7e4-8.9e4) samples. The test dataset consisted of 3.5e4 (range: 3.3e4-3.8e4) samples. The median test RMSE was 0.39 Nm (range: 0.1-3.09 Nm). The NNR took 7 milliseconds (range: 6-10 milliseconds) to predict the test dataset; 35% and 16% of the models had an R2 > 0.5 and >0.7, respectively.A low-powered office computer was sufficient to train an NNR with training time short enough to be completed in an orthotist's office within a typical appointment time. These data verify that the process can be field deployable.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality worldwide, yet the associations linking alcohol-induced gut microbial alterations to metabolic remodeling and hepatocyte dysfunction remain incompletely understood. Here, we applied an integrative multi-omics strategy combining untargeted fecal metabolomics, shotgun metagenomics, mouse liver bulk RNA sequencing, and reanalysis of publicly available human hepatic single-cell and bulk transcriptomic datasets to characterize alcohol exposure-associated gut-liver immunometabolic features. In a mouse model of acute ethanol-induced liver injury, fecal metabolomic and metagenomic profiling revealed marked alterations in microbial functional potential and fecal metabolic composition, identifying six convergent metabolic pathways across fecal multi-omics layers, including nucleotide metabolism, the pentose phosphate pathway, histidine metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, glycine/serine/threonine metabolism, and the phosphotransferase system. Reanalysis of human ALD single-cell transcriptomes showed hepatocyte-enriched activity patterns for several corresponding pathways, suggesting potential pathway-level associations between fecal metabolic alterations and hepatic transcriptional responses. Integrative transcriptomic analysis further identified a ten-gene hepatocyte-associated signature, comprising LRG1, ORM1, ORM2, TAT, HP, FGB, FGG, ITIH3, NNMT, and AGT, which was associated with pathway activity and showed consistent upregulation across acute ethanol-induced liver injury and human ALD/AH transcriptomic datasets. In an external human cohort, this signature stratified patients into exploratory molecular subgroups with distinct metabolic pathway activities and clinical outcome distributions. Collectively, these findings provide a hypothesis-generating multi-omics framework for investigating alcohol-related liver injury and support further validation in chronic ethanol exposure models and functional studies.Copyright © 2026 Ding, Qi, Dai, Li and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557463 is a review article
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic pain is sustained by complex neuroimmune interplay within the spinal cord, yet how astrocytes constrain immune amplification remains poorly understood. Here we identified Src-homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP1; encoded by Ptpn6) as a key suppressor of spinal neuroinflammation and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Astrocyte-specific SHP1 deletion in the spinal dorsal horn induced profound astrocytic morphological changes, increased C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) expression, disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and facilitated the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes into the spinal parenchyma. These infiltrating T cells promoted microglial activation, enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission, increased the excitability of somatostatin (SOM)-positive neurons, and ultimately triggered nociceptive hypersensitivity. Mechanistically, T cell recruitment was governed by an SHP1-dependent regulatory circuit, in which SHP1-mediated Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dephosphorylation restrained Cxcl10 transcription. Blocking the STAT1-CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling axis alleviated T cell infiltration and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, we found that during the development of neuropathic pain, spinal SHP1 expression was significantly downregulated, accompanied by upregulation of CXCL10. Overexpression of SHP1 in astrocytes markedly attenuated astrocyte activation and alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by spared nerve injury (SNI). Collectively, our findings revealed an astrocyte-defined immune checkpoint that restrains neuroinflammatory escalation and pain persistence, emphasizing SHP1 as a promising therapeutic target for chronic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chaotic optical secure communication can provide physical-layer security for optical communication. In this paper, we propose an optical chaos shift keying communication scheme based on a deep neural network (DNN) classifier. At the transmitter, digital information is loaded by switching the system's time-delay parameter. At the receiver, a DNN classifier is utilized to achieve demodulation, identifying the trajectory variations caused by switching the time-delay parameter. This approach eliminates the need for carrier recovery, reducing system implementation complexity while enhancing noise immunity. The simulation results demonstrate that at a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 15 dB, the system can support secure communication at a transmission rate of 2.5 Gbps. When the SNR decreases to 10 dB, the transmission rate can be maintained on the order of 1.6 Gbps, and even when the SNR drops to 5 dB, reliable communication is still achievable. Performance comparison analysis shows that, compared with other existing NN-based CSK variants, the proposed method exhibits better anti-interference ability, lower bit error rate (BER), and higher bit transmission rate.
In the osteoarthritic joint, activated macrophages release pro-inflammatory factors that promote cartilage degeneration. The CD200:CD200R immune checkpoint pathway is a promising therapeutic target that inhibits classical macrophage activation. We hypothesized that the presentation of CD200 to macrophages would shift their cytokine profile from pro-inflammatory to pro-regenerative, thereby reducing chondrocyte catabolism. CD200 encapsulated in poly(lactide-co-glycolide) microparticles (MPs) were incubated with murine bone marrow-derived macrophages. CD200 MP treatment reduced protein and gene expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in M1 macrophages and increased protein and gene expression of anti-inflammatory mediators in M2 and M1/2 macrophages. Conditioned media from CD200 MP-treated M1 macrophages reduced the expression of catabolic enzyme genes in chondrocytes. This study is the first to demonstrate that delivery of CD200 alters the inflammatory cascade and paracrine signaling to chondrocytes. There is significant potential for the CD200:CD200R inhibitory signaling pathway to be leveraged as an intra-articular treatment of OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Introduction: Despite the recognized association between age-related hearing loss (ARHL) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), the genetic relationship and shared transcriptional mechanisms between them remain largely unexplored. Methods: We systematically investigated the ARHL-AD axis using a multi-layered genomic strategy, incorporating causal inference, cis-eQTL mediation, Bayesian colocalization, and independent replication cohort validation. Results: Genetically predicted ARHL was associated with a reduced risk of overall AD and its early/late-onset subtypes, with no evidence of reverse causality in reverse MR analyses. Among 36 identified mediating genes, CSK showed the most consistent mediation signals across discovery and replication cohorts, although the replication was statistically partial (Sobel p = 0.078). Pathway analyses revealed that these genetic links predominantly involve Wnt signaling and endoplasmic reticulum protein processing. Discussion: Our integrative multi-omics findings suggest a potential genetic association between ARHL liability and AD risk. More importantly, we identified a prioritized CSK-driven transcriptional network, providing novel mechanistic insights and highlighting a candidate gene for future functional investigation in neurodegeneration.
The coexistence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) and Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a well-established but rare association. Collision tumors involving both entities within a single lymph node are exceptionally uncommon and pose considerable diagnostic challenges, particularly on cytological specimens. Here, we report the case of a 68-year-old male presenting with right axillary lymphadenomegaly. Fine-needle cytology (FNC) demonstrated a monomorphic population of intermediate-sized lymphoid cells, along with occasional larger cells exhibiting plasmacytoid features. Flow cytometric immunophenotyping showed a CD19+/CD5+/CD23dim B-cell population with lambda light chain restriction consistent with CLL/SLL, and a second CD45-/CD138+/CD200+/CD81+ population suspicious for aberrant plasma cells, raising the differential diagnosis of plasmacytoma or plasmacytic differentiation of CLL/SLL. Subsequent lymph node excision and histological examination revealed a collision tumor comprising MCC and CLL/SLL. This case highlights a rare but significant pitfall in lymph node FNC specimens, in which small neuroendocrine carcinoma was misinterpreted as an aberrant hematopoietic population.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In ruminants, progesterone promotes uterine development to create a favourable environment for an embryo. However, the mechanisms by which progesterone regulates the function of the endometrial epithelial cells that line the uterus remain unclear. To investigate likely mechanisms, this study used different concentrations of progesterone to treat cells from a bovine endometrial epithelial cell (BEEC) line. The effect of the treatments was assessed by constructing mRNA expression profiles of the cells using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Compared to the control cells (0 ng/mL progesterone), it was revealed that expression of the cytokine interleukin 6 (IL6) was upregulated (P < 0.05) with both the 10 ng/mL and 15 ng/mL progesterone treatment of the BEECs. There was decreased expression of the matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) enzyme (P < 0.05) and increased expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene (P < 0.05) in the 5, 10, and 15 ng/mL progesterone treated BEECs. In total, 138, 132 and 385 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the BEECs treated with 5, 10 and 15 ng/mL of progesterone respectively, with these genes mainly associated with leukotriene and oxytocin signalling pathways, cell surface receptor signalling and GnRH secretion, multicellular organism process regulation, and TNF-related signalling pathways. The study revealed that BEECs treated with 10 ng/mL progesterone had increased β-arrestin 1 gene (ARRB1) expression, which would inhibit the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) pathway, and reduce gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion, thus potentially affecting follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising hormone (LH) activity. A small interfering RNA (siRNA) approach was then employed to disrupt ARRB1 expression. The siRNA suppressed ARRB1 expression, promoted Erk1/2 expression, and increased GnRH secretion. In conclusion, progesterone induces concentration-dependent gene expression changes in BEECs, and inhibits GnRH secretion in BEECs through the ARRB1-Erk1/2 signalling pathway. These findings provide in-vitro mechanistic insights into the direct actions of progesterone on endometrial epithelial cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) management necessitates novel, diet-compatible therapeutics. Using untargeted metabolomics, we identified magnoflorine as the key anti-colitis alkaloid from the edible fruit Alpinia oxyphylla. Integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and a zebrafish colitis model revealed that magnoflorine directly binds to core targets including SRC and STAT3. In DSS-induced colitis, magnoflorine restored intestinal barrier integrity (upregulating ZO-1, occludin, and mucin) and rebalanced inflammatory responses (suppressing TNF-α and IL-6 while promoting IL-22 and defensin-1). Mechanistically, magnoflorine not only inhibited JAK/STAT3 phosphorylation but also upregulated endogenous negative regulators PTPN6 and PIAS3, revealing a dual-modulatory strategy. These findings establish magnoflorine as a promising diet-derived candidate for IBD, supporting its development as a functional food ingredient.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The gut-skin axis plays a pivotal role in psoriasis pathogenesis, yet the precise metabolic crosstalk by which intestinal commensals regulate cutaneous immunity remains elusive. Here, we identify a functional "microbe-enzyme-metabolite-immune" axis that orchestrates skin homeostasis. Through multi-omics analyses of psoriatic patients and imiquimod-induced murine models, we reveal a significant depletion of the gut commensal Parabacteroides distasonis (P. distasonis) and its metabolite, genistein. We demonstrate that P. distasonis utilizes its inherent β-glucosidase activity to convert dietary genistin into bioactive genistein, a process we validated using an engineered β-glucosidase-expressing E. coli strain. Therapeutically, supplementation with P. distasonis or genistein significantly ameliorates psoriatic phenotypes, restores skin barrier integrity (filaggrin/loricrin), and suppresses IL-23/IL-17-mediated inflammation. Mechanistically, we uncovered that genistein enhanced CD200-CD200R signaling and suppressed macrophage activation. It effectively reactivates CD200 expression, thereby inhibiting the canonical NF-κB signaling pathway and blunting macrophage-driven inflammation. Notably, the therapeutic efficacy of this axis was abrogated by CD200 blockade, confirming its indispensability. Collectively, our findings elucidate a causal mechanism linking gut microbial enzyme activity to host skin immunity, highlighting P. distasonis-derived genistein as a promising precision intervention for psoriasis management.
To investigate the role and potential mechanism of CD200 in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia (PE) and to clarify its potential value as a biomarker candidate and possible therapeutic target for PE.This retrospective study enrolled 57 patients with PE and 49 women with normal full-term pregnancies. Clinical data were collected, and serum biomarkers were measured. The GSE93839 dataset was utilized to screen for differentially expressed genes in PE placental tissues. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and immunofluorescence (IF) techniques were employed to analyze the expression and localization characteristics of CD200 in placental tissues. Exploratory path analysis was conducted to investigate potential indirect associations between CD200 expression and PE through serum biomarkers.Bioinformatics analysis identified CD200 as a candidate downregulated gene associated with PE. Immunohistochemistry revealed a significantly lower expression level of CD200 in the placental tissues of PE patients (p < 0.05). Immunofluorescence experiments demonstrated co-localization of CD200 with CD68+ macrophages, suggesting a potential association with macrophage-related immune regulation at the maternal-fetal interface. Exploratory path analysis revealed statistically significant indirect associations between CD200 expression and PE through serum biomarkers, including high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), albumin, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK), and creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) (p < 0.05).The expression of CD200 is significantly downregulated in the placental tissues of PE patients. This alteration may induce immune imbalance at the maternal-fetal interface and placental dysfunction, and may also be linked to the systemic pathological injury process in PE through its associations with multiple serum biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yang, Li, Liang, Xiao, Yang, Chen, Wen, Li and Peng.
There is a growing number of research suggesting that there is an association between gut microbiota and central nervous system (CNS) tumor. However, the causal relationships and the mediation effects of inflammatory proteins in the associations are unclear. We extracted genetic variants associated with gut microbiota, inflammatory proteins, and 4 subtypes of CNS tumors from published genome-wide association studies and performed a Mendelian randomization analysis to identify potential causal effects. The inverse variance weighted method was used as the main method. Mediation analysis and single-cell RNA-seq analysis were performed to explore the mediation effects and the expression in cells. This study identified 73 gut microbial taxa and 11 inflammatory proteins that were significantly associated with CNS tumors. The inflammatory proteins may act as intermediate mediators in the potential causal association between gut microbiota and 4 CNS tumor subtypes. Mediation analysis suggested that CX3CL1 may partially mediate the relationship between gut microbiota and Glioblastoma, while Eotaxin, CSF-1, IL-15RA and the other 5 cytokines may serve as subtype-specific potential mediators for the remaining 3 tumor types. Our research supports a hypothesized "gut-immune-brain" axis that may mediate the effects of gut microbiota on different CNS tumor subtypes, with distinct immune proteins implicated for each. These findings strongly suggest potential targets for microbiome therapy and immune therapy, though the underlying mechanistic links require experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
The low response rate to immunotherapy in patients with lung adenocarcinoma is primarily due to tumor immune evasion. The tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment orchestrates this evasion, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we identify non-specific cytotoxic cell receptor protein 1 (NCCRP1) as a critical and previously uncharacterized regulator of this process.We first analyzed publicly accessible patient-derived single-cell RNA sequencing and RNA sequencing data to investigate the expression of NCCRP1 in lung adenocarcinoma and its impact on the tumor immune microenvironment. Subsequently, the Nccrp1 gene was knocked out in mouse lung adenocarcinoma cells using CRISPR-Cas9. The effect of NCCRP1 deletion on tumor growth was then evaluated using subcutaneous transplantation models in both NSG and C57BL/6 mice. Single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry and multiple targeted in vivo interventions were employed to assess the influence of NCCRP1 on the tumor immune microenvironment. To explore the underlying mechanisms by which NCCRP1 regulates the tumor immune microenvironment, we conducted co-immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down, ubiquitination assay, mass spectrometry, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation proteomics, dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, and ELISA.Loss of NCCRP1 inhibits lung tumor growth and prolongs survival in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mouse models. NCCRP1 deficiency upregulates CX3CL1 to recruit CX3CR1+ antitumoral macrophages. These macrophages subsequently secrete CXCL9 and CXCL10, enhancing the infiltration of CD8+ T cells and NK cells into the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, NCCRP1 and STAU1 competitively bind to NEDD4. NCCRP1 deficiency enhances the STAU1-NEDD4 interaction, promoting ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of STAU1, thereby increasing CX3CL1 messenger RNA stability. Remarkably, ablating NCCRP1 synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 or interferon-γ therapy, leading to complete tumor eradication.Our findings highlight NCCRP1 targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy to reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment and overcome the "cold tumor" phenotype in lung adenocarcinoma.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Brain metastases (BrM) are a frequent and life-threatening complication of solid tumours, with lung cancer representing their most common source. While cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are well-established contributors to tumour progression in many extracranial malignancies, their presence and function within the brain tumour microenvironment, where fibroblasts have long been considered scarce or absent, remain poorly understood. Here, we isolated and characterised fibroblast-like cells from 13 human BrMs of diverse origins. These BrM-associated CAFs (BrM-CAFs) expressed canonical CAF markers and showed reduced proliferation and increased senescence compared to normal fibroblasts. Their transcriptome was enriched for extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes, including multiple collagens, fibronectin, and matrix-remodelling enzymes. In vitro, BrM-CAFs produced a fibrillar ECM, and in BrM tissues, their abundance was associated with collagen I and fibronectin deposition. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and secretome analyses further revealed that BrM-CAFs produce multiple cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote cell motility. BrM-CAF conditioned medium promoted both monocyte migration and the migration of cancer cells, including established cell lines and patient-derived lung cancer BrM cells; monocyte migration was partially reduced by inhibition of CCL2/CCR2 signalling, whereas blocking CXCL12, CXCL16, or CX3CL1 attenuated BrM-CAF-induced cancer cell migration. Beyond these effects on migration, exposure to BrM-CAFs increased cancer cell invasion in transwell and heterotypic 3D spheroid assays. In contrast, their effects on cancer cell proliferation were limited and did not indicate a growth-promoting role. Exposure to BrM-CAFs was also associated with increased expression of interferon-stimulated genes in cancer cells. Together, our findings support a role for BrM-CAFs in shaping the brain metastatic microenvironment through ECM remodelling and the secretion of pro-migratory mediators, promoting monocyte and cancer cell migration and enhancing cancer cell invasion. These data identify BrM-CAFs as active stromal participants in BrM biology and support further investigation of their biological, diagnostic, and therapeutic relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536956 is a review article
Influenza-associated pulmonary aspergillosis (IAPA) is a severe complication of influenza infection associated with substantial mortality. Influenza disrupts pulmonary host defenses and alters innate immune responses, predisposing patients to invasive fungal infection. Interleukin-27 (IL-27) is an immunoregulatory cytokine with context-dependent antiviral and antifungal effects; however, its role during IAPA remains undefined. A mouse model of IAPA was established by infecting wild-type and IL-27 receptor α-deficient ( Il27ra - / - ) mice with influenza A, followed by Aspergillus fumigatus challenge. IL-27 and IL-27Rα expression were increased during IAPA. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified monocytes as the primary source of IL-27 and T cells as major IL-27rα-expressing cells. Il27ra - / - mice exhibited significantly increased pulmonary fungal and influenza viral burden, enhanced type 2 immune responses characterized by elevated IL-4, IL-5, IL-9, IL-13, eosinophils, Th2 cells, pathogenic Th2 cells, and ILC2s. Despite increased eosinophil abundance, eosinophil-mediated conidial killing was impaired in Il27ra - / - mice. IL-27Rα deficiency also reduced macrophage abundance and impaired macrophage conidial uptake. Conversely, timed administration of rIL-27 enhanced fungal clearance, improved survival, and increased macrophage conidial uptake and augmented eosinophil killing capacity during IAPA. IL-27 signaling is a protective immunoregulatory cytokine during IAPA that limits pathological type 2 inflammation and enhances antifungal effector function of both eosinophils and macrophages. These findings identify IL-27 as a potential therapeutic in IAPA.
Cell death is a key effector mechanism of the innate immune system for host defense. While it is beneficial for pathogen clearance, excess lytic cell death is linked to inflammation, pathology, and disease. Therefore, tight regulation of cell death execution is critical. PANoptosis is an innate immune, lytic, and inflammatory cell death pathway initiated by innate immune sensors and driven by caspases and RIPKs, with roles in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer. During PANoptosis, caspases and RIPKs within PANoptosome complexes activate multiple executioner proteins, including gasdermin (GSDM) family proteins and mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL). These executioners form membrane pores that lead to membrane lysis and the release of DAMPs and cytokines. Although multiple executioners are activated during PANoptosis, the requirement for individual executioners in driving the lytic cell death remains unclear. To address this, we performed a comprehensive genetic analysis of GSDMD, GSDME, and MLKL using single, double, and triple knockout primary macrophages across triggers known to activate distinct PANoptosomes. Deletion of individual executioners did not reduce the activation of caspases or other executioners and did not fully block PANoptosis, suggesting these executioner molecules often act in a compensatory manner to execute PANoptosis. Furthermore, combined deletion of all three executioners provided greater protection than any single or double deletion. However, residual cell death still occurred even after genetic deletion of all three executioner proteins, suggesting the involvement of additional executioners that remain to be identified. Overall, our study suggests that targeting individual executioners will not be sufficient in disease contexts where PANoptosis drives pathology, and targeting the full executioner network or upstream molecules, such as sensors or essential PANoptosome complex components, will be needed for therapeutic efficacy in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
NLRP12 can induce PANoptosis, a novel form of inflammatory cell death. The research aimed to investigate the mechanisms of NLRP12 in regulating PANoptosis during postinfarction heart failure (HF). C57BL/6J mice were treated with AAV-shNLRP12 before acute myocardial infarction (AMI) modeling using coronary artery ligation, and mouse cardiomyocytes were treated with lentiviruses before hypoxia. NLRP12 and FOSL2 were upregulated in myocardial tissues of AMI-induced mice and hypoxia-exposed mouse cardiomyocytes. FOSL2 activated NLRP12 in mouse cardiomyocytes by binding to its promoter. Knockdown of FOSL2 or NLRP12 improved survival and inhibited HF after AMI, including recovery of cardiac function, reduction of fibrotic area of myocardial tissues, decrease of myocardial injury, and inhibition of PANoptosis in mice. Combined overexpression of NLRP12 impaired the inhibitory effect of the knockdown of FOSL2 on HF after AMI. Our findings demonstrate that FOSL2 promotes cardiomyocyte PANoptosis by inducing the transcription of NLRP12, thereby triggering HF after AMI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Chronic pain acts as a potent driver of progressive cognitive impairment. Although microglial hyperactivation serves as a pivotal mechanistic bridge in this comorbidity, the intracellular molecular cascades coupling persistent nociception to cognitive decline remain largely elusive. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized microglial secretome remodeling axis, governed by CX3CL1-CX3CR1 signaling, that drives pain-associated cognitive impairment. Clinically, elevated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) CX3CL1 correlates strongly with cognitive impairment in chronic pain patients. In murine models, pharmacological blockade of the microglial CX3CL1-CX3CR1 signaling attenuated chronic pain-induced memory deficits. Mechanistically, aberrant CX3CL1-CX3CR1 activation triggers a sequential p38 MAPK-NF-κB cascade to upregulate the kinesin motor KIFC2. This KIFC2 surge fundamentally reprograms microglial vesicular trafficking, driving the massive release of IL-17-enriched small exosomes (<100 nm) that subsequently induce synaptic deterioration and neuronal apoptosis manifested by PSD95 degradation, caspase-3 cleavage, and compromised cell viability. Crucially, this microglial p38 MAPK-NF-κB-KIFC2 cascade hyperactivation was validated in situ within the hippocampal slices of chronic pain models. Collectively, our findings delineate a comprehensive cascade spanning from receptor hyperactivation to KIFC2-dependent exosomal remodeling, elucidating a novel mechanism of microglia-mediated neurotoxicity. Targeting this CX3CL1-KIFC2 exosomal axis offers a potential therapeutic strategy to uncouple chronic pain from its debilitating cognitive comorbidities.
The innate immune system can detect infection, tissue damage, and other homeostatic disruptions to initiate an immune response, drive inflammation, and promote programmed cell death. While these responses can be beneficial in host defense, aberrant activation of inflammatory, lytic cell death pathways can be pathogenic. Emerging evidence suggests that cellular metabolic disruption can promote inflammatory cell death, but the mechanistic connections between these processes are not well understood, limiting our ability to identify regulatory nodes that can be therapeutically targeted. Here, we found that intracellular levels of the metabolic cofactor nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) were depleted in response to cell death triggers that drive pyroptosis, necroptosis, PANoptosis, and ferroptosis. However, restoring NAD+ inhibited PANoptosis but not the other forms of cell death. Mechanistically, NAD+ restoration reduced the expression of PANoptotic sensors or regulators, including the transcription factor IRF1, a critical factor for innate immune sensor priming in PANoptosis. Our findings thereby suggest that NAD+ depletion is an early cell death signaling event and that restoring NAD+ levels specifically blocks PANoptosis by suppressing priming. Hence, targeting NAD+ metabolism represents a potential therapeutic strategy for infectious and inflammatory diseases associated with dysregulated PANoptosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Immune and stress responses are closely interconnected, with glucocorticoids modulating neutrophil number and activity, and cytokines influencing stress response. Neutrophils, due to their role as primary responders to infection, high sensitivity to glucocorticoid fluctuations, and critical involvement in gut microbiota homeostasis, were selected as the central focus of this study. We examined how antibiotic-induced dysbiosis affects the hypothalamus-pituitary-interrenal (HPI) axis and stress-related neutrophil dynamics in common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). We analyzed the expression of stress-related genes and characterized neutrophil maturation and function within the hematopoietic niche. Dysbiotic fish exposed to acute stress exhibited significantly elevated cortisol levels compared to stressed fish with intact microbiota. Notably, even non-stressed dysbiotic fish showed increased cortisol level, indicating that microbiota disruption alone impairs HPI axis regulation. Antibiotic-treated and stressed fish displayed upregulation of il1β, gcsfr, cxcl8_l2, and cxcr1, suggesting enhanced granulopoiesis and neutrophil mobilization. However, systemic neutrophilia was attenuated in dysbiotic fish regardless of stress exposure. Transcriptomic profiling of neutrophils from dysbiotic, stressed fish revealed downregulation of mpx and cxcr4, and upregulation of mmp9, mhc1, trb, nlrp12, dhx58, irf3, irf7 and stat1, indicating altered maturation, increased migratory potential, and possible neutrophil-T cell interactions. In contrast, stressed fish with intact microbiota exhibited anti-apoptotic signatures and suppression of antiviral pathways. Across all stressed and dysbiotic groups, neutrophil phagocytic activity was significantly reduced. These findings underscore the pivotal role of gut microbiota in modulating stress responses, neutrophil development and trafficking, and immune function in vertebrates.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565088 is a review article
Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand of the ghrelin secretagogue receptors (GHSRs). Although the GHSRs are densely expressed in the dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells (GCs), their roles in the DG GCs remain to be fully understood. We probed the actions of ghrelin on the DG GCs with whole-cell recordings and its effects on short-term spatial memory using the Y-maze spontaneous alternation test. Application of ghrelin excited the DG GCs by depressing the G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels and ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels, activating the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels and a TTX-resistant, persistent Na+ channel. Adenylyl cyclase and EPAC2 were required, whereas phospholipase C and protein kinase A were not needed for the ghrelin-mediated excitation of DG GCs. Overnight fasting augmented the excitability of the DG GCs via activation of GHSRs, suggesting a role for endogenously released ghrelin. Ghrelin also enhanced synaptic recruitment of action potentials in DG GCs. Microinjection of ghrelin into the DG increased the alternating sequences in the Y maze test via GHSR-mediated elevation of cAMP and EPAC signals. Our results provide an action mode to explain the roles of GHSRs in improving cognitive functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Biology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42462482 is a review article
Structural variations (SVs) represent a significant source of genomic diversity, with demonstrated roles in livestock gene expression and traits. However, a comprehensive understanding of the SV landscape across large sample sets and its impact on gene regulation in cattle remains incomplete. This study aimed to construct high-fidelity pangenome graphs by integrating both assembly-based and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) derived SV catalogs. We evaluated the efficacy of pangenome graphs for SV genotyping and identified 80,328 high-quality SVs from a cohort of 2929 samples. We systematically characterized these SVs, including their linkage disequilibrium with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), functional annotations, formation mechanisms, and genomic distributions. Furthermore, we generated paired WGS (24.4 ×) and blood RNA-seq data in 170 Simmental cattle. Utilizing our pangenome graphs, we identified 637 SV-expression quantitative trait loci (SV-eQTL), which accounted for 10.81% of expression heritability of target genes, with 38.09% of the effects linked to promoter/enhancer regions. Forty-six of these SV-eQTL were replicated using CattleGTEx results through SV imputation using a joint SNP-SV reference panel. Notably, insertions in the GHSR gene were significantly associated with its expression levels, likely linked to Bos indicus cattle adaptation to heat tolerance. Our findings provide novel insights into the SV landscape and its contribution to gene regulation, underscoring its importance in cattle genetics and genomics.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
Puberty is a key maturational process, highly dependent on energy resources. Ghrelin, a key orexigenic hormone that is increased during conditions of energy insufficiency, has been shown to partially inhibit puberty, acting via the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR). The hepatic peptide, LEAP2, has recently emerged as a potential GHSR antagonist involved in energy homeostasis, but its eventual function in pubertal regulation remains unexplored.To investigate the role of LEAP2 in the control of pubertal maturation using an integral translational approach combining clinical data and preclinical models.Circulating levels of LEAP2 were measured in prepubertal girls with obesity and in a preclinical model of overweight associated with advanced puberty. The impact of central acute and chronic administration of LEAP2 on various pubertal parameters was explored in female rats under distinct metabolic and hormonal conditions. The effects of LEAP2 on hypothalamic Kiss1 expression and Kiss1 neurons calcium activity were studied in rodent models.Circulating LEAP2 levels were elevated in prepubertal girls with obesity and in a preclinical model of overweight associated with advanced puberty. Central injection of LEAP2 increased luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in a dose-dependent manner in peripubertal female rats, either fed ad libitum or after 24-hour fasting, a condition known to elevate circulating ghrelin. Chronic central administration of LEAP2 in prepubertal female rats significantly advanced puberty onset; a phenomenon also observed in immature females subjected to 20% food restriction. The stimulatory effect of central LEAP2 on LH secretion was associated with increased hypothalamic Kiss1 expression. Analyses in brain slices from Kiss1-GCaMP mice showed that LEAP2 could attenuate ghrelin effects on calcium activity in RP3V and ARC Kiss1 neurons, which express Ghsr, supporting a modulatory effect at the level of the Kiss1 circuitry which drives GnRH release.Our data provide the first evidence of the role of LEAP2 in the metabolic control of pubertal maturation, acting potentially via Kiss1 neurons.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aims to elucidate the microbial and metabolic mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of Saccharomyces boulardii and the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine in alleviating infantile anorexia.The study conducted comprehensive analyses with 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabolomics to compare microbial composition and diversity among control, anorexia, Saccharomyces boulardii treatment, and Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine treatment groups. Furthermore, network pharmacology was employed to identify active compounds and their target genes in the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine. The Saccharomyces boulardii treatment group showed a partial recovery in microbial species richness and significant changes in metabolites, suggesting its role in modulating the gut microbiota and metabolic profile. The Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine treatment group demonstrated significant improvements in microbial diversity and metabolic profiles, with key genera such as Corynebacterium, Bifidobacterium, and Allobaculum showing substantial recovery. Moreover, the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine showed a superior ability to restore ghrelin levels compared to Saccharomyces boulardii. Notably, key target genes such as CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and PLA2G4A were closely associated with the therapeutic effects of the Chinese medicine.Both Saccharomyces boulardii and the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine alleviated infantile anorexia by modulating gut microbiota and host metabolism, but the Lipi formula showed superior efficacy in restoring microbial diversity, ghrelin/GHSR signalling, and linoleic acid metabolism. These findings identify the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine as a more effective microbiota-targeted intervention and provide mechanistic support for its further development in the treatment of infantile anorexia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Applied Microbiology International. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Growth hormone secretagogue receptors (GHSRs) modulate reward and cost processing separately, but their role in conflict-based decision-making is unclear. We observed dose-dependent effects of the GHSR agonist ibutamoren (IBU) on rat decision-making performance. Moderate, but not low or high doses, increased cost sensitivity selectively in conflict paradigms. We observed dense GHSR expression in dorsomedial striosomes, a region critical for conflict decision-making. Moderate GHSR activation increased neuronal activity in dorsomedial striosomes that project to lateral habenula (LHb) and enhanced inactivation of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (daSNc). Chemogenetic manipulation of dorsomedial striosomes activity confirmed their causal influence on both GHSR-mediated increases in cost-sensitivity and circuit activity in LHb and daSNc. Our results identify a novel circuit mechanism linking endocrine activity with conflict decision-making.
Ghrelin is the endogenous agonist of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR), which is a potential novel pharmacotherapeutic target for alcohol use disorder (AUD). PF-5190457 is a GHSR inverse agonist and the first GHSR inhibitor to advance to human trials. Our lab conducted two placebo-controlled human laboratory studies to investigate the effects of PF-5190457 (100 mg/day) on alcohol craving in an alcohol cue-exposure paradigm. Study 1 found reduced craving under drug versus placebo, whereas Study 2 did not replicate these findings, likely due to a floor effect and reflective of the differences in AUD populations (Study 1: active drinkers; Study 2: abstinent, inpatient).The present work is a secondary analysis combining these datasets and using subgroups based on alcohol cue-reactivity ("cue-reactors," CR+ vs. "nonreactors," CR-) or the Penn Alcohol Craving Scale ("PACS high cravers" vs. "PACS low cravers") as an additional independent variable to reanalyze the effects of PF-5190457 on alcohol craving (Alcohol Urge Questionnaire [AUQ]) following a "relaxation" trial (no cues) and an "alcohol cue" trial (mock bar-lab and preferred alcohol-containing drink). Cue-reactivity was calculated as the difference in AUQ between trials (AUQAlc-AUQRel) and analyzed by subgroups as a separate outcome.PF-5190457 reduced AUQ scores relative to placebo following the alcohol cue trial in the CR+ subgroup, but not the CR- subgroup. PF-5190457 also reduced AUQ compared to placebo following both the relaxation and alcohol cue trial in the PACS high craver subgroup, but not in the PACS low craver subgroup. Cue-reactivity was not affected by PF-5190457 in any subgroup analysis.These results are preliminary and based on secondary analyses, but suggest that PF-5190457 could help reduce general, self-reported craving for alcohol in high-craving individuals.© 2026 Research Society on Alcohol.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a severe pregnancy-specific hypertensive disorder characterized by immune microenvironment dysregulation at the maternal-fetal interface, with decidual macrophage phenotypic imbalance being a key pathological feature. The Ghrelin/growth hormone secretagogue receptor-1a (GHSR-1a) axis exerts immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory effects, but its role in regulating decidual macrophage infiltration and phenotypic marker expression in PE remains unclear. In this study, we first detected the expression of the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis in decidual tissues from 10 healthy pregnant women and 12 PE patients via immunohistochemistry (IHC). We then established a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PE-like rat model to investigate the axis's functional role and underlying mechanisms. Intriguingly, clinical analysis revealed a severity-dependent compensatory escalation of the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis in PE decidual tissues, potentially representing an endogenous antagonistic response to pregnancy-associated pathological stress. In the animal model, exogenous Ghrelin supplementation reversed LPS-induced PE-like phenotypes, including hypertension, proteinuria, fetal growth restriction (FGR), and placental dysfunction, and alleviated pathological damage to the maternal liver, kidney, and placenta. Mechanistically, Ghrelin modulated decidual macrophage phenotypic marker expression by downregulating the M1 marker CD86 and upregulating the M2 marker CD163 and promoted trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodeling by restoring laminin, α-cytokeratin 7 (α-CK7), and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression in placental tissue. All protective effects of Ghrelin were abrogated by co-administration of D-lys-3-GHRP-6, a specific GHSR-1a antagonist, confirming the dependence on the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis. Collectively, our findings suggest that the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis is compensatorily upregulated in PE and may exert a protective role by regulating decidual macrophage phenotypic marker expression and improving placental function, providing preliminary evidence that this axis merits further investigation as a potential research target for PE.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42277455 is a review article
Tubal infertility is one of the major causes of female infertility. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of action of tubal patency decoction (TPD) and its active ingredient β-sitosterol on tubal infertility.The active ingredients of TPD and their potential targets were obtained from the TCMSP and Batman-TCM databases. The GeneCards, NCBI, and OMIM databases provided the targets associated with tubal infertility. The relationship between the components of TPD and the potential targets of tubal infertility was analyzed by String database and Cytoscape 3.8.0 software. The composition of the compounds in TPD was examined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) assay. The effects of TPD and β-sitosterol on tubal infertility were verified by establishing a rat model of tubal infertility and a model of tubal epithelial cell inflammation.By network pharmacological analysis, we screened 139 active ingredients of TPD, covering 523 targets, of which 34 were related to tubal infertility. β-sitosterol was identified as an important active compound. Progesterone receptor (PGR) was considered the main target of TPD and β-sitosterol in tubal infertility. Molecular docking and drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) assays showed that PGR binds to β-sitosterol. The results of cellular experiments confirmed that β-sitosterol and TPD-containing serum increased the cell viability of LPS-induced tubal epithelial cells, decreased the levels of inflammatory factors (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), and increased the frequency of ciliary beating. The results of in vivo experiments showed that both TPD and β-sitosterol improved the conception rate and live births in tubal infertile rats and attenuated tubal inflammation and epithelial cell damage. They increased the expression of RFX2, RFX3, and FOXJ1. Silencing PGR reversed the effect of β-sitosterol on tubal epithelial cells and tubal infertile rats.TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol may improve tubal infertility through PGR. These results provide a new basis for the development and application of TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol.Copyright © 2026 Liang Shao et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) often recurs after surgery due to biofilms and inflammation, as current therapies have poor mucosal retention and limited biofilm penetration. We developed a natural hydrogel combining xylitol and hyaluronic acid (HA) to enhance drug delivery and antibiofilm efficacy.A hydrogel of xylitol (5% w/v) and HA (0.1% w/v), with or without mometasone furoate (MF, 0.2 mg/mL), was formulated. Mucoadhesion was tested in mice. Biocompatibility, anti-inflammatory effects (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, FOXJ1), and ciliary toxicity were evaluated in LPS-stimulated human nasal epithelial cells (HNEpCs). Antibiofilm activity against S. aureus, P. aeruginosa, and S. pneumoniae was assessed via MIC/MBC, crystal violet staining, and SEM. Virulence gene expression (fnbA, fnbB, clfB, sarA, agrA) was analyzed during HNEpC-S. aureus co-culture.The xylitol-HA hydrogel showed prolonged nasal retention (up to 12 h). MF incorporation further improved mucoadhesion. The xylitol-HA-MF formulation was biocompatible, significantly reduced IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α, and partially restored LPS-suppressed FOXJ1 expression (p < 0.01). MF addition provided synergistic bactericidal activity (MBC: 32-64 μg/mL) and reduced pre-formed biofilm biomass (p < 0.05). It also downregulated S. aureus adhesion genes and global regulators (p < 0.01).A natural xylitol-based hydrogel with MF offers prolonged mucosal retention, potent anti-inflammatory effects, and synergistic antibiofilm activity by targeting bacterial virulence, presenting a promising strategy for postoperative CRS management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In Xenopus laevis, multiciliated cells (MCCs) in epidermis produce coordinated motile cilia to promote fluid flow across epithelial surfaces. In a previous study, it has been reported that Bmp signaling negatively regulates the multiciliated cell formation. However, Bmp signaling is required for the early ectodermal patterning and epidermal specification.In the present study, the requirement of Bmp signaling was examined in ectoderm specification including multiciliogenesis of epidermis. Inhibition of Bmp signaling using a dominant-negative Bmp receptor (Dnbr) decreased MCC formation both in animal cap explants and whole embryos.Differentially expressed MCC-associated transcripts were confirmed by transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis of Bmp-inhibited and control animal cap explants. The promoters of multicilia-associated genes including mcidas, foxj1, deup1 and ccno were cloned to examine how Bmp signaling regulated MCC gene expression.Dnbr-injected embryos consistently showed the reduced promoter activity. However, a direct target gene of Bmp signaling ventx1.1 restored MCC gene expression and promoter activity as well as epidermal marker expression in Dnbr-injected embryos.Together, the results support a model in which early BMP/Ventx1.1 axis positively modulates epidermal multiciliogenesis at least in part by establishing epidermal competence through ventx1.1 associated transcriptional programs.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Genetics Society of Korea.
Primary human basal bronchial epithelial cells (HBECs) are an important population of progenitor cells capable of self-renewal and differentiation to maintain airway homeostasis. In air-liquid interface (ALI) culture, HBECs undergo mucociliary differentiation, providing a robust physiologic model to evaluate novel therapeutics such as in vitro-transcribed messenger RNA (IVT-mRNA). However, the impact of IVT-mRNA delivery on the differentiation potential of basal HBECs remains poorly characterised. Poly(beta amino) ester (PBAE) nanoparticles have demonstrated effective airway delivery of IVT-mRNA in various preclinical studies. Here, we aimed to understand the impact of PBAE-mediated mRNA transfection on basal HBEC differentiation at the ALI. We investigated IVT-mRNA encoding the ciliogenesis transcription factor Forkhead box J1 (FOXJ1) as a model tool for transient overexpression in primary basal HBECs and characterised its subsequent impact on epithelial integrity and differentiation at the ALI. PBAE-mediated delivery of FOXJ1 mRNA to submerged primary HBECs resulted in approximately 50% FOXJ1-positive cells and transient upregulation of key ciliogenesis-related genes, including DNALI1 and RSPH9. Following 28 days of differentiation at the ALI, FOXJ1- or reporter mRNA-transfected cultures displayed normal epithelial morphology, with tight junction and differentiation markers, proportions of secretory and ciliated cells, and ciliary ultrastructure comparable to those of non-transfected controls. These data indicate that PBAE-mediated IVT-mRNA delivery can transiently increase encoded protein expression in basal primary HBECs without impeding mucociliary differentiation.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Background/Objectives: Ciliated epithelial change in endometrial lesions is a recognized morphologic finding, but its immunophenotypic correlates and biological significance remain insufficiently defined. We investigated whether endometrial lesions with ciliated epithelial change show reproducible immunohistochemical alterations across benign, premalignant, and malignant diagnostic categories. Methods: We performed a retrospective immunohistochemical study of 315 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded eutopic uterine endometrial specimens (no endometriotic/ectopic lesions included) collected between 2019 and 2024 and distributed equally across seven diagnostic categories (n = 45 each): normal endometrium, endometrial polyp, hyperplasia with cystic/disordered glands, hyperplasia with crowded glands, atypical hyperplasia/EIN, endometrioid carcinoma, and serous carcinoma. Marker expression was quantified by digital image analysis and compared between lesions with and without ciliated epithelial change, including lesions with ciliated epithelial change showing cytological atypia. Results: Ciliated epithelial change (CEC) was identified in 86/315 cases (27.3%), including 41 cases (13.0%) with atypical CEC. In benign categories, lesions with CEC showed lower E-cadherin expression and higher β-catenin expression, including more frequent nuclear β-catenin localization. In carcinomas, these patterns were not recapitulated and instead showed an opposite or attenuated profile, supporting a context-dependent rather than linear model. Vimentin was consistently reduced in lesions with CEC across diagnostic categories. p53 and CD44 showed heterogeneous findings and were less informative than the adhesion- and phenotype-related markers. Conclusions: Endometrial lesions with CEC show reproducible, context-dependent immunohistochemical alterations, most consistently involving E-cadherin, β-catenin, and vimentin. In particular, nuclear β-catenin reactivity in this setting should not be interpreted as evidence of canonical Wnt-pathway activation in the absence of CTNNB1 sequencing or validated downstream readouts, and the carcinoma findings cannot be assigned to a specific TCGA/ProMisE molecular subgroup using immunohistochemistry alone. The observations should therefore be regarded as exploratory and warrant validation in studies incorporating molecular classification, direct ciliogenesis markers (FOXJ1, acetylated α-tubulin, basal body markers), and outcome data.
Airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) is a clinically important feature of chronic pediatric inflammatory airway disease, but its cellular architecture remains incompletely resolved. Because bulk transcriptomic approaches can mask signals from rare or state-specific cell populations, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) offers a useful framework for examining epithelial and immune cell diversity in hyperresponsive airways.Publicly available scRNA-seq data (GEO: GSM8722221) from bronchial brushing specimens of pediatric AHR patients (10x Genomics Chromium platform) were processed with Cell Ranger, quality-filtered, and analyzed using PCA (15 PCs), UMAP/tSNE embedding, and Leiden clustering (resolution = 0.8). Cell types were annotated by canonical markers and validated via Seurat label transfer. Pseudotime trajectories were inferred with Monocle (DDRTree) and validated by scVelo, Slingshot, and PAGA. Macrophage subpopulations were resolved at resolution = 1.2 and profiled by hdWGCNA. GO and KEGG enrichment used clusterProfiler (Benjamini-Hochberg; adjusted p <0.05). Network pharmacology integrated TCM BTMAN 2.0, Swiss Target Prediction, SEA, and PPI topology to identify targets and herbal compounds from Xiao Qing Long Tang.Quality control supported the analytical suitability of the dataset (mitochondrial fraction vs. nCount_RNA r = -0.31; inter-dataset r = 0.96). Actb, Gapdh, Tuba1b, Hmga2, Vim, Col1a1, Zeb1, Snai2, Twist1, and Mmp9 were among the top variable genes, and the first 15 PCs were retained after JackStraw testing. UMAP and tSNE resolved eight airway mucosal cell populations with concordant separation. Cell-type-specific expression of TSLP, IL33, CCL26, S100A8, POSTN, CLCA1, FCGR3B, TNFRSF8, FOXJ1, and SCGB1A1 was consistent with known inflammatory, remodeling, and mucociliary programs. High-resolution macrophage analysis identified 23 putative subpopulations, which were interpreted cautiously as computationally defined states. Enrichment analysis highlighted cytoplasmic translation, ribosome biogenesis, oxidative phosphorylation, and related mitochondrial signatures. Network pharmacology identified VEGFA, PTGS2, and ESR1 among prioritized targets, yielding 83 shared candidates between disease-associated and compound-associated target sets.This study provides a pediatric AHR single-cell atlas and an integrated, hypothesis-generating view of epithelial-immune heterogeneity, macrophage state diversity, and candidate therapeutic networks. The findings should be interpreted as computational evidence that requires validation in healthy pediatric controls, independent cohorts, and functional experiments.Copyright © 2026 Weiming Yang et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis (ECRS) is characterized by refractory nasal polyps and severely impaired mucociliary clearance (MCC). The molecular mechanisms underlying the modulation of mucociliogenesis following IL-4/13 blockade with dupilumab remain poorly understood, notwithstanding its proven clinical efficacy.Bulk RNA Barcoding and sequencing (BRB-seq) was performed on nasal polyp tissues collected from healthy controls (n = 6), patients with non-ECRS (n = 8), and patients with ECRS both before and four weeks after dupilumab treatment (n = 9) to identify the early molecular drivers underlying ciliary regeneration. Comprehensive gene-set scoring systems were developed to evaluate multiciliogenesis master regulators, master regulators of core/ciliary planar cell polarity (PCP) and PCP components. Interaction scores for epithelial-derived cytokines-thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), IL-25, and IL-33-were calculated based on ligand and cognate receptor subunit expression.The ciliary master regulatory hierarchy (e.g., FOXJ1, RFX2/3), PCP components (CELSR1 and the ciliogenesis and planar polarity effector (CPLANE) module: FUZ, INTU, WDPCP), and structural ciliogenesis pathways were robustly restored following IL-4/13 blockade. The TSLP interaction score correlated with global mucosal damage, serving as a trigger for compensatory multiciliogenesis. The pre-treatment IL-33 interaction score emerged as a significant predictor of transcriptomic ciliary recovery (p < 0.05). DNASE1L3-the primary endonuclease for degrading eosinophilic extracellular traps (EETs)-remained persistently downregulated post-treatment.IL-4/13 blockade successfully restores the structural and directional "hardware" of the respiratory epithelium but fails to rectify the enzymatic "software" required for mucus degradation. This "residual molecular scar" may explain the persistent mucus hyperviscosity observed in some ECRS patients even after clinical polyp resolution.
The respiratory toxicity of heated tobacco products (HTPs) remains incompletely characterized, and traditional models often fail to capture human-specific responses. Here, we established a human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived airway organoid (AO) platform and systematically compared the toxicological profiles of two HTP aerosols using an integrated framework encompassing conventional cytotoxicity assays, lineage-specific analysis, network perturbation modeling and multi-omics profiling. Both HTPs induced time- and concentration-dependent cytotoxicity, oxidative stress, DNA damage, and apoptosis in AOs. Exposure also triggered epithelial chemokine response characterized by elevated IL-8, MCP-1, MIP-1β, GM-CSF, and RANTES, with concomitant suppression of IP-10, indicating epithelial-derived inflammatory alarm signals. Lineage-specific transcriptional changes revealed mucociliary dysfunction characterized by goblet cell hyperplasia (MUC5AC upregulation) and ciliated cell impairment (FOXJ1 downregulation), key features of airway remodeling in chronic respiratory diseases. To delineate underlying mechanisms, we employed Network Perturbation Amplitude (NPA) analysis, which uncovered qualitatively distinct toxicity architectures: HTP-1 exhibited higher overall toxicity and elicited broad-spectrum network perturbations involving cell stress, proliferation, and immune regulation, correlating with greater apoptotic induction; HTP-2 triggered focused activation of damage-sensing pathways, consistent with its earlier membrane disruption and more pronounced genotoxicity. Multi-omics analysis further linked these mechanistic perturbations to human disease-relevant pathways, with HTP-1 showing stronger enrichment for COPD-associated expression patterns and HTP-2 for lung cancer-related signatures, suggesting the acute molecular response to each product exhibits similarity to specific pulmonary disease-associated molecular signatures. These findings establish human-derived airway organoids as a sensitive, human-relevant platform within the New Approach Methodologies‌ (NAMs) framework for qualitative comparison and mechanistic interrogation of product-specific toxicity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42113888
Fluid mobilization on epithelia is ensured by the motile cilia of differentiated multiciliated cells (MCCs). Key transcriptional regulators of motile ciliogenesis include CCNO, MCIDAS, RFXs, and the transcription factor FOXJ1, whose precise role in humans remains unclear. We show that, unlike CCNO and MCIDAS, FOXJ1 expression persists in well-differentiated human airway epithelial cells (hAECs), suggesting functions beyond cilia initiation. ChIP-seq in hAECs allowed us to refine the consensus target motifs of FOXJ1 and RFXs, as well as their close proximity, which strongly suggests functional cooperation within a transcriptional complex. By combining ChIP-seq in normal cells with RNAseq from patients with FOXJ1-related primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), we identified 683 direct FOXJ1 target genes. Among these, 89 MCC-enriched genes-particularly those encoding axonemal proteins such as microtubule-inner proteins (MIPs) and dynein arm docking components-were downregulated in FOXJ1-deficient cells. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into how FOXJ1 contributes to human motile ciliogenesis, and reveal a potential role for FOXJ1 in maintaining MCCs differentiation and ciliary function by sustaining the expression of ciliary proteins, particularly those in direct contact with axonemal tubulin.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society.
Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) causes severe economic losses in the cattle industry, threatening both animal health and food security. Its nonstructural protein Npro suppresses type I interferon (IFN-I) responses, yet the underlying mechanism remains incompletely defined. Here, we reveal that BVDV Npro hijacks host heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) to serve as a degradation adaptor for the transcription factor ELF4, promoting its K48-linked polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. ELF4 loss blunts IFN-I signaling, impairing antiviral cytokine production. Notably, the plant flavonoid quercetin, a known Hsp70 inhibitor, blocks this interaction, rescues ELF4 expression, and restores IFN-I responses in vitro and in vivo, leading to significant suppression of viral replication. Our findings uncover a new immune evasion axis and highlight the potential of natural compounds like quercetin in developing sustainable antiviral strategies for livestock health.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Although fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitors (FGFRi) have demonstrated clinical promise, the inevitable emergence of acquired resistance remains a critical bottleneck, severely compromising their long-term clinical efficacy. The pan-cancer molecular landscape and heterogeneous mechanisms driving this resistance, ranging from genetic alterations to dynamic network rewiring, remain poorly understood.We integrated large-scale pharmacogenomic profiling of the FGFR inhibitor AZD4547 from the GDSC2 and PRISM databases with single-cell RNA sequencing to dissect the multi-omics landscape of FGFRi resistance across 312 cell lines from 8 cancer types. This multi-omics framework was further extended by machine learning modeling and systematic synthetic lethality screening to uncover actionable therapeutic targets. In vitro viability assays and western blot analysis were subsequently conducted to experimentally evaluate the predicted FGFR-EGFR synthetic lethality.Our dual-database analysis unveiled a multi-dimensional atlas of FGFRi resistance. We identified cancer-specific genomic drivers, such as ELF4 amplification in glioblastoma, alongside key transcriptomic markers including UCP2 and FSCN1, highlighting a shift towards metabolic reprogramming and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Single-cell analysis unveiled that resistance is linked to the heterogeneous enrichment of baseline subpopulations characterized by distinct metaprograms, including cell-cycle dysregulation. Furthermore, a random forest model built on a LASSO-derived transcriptomic signature was constructed, demonstrating promising predictive capability for AZD4547 sensitivity (mean test-set AUC = 0.73, 95% CI [0.63, 0.80]); the signature generalized well to erdafitinib but showed limited transferability to some other FGFR inhibitors (e.g. pemigatinib, BGJ398). Most notably, our synthetic lethal screening revealed a convergent reliance on compensatory RTK signaling (specifically EGFR pathway enrichment) and downstream MAPK/PI3K cascades in resistant phenotypes, providing converging computational evidence for EGFR pathway activation as an adaptive bypass mechanism. This predicted synthetic lethality was experimentally supported in two FGFR-dependent cell line models (RT112 and CCLP1), in which combined FGFR-EGFR inhibition produced marked synergistic antiproliferative effects.This study establishes a comprehensive multi-omics atlas of resistance to the FGFR inhibitor AZD4547, delineating convergent mechanisms of metabolic reprogramming and EGFR-mediated bypass signaling. Our findings characterize the resistance as a dynamic network rewiring and nominate rational combination strategies to overcome this therapeutic bottleneck. While FGFR-EGFR co-inhibition is experimentally supported, metabolic co-targeting remains a computationally derived, hypothesis-generating strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42337193 is a review article
Acute pancreatitis (AP) begins with pancreatic local inflammation, leading to the onset of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), followed by compensatory anti-inflammatory response syndrome (CARS), which causes immune paralysis and higher mortality rate. We have demonstrated that AP disrupts the balance of the gut microbiota that aggravates disease progression; however, the role of gut microbiota in the development of SIRS/CARS remains poorly understood. Here, we observed a lower abundance of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron (B. thetaiotaomicron) that increased the infiltration of PF4+ macrophages in AP patient and mouse models, which, in turn, promoted the recruitment of Th2 cells and neutrophils and exacerbated SIRS/CARS. Supplementation with B. thetaiotaomicron increased the expression of the enzyme N-methyltransferase (NMMT) and enhanced the production of 1-methylnicotinamide (1MNA) in the gut epithelial cells, which inhibited PF4+ macrophages dependent SIRS/CARS by targeting ELF4, a transcript factor of PF4. Our findings provide novel interventions for AP patients with SIRS/CARS through modulating gut microbiota.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
In this report, we identified a novel hemizygous ELF4 variant (c.1822G > C; p.Gly608Arg) in an adolescent male with chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and performed functional immunologic characterization.Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of the patient and age-matched controls were characterized by flow cytometry with respect to T cell phenotype, activation, proliferation and NK cell cytotoxicity.The p.Gly608Arg substitution affects a highly conserved residue in the C-terminal regulatory domain of ELF4 and is predicted to be damaging. Immunophenotyping showed an expanded CD8+ T-cell compartment, an inverted CD4/CD8 ratio, reduced naïve T-cell populations, and accelerated acquisition of memory-like phenotypes upon activation. Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells displayed increased proliferation following TCR stimulation, consistent with impaired ELF4-dependent regulation of effector T-cell expansion. NK cells exhibited reduced granzyme B and perforin expression and markedly diminished cytotoxicity against K562 targets, indicating defects in maturation and effector function.These findings suggest that the identified ELF4 variant is associated with combined T- and NK-cell dysfunction. This case expands the clinical spectrum of Deficiency in ELF4, X-linked and underscores the relevance of evaluating ELF4 mutations in patients with unexplained cytopenias accompanied by dysregulated lymphocyte activation and impaired cytotoxic responses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Excessive macrophage activation is thought to be the primary cause of the cytokine storm that results in severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) complications. The underlying mechanisms remain elusive, and more research is needed to find disease-critical genes and develop effective therapies. In this study, we used publicly accessible microarray datasets of cytokine storm in cultured human monocyte-derived macrophages challenged with cytokines, and employed bioinformatics, such as weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and differential expression analysis, to dissect gene expression profiles and identify putative disease-related molecules. Initially, three co-expression modules and related key genes were discovered, which highly correlated to macrophages challenged with cytokines. Then, a preliminary gene expression signature consisting of 203 upregulated and 24 downregulated genes was identified. Next, protein-protein interaction analysis and hub gene identification were used to identify 11 crucial hub genes, namely tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21), interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1), guanylate binding protein 1 (GBP1), transporter associated with antigen processing 1 (TAP1), nuclear myosin I (NMI), interleukin 15 receptor subunit alpha (IL15RA), apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), E74-like ETS transcription factor 4 (ELF4) and guanylate binding protein 2 (GBP2). Then, the LINCS L1000 characteristic direction signatures search engine (L1000CDS2) was employed for drug repurposing studies. Dasatinib was predicted to be the leading therapeutic compound to perturb the gene signature of cytokine storm in human macrophages. Connectivity Map results suggested that dasatinib may normalize ICAM-1 expression. In addition, the results of molecular docking studies and molecular dynamics simulation revealed that dasatinib may spontaneously interact with ICAM-1 via several key residues and form a relatively stable protein-ligand complex. Overall, this work, based on an analysis of co-expression correlation networks, gene expression signatures and pivotal genes in human macrophages challenged with cytokines, combined with drug repurposing studies, demonstrated that dasatinib may interact with ICAM-1 and could be a potential candidate for cytokine storm. However, due to the limitations of computational approaches, further experimental validation is necessary.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41620035
Lanzhou lily (Lilium davidii var. willmottiae), a medicinal and edible plant endemic to China, synthesizes bioactive compounds regulated by diurnal temperature variations (DIFs). ELF4 family genes, key regulators coordinating endogenous rhythms with external changes, are unexplored in this species.We analyzed nuclear-cytoplasmic phylogeny across 11 species and identified ELF4 homologs. Phylogenetic, collinearity, cis-element, and expression pattern analyses were conducted for Lanzhou lily ELF4s (LdELF4s). qRT-PCR assessed LdELF4 expression under different DIFs (20/20°C, 25/10°C, 20/5°C day/night), and corresponding phenotypes were evaluated.Cytonuclear discordance was observed within Lilium. 62 ELF4 homologs were identified and classified into four subfamilies. Six LdELF4s were located on chromosomes LG01, LG08, LG09, LG12, showing structural variation compared to Lilium sargentiae. LdELF4.1, LdELF4.3, and LdELF4.6 were significantly upregulated at 25/10°C on day 14, while LdELF4.4 and LdELF4.5 were downregulated at 20/5°C. LdELF4.6 showed highest sensitivity. Phenotypically, 25/10°C and 20/5°C treatments delayed flowering by 12.5 and 7.8 days, respectively. The 25/10°C treatment increased stem diameter but reduced flower bud number.LdELF4.6 is a core candidate gene regulating DIF response in Lanzhou lily, with 25/10°C potentially optimal for bulb development. This study provides genetic resources for breeding climate-adaptive lilies.Copyright © 2026 Ma, Li, Guo, Meng, Wang, Su and Jin.
During metastatic spread, tumor cells adapt to evade anchorage-independent cell death by upregulating mitochondrial antioxidant systems. We previously showed that ovarian cancer cells upregulate mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2) following detachment and multicellular aggregate (MCA) formation. SOD2 scavenges mitochondrial superoxide and manipulates cellular hydrogen peroxide levels, both functions necessary for metastasis. Here, we investigated SOD2's metastatic function by assessing its transcriptomic effects in OVCA433 ovarian cancer cells cultured in low-attachment conditions that induce MCAs, mimicking anchorage-independent states in malignant ascites. SOD2 siRNA-mediated knockdown effects in MCAs were compared to adherent culture conditions. RNA sequencing and pathway analysis revealed that SOD2 lies upstream of pro-metastatic pathways, including PI3K/AKT signaling. Notably, in MCAs, cytokine and immune cell signaling pathways were more significantly enriched following SOD2 knockdown. We previously identified SIRT3 as an important SOD2 activity regulator in MCAs. While SIRT3 knockdown resulted in minor transcriptional changes, we identified that FOXO3 and ELF4 transcription factors, important for stress response and immune regulation, are downregulated by both SIRT3 and SOD2 knockdown. Comparing SOD2 knockdown transcriptional changes to the Cancer Genome Atlas, we found SOD2 expression strongly associates with pro-tumorigenic immune signaling in serous ovarian cancer specimens, including genes identified downstream of SOD2 from our siRNA screen. Moreover, SOD2 expression correlated with signatures related to pro-tumorigenic neutrophil and T-regulatory cell populations. Our data suggest SOD2 positively regulates pro-metastatic pathways, and those identified in MCAs more closely reflect gene expression profiles associated with SOD2 expression in patient tumors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41300273 is a review article
Human selenoprotein S (selenos) is part of the integrated cellular stress response and linked to protein quality control and signaling pathways. Consequently, genetic polymorphisms of selenos are associated with increased risk for diabetes, dyslipidemia, and cardiovascular diseases. Determining the specific roles of selenos in these cellular pathways and diseases has been challenging, as selenos associates with a wide range of protein complexes. Thus, to map the cellular functions of selenos and uncover their interconnections, we used affinity purification and in vivo crosslinking to stabilize transient protein interactions, followed by proteomics to record the resulting selenos interactome. Through mapping of selenos protein partners, we found evidence that selenos associates with complexes responsible for the insertion of membrane proteins into the ER bilayer and their connected quality control components. Furthermore, selenos is also part of metabolic, trafficking, and mitochondrial pathways. Notably, proteins involved in translation preferentially associate with selenos when its C-terminal intrinsically disordered segment containing the redox-active motif is accessible. Together, these results identify the C-terminal redox loop of selenos as a central interaction hub connecting translation with ER membrane protein biogenesis and quality control.
Gliomas exhibit substantial intratumoral heterogeneity, which limits prognostic precision and therapeutic efficacy. Selenoproteins are key regulators of redox homeostasis, but their role in glioma progression remains insufficiently defined. This study aimed to characterize glioma cells with high selenoprotein activity and to determine their biological and clinical significance.We performed integrated multi-omic analyses combining bulk transcriptomic, single-cell transcriptomic, and spatial transcriptomic data to identify and characterize glioma cell states associated with elevated selenoprotein expression. Functional validation was conducted using SELENOS knockdown assays to evaluate effects on glioma proliferation, invasion, tumor growth, macrophage recruitment, CSF1 expression, and macrophage polarization.We identified a malignant glioma cell state, termed SehighMali, characterized by elevated selenoprotein expression and distinct metabolic and immunological features. SehighMali cells showed enhanced oxidative phosphorylation, MYC-associated transcription, and DNA repair activity, and preferentially engaged in immunosuppressive crosstalk with myeloid cells through the CSF1-CSF1R axis. Spatial analyses demonstrated enrichment of SehighMali cells in tumor cores and close colocalization with immunosuppressive myeloid populations. Across bulk cohorts, higher SehighMali abundance was associated with aggressive molecular features, poor clinical outcomes, and a predicted temozolomide-resistant phenotype. SELENOS knockdown suppressed glioma proliferation, invasion, and tumor growth, reduced macrophage recruitment, decreased CSF1 expression, and promoted macrophage polarization toward a pro-inflammatory phenotype.These findings define a selenoprotein-driven malignant glioma state associated with immune evasion and therapeutic vulnerability. They further identify SELENOS as a potential therapeutic target and provide insight into how selenoprotein-related programs contribute to glioma progression.
Broiler chickens are fast-growing and highly susceptible to dietary selenium (Se) deficiency, with environmental stressors like heat stress further intensifying their vulnerability.Here, we investigated the mechanisms underlying Se deficiency-induced nutritional muscular dystrophy (NMD) in broilers under heat stress.One-day-old male Cobb broilers (n = 6 cages/diet, 6 broilers/cage) were fed a Se-deficient diet (Se-Def, 47 μg Se/kg) or a Se-Def diet supplemented with 0.3 mg Se/kg Na2SeO3 for 6 wk.Compared with the control, Se-Def induced NMD in the pectoral muscle, accompanied by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, as indicated by reduced muscle size, severe fiber atrophy, and swollen ER with blurred lumen edges. Additionally, serum analysis revealed that Se-Def aggravated stress responses and immune dysfunction, with elevated cortisol, immunoglobulins (IgA, IgG, IgM), and lipopolysaccharide levels, and decreased T4 and interleukins-1β. Meat quality was also impaired, with lower pH and higher lightness (L∗). Mechanistically, Se deficiency was associated with increased markers of ER stress, shown by increased glucose-regulated protein 78, protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase, and C/EBP homologous protein, along with changes consistent with apoptosis with upregulated Bax and Caspase-9 and downregulated Bcl-2. These changes coincided with reduced selenoproteins, notably SELENOW and SELENOS. Consistently, SELENOS knockdown in C2C12 cells and myotubes exacerbated ER stress-induced apoptosis and impaired differentiation under heat stress.In conclusion, our findings support a contributory role for SELENOS in ER stress-related responses and apoptosis-associated signaling, providing insights into Se deficiency-induced NMD and suggesting SELENOS as a potential therapeutic target for muscle disorders under stress conditions.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42018028
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and lethal primary brain tumor, originating from glial cells and classified as grade IV by the World Health Organization (WHO). Standard treatment includes resection, radiotherapy, and the use of temozolomide (TMZ), a DNA-alkylating agent; however, therapeutic success is limited due to tumor heterogeneity and resistance mechanisms. Selenium (Se) is an essential element involved in selenoprotein formation, with reported anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antitumor activities. Among organoselenium compounds (OrganoSe), Diphenyl Diselenide (DPDS) has demonstrated antitumor, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties, but its effects in human GBM are underexplored. Here, we investigated, for the first time, the antitumor capacity of DPDS, both alone and in combination with TMZ, in U87-MG cells. We evaluated cell viability, density, migration, biochemical and molecular pathways, including oxidative stress, inflammation, apoptosis, hypoxia response, epigenetic regulation, cell cycle, DNA damage response, and epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT). DPDS (20 µM) in combination with TMZ (100 µM) reduced cell viability and density. Co-exposure decreased cellular migration and oxidative stress markers (ROS production, SOD, and CAT activities). Gene expression analysis revealed downregulation of genes related to redox defense and inflammatory signaling, such as NRF2, KEAP1, GPX1, GPX4, TRXR1, SELENOS, SELENOK, SELENOI, NFKB1, IL6, IL-1B, TNFα, PTGS2, BAX, BAD, BCL-2, HIF1A, HDAC4, NEK1, NEK2, and SNAIL1. The results indicate that DPDS, particularly in combination with TMZ, attenuated pro-inflammatory and antioxidant profiles and interfered with pathways critical for GBM survival.[Image: see text]
Although the COVID-19 pandemic has now been down-graded, long COVID (LC) presents an ongoing risk of long-term disease for a significant percentage of the population, even after mild or no symptoms upon infection. LC post-viral effects have been associated with oxidative stress (OS), impacting canonical cell function. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of eight OS-related single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on LC susceptibility among patients with mild or no symptoms during SARS-CoV-2 infection, with emphasis on a clinically homogeneous population free from bias and overlap with other conditions. Blood samples were collected from 85 clinically confirmed LC patients and 96 unvaccinated controls (observational case control study) all with mild/asymptomatic infection, and analysed by targeted SNP genotyping in the GSTP1, SELENOS, CAT, SOD2, and EPHX1 OS-related genes. Τhe control individuals had been infected at least 6 months prior to enrollment and had not developed any symptoms related to long COVID. Our analysis revealed associations between SOD2 and EPHX1 polymorphisms and disease progression, with pre-existing thyroid disease and acute phase symptoms being significant aggravating factors. Machine Learning (ML) analysis produced a 10-factor predictive model for LC with a balanced accuracy over 0.74, released herein as an open-access LC risk rating webtool. Our findings suggest that individuals' genetic antioxidant capacity may plays an important role in long covid, fitting with current ideas of mitochondrial dysfunction and viral persistence. It is also shown how well diagnosed and bias free cohorts can reveal patterns often missed in self-reported cases and the potential for predictive tools that combine genetic and clinical data.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Long-term exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), including the mixture of PCBs in Aroclor1260 (Ar1260), results in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) in mice and humans. While the effects of PCBs on gene expression are well-documented using short-read RNA sequencing, the regulatory roles of alternative splicing (AS) and differential transcript usage (DTU) are uncharacterized. AS has been implicated in MASLD. Previously, we reported that chronic (34 wks.) exposure of normal, low-fat-diet (LFD)-fed male mice to Ar1260 resulted in 12 hepatic RNA modifications. Proteomic analysis of these same liver samples identified Ar1260 exposure-associated changes in selenoproteins: GPX4 and SELENBP2 were increased and SELENOS and SELENOF were reduced. Methods: Here we used long-read isoform sequencing (IsoSeq) to identify DTU in four genes in the Ar1260-exposed livers: Adpgk, Blvra, Mup2, and Ndufaf6. Results: Network analysis of the corresponding proteins revealed a strong association with pathways relevant to MASLD including lipid metabolism, glycolysis, and oxidative stress. Conclusions: These findings suggest that PCB exposure alters the transcript isoform landscape of key metabolic genes involved in MASLD.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) exposure is one of the important factors causing cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Selenoproteins, key selenium (Se)-containing biomolecules, may mitigate early AFB1 hepatotoxicity. To identify hepatic selenoproteins as sensitive biomarkers or functional players in AFB1 exposure, we allotted 44 11-week-old male C57BL/6J mice into six groups (n = 6-8). Following a five-week pre-feeding period on a 0.03 mg Se/kg diet, mice were fed one of three dietary Se levels (0.03, 0.2, or 2.0 mg/kg) for six weeks, with daily gavage of 0 or 0.25 mg AFB1/kg body weight administered during the final week. Analysis of the sampled tissues showed that hepatic mRNA abundances of four selenoproteins (Selenoh, Selenok, Selenos, and Sephs2) and 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (Ogg1) were increased across all three dietary Se levels (P < 0.05). In contrast, mRNA abundances of Gpx1, Selenof, Selenoo, Selenot, Selenow, and Txnrd3 were significantly increased at only one or two Se levels (P < 0.05). Notably, Selenoh mRNA abundance positively correlated with dietary Se levels without AFB1 exposure (R2 = 0.22, P = 0.04), while Ogg1 mRNA abundance negatively correlated with serum 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine concentrations in the AFB1-treated groups (R2 = 0.19, P = 0.04). Selenoh and Sephs2 protein levels were increased by Se intake (P < 0.05), but not by AFB1 exposure. Conclusively, hepatic Selenoh mRNA was more sensitive to short-term, low AFB1 exposure than its protein and showed a positive response to dietary Se intake in mice, emphasizing its potential as a valuable biomarker in assessing the Se-AFB1 interaction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Background: Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH) affects approximately 10% of pregnancies worldwide, representing a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. The relationship between plasma selenium levels and PIH remains controversial, with observational studies limited by confounding factors. Selenoprotein S (SELENOS) has emerged as a potential biomarker for PIH risk. As one of the carrier proteins for dietary selenium, SELENOS plays a crucial role in oxidative stress and inflammatory pathways. However, the causal relationship between the plasma levels of the SELENOS and PIH development remains unclear. This study employed Mendelian randomization (MR) to investigate the causal link between the plasma levels of the SELENOS and PIH risk, providing evidence for preventive strategies. Methods: We conducted a two-sample MR analysis using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics from the INTERVAL study and FinnGen consortium. The analysis included individuals of European ancestry, utilizing the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method as the primary approach. Comprehensive sensitivity analyses were performed to address potential pleiotropy and strengthen causal inference. Results: The analysis encompassed 3301 samples for the plasma levels of the SELENOS and 7686 PIH cases, 1109 pre-existing hypertension (PEH) cases, 4255 gestational hypertension (GH) cases, and 83 preeclampsia (PE) cases superimposed on chronic hypertension, alongside approximately 115,000 controls. Genetic variabilities that have been found to be accompanied by elevated levels of plasma selenioprotein levels showed significant associations with increased risk of PIH [odds ratio (OR) 1.078, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.031-1.126, p = 0.001], PEH (OR 1.232, 95% CI 1.105-1.373, p < 0.001), and GH (OR 1.111, 95% CI 1.047-1.180, p = 0.001), with suggestive associations for preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension (OR 1.590, 95% CI 1.078-2.344, p = 0.019). Conclusions: This study provides robust genetic evidence for a causal relationship between the plasma levels of the SELENOS and PIH risk, establishing SELENOS as a potential modifiable risk factor with significant clinical implications. These findings support the development of personalized selenium management strategies during pregnancy and highlight the potential for early screening and targeted interventions to improve maternal and fetal outcomes.
The potential role of selenium (Se) in modulating cadmium (Cd) cytotoxicity in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was investigated by assessing pro- and anti-inflammatory as well as redox biomarkers. We also examined the potential synergistic effects of SARS-CoV-2 N-protein with Cd in PBMCs. PBMCs were isolated from adults and treated for 48 h with sodium selenite (Na₂SeO₃; 0.04, 0.4, and 4 µM) and cadmium chloride (CdCl₂; 0.1 and 1 µM), in the presence or absence of SARS-CoV-2 N-protein. We measured total Se and Cd levels, cell viability, cytotoxicity, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and gene expression. Na₂SeO₃ antagonized CdCl₂-induced toxicity in PBMCs. This protective effect was associated with increased expression of antioxidant selenoprotein mRNAs, including GPX1, GPX4, TXNRD1, SELENOP, SELENOS, and SELENOK. Notably, even low concentrations of Na₂SeO₃ effectively protected PBMCs from Cd-induced toxicity, reversing cell death and restoring MTT reduction. Cd exposure slightly increased DCFH oxidation, which was abolished by Na₂SeO₃. While Cd did not markedly elevate ROS, it consistently increased inflammatory markers. Importantly, Na₂SeO₃ upregulated anti-inflammatory mRNAs (IL-4, IL-10), even in the presence of CdCl₂. These findings suggest that, regardless of SARS-CoV-2 N-protein presence, sufficient Se levels-and consequently, proper selenoprotein expression-are crucial for modulating inflammation, preventing ROS overproduction, and mitigating oxidative stress in human PBMCs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Despite substantial advances in Parkinson's disease genomics, Latin American populations remain underrepresented in global genetic studies, limiting the generalizability of risk estimates and biological inference. Mexico, characterized by complex admixture patterns, represents a critical setting for evaluating population-level genetic variation associated with Parkinson's disease.Following PRISMA 2020 guidelines, we systematically reviewed original studies published between 2004 and February 2025 that investigated genetic variants or gene-expression profiles in clinically diagnosed Parkinson's disease among individuals recruited in Mexico. Twenty-four studies (7,048 participants; 3,367 patients and 3,781 controls) met the inclusion criteria. Variant nomenclature was harmonized using HGNC and dbSNP identifiers. Study quality was appraised using the Q-Genie instrument, and effect estimates were standardized where feasible. Functional interpretation incorporated Gene Ontology, WikiPathways, and network-based analyses.Across the included literature, 27 genes and 71 distinct genetic variants were examined. Eight loci-PRKN, SNCA, GBA1, LRRK2, APOE, MTHFR, SYT11, and NR4A2-emerged as recurrently associated with Parkinson's disease. Biallelic PRKN variants and exon rearrangements predominated in early-onset disease, frequently co-occurring with PINK1 or LRRK2 alterations. The GBA1 p.L444P variant conferred increased risk, whereas the canonical LRRK2 p.G2019S mutation was consistently absent. Multiple regulatory SNCA polymorphisms showed consistent associations across the independent Mexican cohorts examined. Additional risk-modifying variants included APOE ε4, MTHFR rs1801133, and SYT11 variants rs34372695, rs729022, and rs822508. Protective associations were reported for NR4A2 haplotypes-distinguishing H1 as protective and H2 as risk-increasing-and for ALDH1A1 rs3764435. Functional integration highlighted convergence on mitochondrial quality control, lysosomal-autophagic processes, oxidative stress responses, synaptic vesicle cycling, and dopaminergic signaling.This systematic review provides the first quality-assessed synthesis of genetic studies of Parkinson's disease conducted in Mexico. The available evidence supports the involvement of established Parkinson's disease-related molecular pathways while underscoring substantial methodological heterogeneity and limited ancestry-aware analyses. Larger, well-powered genome-wide and multi-omic studies incorporating explicit ancestry modeling are required to refine genetic risk architecture and improve the interpretability of Parkinson's disease genomics in Mexican populations.Copyright © 2026 Arias-Carrión, Romero-Gutiérrez, Castellanos-Juárez, Sandoval-Carrillo and Salas-Pacheco.
Synaptotagmins (Syts) are the primary Ca2+-sensors for synaptic vesicle exocytosis, while most mammalian Syts are non-Ca2+-affinitive and play critical roles in neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity with unclear mechanisms. Here, we show that high-alkaline non-Ca2+-binding Syt11 exhibits higher affinity for acidic phospholipids and Ca2+-inhibited liposome-binding, thereby competing with the Ca2+-binding Syt1. Physiological levels of Ca2+ eliminate this competition by promoting Ca2+-dependent membrane insertion of Syt1 while suppressing Syt11's binding through electrostatic shielding of the membrane surface. Site-directed mutagenesis reveals a dual-regional lipid-binding mode (a lysine-rich motif for Ca2+-independent binding and Ca2+-binding loops for Ca2+-facilitation) for Syt1, and a redundant multi-point lipid-binding interface for Syt11. Consistent with the Ca2+-dependent competition, Syt11 inhibits both the early stages of exocytosis and endocytosis in neurons, while the maximal rate of exocytosis remains intact. This Ca2+-sensitivity of Syt11 proposes Syt1-Syt11 inter-switching in membrane-occupancy as a critical step precisely controlling exocytosis and endocytosis during synaptic transmission.© 2025. The Author(s).
Breast cancer remains a major global health burden, with persistent challenges including recurrence, metastasis, and drug resistance limiting the efficacy of current treatments. The identification of novel therapeutic targets is essential for advancing precision oncology. We employed a 2-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) framework utilizing large-scale eQTL and genome-wide association study (GWAS) datasets from European cohorts to identify genetic targets for breast cancer. Colocalization analysis, phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS), protein-protein interaction networks, and functional enrichment analyses (GO/KEGG) were conducted. Single-cell gene expression was also analyzed. Candidate drugs were predicted using pharmacogenomic databases and subsequently validated through molecular docking simulations. MR analysis identified 480 candidate targets, among which 51 were successfully validated. Colocalization analysis highlighted 7 genes - DNPH1, SYT11, RCCD1, LAMB2, SLC22A5, CBX6, and FAAH - with strong evidence of causal association. Functional annotation and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed their involvement in key cancer-related pathways. Their expression patterns were also analyzed at the single-cell level. Molecular docking confirmed stable binding affinities between the identified target proteins and their predicted drug candidates. This integrative genomics and bioinformatics approach identified 7 promising drug targets for breast cancer. These findings offer novel avenues for the development of targeted therapies and underscore the importance of genetic epidemiology in guiding drug discovery.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis, a progressive inflammatory disease and the leading cause of cardiovascular disease (CVD), remains a global health burden due to the lack of effective early therapeutic interventions. Although growing evidence highlights the involvement of plasma proteins in atherogenesis, their causal contributions to disease pathogenesis are poorly understood. METHOD: To address this gap, we conducted a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis using cis-pQTLs (cis-protein quantitative trait loci) from the deCODE and UKB-PPP cohorts (~90,000 individuals) as instrumental variables. We integrated colocalization analysis, summary-data-based MR (SMR), and HEIDI tests to systematically prioritize causal plasma proteins. Key findings were replicated in the CARDIOGRAMplusC4D (coronary artery disease, CAD) and FinnGen (CVD) cohorts. Functional validation was performed through phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS), single-cell transcriptomics, histological staining, and ELISA assays to characterize protein expression patterns in specific cell types and tissues. RESULTS: Among 2,711 plasma proteins analyzed, 28 showed strong genetic associations with atherosclerosis. Of these, five proteins (ADK, ANGPTL4, CD4, MGAT1, SYT11) met strict validation criteria through colocalization (posterior probability of colocalization, PP.H4 > 0.8) and SMR. Subsequent replication using MR and PheWAS further confirmed the causal roles of ADK, CALB2, and COMT in CAD and other CVD outcomes. Notably, CALB2 was specifically enriched in mast cells within atherosclerotic plaques and adipose tissue, and plasma levels were significantly elevated in patients with severe carotid artery stenosis (CAS). CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies 28 novel therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis using a rigorous multi-omics approach. Our findings establish CALB2 as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target, particularly in severe CAS, by linking genetic evidence to cell-type-specific expression and clinical phenotypes. These insights pave the way for precision medicine approaches in the prevention and treatment of CVD.
Lactate can influence the fibrotic process by regulating cellular metabolism, inflammatory responses, and cell proliferation, which may be closely related to macrophage function in diseases. Therefore, this research sought to identify biomarkers linked to lactate metabolism and macrophages in renal fibrosis (RF).Firstly, key modular genes associated with macrophage score and lactate metabolism score were identified by combining single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Then, candidate genes were obtained by overlapping them with differentially expressed genes between RF and control groups. Subsequently, candidate genes were incorporated into machine learning algorithms to identify key feature genes associated with RF. Expression analysis was then completed to determine biomarkers for this study. Furthermore, the relationship between biomarkers and RF was elucidated by a series of bioinformatics methods, including enrichment analysis, immunosignature analysis, and molecular regulatory analysis. Finally, we validated these key biomarkers in animal experiments.The ssGSEA results showed significantly higher macrophage score and lower lactate metabolism score in the RF samples compared to control samples. Next, AGR3, CD74, and SYT11 were identified as biomarkers for this study because they had consistent expression trends in GSE76882 and GSE135327 datasets and were significantly different between RF and control samples. Moreover, receiver operating characteristic curves showed their excellent accuracy in predicting the occurrence of RF. Subsequent enrichment analysis revealed that three biomarkers were collectively enriched to 50 signaling pathways, including "Toll-like receptor signaling pathway", "oxidative phosphorylation", and "P53 signaling pathway". Notably, CD74 showed a significant positive correlation with macrophages. In lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network, multiple relationship pairs could be found, e.g., hsa-miR-548x-3p and hsa-miR-548aj-3p were regulators of AGR3, as well as multiple lncRNAs (PCAT6, POLR2J4, SMIM25) could co-regulate CD74 through hsa-miR-4731-5p. Animal experiments also confirmed that the expression of key biomarkers were significantly elevated in the RF rat/mice model. Moreover, the localization and expression of these biomarkers were related to infiltrating inflammatory cells in the kidney tissue.In this study, we found that AGR3, CD74, and SYT11 were biomarkers associated with lactate metabolism and macrophages in RF, providing valuable insights for further RF research.Copyright © 2025 Yong, Yu, Wei, Huang, Shu, Gao and Zhou.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40703511 is a review article
Synaptotagmins (Syts) are a family of crucial Ca2+ sensors for cellular secretions, while half of the Syt isoforms are evolutionarily non-Ca2+-affinitive, which are less studied but associated with several neuro-system diseases. Some Syt isoforms exhibited importance in specific cancer types, but a comprehensive study of all Syts in pan-cancer is lacking. Here, using informatics tools and proteome/transcriptome databases, the expression, phosphorylation, CpG methylation profiles, and the correlation with genome heterogeneity, tumor stemness, and immune infiltration of all human Syts are analyzed in human pan-cancer, resulting in significant associations of each Syt in various types of cancer, including pathological stage and prognosis. Most Syts exhibit noteworthy expression level changes in GBM/LGG and PCPG, and Syt11 has a strong association with immune infiltration. The Ca2+-affinitive and non-Ca2+-affinitive Syt groups show opposite changes in both expression and methylation levels in an overview scale suggesting different mechanisms of them in cancers. Detection of similar expression genes suggests that Ca2+-affinitive Syts may participate in the RNA-splicing process, while non-Ca2+-affinitive Syts are involved in NF-κB signaling and immune regulation. This study uncovers the clinical potential of each Syt isoform and discusses clues to their roles, such as Ca2+ sensitivity and immune regulation, in tumor progression. The overall data are informative for future refining and mining.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
While RNA editing has been linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD), its specific impact on the transcriptomic landscape in human AD brains remains under explored.We conducted a comprehensive analysis of RNA editing across nine human brain regions affected by AD, utilizing RNA-seq data and matched whole-genome sequencing data from three human brain biobanks, adjusting for age, post mortem interval, sex, and apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) status.RNA-editing events were identified in both AD and healthy control aging brains, highlighting 127 genes with significant RNA editing loci. AD exhibited elevated RNA editing in the parahippocampal gyrus and cerebellar cortex. We also discovered 147 colocalized genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and cis-edQTL (± 1 MB) signals in 48 likely causal genes encompassing CLU, BIN1, and GRIN3B, primarily allied to amyloid and tau pathology, and neuroinflammation.Our findings delineate RNA editing regulatory signatures in human AD, providing novel insights into AD pathophysiology and potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.·We discovered genome-wide landscape of RNA editing signals from 4208 (1364 Alzheimer's disease [AD] cases vs. 742 healthy controls) RNA-seq data across nine human brain regions from three large brain biobanks (Mount Sinai Brain Bank [MSBB], Mayo Clinic [MAYO] Religious Order Study and Memory and Aging Project [ROSMAP]) tied with AD, including in sex-specific and apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) -specific manner adjusting for age, post mortem interval (PMI), sex, and APOE4 status. ·We emphasize 127 genes, including SYT11, KCNIP4, NRG3, ANKS1B, and RALYL, exhibiting significant RNA editing loci shared by multiple brain tissues, mainly implicated in synaptic plasticity, signaling and transmission, neuronal development, and morphogenesis. ·Brain-wide tissue-specific cis-regulatory variants (cis-edQTLs) were inspected using matched genotyping data from 3627 samples from all brain biobanks. We revealed 147 colocalized AD-GWAS and cis-edQTLs signals pertaining to 48 likely causal genes comprising CLU (rs7982, rs1532278), BIN1 (rs2276582, rs3768863), GRIN3B (rs10417824, rs1058603), NYAP1 (rs12539172), DGKQ (rs4690197, rs3733347), CLPTM1 (rs204468), etc. ·Colocalized signals show affiliations to tau protein binding, amyloid-β regulation, cellular morphogenesis, and immune response pathway suggesting possible roles of epitranscriptomic mechanisms in shaping the AD risk.© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system is a post-translational modification pathway that plays a critical role in regulating cell survival and death. E3 ubiquitin ligases are key tumour regulators and potential therapeutic targets in gastric cancer. This study investigates whether von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), an E3 ligase, regulates the stability of synaptotagmin 11 (SYT11) protein in gastric cancer cells. VHL overexpression decreased SYT11 protein expression without affecting SYT11 mRNA expression. Notably, VHL overexpression decreased the half-life of SYT11 protein, and MG132, a proteasome inhibitor, reversed SYT11 degradation by VHL. Immunoprecipitation confirmed the binding of SYT11 to VHL, and VHL knockdown resulted in reduced SYT11 ubiquitination and degradation. Transcriptome sequencing revealed the downregulation of serine peptidase inhibitor kazal type 1 (SPINK1) by VHL and its upregulation by SYT11. VHL downregulated the expression of SYT11, which subsequently led to the inhibition of SPINK1 expression. Furthermore, SPINK1 knockdown inhibited the growth and invasion of gastric cancer cells, mirroring VHL overexpression effects. The inhibition of growth and invasion in MKN1 and SNU484 cells by VHL was rescued by the overexpression of SYT11 and SPINK1. These findings demonstrate that the proteasome-dependent degradation of SYT11 by VHL and the subsequent reduction in SPINK1 expression inhibit gastric cancer cell growth and invasion.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disease characterized by an imbalance in glucose homeostasis, which raises blood glucose levels. α-glucosidase enzyme hydrolyzes polysaccharides to produce glucose and since glucose is one of the primary energy sources in eukaryotes, α-glucosidase is a target for postprandial hyperglycemia regulation. The design and synthesis of new oxadiazole coumarin (5a,b and 6a,b), acryloyl chromone (10a-c) and pyrazolyl chromone (11a-c) derivatives as naturally based scaffolds are presented in this work. The new compounds were assessed as antidiabetic agents targeting α-glucosidase enzyme. With an IC50 value of 119.7 ± 4.3 μM, compound 11c demonstrated the most promising α-glucosidase inhibitory activity, superior to the standard drug acarbose (IC50 = 300.9 ± 10.9 μM). Furthermore, compared to the group of diabetic rats, the in vivo investigations demonstrated that medium and high dosages of 11c ameliorated the expression of diabetic related genes (GCK, SYT11, SNAP-25 and Ins1). According to the molecular docking results, 11c possessed the best binding energy score (-9.1 kcal/mol) within the α-glucosidase active site, outperforming the rest of the derivatives and the reference inhibitor acarbose (-8.2 kcal/mol). Lastly, an in silico molecular dynamic simulation and a pharmacokinetic study were performed on compound 11c.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aims to investigate the influence of age and gender on the efficacy of metabolic surgery in patients with obesity with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).This is a prospective cohort study. A total of 95 patients with obesity and T2DM who underwent metabolic surgery between June 2022 and October 2024 were enrolled. Patients were divided into four groups based on their age and gender as follows: young (<35 years) men, young women, middle-aged (35-55 years) men and middle-aged women. Body mass index (BMI) data, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and gastrointestinal peptide hormone (e.g. glucagon- like peptide-1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY) and ghrelin (GHRL)) levels, as well as Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) scores, were collected preoperatively and at 1, 3 and 6 months postoperatively. Gastrointestinal peptide hormone levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and anxiety and depression statuses were assessed using online questionnaires. Data were analysed using repeated measures analysis of variance, paired t-tests, analysis of covariance and multiple linear regression, with adjustments for baseline BMI, diabetes duration and surgical type (laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy vs Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) where appropriate.Both BMI and HbA1c levels decreased significantly in all groups postoperatively, with a greater reduction observed in the younger groups compared with the middle-aged groups at the 6- month timepoint (adjusted p < 0.01). The percentage of total weight loss was lower in women than in men (mean difference: 2.8%, 95% confidence interval: 1.1-4.5, p = 0.03). Among gastrointestinal peptide hormones, GLP-1, PYY and cholecystokinin (CCK) significantly increased, whereas GHRL, insulin (INS) and leptin significantly decreased postoperatively. The increase in GLP-1 was more pronounced in the younger groups than in the middle-aged groups (r = -0.312, p < 0.05). Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores were negatively correlated with INS (r = -0.297, p < 0.05) and positively correlated with GHRL (r = 0.286, p < 0.05), whereas HAM-D scores were negatively correlated with CCK (r = -0.258, p < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that younger age (β = -0.251, p = 0.004), female gender (β = 0.178, p = 0.041), and higher HAM-A scores (β = 0.327, p = 0.002) were independent factors influencing the significant changes observed in gastrointestinal hormone levels.Individualised treatment plans based on patient age, gender and psychological status should be developed in clinical practice, and lifestyle and psychological interventions should be developed further to improve surgical outcomes and maintain the long-term efficacy of metabolic surgery.Metabolic surgery is effective in patients with obesity with T2DM, with younger patients experiencing greater metabolic improvement.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564851 is a review article
Endothelial dysfunction is critical for the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, particularly in arterial regions exposed to disturbed flow (DF). ADCY4 (adenylate cyclase 4) catalyzes the production of cAMP, a ubiquitous second messenger that regulates cellular and physiological processes. This study investigated ADCY4 as a shear-stress-responsive gene in ECs for the regulation of vascular endothelial inflammation during atherogenesis.Integrated analysis of RNA sequencing data sets from human vascular ECs exposed to unidirectional flow or DF, and single-cell RNA-seq data from mouse partial ligation carotid arteries, was performed. ADCY4 expression was quantified in cultured ECs under various flow conditions. Nanoparticles carrying Cdh5 promoter-driven CRISPR-Cas9 Adcy4-specific guide RNA plasmids were used to achieve EC-specific Adcy4 knockout in ApoE-/- mice for atherogenesis studies.ADCY4 was upregulated in ECs under unidirectional flow but downregulated under DF. We identified that KLF2 directly bound to the ADCY4 promoter and transcriptionally enhanced its expression in human aortic ECs. ADCY4 knockdown in ECs under unidirectional flow increased proinflammatory gene expression and monocyte adhesion, whereas ADCY4 overexpression under DF produced opposite changes. Further studies showed ADCY4 attenuated endothelial inflammation by inhibiting NF-κB signaling. We performed partial carotid ligation in the high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mouse atherosclerosis model, demonstrating that EC-specific Adcy4 knockout increased vascular endothelial inflammation and monocyte infiltration, thus promoting atherosclerotic plaque formation. Aggravated atherogenesis was also observed in EC-Adcy4 knockout high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mice, with increased atherosclerotic lesions in en face aortas and aortic arches. Finally, semaglutide increased ADCY4 expression in human aortic ECs under DF and reduced vascular endothelial inflammation, monocyte accumulation, and atherosclerotic plaque formation. These beneficial effects were substantially impaired when EC ADCY4 was absent.ADCY4 regulation of the cAMP/PKA-NF-κB pathway in the endothelium advances our understanding of vascular inflammation in atherogenesis and provides opportunities for therapeutic intervention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
Targeted kinase inhibitors induce marked tumor regressions but are limited by the emergence of drug-tolerant residual disease and resistance. Although tumor-intrinsic and adaptive immune mechanisms have been extensively studied, a better understanding of the contribution of innate immunity to targeted therapy durability is needed to devise optimal treatment strategies. Here, we showed that natural killer (NK) cells constrain targeted therapy resistance and identified a regression-associated macrophage program that promotes NK cell recruitment. In immunocompetent melanoma models that recapitulate patient treatment trajectories, tumor regression was characterized by robust NK infiltration, which transitioned to an NK-excluded residual state preceding resistance. A regression-associated macrophage subset (F4/80hiCCL5⁺MHCII⁺CD63⁺) contributed to NK cell recruitment via CCR2/5 signaling. Genetic depletion of macrophages using LysM-cre;iDTR mice impaired NK cell infiltration. Pharmacologic inhibition of PTPN22, a negative regulator of immune activation, reprogrammed the residual tumor microenvironment, restored NK cell recruitment, and delayed resistance onset. Analysis of patient tumor datasets from melanoma and lung cancer revealed concordant NK dynamics during therapy, linking this innate immune program to clinical outcomes. These findings identify innate immune remodeling as a key contributor to targeted therapy durability and identify NK cell recruitment, promoted in part by regression-associated macrophages, as a therapeutically actionable node for extending durability of response across oncogene-driven cancers.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538164 is a review article
Oenothera biennis L. (evening primrose) has long been consumed as an edible plant across diverse cultures, with its shoots, roots, leaves, and flowers traditionally used as food. Despite its established edibility, the anti-adipogenic potential of its sprout extract (OBS-E) remains unclear. This study investigated the anti-adipogenic effects and underlying mechanisms of OBS-E in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and identified its key bioactive compounds. OBS-E reduced lipid accumulation without cytotoxicity and suppressed adipogenic differentiation by downregulating PPARγ, C/EBPα, FABP4, and early adipogenic regulators, while upregulating KLF2. OBS-E decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species and enhanced NRF2/HO-1 signaling and glutathione-related enzymes. Phytochemical analysis identified miquelianin and ellagic acid as major active constituents, both of which dose-dependently inhibited lipid accumulation. These findings indicate that OBS-E attenuates adipogenesis through coordinated regulation of transcriptional networks and oxidative stress, supporting its potential as a functional food ingredient targeting adipogenesis-related metabolic dysregulation, which warrants further validation through in vivo studies.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10068-026-02214-9.© The Korean Society of Food Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523765 is a review article
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions caused by the loss-of-function mutations in one of three CCM genes, CCM1 (KRIT1), CCM2, and CCM3 (PDCD10), or gain-of-function mutation in MAP3K3, which encodes MEKK3. Loss of function in CCM genes leads to pathological activation of MEKK3 signaling. Genetic reduction of MAP3K3 gene dosage or pharmacological inhibition of MEKK3 suppresses CCM formation in mouse models, establishing MEKK3 as a promising therapeutic target for CCM.In silico screening was performed to identify candidate MEKK3 inhibitors. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated using a mouse CCM model with brain endothelial cell specific deletion of Ccm3 (Ccm3BECKO). Drug effects were assessed by micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), gene expression analysis, and survival studies.We identified rebastinib as a potent inhibitor of MEKK3 kinase activity that suppresses upregulation of MEKK3 downstream target genes induced by CCM2 or CCM3 knockdown. Rebastinib exhibited lower cytotoxicity than ponatinib. Administration of rebastinib either at the stage of CCM lesion initiation or after lesion establishment significantly reduced lesion formation and growth in both the cerebrum and cerebellum of Ccm3BECKO mice. Rebastinib treatment also decreased expression of the MEKK3 downstream transcription factors Klf2 in brain endothelial cells. Importantly, treatment initiated after lesion establishment significantly prolonged the lifespan of Ccm3BECKO mice.These findings demonstrate that oral administration of rebastinib effectively suppresses CCM lesion formation and progression and extends survival in a model mouse of CCM, supporting MEKK3 inhibition as a viable therapeutic strategy for CCM disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Allograft rejection remains a critical limitation following lung transplantation, with alloreactive CD8+ T cells serving as key effectors. We performed single-cell RNA and T cell receptor sequencing on 19 biopsies from 7 lung transplant recipients, including sequential biopsies spanning acute cellular rejection (ACR) and acute lung allograft dysfunction (ALAD). Expanded clonotypes exhibited effector/memory signatures. Following ACR resolution, persistent clonotypes displayed quiescent memory programs (KLF2, TBX21), while transitory clonotypes showed distinct activation-associated regulon activity. Pre-expansion clonotypes that later expanded exhibited transcriptional priming: a shared cytotoxic/memory program (TBX21, RUNX3, EOMES) was detectable before both events, with additional IRF9-driven interferon priming preceding fungal infection. These signatures were present in surveillance biopsies obtained before clinical disease onset. Given the role of persistent expanded T cells as a potential mechanistic link to chronic lung allograft dysfunction, these findings reveal predictive transcriptional signatures for targeting rejection-driving CD8+ T cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511837 is a review article
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of haematological malignancies triggered by a driver mutation, most commonly the JAK2 V617F mutation, which is acquired in a haematopoietic stem cell. The diseases are characterised by an overproduction of myeloid cells and may result in severe complications such as thrombosis, myelofibrotic transition, and potentially progression to acute myeloid leukaemia. Treatment with interferon-α (IFN-α) can potentially deplete the disease-driving malignant stem cell population, thereby leading to long-term remission. We extend a mechanistic compartmental differential equation model of MPN progression to account for the effects of IFN-α treatment. In agreement with experimental mouse studies, we assume that IFN-α acts through effects on malignant stem cell differentiation and malignant progenitor and precursor cell apoptosis. We use a hierarchical Bayesian inference procedure to infer the drug response parameters of the model based on measurements of the JAK2 V617F variant allele frequency (VAF) for N=56 patients from the Danish DALIAH study, both on the individual and the population level, with 14 patients left out for subsequent testing. The model estimates are found to agree with data. The drug response parameters are found to act synergistically on the reduction of JAK2 VAF, with the model being able to capture qualitatively different types of treatment responses. Using the inferred information about the population distribution of drug response parameters is found to improve predictions compared to predictions without prior knowledge on a testing cohort. Such predictions may aid clinical decision-making regarding IFN-α treatment in patients with MPNs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Artificial intelligence (AI) technologies are increasingly integrated into higher education and influence students' learning behaviors. Although AI tools can support learning processes, excessive reliance on them may lead to AIlessphobia, defined as anxiety about completing academic tasks without AI support. Understanding how this emerging psychological factor relates to students' self-regulated learning and academic self-efficacy is particularly important in nursing education.This study aimed to examine the relationships between AIlessphobia, AI-enhanced self-regulated learning, and academic self-efficacy among undergraduate nursing students.A quantitative, descriptive, cross-sectional correlational design was employed.The study was conducted in two universities in Türkiye.A total of 503 undergraduate nursing students participated in the study.Data were collected using a Demographic Information Form, the AIlessphobia in Education Scale (AILPES), the AI-Enhanced Self-Regulated Learning Scale (AI-SRL), and the Academic Nurses' Self-Efficacy Scale (ANSEs). Descriptive statistics, Pearson correlation analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and structural equation modeling were conducted using SPSS and AMOS to test the hypothesized relationships among the variables.Participants had a mean age of 20.88 ± 2.61 years, and 66.20% were female. Structural equation modeling indicated that AIlessphobia had a statistically significant but practically negligible negative effect on academic self-efficacy (β = -0.049, f2 = 0.002), accounting for less than 1% of its variance. AIlessphobia did not significantly predict AI-enhanced self-regulated learning (β = 0.046, p = .089), and AI-enhanced self-regulated learning did not significantly influence academic self-efficacy (β = -0.008, p = .729). Model fit indices indicated an acceptable, although not ideal, model fit (χ2/df = 3.899, RMSEA = 0.076, CFI = 0.936, TLI = 0.916).The findings suggest that AIlessphobia may be modestly associated with lower academic self-efficacy among nursing students; however, this relationship appears to have limited practical impact. AI-enhanced self-regulated learning did not mediate this relationship. These findings highlight the importance of promoting balanced AI use and supporting students' independent learning skills in nursing education.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Depression and anxiety are prevalent in working-aged adults. Although treatment provided by health professionals can improve symptoms and functioning, many people experiencing mental ill-health do not seek help. There have been very few effective interventions to improve help seeking in adults, with none implemented across diverse workplaces through online delivery.The primary aim of this trial was to test the effectiveness of a co-designed program for increasing professional help seeking intentions in Australian employees, relative to an active control condition.A triple-blinded, 2-arm cluster randomized controlled trial (N=487; control workplaces: n=26 and intervention workplaces: n=25) was conducted to assess the relative effectiveness of Helipad, a fully automated co-designed single-session interactive program (intervention condition) with a standard psychoeducation program (active control condition). Eligible workplaces (those with ≥50 employees and an employee assistance program; clusters) were recruited via advertising or invited directly by researchers. Eligible participants (employees in a participating Australian workplace, aged ≥18 y, living in Australia, fluent in reading and understanding English, and had access to a device and a reliable internet connection) completed a pretest, immediate posttest, and 6-month follow-up survey sent via email assessing help seeking intentions (primary outcome); mental illness stigma; mental health literacy; help seeking attitudes and behavior; work and activity functioning; quality of life; and symptoms of depression, anxiety, and general psychological distress.A significant difference in change over time in professional help seeking intentions was found between the 2 conditions (F2,185.44=6.89; P=.001), with planned contrasts showing that the Helipad program was effective in increasing professional help seeking intentions compared with the control at the primary end point of immediate posttest (t359.35=-3.72; P<.001). This difference was not maintained at the 6-month follow-up (t119.76=-1.05; P=.30). Retention rates were 71.1% at posttest and 24.9% at follow-up. The Helipad program was also associated with improved mental health literacy and help seeking attitudes at posttest. Helipad was not significantly superior to the control in reducing mental illness stigma or improving professional help seeking behavior; functioning; quality of life; or symptoms of depression, anxiety, or general psychological distress (secondary outcomes) at the 6-month follow-up. A total of 15 people (control: n=9, 4.5%; intervention: n=6, 4.3%) reported adverse events at posttest.This study demonstrated that the co-designed online Helipad program was effective in improving the intentions of employees to seek help from a professional compared to an active control. The program also improved mental health literacy and help seeking attitudes, but these changes were not sustained and did not translate into observable differences in help seeking behaviors or mental health symptoms. This was the first trial of a co-designed intervention to improve mental health help seeking in general workplaces, with previous trials focusing primarily on specific high-risk work environments. Workplace programs that can be delivered at scale may lead to more appropriate engagement with professional mental health care to prevent poor mental health outcomes and increase productivity.© Philip J Batterham, Amelia Gulliver, Cassandra Heffernan, Alison L Calear, Aliza Werner-Seidler, Alyna Turner, Louise M Farrer, Mary Lou Chatterton, Cathrine Mihalopoulos, Monica Gendi, Michael Berk. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org).
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b, a novel monopegylated interferon with improved pharmacokinetics, has emerged as a promising cytoreductive agent for managing polycythemia vera (PV). Despite increasing adoption, evidence synthesis of its efficacy and safety compared to standard care remains limited. The manuscript aimed to evaluate the efficacy of ropeginterferon alfa-2b in comparison to standard treatment options, including hydroxyurea and phlebotomy, in achieving complete hematologic response, partial molecular response (PMR), and reducing JAK2V617F allele burden in patients with PV.A systematic search of 4 databases was conducted up to April 2025, following PRISMA 2020 guidelines. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ropeginterferon alfa-2b with standard therapies in PV patients were included. Meta-analyses were performed using random-effects models to derive odds ratios for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were conducted, and risk of bias was assessed using RoB 2.0.Three RCTs comprising 522 patients were analyzed. Ropeginterferon alfa-2b showed no statistically significant advantage overall or over hydroxyurea for complete hematological response (CHR), PMR, or JAK2 allele burden reduction. However, subgroup analyses revealed significant benefits over phlebotomy alone in all 3 outcomes: CHR (odds ratio [OR] 3.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.36-6.80; P = .007), PMR (OR 36.34; 95% CI: 2.11-625.93; P = .01), and allele burden reduction (MD -13.70; 95% CI: -19.24 to -8.16; P < .00001).Ropeginterferon alfa-2b demonstrates no statistically significant difference compared to hydroxyurea, but gives better outcomes over phlebotomy in short-term efficacy for PV management. Its favorable molecular and hematologic outcomes support its role as a disease-modifying therapy, particularly in low-risk patients. However, larger and longer-term trials are needed to confirm these benefits across broader populations.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is popular among consumers worldwide for its abundant nutritional value, and carotenoids are important metabolites in tomato with significant nutritional and physiological significance. Previous studies have demonstrated that AP2/ethylene response factor (ERF) transcription factors are key regulators involved in carotenoid biosynthesis. However, most studies have focused on ERF activators that positively regulate carotenoid biosynthesis, while the mechanisms by which Ethylene-responsive element binding factor-associated Amphiphilic Repression (EAR) motif-containing ERF repressors modulate this process remain largely unidentified. Here, we identified a AP2/ERF transcription factor SlERF.F2, which harbors EAR motifs and is co-expressed with key enzyme genes in the carotenoid biosynthesis. Although SlERF.F2 contains the EAR motif typically characterizing negative regulatory transcription factors, the LC-MS carotenoids profiling analysis revealed that SlERF.F2 overexpression significantly increased total carotenoid content in fruit, whereas SlERF.F2 knockout reduced the carotenoids level. Biochemical and molecular assays revealed that SlERF.F2-mediated transcriptional repression of the carotenoid metabolism β-carotene hydroxylase gene (SlBCH1) and the green shoulder formation suppressor gene (SlBEL2), which is dependent on the presence of its C-terminal EAR motif. SlERF.F2 suppresses the expression of the SlBCH1 and SlBEL2 genes, thereby reducing β-carotene degradation and promoting green shoulder formation in tomatoes, respectively. Through this negative-negative regulatory mechanism, SlERF.F2 achieves carotenoid accumulation in tomatoes. Furthermore, we found that SlERF.F2 interacts with the corepressor SlTPL2 via the C-terminal EAR motif, synergistically inhibiting the activity of the SlBCH1 gene. Collectively, our study unveils a dual-function regulatory module where SlERF.F2 integrates carotenoid metabolism and chloroplast development, offering a strategic target for enhancing tomato fruit quality.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a JAK2-associated clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by erythroid hyperplasia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of acute hyper-viscosity encephalopathy as the initial manifestation of suspected PV in a resident of extreme high altitude-a diagnosis frequently mistaken for altitude-induced secondary polycythemia in this population.A 37-year-old Tibetan man, lifelong resident at 4,100 m, presented with acute encephalopathy characterized by altered consciousness, gait ataxia, and headache. Neurological examination confirmed higher cortical dysfunction. Laboratory studies showed marked erythrocytosis (hemoglobin 229 g/L, hematocrit 77.4%) with paradoxically suppressed serum erythropoietin (EPO, 1.2 mIU/mL). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) revealed acute bilateral frontoparietal and centrum semiovale diffusion-restricted lesions. Neurological symptoms resolved rapidly after osmotic therapy for intracranial hypertension. These findings were consistent with suspected PV based on WHO diagnostic criteria.This case suggests that acute infection may trigger life-threatening hyper-viscosity syndrome in suspected PV at extreme altitudes. EPO assessment and JAK2 mutational analysis are recommended to be included in the diagnostic algorithm to distinguish malignant PV clones from compensatory polycythemia and to prevent catastrophic neurological outcomes in high-altitude residents.Copyright © 2026 Yao and Chen.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Acupuncture therapy shows promise for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), but its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates whether acupuncture alleviates PCOS by regulating granulosa cell (GC) ferroptosis via extracellular vesicles (EVs).Bioinformatic analysis of KGN cell transcriptome data identified heme oxygenase-1 (HMOX1) as a key candidate. Its role was validated in a PCOS rat model and GCs using RT-qPCR, western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Ferroptosis was assessed via malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and ferroptosis-related proteins (GPX4, FTH1, SLC7A11, NCOA4). HMOX1 gain/loss-of-function, rescue experiments (ferrostatin-1), and transmission electron microscopy defined its function. PCOS rats received acupuncture for 4 weeks; ovarian function and ferroptosis markers were analyzed. EVs from follicular fluid were characterized, and miRNA candidates targeting HMOX1 were screened. The EV-miRNA mechanism was tested via co-culture and inhibition assays.HMOX1 was upregulated in PCOS. Its overexpression induced ferroptosis and impaired GC proliferation, reversible by ferrostatin-1. Acupuncture improved ovarian histology and oocyte maturation, concurrently normalizing HMOX1 and ferroptosis markers. It specifically enriched miR-873-5p in EVs. These EVs delivered miR-873-5p to GCs, downregulating HMOX1 and alleviating ferroptosis, an effect blocked by miR-873-5p inhibition.Acupuncture mitigates PCOS by promoting EV-mediated transfer of miR-873-5p, which targets HMOX1 to inhibit GC ferroptosis and restore ovarian function. This identifies a novel acupuncture-EV-miRNA-HMOX1-ferroptosis axis as a therapeutic mechanism for PCOS.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Li, Wang, Guo, Chen, Chen, Huang and Zhou.
Using single-cell transcriptomics of bronchoalveolar lavage cells from Mtb/SIV co-infected rhesus macaques on cART, we reveal profound immune dysregulation during early SIV co-infection of latent tuberculosis. SIV induces a sharp decline in CD4+ T cells, NK, and NKT cells, with incomplete recovery of Mtb-specific TH1 effector responses despite viral suppression. Instead, a persistent TH17-skewed environment emerges, alongside sustained myeloid inflammation driven by Type I interferon signaling and pro-inflammatory regulators such as KLF6 and NFKB1. Ligand-receptor network analyses demonstrate expanded CD4+ T cell-macrophage crosstalk and loss of immune homeostasis that cART fails to fully restore. These findings expose how SIV remodels the pulmonary immune landscape to impair protective immunity against Mtb, providing a transcriptomic framework to explain TB reactivation in HIV infection. Our work highlights the urgent need for adjunctive immunotherapies to complement cART, aiming to rebalance immune responses and improve TB control in co-infected individuals.© 2026 The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) lacks reliable early diagnostic biomarkers and effective disease-modifying therapies. Ferroptosis has been increasingly implicated in AD pathogenesis; however, ferroptosis-related genes with diagnostic and mechanistic relevance remain insufficiently characterized.Transcriptomic datasets were obtained from the GEO database and analyzed using differential expression analysis and WGCNA, followed by integration with ferroptosis-related gene sets. Key targets were identified through PPI networks and machine learning approaches, including LASSO regression and random forest. A diagnostic model was constructed and its discriminative performance was assessed across independent datasets by cohort-specific refitting. Functional roles were explored using GSEA, and experimental validation was conducted by qPCR in Aβ-treated PC12 cells. Potential therapeutic compounds were predicted using the CMAP database.A total of 52 ferroptosis-related candidate genes were identified. Among these, three genes, NFKBIA, ATP6V1E1, and SUB1, were consistently selected as core features by machine learning algorithms. A diagnostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong performance in the training cohort (AUC > 0.8) and reproducible discriminative ability across external datasets, albeit with cohort-dependent variability. Functional analysis suggested that these genes are involved in pathways related to neuroinflammation, lysosomal activity, and oxidative stress, indicating a potential link between ferroptosis and key pathological processes in AD. qPCR validation confirmed the differential expression trends of these genes. In addition, several candidate compounds, including etomoxir and tubastatin A, were predicted to potentially modulate these pathways.Three ferroptosis-related genes, NFKBIA, ATP6V1E1, and SUB1, were identified in Alzheimer's disease and showed consistent discriminative ability across multiple cohorts, with links to neuroinflammation, lysosomal function, and oxidative stress. These findings highlight their potential as candidate biomarkers warranting further investigation, although prospective validation in independent cohorts is required to confirm their diagnostic utility.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Sui, Li, Wang, Sun, Zheng and Li.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Hantavirus infection triggers life-threatening hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) and hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS), driven by severe endothelial barrier breakdown and systemic capillary leakage. Clinical severity varies widely with undefined host regulators, and no targeted endothelial-protective treatments exist. Recent data link hantaviruses to gut microbiome remodeling, while bile acid (BA) receptors FXR and TGR5 potently inhibit NF-κB-mediated endothelial inflammation. We synthesize four core lines of evidence. First, metagenomic reports confirm hantavirus reshapes gut/lung microbiota in rodent reservoirs. Second, we re-analyzed three public GEO datasets via standardized RNA-seq/microarray pipelines: (i) GSE245916: SEOV-infected human/rat lung ECs show conserved VCAM1/ICAM1 upregulation (human VCAM1 log2FC=+1.17, P = 0.023; rat Icam1 log2FC=+0.32, padj=0.016) with unaltered FXR; (ii) GSE7271: SEOV-infected rat lung displays sustained Nfkb1 suppression (all timepoints, P<0.05) and day-15 Slc10a2 downregulation (P = 0.028); (iii) GSE270172: PUUV 3D vessel chips feature robust IL6 elevation (log2FC=+1.22, P = 3.1×10-8) and disrupted BA transporters (ABCC3 log2FC=-1.44, P = 7.4×10-¹²). TGR5 (GPBAR1) was undetectable in endothelial cells across all datasets. Third, FXR/TGR5 agonists repress NF-κB inflammation and mitigate lung vascular injury. Fourth, HTNV upregulates CH25H to block HMGCR-dependent cholesterol synthesis, depleting BA precursor substrates. We propose a unified pathogenic model: hantavirus-triggered gut dysbiosis plus virus-impaired cholesterol metabolism deplete circulating FXR/TGR5 agonistic BAs, relieving constitutive inhibition of endothelial NF-κB and monocyte NLRP3 inflammasomes to exacerbate capillary leakage. We define tiered testable predictions covering clinical multi-omics cohorts, in vitro receptor modulation assays and in vivo pharmacological interventions. This gut microbiota-BA-FXR/TGR5 axis represents a repurposable therapeutic target for hantavirus diseases, though direct causal evidence connecting BA signaling to viral vascular damage remains absent; our framework offers a rigorous testable roadmap for subsequent validation.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Lin, Sang, Lai, Huang, Zhong, Liu and Chen.
Elucidating the complex molecular drivers of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and identifying novel therapeutic targets are urgently needed. Although circPRKCA is implicated in tumorigenesis, its role in NSCLC remains poorly characterized. This study investigates the biological functions and regulatory mechanisms of circPRKCA in NSCLC. CircPRKCA expression and downstream target expression were assessed via qRT-PCR and Western blotting. In vitro functional assays evaluated circPRKCA's role in NSCLC cells. Regulatory mechanisms were further examined using database analysis, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. In vivo tumor growth was evaluated in mouse xenograft models. CircPRKCA was significantly upregulated in NSCLC and promoted tumor growth and metastasis. Our data suggest that circPRKCA may act as a scaffold for RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), potentially facilitating the recruitment of SRSF1 to HIF-1A mRNA, which appeared to correlate with increased HIF-1A stability. HIF-1A overexpression enhanced NSCLC cell proliferation via PKM2-mediated glycolysis. High circPRKCA expression correlated with poor survival in NSCLC patients. CircPRKCA-SRSF1 axis enhanced proliferation and suppressed apoptosis by stabilizing HIF-1A and modulating PKM2-driven glycolysis. These findings reveal novel diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic strategies for NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aims to elucidate the material basis and mechanism of action of the Aconitum pendulum Busch product processed with highland barley wine against rheumatoid arthritis(RA). UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS was employed to preliminarily identify 55 compounds from the product. Through network pharmacology, 19 potential active ingredients and 140 corresponding targets were screened out. The drug targets were intersected with 89 RA targets collected from the OMIM database to yield a set of potential intervention targets. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via STRING and topological analysis was conducted via Cytoscape, which identified eight core targets: PPARG, EGFR, SLC6A3, OPRM1, PRKCA, CYP2D6, HTR1A, and HMGCR. Gene Ontology(GO) functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses performed in the Metascape database revealed that these targets were significantly enriched in processes such as TRP channels, the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) signaling pathway, and neutrophil extracellular traps(NETs) formation. An integrated &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-target-pathway&quot; network was constructed, which selected seven core ingredients(dehydrolucidusculine, linoleic acid, pyraconitine, 16-epipyroaconitine, delphinine, 1-monopalmitin, and songorine) for molecular docking with the eight core targets. The results demonstrated favorable binding activity between each ingredient and the targets. Animal experiments showed that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine alleviated joint swelling and inflammatory pathological changes of synovial tissue in the rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis(AA) in a dose-dependent manner. In terms of the serum inflammatory cytokine levels, it downregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-17A(IL-17A), and interleukin-6(IL-6). Furthermore, the product significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and its downstream signaling molecule Akt of knee synovial tissue in the rat model of AA. In conclusion, this study preliminarily reveals that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine may exert anti-RA effects through multi-ingredient, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms, particularly by regulating the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and inflammatory responses.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a complex metabolic disorder requiring multi-target therapeutic strategies. Traditional Chinese medicine offers potential multi-component interventions, yet the material basis and molecular mechanisms of novel formulations often remain incompletely defined. This study developed an integrated formula (FSV) combining a modified Baihu Jia Renshen Decoction with Sanghuangporus vaninii extract and explored its anti-hyperglycemic potential using chemical profiling, network pharmacology, in vitro α-glucosidase inhibition, and an STZ/HSHFD-induced hyperglycemic mouse model. A total of 2,413 database-matched features were annotated, most of which should be regarded as putative rather than standard-confirmed identifications. Mangiferin and several flavonoids were retained as plant/fungus-compatible candidate constituents, whereas implausible xenobiotic matches were excluded from biological interpretation. Network pharmacology predicted the involvement of inflammation- and insulin-resistance-related targets, including TNF, AKT1, IL6, NFKB1, and MAPK3 (also known as ERK1), whereas ALB was treated as a high-connectivity carrier protein rather than a direct druggable mediator. FSV inhibited α-glucosidase in vitro and was associated with improvements in hyperglycemia, insulin-sensitivity indices, dyslipidemia, and tissue morphology in the mouse model. These phenotypic findings are presented as experimental support accompanying the pathway predictions, while direct pathway validation is left for future mechanistic studies. Overall, the results provide a preliminary basis for further chemical validation and mechanistic investigation of FSV in diabetes-related metabolic dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Liver fibrosis is a major global health issue with limited treatment options. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces collagen deposition, which is a core step in the progression of liver fibrosis. MicroRNA221-3p (miR221-3p) is a key profibrotic regulator of the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Sensitive and selective imaging and regulation of miR221-3p within complex cellular environments are essential for both diagnosis and therapy, yet remains challenging.To address this, we engineered a miR-on Self-Assembly Cascade (SAC) amplification strategy for miR221-3p visualization and regulation. The system consists of a DNA initiator strand (Hc) and four hairpin strands (H1-H4). MiR221-3p binds to and opens Hc, triggering a self-sustained circular hairpin reporter reaction. The resulting replicas serve as feedback to drive subsequent cycles, achieving exponential signal amplification. This design enables highly sensitive and selective fluorescence imaging of miR221-3p in living cells. Additionally, as a functional demonstration, the SAC system also induced inactivation of HSCs. Mechanistic studies revealed that the SAC strategy disrupts the miR221-3p/Suppressor Of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1) axis, thereby suppressing Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus alleviating liver fibrosis. In vivo studies further demonstrate the sustained administration of SAC significantly reduced extracellular matrix accumulation and ameliorated liver fibrosis in a CCl4-induced mouse model.Owing to its self-sustained signal amplification, the SAC strategy achieves both sensitive miR221-3p imaging and effective fibrosis suppression. This work provides a robust analytical platform for miRNA-based diagnostics and holds promise for precision medicine in fibrotic and miRNA-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease. Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis, is upregulated during cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses, yet its specific role in keratinocyte biology and psoriatic pathogenesis remains unexplored. Here, we identify IMPDH2 as a critical metabolic regulator of psoriatic inflammation. Integrated analysis of bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets revealed consistent upregulation of IMPDH2 in psoriatic keratinocytes, which was further validated by immunofluorescence staining of patient skin biopsies. In an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine psoriasis model, pharmacological inhibition of IMPDH2 with Casticin attenuated disease progression and alleviated epidermal inflammation. Mechanistically, IMPDH2 promotes keratinocyte inflammation through GTP-dependent activation of STAT3 signaling: IMPDH2 knockdown or inhibition reduced STAT3 phosphorylation and suppressed inflammatory responses, effects that were reversed by exogenous GTP supplementation, whereas IMPDH2 overexpression enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and inflammation. Supporting a direct causal link between IMPDH2 and STAT3, the STAT3 activator colivelin reversed the effect of IMPDH2 inhibition, while the STAT3 inhibitor Stattic abrogated the effect of IMPDH2 overexpression. Collectively, this study establishes a previously unrecognized IMPDH2-GTP-STAT3 axis driving keratinocyte inflammation and nominates Casticin as a promising therapeutic candidate for psoriasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565910
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Secondary central nervous system involvement by extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma is rare and presents significant diagnostic challenges, particularly in immune compromised patients. We report a case of a 29-year-old man with chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection and prior extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma status post allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation who presented with a new-onset seizure and a ring-enhancing intracranial lesion. Initial imaging findings closely mimicked cerebral toxoplasmosis, leading to empiric antimicrobial therapy and delayed diagnosis. Despite treatment, the lesion demonstrated rapid progression, prompting stereotactic biopsy, which revealed Epstein-Barr virus-positive extranodal T-cell lymphoma with a pathogenic STAT3 p.Y640F activating mutation. This case highlights the substantial radiographic overlap between central nervous system lymphoma and infectious etiologies in immunosuppressed patients, where conventional imaging modalities may lack specificity. The presence of an aggressive molecular profile, including STAT3 activation, likely contributed to rapid disease progression and poor prognosis. This report underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for lymphoma in patients with progressive intracranial lesions unresponsive to empiric therapy and emphasizes the critical role of early tissue diagnosis to guide appropriate management.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564203 is a review article
Hepatosteatosis is a common metabolic disorder. Bile acids influence hepatosteatosis, immune function, and incretin secretion. However, whether bile acids mediate hepatosteatosis through these immune or endocrine pathways remain unknown. Here, we identify supplementation with hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA) in high-fat diet-fed mice increases hepatic iNKT cells and elevates circulating GLP-1, both upregulating fatty acid oxidation genes in a PPARα-dependent manner. Mechanistically, HDCA increases iNKT cells and IFN-γ production that promotes hepatic lipid catabolism, thereby attenuating triglyceride accumulation in wild-type (WT) mice, but not in iNKT cell-deficient (Ja18-/-) and PPARα knockout (Ppara-/-) mice. By contrast, the GLP-1 receptor agonist suppresses high-fat diet-induced steatosis in WT and Ja18-/- mice, but not in Ppara-/- and GLP-1 receptor knockout (Glp1r-/-) mice. Furthermore, anti-steatotic effect of HDCA is nullified in Glp1r-/- mice. Consequently, HDCA alleviates hepatosteatosis through dual mechanisms; an iNKT cell/IFN-γ immunometabolic- and GLP-1-dependent pathways. These findings highlight HDCA as a promising multi-target therapeutic strategy for hepatosteatosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is a key epigenetic regulator implicated in tumor progression; however, its expression pattern and subcellular localization across different stages of endometrial carcinogenesis remain incompletely characterized. This study evaluated EZH2 expression in two biologically distinct endometrial carcinoma cell lines (Ishikawa and MFE-319) and in archived human endometrial tissues representing proliferative and secretory endometrium, hyperplasia, and Type I and Type II endometrial carcinomas. Histopathological evaluation was performed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. EZH2 expression was assessed by immunocytochemistry and Western blot analysis in the cell lines and by immunohistochemistry in tissue specimens, while apoptosis was evaluated by TUNEL assay in tissue samples. MFE-319 cells demonstrated significantly higher EZH2 expression than Ishikawa cells (H-score: 352.9 ± 78.9 vs. 137.6 ± 31.5, p < 0.0001), and Western blot analysis confirmed the same direction of change. Among tissue specimens, the highest EZH2 immunoreactivity was observed in Type II endometrial carcinoma (366.0 ± 63.7), with significantly higher expression than proliferative endometrium (231.5 ± 59.3), secretory endometrium (190.5 ± 52.4), and hyperplasia without atypia (261.0 ± 56.9), whereas no significant differences were detected among several intermediate histopathological groups. Nuclear localization of EZH2 became more prominent in atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma tissues. Apoptotic indices were significantly higher in both Type I and Type II carcinomas than in normal endometrium and hyperplasia groups, representing an association with increased EZH2 expression rather than evidence of a direct mechanistic relationship. These findings demonstrate that EZH2 expression differs across histopathological categories of endometrial lesions, with the highest expression observed in Type II endometrial carcinoma. The observed predominance of nuclear EZH2 in atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma further supports its association with aggressive tumor biology, although additional functional and clinicopathological studies are required to establish its clinical and biological significance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
This study aims to investigate the expression and function of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and histone methyltransferase EZH2 in regulating the expression of thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) and fibrotic markers by orbital fibroblasts from Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO) patients.DNMTs mRNA levels were measured in orbital fibroblasts from healthy controls (control orbital fibroblasts), active GO fibroblasts, and inactive GO fibroblasts (iGOFs). TSHR and other fibrotic markers were measured in iGOFs treated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB and decitabine (a DNMT inhibitor) or DZNep (an EZH2 inhibitor) or small interfering RNA by RT-qPCR or Western blotting.DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA expressions were significantly higher in active GOFs compared with iGOFs and control orbital fibroblasts. Among all DNMTs, DNMT1 expression was at the highest levels. Upon PDGF-BB stimulation, DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA levels in iGOFs were significantly induced. Decitabine significantly inhibited PDGF-BB-induced cell viability and TSHR mRNA levels in iGOFs, whereas DNMT1 silencing partly reduced TSHR protein. Because a positive correlation between DNMT1 and EZH2 expression in iGOF was observed, the regulatory role of EZH2 on TSHR expression was also investigated. DZNep slightly decreased TSHR mRNA expression in iGOFs and iGO orbital tissue, whereas EZH2 silencing partly affects TSHR expression.This study demonstrates that DNMT1 is the major DNMT during the active stage of GO. Moreover, DNMT1 is inducible upon PDGF-BB stimulation in iGOFs, suggesting an important role of PDGF-BB and DNMT1 during an active stage of GO. Our findings also highlighted that the inhibition of DNMT or EZH2 potentially suppressed TSHR mRNA expression, suggesting potential therapies targeting DNMT/EZH2 in controlling GO progression.
Phthalate esters are pervasive endocrine-disrupting chemicals associated with metabolic disorders, but their contribution to metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) remains unclear. We investigated shared targets and pathways linking eight phthalate-related compounds to MAFLD using network toxicology, transcriptomic data mining, molecular docking, and cellular validation. Integrated analysis identified 75 predicted phthalate-related targets, including 41 MAFLD-associated genes enriched in lipid metabolism and inflammatory pathways. Cross-analysis of three GEO datasets prioritized 14 candidate genes, with PPARG, PTGS2, ESR1, PPARA, and BCL2 showing high network centrality. Molecular docking predicted favorable interactions between the tested compounds and candidate proteins, with monobenzyl phthalate (MBeP) showing the highest predicted affinity. In palmitic acid-oleic acid (PA-OA) -treated HepG2 cells, MBeP increased lipid accumulation, reactive oxygen species generation, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization and altered selected candidate genes. In primary mouse hepatocytes, MBeP similarly increased lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species generation and altered PTGS2 and PPARA protein expression. These findings identify candidate targets and pathways potentially involved in MBeP-associated hepatic lipid dysregulation and support further mechanistic investigation of phthalate-related effects in MAFLD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561611 is a review article
Cardiac microvascular endothelial cell (CMEC) injury is a primary driver of microvascular obstruction and the no-reflow phenomenon during myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). While Programmed Cell Death 4 (PDCD4) is known to exacerbate cardiovascular diseases, its precise role and regulatory mechanisms in CMEC barrier dysfunction and inflammatory adhesion during I/R remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that PDCD4 deletion significantly mitigates I/R-induced cardiac dysfunction, reduces infarct size, and preserves microvascular ultrastructure in mice. In vitro experiments using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model revealed that PDCD4 knockdown preserves CMEC viability, suppresses apoptosis, and maintains endothelial barrier integrity by restoring tight junction proteins (ZO-1, Claudin-1, and Occludin). Furthermore, PDCD4 inhibition significantly reduced pathological permeability and attenuated the adhesion of neutrophils and macrophages by downregulating ICAM-1. Mechanistically, PDCD4 directly interacts with Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor alpha (PPARα) at the protein level and restricts its protective antioxidant function. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence supported this interaction. Silencing PDCD4 restored PPARα-dependent antioxidant responses, leading to a marked reduction in oxidative stress (decreased ROS and MDA, increased SOD). Crucially, double-knockdown rescue experiments confirmed that the protective effects of PDCD4 depletion against H/R-induced apoptosis, barrier disruption, and inflammatory adhesion were largely abolished upon concurrent PPARα silencing. These findings establish that PDCD4 exacerbates I/R-induced CMEC injury by binding to and inhibiting PPARα-mediated antioxidant homeostasis. Targeting the PDCD4-PPARα interaction axis presents a promising therapeutic strategy to prevent microvascular dysfunction and improve outcomes following acute myocardial infarction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557096
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555104
Ovine species inhabiting harsh environments frequently develop enhanced functional adaptations. This study aims to (1) characterize rumen epithelial modifications in lactating Hulunbeier ewes under alpine conditions, and (2) elucidate how these adaptive responses are modulated by micronutrient supplementation and varying concentrate feed levels. Thirty lactating Hulunbeier ewes were randomly assigned to one of the three dietary groups and fed the same roughages with one of the following concentrates: 1) 550 g/d of local concentrate (LF) as the control, 2) 550 g/d of formulated concentrate (FF), and 3) 700 g/d of formulated concentrate (FS). Daily feed intake were recorded, and rumen epithelial tissues were collected for transcriptome analysis after slaughter on day 37 of the experiment. Transcriptomic analyses were performed on a subset of 11 ewes (LF, n = 4; FF, n = 4; FS, n = 3). No independent qPCR validation was conducted; results are therefore preliminary. In the exploratory cross-breed comparison, Hulunbeier sheep showed a suggestive trend toward enhanced expression of energy metabolism genes (ATP5MC2, ATP5PO, UQCRH) and genes encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components relative to lowland Hu sheep. Supplementation with micronutrient premix upregulated key detoxification genes (CYP1A1, LOC101119706) and modulated immune-related pathways. In contrast, high concentrate levels promoted biosynthetic processes while suppressing cellular signaling functions. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further indicated activation of thermogenesis pathways in the high-concentrate group, accompanied by altered expression of electron transport chain genes. PPARA may be involved in volatile fatty acid metabolism in response to micronutrient supplementation, but this requires direct experimental testing. Collectively, with the caveat of small sample size and lack of qPCR validation, these pilot-scale transcriptomic findings generate hypotheses that may underlie nutritional modulation of rumen function in alpine-adapted sheep; however, further validation with larger sample sizes and correlated phenotypic measurements is warranted. These results provide preliminary insights for developing targeted nutritional strategies to enhance ruminant production in breeds adapted to extreme environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
A significant proportion of gastric diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue [DLBCL(MALT)] and without MALT ('pure' DLBCL) can be resolved by Helicobacter pylori eradication (HPE). Gastric MALT lymphoma is an indolent lymphoma derived from memory B cells in the marginal zone. In the present study, we aimed to explore the origin of large cells in HPE-responsive gastric DLBCLs (complete remission after HPE). We investigated gastric lymphoma biopsies from 31 patients with HPE-responsive DLBCLs [15 'pure' DLBCLs, 16 DLBCL(MALT)s]. We used the Hans algorithm (CD10, BCL-6, and MUM1) to define the origins of germinal center B cell (GCB) and non-GCB. To further ascertain the cellular origin, 11 'pure' DLBCLs were examined using an Agilent whole-human genome microarray. Eleven DLBCLs [eight with 'pure' DLBCL and three with DLBCL(MALT)] were also assessed using Lymph2Cx. Specific GCB markers, including BACH2, AID, and BCL2 rearrangement and enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) codon 641 mutations, were evaluated in 31 patients with HPE-responsive gastric DLBCLs. According to the Hans algorithm, 53% (8/15) of gastric 'pure' DLBCLs and 50% (8/16) of DLBCL(MALT)s were of the GCB phenotype. Gene expression assays revealed that five of six patients with 'Hans' GCB had GCB genetic signatures, whereas four of five patients with 'Hans' non-GCB had activated B-cell genetic signatures. The Lymph2Cx assay revealed the GCB subtype in seven of eight patients with 'Hans' GCB. The expression patterns of BACH2 (p = 0.005) and AID (p = 0.038) closely correlated with the 'Hans' GCB phenotype. BCL2 rearrangements and EZH2 codon 641 mutations were detected in 44% (7/16) and 13% (2/16) of patients with 'Hans' GCB, respectively. In another cohort of 29 HPE-unresponsive gastric DLBCLs [19 'pure' DLBCLs and 10 DLBCL(MALT)s], we found a close association between the 'Hans' GCB subtype and the GCB subtype as determined by the Agilent whole-human genome microarray and Lymph2Cx in lymphoma cells of these patients. In conclusion, more than half of HPE-responsive large cell lymphoma cases in the stomach were of GCB origin. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.1018.].Copyright © 2026 Zijian Chen et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553440 is a review article
Advances in single-cell technologies have provided detailed insight into cellular heterogeneity within tumor microenvironments. However, the regulatory mechanisms driving macrophage-mediated immune suppression in thyroid cancer remain incompletely understood.We applied integrated single-cell multi-omics approaches to tumor samples from patients and murine thyroid cancer models, including single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing, mass cytometry, spatial/histological validation, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays.We identified a prominent enrichment of TREM2+ tumor-associated macrophages within the thyroid cancer immune microenvironment. These macrophages displayed an immunosuppressive transcriptional and metabolic profile and promoted immune evasion through activation of the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine signaling axis, leading to impaired CD8+ T-cell function. Pharmacological inhibition of AHR and IDO1 reversed immune suppression and reduced tumor burden in experimental models.These findings reveal a TREM2+ macrophage-driven immunometabolic mechanism in thyroid cancer and suggest that targeting the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine pathway may provide a potential strategy for improving antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Le, Huang, Jiang, Lv and Chen.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552179
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary pathogenic mechanism underlying dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate mitochondrion-targeted therapeutic strategies, we utilized the MitoPark mouse model, in which mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is selectively ablated in midbrain dopamine neurons, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration. We designed multifunctional lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles (LCNPs) of the cubosome and hexosome types for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery. These nanocarriers were engineered with lipids essential for membrane integrity (plasmalogens and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)) and a nonlamellar structural lipid (monoolein). They coencapsulated the neuroprotective antioxidants ginkgolide B and quercetin. To facilitate neuronal targeting and uptake, the surface of the LCNP was modified by conjugation with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and a rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG)-derived peptide-oleic acid (RVG-OL) conjugate. In vitro studies using differentiated SH-SY5Y cells subjected to oxidative stress demonstrated that the targeted LNPs enhanced cellular uptake and activated key neuroprotective signaling cascades, including AKT, ERK, and STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, intranasal administration of the optimized LNPs in MitoPark mice was associated with a trend toward the preservation of dopaminergic neuronal markers (such as tyrosine hydroxylase) and the regulation of mitochondrial-related proteins such as ATP5A1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive molecular reprogramming. The peptide-functionalized LNPs upregulated genes enriched in mitochondrial biogenesis (Ppargc1a and Pink1) and survival (Bcl2) but downregulated the expression of neuroinflammatory mediators (Il6, Nos2, Myd88, and Trem2) and apoptotic effectors. These findings establish peptide-targeted, therapeutic lipid (plasmalogen/PUFA)-based nanoassemblies as a potent nonviral platform for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery that may modulate mitochondrial- and neurodegeneration-related signaling pathways in a genetic model of PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) contribute to host defense by trapping pathogens. However, excessive or dysregulated NET formation is implicated in the pathogenesis of various conditions, including thrombosis, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Despite their clinical significance, the specific intracellular signaling pathways underlying NET formation in response to proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), remain incompletely defined. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TNF-α-induced NET formation in human neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. TNF-α induced rapid, non-lytic NET formation in dHL-60 cells without compromising cell viability. Mechanistically, TNF-α activated a signaling cascade involving c-Raf, MEK1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This signaling cascade regulated the sequential caspase activation, with caspase-2 acting upstream of caspase-1 cleavage to promote NET formation. Collectively, these findings suggest that TNF-α induces non-lytic NET formation via a defined c-Raf-MEK1/2-p38 MAPK-caspase pathway and a distinct caspase hierarchy. This mechanism offers a valuable experimental model for studying NET-mediated pathologies in proinflammatory environments.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamilies comprise 47 proteins that regulate immune signaling and T cell costimulation. While TNF inhibitors are established therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs), their efficacy is limited by primary non-response and secondary loss of efficacy. Preclinical data suggest that the TNF/TNFR members exhibit redundant and synergistic signaling, motivating combination targeting strategies.We have systematically evaluated TNF/TNFR combinations as potential immunotolerance targets using integrated computational and experimental approaches. We applied a gene prioritization framework incorporating transcriptomics, genetics, druggability, and pathway regulation data to derive disease association scores for the TNF/TNFR genes in rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these scores and T cell expression profiling, ten targets were prioritized for a combinatorial screen using clinical-stage and preclinical pharmacological inhibitors in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. The effects of the most promising combinations were further characterized by RNA sequencing.The combinatorial screen identified four drug combinations that significantly suppressed T cell production of IL-2 and IFN-γ: TNF+CD40L, TNF+OX40L, CD40L+OX40L, and CD40L+LTβ/LIGHT. Transcriptional profiling revealed that these combinations broadly downregulated genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production that were induced during the allogeneic response. Notably, the co-inhibition of TNF and CD40L (Adalimumab+Dapirolizumab) produced the most robust suppression, uniquely downregulating 337 genes enriched for key T cell activation pathways, including NF-κB and ERK1/2.These findings demonstrate that the combinatorial antagonism of TNF/TNFR superfamily members can potently suppress allogeneic T cell responses, with the TNF+CD40L combination showing particularly strong and broad effects. The results support the continued preclinical evaluation of combinatorial TNF/TNFR inhibition as a potential tolerance-inducing therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory IMIDs.Copyright © 2026 Veerasubramanian, Zang, Amancha, Wynn, Quan and Karlsson.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551575 is a review article
The outcome of a Plasmodium infection depends on the timely regulation of the robust pro-inflammatory response required to eliminate the parasite, but this response can cause tissue damage if not properly controlled. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an important regulatory cytokine that prevents immunopathology during many Plasmodium infections; however, this protection comes at the expense of less effective parasite control. This is illustrated by infection with blood-stage Plasmodium yoelii, in which mice exhibit a lower parasite load in the absence of IL-10. However, the immune components that limit parasite burden in the absence of IL-10 remain poorly understood. Abolishing IL-10 led to a predicted increase in TH1 polarization and a higher production of IL-12 and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). However, the enhanced production of these cytokines did not explain the improved parasite control seen in Il10-/- mice. Loss of IL-10 signaling reduced the accumulation of germinal center B cells and plasmablasts in the spleen, indicating a role for IL-10 in supporting the humoral response. However, although B cells are essential for survival, they do not play a critical role in early parasite control in IL-10-deficient mice. Moreover, Il10-/- mice lacking IFN-γ and B cells can limit early parasite expansion, suggesting that IL-10 suppresses host-protective pathways beyond the functions of B cells and IFN-γ in parasite control.
Heme is released from red blood cells during hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Here, we investigated hemolysis-induced kallikrein-kinin system activation and the interaction between heme and clotting factor XII (FXII).Pediatric patients (19 male and 15 female, median age three years, range three months to 14 years) with HUS induced by enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) and mice infected with EHEC were assessed for activation of the kallikrein-kinin system by degradation of high-molecular-weight kininogen ((HK) by immunoblotting) and levels of residual pre-kallikrein (by chromogenic assay). Heme induction of kallikrein-kinin system activation was evaluated by plasma kallikrein or FXII activity, bradykinin release (by ELISA) and heme binding to FXII (by surface plasmon resonance). Hemolysis was induced in vitro and in mice by phenylhydrazine in the presence or absence of C1-inhibition.Ten of the 34 patients with EHEC-HUS had HK degradation associated with the severity of hemolysis and 17 of 32 had reduced residual pre-kallikrein associated with kidney dysfunction. Similarly, EHEC-infected mice had HK degradation and pre-kallikrein consumption, the latter inversely correlated with hemolysis biomarkers lactic dehydrogenase and arginase 1 and with creatinine levels. Heme bound to and activated FXII with increased kallikrein activity, causing HK breakdown and releasing bradykinin in normal, but not FXII-deficient plasma; effects inhibited by hemopexin, C1-inhibitor, and corn trypsin inhibitor. Phenylhydrazine-induced hemolysis led to HK degradation in human and murine blood; not detected when red blood cells were added to FXII-deficient plasma, or in the presence of C1-inhibitor. Mice challenged with phenylhydrazine exhibited hemolysis and significant pre-kallikrein consumption as well as HK degradation in five of 10 mice. HK degradation was abrogated by pretreatment with C1-inhibitor.Our study demonstrates that heme binds to and activates FXII leading to HK degradation and bradykinin release. This could be a potent inflammatory mechanism in hemolytic disease, such as HUS, and amenable to pharmacological blockades.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study sought to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of exosomes derived from gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSC-Exo) in the context of inflammation associated with oral lichen planus (OLP).An in vitro OLP inflammatory model was established by stimulating the Human Adult Keratinocyte Transformed Cell Line (Hacat) with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The cellular uptake of GMSC-Exo was detected by immunofluorescence. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to assess the levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Cell viability and apoptosis were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The mRNA levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) were determined via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and the protein expression levels of TLR4, phosphorylated nuclear factor kappa B subunit p65 (p-P65), P65, phosphorylated IκBα (p-IκBα), and IκBα were further validated by Western Blot.LPS stimulation significantly increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6), decreased the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, and promoted Hacat cell apoptosis while impairing cell viability. Notably, administration of GMSC-Exo effectively alleviated these LPS-induced effects. Mechanistically, GMSC-Exo suppressed LPS-induced TLR4 overexpression and blocked downstream nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling activation, as evidenced by decreased phosphorylation of IκBα and P65.GMSC-Exo alleviates LPS-induced inflammation and apoptosis in Hacat cells by downregulating the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings offer novel insights and potential therapeutic strategies for treating OLP.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The efficacy of cell-based therapeutics is often compromised by host immune recognition of implanted cells and biomaterials, resulting in fibrotic encapsulation and loss of function. Here, we address this challenge with an immunomodulatory cell-based therapy, in which alginate-encapsulated retinal pigment epithelial cells continuously secrete cytokines to locally modulate the implant microenvironment. In a healthy rodent model, the localized production of interleukin-10 (IL-10) or IL-12 from encapsulated cytokine-producing cells prevented foreign body response to alginate capsules. Mechanistically, treatment was associated with reduced expression of profibrotic genes and immune shifts consistent with macrophage and T cell regulation, supporting a cytokine-mediated mitigation of foreign body response. In a diabetic murine model (streptozotocin-induced C57BL/6J), coimplantation of human islets with IL-10-producing cells attenuated pericapsular fibrosis, preserved islet viability, and restored normoglycemia for up to 100 days (4.76 times longer than islets alone). Notably, IL-10-producing cells were also effective in enabling the durability and function of encapsulated cells in a healthy nonhuman primate, showing translational feasibility. Collectively, these findings suggest that localized cytokine delivery can reduce fibrotic encapsulation and support durable graft function, offering a path to lessen reliance on systemic immunosuppression in islets transplantation and other implantable biomaterial therapies.
Skull defect reconstruction remains clinically challenging because current artificial implants lack bioactivity and produce radiological artifacts, whereas autologous bone grafts suffer from unpredictable resorption and infection. Here, we developed a multifunctional composite integrating antigen-extracted xenogeneic scaffold, IL-10-loaded mesoporous polydopamine nanoparticles (MPDA@IL-10), and autologous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). The composite establishes a temporally phased immunoregulatory axis: nanoparticle-delivered exogenous IL-10 compresses the early inflammatory window, and BMSCs then secrete endogenous anti-inflammatory factors that prevent scaffold resorption and maintain a pro-regenerative milieu. Beyond immunomodulation, IL-10 acts as a lineage-determining cue, activating PI3K-Akt/Wnt signaling to drive BMSC osteogenic commitment and suppress adipogenic drift at the early differentiation stage. In a canine critical-sized skull defect model, this strategy markedly enhanced radiographic and histological regeneration. By uniting temporal immune modulation with stem cell fate programming, this approach offers a translatable route to skull repair.? 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility gene 2 (BRCA2) are well known to increase the risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Emerging evidence indicates that BRCA2 mutation carriers exhibit increased vascular disorder and may develop endothelial dysfunction, a key mechanism underlying hypertension. Angiotensin II (Ang II)﻿, a central effector of the renin-angiotensin system, is a key regulator of blood pressure and a major driver of hypertension, promoting endothelial injury through oxidative stress, inflammation, and impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. However, the role of endothelial BRCA2 in Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction remains unknown.BRCA2 was silenced in cultured endothelial cells and following Ang II treatment, ROS generation, DNA damage, apoptosis, inflammation, NO production, migration, angiogenic capacity, Ang II receptors and related signaling pathways were assessed.BRCA2 deficiency exacerbated Ang II-induced increases in ROS, DNA damage, and apoptosis, along with impaired functional capacity, including reduced migration and angiogenesis. NO production was suppressed, accompanied by increased micronuclei formation and enhanced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. In addition, both BRCA2 loss and Ang II treatment upregulated the Ang II receptor AT1R. Pharmacological inhibition of AT1R attenuated Ang II-induced increases in DNA damage and apoptosis in BRCA2-deficient endothelial cells.These findings provide the first pharmacogenomic evidence that BRCA2 deficiency sensitizes endothelial cells to Ang II-induced dysfunction, suggesting that BRCA2 mutation carriers may be at increased risk for hypertension-associated cardiovascular complications.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Clinical chorioamnionitis is a major contributor to preterm birth and neonatal morbidity. Diagnosis in women with intact membranes is challenging, particularly in the subclinical phase where maternal signs are subtle and conventional serum markers are limited in predictive value.To evaluate the diagnostic performance of selected novel amniotic fluid biomarkers (interleukin-6, interleukin-10, tumour necrosis factor-ɑ, matrix metalloproteinase-8), and conventional amniotic and serum biomarkers in predicting delivery for clinical chorioamnionitis within 14 days of amniocentesis in women with suspected subclinical infection and intact membranes.A prospective cohort study was conducted at a single Australian tertiary hospital. Thirty-two women with singleton pregnancies and suspected subclinical chorioamnionitis underwent amniocentesis. Amniotic fluid and serum were analysed for selected biomarkers. The primary outcome was delivery for clinical chorioamnionitis within 14 days of amniocentesis. ROC curves were constructed to assess biomarker performance.Delivery for clinical chorioamnionitis occurred in 11 of 31 evaluable cases (35%). Matrix metalloproteinase-8, lactate dehydrogenase, and glucose were the strongest predictors (area under the curve (AUC) of 0.93 (95% CI 0.85-1.0), 0.93 (95% CI 0.85-1.0), and 0.92 (95% CI 0.8-1.0) respectively). Amniotic fluid biomarkers outperformed serum markers (C-reactive protein AUC 0.70 (95% CI 0.49-0.91) and white cell count AUC 0.67 (95% CI 0.46-0.86)). Novel amniotic fluid biomarkers did not demonstrate superior diagnostic performance over conventional amniotic fluid biomarkers including lactate dehydrogenase and glucose.Amniotic fluid biomarkers show promise in identifying women with subclinical chorioamnionitis. These findings support further validation of scalable biomarker-based testing to guide early intervention and improve perinatal outcomes.© 2026 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.
Immune evasion in lung cancer is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. This study identifies key epigenetic drivers of immune escape in lung cancer and elucidates how they remodel the tumor microenvironment to induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion. We performed a CRISPR-negative screen targeting 159 epigenetic regulators (mEpi driver library) in a mouse model of lung metastasis and used single-cell sequencing, cell-based experiments, and chromatin analyses to identify mechanisms of immune escape. SET domain-containing protein 2 (SETD2) emerged as a critical suppressor of immune evasion. Loss of SETD2 markedly increased lung colonization and metastasis in mice with intact T cells, whereas this effect disappeared after T cell depletion. Mechanistically, SETD2 recruited adenine-thymine-rich interaction domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) to maintain a repressive chromatin state at genes encoding the chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, 2, and 5. Loss of the SETD2-ARID2 axis increased secretion of these chemokines and recruited polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, which inhibit T cell responses. These cells increased expression of free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), depleted arginine from the tumor environment, and impaired signaling required for T cell activation, driving cytotoxic T cells into terminal exhaustion. Depleting polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells or conditionally deleting FFAR2 in these cells restored T cell function and reduced metastasis of SETD2-deficient tumors. These findings show that loss of SETD2 creates an arginine-depleted, immunosuppressive tumor environment through a chemokine-FFAR2 pathway, revealing an epigenetic-metabolic immune checkpoint that may inform combination treatments for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xuyu Gu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529768 is a review article
Posterior capsular opacification (PCO) is a common complication of cataract surgery and is strongly associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in various pathological processes; however, its role in PCO remains insufficiently understood.To investigate the regulatory role of ITGB3 in PCO progression and determine whether ITGB3 modulates transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2)-induced migration and EMT in human lens epithelial cells.Human lens epithelial HLE-B3 cells were treated with transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2; 10 ng/mL) to establish an in vitro model of PCO. ITGB3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated using the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, while cell migration was assessed using transwell and wound-healing assays.TGF-β2 stimulation significantly increased ITGB3 expression in HLE-B3 cells. Silencing of ITGB3 significantly reduced the proliferation of TGF-β2-treated cells and inhibited their migratory capacity, as demonstrated by both transwell and wound-healing assays. Exposure to TGF-β2 promoted EMT, whereas ITGB3 knockdown reversed this effect. Furthermore, activation of the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway induced by TGF-β2 was attenuated following ITGB3 silencing.Knockdown of ITGB3 alleviates TGF-β2-induced migration and EMT in HLE-B3 cells by suppressing the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway, supporting ITGB3 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of PCO.
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) is a frequent and severe complication after liver transplantation and hepatectomy, driven by sterile inflammation and lacking effective therapies. Regulator of G-protein signaling 16 (RGS16) is an inflammatory modulator, but its role in HIRI remains unclear. We found that RGS16 expression was markedly increased in the livers of post-hepatectomy patients and positively correlated with neutrophil extracellular trap formation (NETosis). Using hepatocyte-specific Rgs16 knockout and transgenic mouse models, we demonstrated that Rgs16 deficiency attenuated hepatic inflammation and apoptosis after HIRI, whereas Rgs16 overexpression significantly exacerbated liver injury. Integrated multi-omics analyses, including RNA-seq, MeRIP-seq, and mass spectrometry, identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) as a key downstream effector of RGS16. Mechanistically, RGS16 competitively binds YTH domain family protein 3 (YTHDF3), displacing poly(A)-nuclease deadenylation complex subunit 3 (PAN3) and stabilizing m6A-modified Cxcl1 mRNA, thereby enhancing CXCL1 expression. Elevated CXCL1 promotes hepatocyte apoptosis and inflammation through C-X-C chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) and drives neutrophil recruitment and NETosis. Pharmacological inhibition of CXCL1 or degradation of NETs with DNase I significantly alleviated RGS16-induced liver injury. Collectively, RGS16 aggravates HIRI by amplifying hepatocyte-intrinsic CXCL1-CXCR2 signaling and CXCL1-mediated neutrophil recruitment and NETosis, suggesting RGS16 and its downstream pathways as potential therapeutic targets for HIRI.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Microvascular inflammation (MVI) has long been considered a hallmark of antibody-mediated rejection (AMR). However, the 2022 Banff classification introduced isolated MVI (iMVI; MVI+/donor-specific antibody [DSA]-/C4d-) as a distinct phenotype. The biological characteristics and clinical significance of iMVI remain incompletely understood.Kidney transplant recipients who underwent allograft biopsy between 2013 and 2024 were classified into iMVI, AMR (MVI+/DSA+/C4d+), and acute tubular injury (ATI; MVI-/DSA-/C4d-). After propensity score matching, 80 patients (30 iMVI, 30 AMR, and 20 ATI) compromised the main cohort. An independent validation cohort (n = 88; 26 iMVI, 26 AMR, 26 T-cell-mediated rejection, 10 ATI) was additionally assembled. Serum proteomic profiling was performed using a proximity extension assay.iMVI exhibited a distinct proteomic profile enriched for innate and cytotoxic immune activation proteins, including tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 9, programmed death-ligand 1, interleukin-15 receptor subunit alpha, fibroblast growth factor 19, C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1, C-C motif chemokine ligand 23, signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 1, and interleukin-10 receptor subunit beta with enrichment of natural killer cell differentiation and leukocyte migration pathway. In contrast, AMR showed higher expression of adaptive and humoral immune mediators, including interleukin-33, interleukin-2, TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, and interleukin-2 receptor subunit beta with enrichment of immunoglobulin production and interferon-γ-related adaptive immune pathways. Protein risk scores showed strong discriminative performance in the main cohort (area under the curve, 0.856 for iMVI; 0.879 for AMR) and retained significant ability in the validation cohort (area under the curve, 0.708 and 0.689, respectively). Several iMVI-enriched proteins were significantly associated with increased risk of death-censored graft loss.iMVI is characterized by dominant innate and cytotoxic immune activation distinct from AMR and is associated with adverse graft outcomes, supporting its recognition as a clinically meaningful phenotype beyond conventional AMR.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Local tumor progression and metastasis substantially compromise the therapeutic efficacy of thermal ablation in liver cancer. Although the inflammatory microenvironment contributes, the specific role of neutrophils after ablation remains unclear. This study aimed to clarify the roles of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) after thermal ablation and evaluate the translational potential of NETs-targeted strategies.The adverse prognostic impact of thermal ablation-induced neutrophil and inflammatory changes in liver cancer was retrospectively evaluated. Circulating NETs were quantified by ELISA, and their association with local tumor progression was analyzed. An orthotopic liver cancer mouse model and patient-derived neutrophils elucidated the spatiotemporal dynamics and mechanisms of ablation-induced NETs, and pharmacologic inhibition was used to investigate NET formation, function, and translational potential.Thermal ablation rapidly activates neutrophils, elicits a sustained local inflammatory response and NET formation, which is closely associated with poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer. Depletion of neutrophils, inhibition of NET formation, or degradation of thermal ablation-induced NETs markedly suppressed post-ablation tumor progression. Mechanistically, tumor cell-intrinsic reactive oxygen species generated under heat stress contributed to nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) activation, promoting p65 binding to theC-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) promoter and transcriptional upregulation of CXCL1. This process drove CXCL1-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) signaling and led to the formation of a characteristic band-like NETs-enriched zone at the peri-ablational margin. In turn, NETs activated toll-like receptor (TLR)9-dependent NF-κB,mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in heat-stressed cancer cells, reinforcing a pro-inflammatory feedback loop. Concurrently, NETs impaired CD8+ T-cell responses and fostered an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Together, this coordinated pro-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effect promotes liver cancer progression following thermal ablation, which can be effectively reversed by dual blockade of NF-κB and CXCR2.Our research uncovers a novel mechanism underlying tumor-promoting inflammation after thermal ablation, highlighting the critical role of NETs as mediators through TLR9 activation of downstream inflammatory pathways and the significant potential of NETs-targeted strategies in combination with thermal ablation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
This randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the clinical and biological effects of laser-assisted therapy on the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation.A total of 45 patients requiring a single-tooth extraction, followed by a three-unit fixed partial denture rehabilitation, were randomly allocated to one of three groups (n = 15 in each group). Gallium-Aluminum-Arsenide (GaAlAs) diode laser (GRR laser), Neodymium-doped Yttrium Aluminium Garnet laser (Nd: YAG) and placebo. Laser applications were performed once daily for five consecutive days following tooth extraction. Clinical healing was assessed using wound dimension measurements and the healing index (HI) at baseline, day 7, and day 14. Postoperative pain was evaluated using visual analog scale (VAS) scores recorded daily from postoperative day 1 to day 7. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) samples were collected at the same time points and analysed for transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGF-β2) levels using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Intergroup and intragroup comparisons were performed using the appropriate statistical tests (α = 0.05).No significant differences were observed among groups at baseline for any evaluated parameter (p > 0.05). At day 7 and day 14, significant intergroup differences were detected for wound dimensions, clinical healing index scores, VAS pain scores, and GCF TGF-β2 levels (p < 0.001). The GRR laser group demonstrated significantly greater wound size reduction, higher clinical healing index scores, lower postoperative pain levels, and higher TGF-β2 concentrations compared with the Nd: YAG laser and placebo groups. Nd: YAG laser group showed improved outcomes compared with placebo, although these differences were less significant than those observed in the GRR group.Laser-assisted therapy accelerated the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation. The GRR laser protocol achieved superior clinical and biological outcomes compared to the Nd: YAG laser and the placebo. These results suggest that optimised low-level laser therapy (LLLT) could be a valuable additional treatment for accelerating pontic site maturation and making the prosthetic workflow more predictable.NCT07415434, Retrospectively registered (09.02.2026).© 2026. The Author(s).
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited cardiomyopathy characterized by progressive fibrofatty replacement of the right ventricular myocardium, ventricular arrhythmias, and an increased risk of sudden cardiac death. Pathogenic variants of desmosomal genes have been implicated in ARVC pathogenesis and may disrupt desmosomal protein function. However, whether and how desmosomal protein dysfunction directly activates cardiac fibroblasts to mediate fibrosis remains poorly understood. To address this, we combined genetic analysis with in vivo and cellular models to investigate the role of desmosomal dysfunction in cardiac fibrosis. The systematic genetic analysis revealed that desmosomal gene variants are predominant in ARVC, accounting for 67.4% of cases in cohort studies and 96.1% of pathogenic variants in ClinVar. We used desmocollin-2 (DSC2) knockout mice to recapitulate key features of ARVC, including right ventricular fibrosis, enlargement, and dysfunction. In vitro, DSC2 deficiency directly activates cardiac fibroblasts, resulting in increased cell proliferation, migration, and fibrosis marker expression. Further analysis identified transforming growth factor beta-2 (TGF-β2) as a critical signaling mediator in cardiac fibrosis of DSC2 deficiency-mediated ARVC. Mechanistically, DSC2 deficiency upregulated transcription factor 7 (TCF7) expression, promoting its binding to TGF-β2 promoter regions to enhance TGF-β2 transcription in cardiac fibroblasts. Pharmacological inhibition of TGF-β2 with pirfenidone (PFD) effectively attenuated cardiac fibrosis and improved right ventricular function in DSC2-deficient hearts. The results of the present study identified DSC2 deficiency-mediated TCF7-TGF-β2 signaling in cardiac fibroblasts, which contributed to ARVC development. Thus, targeting TGF-β2 signaling may be a promising therapeutic strategy for desmosome gene mutation-related ARVC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Traumatic cataract is a common blinding eye disease after ocular trauma, and its pathogenesis is closely related to lens epithelial cell dysfunction, while the definite molecular regulatory mechanism between upstream transcription factor and downstream target gene remains poorly clarified. This study aimed to clarify the role and molecular mechanism of the krüppel-like factor 5 (KLF5)/ thrombosponin 1 (THBS1) axis in regulating proliferation, migration, epithelial-mesenchymal transition and autophagy of lens epithelial cells in traumatic cataract, and to explore its potential clinical therapeutic value.The GSE295383 dataset in the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database was downloaded, and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by linear models for microarray data (limma) package of R language. Combined with Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), the gene co-expression network was constructed and the key modules were screened. Gene ontology (GO), kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) combined with human transcription factor target (hTFtarget) and JASPAR databases were used to predict the upstream transcription factors of THBS1. Subsequently, SRA01/04 cells were induced with transforming growth factor-beta 2 (TGF-β2) to construct a cataract cell model.THBS1 and KLF5 were highly expressed in LECs exposed to TGF-β2. KLF5 could activate THBS1 transcription by binding to THBS1 promoter - 174 to -165 sites. Knockdown of THBS1 inhibited TGF-β2-induced viability, proliferation, migration, and altered the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)- and autophagy-related markers in LECs. Knockdown of KLF5 downregulated THBS1 expression and produced a similar inhibitory effect, while overexpression of THBS1 reversed the effect of KLF5 knockdown.This study demonstrated that KLF5 promoted the proliferation, migration, and EMT‑associated molecular changes of LECs in traumatic cataract through transcriptional activation of THBS1, and regulated the expression of autophagy‑related markers in LECs, suggesting that KLF5/THBS1 axis might be a potential target for the treatment of traumatic cataract.© 2026. The Author(s).
Small molecule targeting of suppressive myeloid immune checkpoints remains a major challenge in cancer immunotherapy, particularly for nonenzymatic receptors lacking conventional druggable active sites. Leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4/ILT3) is an immunosuppressive myeloid checkpoint implicated in tumor immune evasion, T-cell dysfunction, and resistance to immunotherapy across both solid and hematologic malignancies. Here, we report the discovery and characterization of GL-4512, a direct small molecule modulator of LILRB4 identified through a Dianthus-based temperature-related intensity change (TRIC) screening platform. Orthogonal biophysical studies, including microscale thermophoresis, surface plasmon resonance, and cellular thermal shift assays, confirmed direct target engagement with nanomolar affinity. Extensive microsecond molecular dynamics simulations combined with site-directed mutagenesis identified a previously unrecognized ligandable pocket within the flexible extracellular domain of LILRB4. Functionally, GL-4512 disrupted the immunosuppressive LILRB4-SCG2 signaling axis and suppressed downstream SHP1/SHP2 and STAT3 signaling. In patient-derived colorectal cancer and acute myeloid leukemia coculture systems, pharmacological inhibition of LILRB4 restored antitumor immune activity, enhanced IFN-γ and IL-2 production, increased cytotoxic T-cell activation, and reduced tumor cell viability. GL-4512 additionally demonstrated favorable pharmacokinetic and safety properties supporting oral in vivo administration. In immunocompetent CT26 syngeneic colorectal tumors, once-daily oral treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth and enhanced intratumoral immune activation. Collectively, these findings establish LILRB4 as a tractable target for direct small molecule immunomodulation and support therapeutic targeting of suppressive myeloid immune checkpoints for cancer using nonbiologic modalities.
Early detection of pancreatic cancer remains challenging, and reliable circulating biomarkers are needed to enable earlier diagnosis and improve clinical outcomes. We conducted a plasma proteomics study using the Olink Explore HT platform to identify novel biomarker candidates for early-stage pancreatic cancer. The study included 42 patients with stage I-II pancreatic cancer and 43 matched controls. Plasma protein levels were quantified using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay, and differential abundance was assessed using Welch's t-test with correction for multiple testing. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). Among 5419 proteins analyzed, 982 showed significant differences between cases and controls. Carboxylesterase 3 (CES3) was the most significantly decreased protein, whereas leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4) was the most significantly increased protein; both demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91). In addition, pancreatic polypeptide (PPY) showed markedly reduced levels in patients with tumors arising in the head of the pancreas, suggesting anatomical specificity. This comprehensive Olink-based proteomic analysis identifies CES3 and LILRB4 as promising plasma biomarkers for early-stage pancreatic cancer and highlights PPY as informative for tumor localization. These findings provide a valuable resource for biomarker discovery and support further validation of these candidates for noninvasive early detection and risk stratification.© 2026 UICC.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a major unmet clinical challenge, with limited therapeutic strategies capable of effectively modulating neuroimmune dysfunction. Leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4/ILT3) has recently emerged as an inhibitory microglial immune checkpoint implicated in ApoE-mediated suppression of amyloid-β (Aβ) clearance and inflammatory signaling, supporting its potential as a therapeutic target in AD. Here, we applied DNA-encoded library (DEL) screening of approximately 3.6 billion compounds to identify small molecule binders of LILRB4. Biophysical validation identified APX1 as a direct LILRB4 ligand with submicromolar affinity, which was further confirmed by cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA). Docking-guided mutagenesis studies defined a discrete ligand-binding interface involving key hotspot residues required for stable target engagement. Functionally, APX1 disrupted the LILRB4-ApoE interaction in orthogonal ELISA and biolayer interferometry assays. In human iPSC-derived microglia, APX1 suppressed SHP1/2 phosphorylation, attenuated NF-κB activation and IL-1β secretion, and restored Aβ42 uptake under ApoE-driven inflammatory conditions. APX1 further demonstrated favorable in vitro developability, metabolic stability, and CNS exposure properties. In the 5xFAD mouse model of AD, oral administration of APX1 improved cognitive performance, reduced cortical and hippocampal Aβ42 burden, suppressed neuroinflammatory cytokines, and decreased activated microglial populations. Collectively, these findings establish APX1 as a promising small molecule modulator of the LILRB4-ApoE signaling axis and support pharmacological targeting of neuroimmune checkpoints as a therapeutic strategy for AD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The rapid expansion of plasma proteomic data and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) provides an opportunity to identify genes that confer disease risk through their effect on plasma protein abundance. We conducted an Alzheimer's disease (AD) proteome-wide association study (PWAS) integrating publicly available plasma cis-pQTL data (1348 European American and 1385 African American genetically determined protein models) with AD dementia GWAS summary statistics. Whereas the African American PWAS identified one candidate [apolipoprotein E (APOE)] and multiple suggestive genes, the European American PWAS identified 18 genes with putative causal relationships with AD through cis regulation of plasma protein abundance. Thirteen of these candidate genes were additionally supported by colocalization and complementary causal-inference analyses such as summary data-based Mendelian randomization. Four of these proteins were not previously detected in AD GWAS [complement decay-accelerating factor (CD55), leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1 (LILRB1), scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5), and signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPA)]. A subset of candidate gene-associated proteins was associated with 8- and 20-year dementia risk, markers of AD pathology, and a CSF proteomic signature enriched for immune and metabolic processes. Putative causal proteins were enriched for adaptive (lymphocyte-mediated) immunity and, compared with GWAS candidates, showed less enrichment for synaptic and amyloid regulatory processes. LILRB1 and SIRPA, two immunoregulatory proteins not previously implicated in AD GWAS, showed the strongest mechanistic link to AD in the European American PWAS. These results shed additional light on AD etiology and enable the prioritization of potential AD therapeutic targets in peripheral circulation.
The identification of small molecule modulators of immune checkpoint proteins remains a significant challenge in drug discovery due to the flat, featureless nature of protein-protein interaction interfaces and the characteristically low hit rates observed in conventional high-throughput screening campaigns. Here we report OracleScreen-LILRB4 (HTS-Oracle v3), an ensemble machine learning framework trained on quantitative biophysical screening data from two structurally diverse compound libraries (19,800 compounds total) screened against the myeloid immune checkpoint leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4/ILT3). By formulating binding prediction as a regression task targeting continuous ΔFnorm values rather than binary hit classifications, OracleScreen-LILRB4 achieved a mean Spearman R of 0.61 and ROC-AUC of 0.86 under scaffold-aware cross-validation. Prospective virtual screening of a 45,760-member compound library and experimental validation of the top 200 predictions yielded a 28.5% hit rate, representing a 15.0-fold enrichment over baseline, with 16 compounds demonstrating nanomolar-affinity LILRB4 (ILT3) engagement. Lead compounds ORS-22 and ORS-14 restored anti-tumor immune activity across patient-derived colorectal cancer and acute myeloid leukemia co-culture systems, reversing SCG2-mediated immunosuppression and recovering cytotoxic T-cell function. These findings establish OracleScreen-LILRB4 (HTS-Oracle v3) as an effective computational framework for accelerating small molecule discovery against non-enzymatic immune checkpoint targets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The mouse gene Lilrb4a, an ortholog of human leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4), is markedly upregulated in microglia in Alzheimer's disease models and has been implicated in Apolipoprotein E (APOE)-related signaling. However, its contribution to amyloid pathology under an APOE4 background remains unclear. Here, 5xFAD mice carrying human APOE4 were used to assess the impact of Lilrb4a reduction by genetic deletion or antisense oligonucleotide treatment. Both approaches significantly reduced cortical amyloid plaque burden and APOE4-associated cerebral amyloid angiopathy without altering amyloid-β (Aβ) production. Bulk RNA sequencing identified enrichment of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-related and broader metabolic pathways in Lilrb4a-deficient mice. Consistently, biochemical analyses showed reduced p-SHP-2, NF-κB-p65, and p-STAT1, increased p-STAT3, and induction of anti-inflammatory and clearance-associated effectors, including Arg-1, TGF-β, and Cyp2e1. In primary microglia, pharmacological interrogation supported a functional contribution of PPAR-γ signaling to the enhanced Aβ uptake and degradation associated with Lilrb4a suppression, whereas PPAR-γ agonism recapitulated key pro-clearance phenotypes in vitro and attenuated amyloid pathology in vivo. Together, these data support Lilrb4a as an APOE4-associated microglial checkpoint candidate linked to impaired amyloid clearance and identify a PPAR-linked pro-clearance program as a potential downstream component of this response.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4, ILT3) is an inhibitory immune checkpoint expressed on myeloid cells, where it contributes to immunosuppression within the tumor microenvironment. Secretogranin 2 (SCG2) has recently been identified as a functional ligand of LILRB4, yet small molecule modulators of this interaction remain unexplored. Here, we report the development of a high-throughput time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET) assay to interrogate the LILRB4 (ILT3)-SCG2 interaction. The assay demonstrated robust performance and was validated using a blocking anti-LILRB4 antibody, consistent with orthogonal ELISA measurements. Pilot screening of chemical libraries identified 23 primary hits, of which two compounds, BMS-813,160 and PSB-603, showed reproducible, dose-dependent inhibition with TR-FRET IC₅₀ values of 26.7 ± 1.03 µM and 37.2 ± 2.14 µM, respectively. Activity was confirmed by ELISA, supporting the robustness of the assay. This platform enables high-throughput discovery of first-in-class small molecule modulators of the LILRB4-SCG2 immune checkpoint and provides a foundation for targeting myeloid-driven immunosuppression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a T cell-mediated inflammatory skin disease, and biologics have demonstrated promising efficacy. However, some patients remain dissatisfied with early therapeutic outcomes. Immune checkpoint molecules on T cells play critical roles in psoriasis pathogenesis, yet their impact on therapeutic response remains unclear. This study aimed to identify predictive markers for the early therapeutic efficacy of ixekizumab in psoriasis patients.Twenty-two patients with plaque psoriasis were enrolled in this study. All participants received ixekizumab for 24 weeks. Peripheral blood was collected at multiple time points, and flow cytometry was used to assess T cell subsets and the expression of immune checkpoint molecules, including T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT), lymphocyte activating gene 3 (LAG-3), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), B and T lymphocyte-associated protein, endothelial protein C receptor (PROCR), podoplanin (PDPN), programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), and B7-Homolog 6 (B7-H6).Ixekizumab treatment reduced the proportion of T helper 17 (Th17) cells and IL-17-secreting CD8+ T (Tc17) cells and downregulated B7-H6 and LAG-3 expression on CD4+ T cells by week 24. Similarly, LAG-3 expression on CD8+ T cells decreased. Notably, baseline levels of Th17 and Tc17 cells, as well as LAG-3 expression on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, were higher in non-early responders than in early responders.Ixekizumab treatment may restore immune dysregulation in psoriasis patients. Baseline proportions of Th17 and Tc17 cells, along with LAG-3 expression on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, may serve as candidate exploratory markers for the early therapeutic efficacy of ixekizumab.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Chen, Jiang, Cai, Cui, Wang, Lin, Wu, Du, Gu, Gong, Yu and Shi.
Accumulating clinical studies have reported the significance of endometrial microbiota during pregnancy, especially in assisted reproductive technology. Although there are discussions on the relationship between endometrial microbiota and immunological tolerance at the maternal-fetal interface, the data supporting these processes is still insufficient. We, therefore, investigated the effect of endometrial microbiota culture supernatants on maternal-fetal tolerance in vitro, focusing on extravillous trophoblasts (EVT) and uterine natural killer (uNK) cells, which constitute approximately 70% of lymphocytes in human uterine decidua in early pregnancy. The cells were treated with the culture supernatants of Lactobacillus crispatus, Lactobacillus iners, Gardnerella vaginalis, Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae, and Enterobacter cloaca. Cell killing assay showed that the bacterial culture supernatant of L. crispatus significantly enhanced the cell killing ability of NK-92MI cells against Sw.71 cells., whereas that of K. pneumoniae decreased the cell killing rate. Western blotting showed that the L. crispatus supernatant significantly decreased the expression of leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1 (LILRB1) on NK-92MI cells. The culture supernatant of K. pneumoniae significantly increased human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-C, HLA-G, and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expressions on Sw.71 cells, and promoted the secretion of sPD-L1 from the cells. The L. iners culture supernatant significantly decreased PD-L1 expression in Sw.71 cells. The present results suggest that endometrial microbiota may modulate EVT and uNK cell interaction and affect maternal-fetal tolerance during implantation and placentation. To improve infertility treatments and elucidate the pathophysiology of pregnancy complications, further clarification of the function of the endometrial microbiota during pregnancy is warranted.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512891 is a review article
Inborn errors of immunity with atopy (IEIs-A) are an IEI subgroup with eczema as a prominent clinical feature that can mimic atopic dermatitis (AD). However, IEIs-A-associated eczema can differ from that of classic AD, and its frequency, genotype-specific clinical patterns and temporal relationships with other IEIs-A manifestations (infections, allergic manifestations, autoimmunity) remain poorly defined.To characterize eczema frequency, timing and phenotypes in IEIs-A patients, and explore eczema's relationship with other clinical IEIs-A manifestations.This retrospective study used data from the French national IEI (CEREDIH) Registry database, focusing on patients with genetically defined IEIs-A followed in three large CEREDIH-participating centers and available clinical data. Eczema frequency and onset in relationship to other clinical events, particularly severe-or-unusual infections, was assessed, as were eczema phenotypes, concomitant allergic manifestations, treatments and autoimmunity. Clustering analyses were computed to identify distinct IEI-A-eczema-associated clinical phenotypes.Among 373 IEIs-A patients, varying widely by genotype, 50.9% had eczema. All dedicator of cytokinesis-8 (DOCK8)-deficient patients were affected, followed by Forkhead box-P3 (FOXP3)-deficient patients (73.3%), and those with signal transducer and activator of transcription-1-loss-of-function (STAT3-LoF; 74.6%). Onset was usually early (median: 4 months). Eczema frequency and clinical presentation varied markedly across IEIs-A genotypes; four phenotypic clusters were identified, with particular localizations and severe pruritus being strongly associated with pathogenic STAT3 or DOCK8 variants. For children with isolated eczema at 24 months, the risk of developing IEI-related severe-or-unusual infections was lower than that of persistent isolated eczema until 6.8 years.Eczema is a common, early IEIs-A feature, often preceding infections by years.While 38.4% of IEIs-A patients with eczema fulfilled the UK Working Party diagnostic criteria for AD, some clinical pictures may differ from that of classic AD. At a time when systemic AD treatments are rapidly advancing in pediatrics, recognizing these patterns to identify IEIs-A patients could refine diagnostic strategies, improve IEI detection among children with eczema, shorten the time to IEIs-A diagnosis, guide tailored management and ensure these patients receive the optimal care.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Preclinical data suggests a potential role for OX40 agonists in cancer treatment, though clinical trials have yielded modest results.We assessed OX40 and other immune checkpoint RNA expression in advanced solid malignancies and their clinical outcomes.We conducted a retrospective cohort study analyzing tissue samples from 514 cancer patients.Immune marker transcripts were evaluated using a clinical-grade laboratory test. OX40 expression was normalized, and percentiles ranked as "moderate/low" (0-74) or "high" (75-100).High OX40 expression was found in 24% of tumors, primarily in esophageal, liver/bile duct, stomach, small intestine, and lung cancers. High OX40 was associated with increased expression of programmed death-1, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4, and forkhead box P3 but did not predict overall survival in immunotherapy-naïve patients or outcomes post-immunotherapy.OX40 expression is heterogeneous and strongly associated with immunosuppressive checkpoints, potentially suggesting that effective use of OX40 agonists may depend on patient selection based on tumor immunomics.© The Author(s), 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450051 is a review article
Leprosy remains a significant public health challenge in endemic regions, particularly among vulnerable populations. Immune dysregulation and community health factors, including environmental conditions and socio-economic status, may play a crucial role in the transmission and progression of the disease. This study aims to estimate the magnitude of the effects of immune dysregulation and community health status on the occurrence of leprosy among mothers and children in endemic areas.A cross-sectional study was conducted. This study collected patient data from mothers and children with leprosy in endemic regions and non-leprosy subjects in endemic and non-endemic areas. This involved assessing immune dysregulation, focusing on T helper 1 (Th1; interferon-γ [IFN-γ]), T helper 2 (Th2; interleukin-4 [IL-4]), regulatory T cells (Treg; forkhead box P3 [FoxP3+]), and T helper 17 (Th17; interleukin-17 [IL-17]) markers. Because immune parameters were available only in a sub-sample, these variables were incorporated into the structural equation modelling as exploratory immune constructs. Community health status was evaluated through maternal nutrition, household environment, family education, economic status, household smoking habits, village endemicity, presence of Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) scars in children, access to healthcare, and perinatal risk factors. The results were analysed using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows (version 26.0, IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA), and SmartPLS 4 (SmartPLS GmbH, Bönningstedt, Germany).One hundred six subjects were included in this study. Path analysis revealed significant effects within the studied factors. The health environment had a significant negative impact on village endemicity (β=-0.294; P<0.001). Leprosy in the family was significantly influenced by health environment (β=0.146; P<0.001), family education (β=-0.289; P<0.001), family economic status (β=-0.237; P<0.001), smoking in the family (β=0.191; P<0.001), access to health facilities (β=-0.051; P<0.001), and village endemicity (β=0.305; P<0.001). Mother immunity was significantly influenced by village endemicity (β=0.138; P<0.001), leprosy in the family (β=-0.554; P<0.001), maternal nutritional status (β=0.191; P<0.001), and maternal BCG scar (β=-0.149; P<0.001), which was noteworthy but should be interpreted cautiously. Child immunity was significantly affected by village endemicity (β=-0.148; P<0.001), leprosy in the family (β=-0.280; P<0.001), mother immunity (β=-0.156; P<0.001), child BCG scar (β=-0.021; P<0.001), perinatal risk (β=0.067; P<0.001), and mother leprosy (β=0.429; P<0.001). Maternal leprosy was significantly influenced by maternal immunity (β=-0.208; P<0.001). Finally, Child leprosy was significantly affected by mother immunity (β=0.441; P<0.001), child immunity (β=-0.374; P<0.001), and mother leprosy (β=-0.165; P<0.001).This study highlights the intricate interplay between immune dysregulation and community health factors in the occurrence of leprosy. These findings underscore the need for targeted interventions to address these factors and reduce leprosy prevalence.© 2026 by The Korean Society of Infectious Diseases, Korean Society for Antimicrobial Therapy, The Korean Society for AIDS, and Korean Society of Pediatric Infectious Diseases.
Based on the Janus kinase 2(JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) signaling pathway, this study investigated the effects of Zhuyu Pills on the immune balance of helper T cell(Th) 1/Th2 and Th17/regulatory T cell(Treg) populations in a mouse model of acne. The acne model was established by applying oleic acid to the right auricle combined with subcutaneous injection of Propionibacterium acnes, resulting in auricle lesions of 1 cm~2 over a 14-day modeling period. Fifty successfully modeled ICR mice were randomly assigned to five groups: model, low-, medium-, and high-dose Zhuyu Pills, and isotretinoin(n=10 per group). An additional 10 age-matched healthy ICR mice were included as a control group without modeling. The control and model groups received equal volumes of sterile distilled water via gavage, while the low-, medium-, and high-dose Zhuyu Pills groups received Zhuyu Pills at 130.54, 261.08, and 522.16 mg·kg~(-1), respectively. The isotretinoin group received isotretinoin at 4.55 mg·kg~(-1), once daily. All treatments were administered for four weeks. After administration, auricle tissue pathology was evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin(HE) staining. Serum levels of interleukin(IL)-17, interferon-γ(IFN-γ), IL-10, transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β), IL-12, IL-22, IL-4, and IL-5 were measured by ELISA. Protein expression of p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 in auricle tissue was assessed by Western blot. Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg cell populations in the spleen were analyzed by flow cytometry. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect T-box expressed in T cell(T-bet) and GATA binding protein 3(GATA3) expression, and immunofluorescence was used to detect retineic-acid-receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor gamma(RORγt) and forkhead box P3(Foxp3) expression in auricle tissue. Western blot and real-time PCR were used to measure protein and mRNA levels of T-bet, GATA3, RORγt, and Foxp3. Compared with the control group, the model group exhibited significantly thickened auricle epidermis and extensive inflammatory cell infiltration(P&lt;0.01); increased serum IL-17, IFN-γ, IL-12, and IL-22(P&lt;0.01); decreased TGF-β, IL-10, IL-4, and IL-5(P&lt;0.01); elevated p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.01); increased Th1 and Th17(P&lt;0.01) and decreased Th2 and Treg cell populations in the spleen(P&lt;0.01); and upregulated protein and mRNA levels of T-bet and RORγt(P&lt;0.01) but downregulated GATA3 and Foxp3 protein and mRNA levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.01). Compared with the model group, all Zhuyu Pills groups and the isotretinoin group showed reduced epidermal thickness and inflammatory infiltration(P&lt;0.01); decreased serum IL-17, IFN-γ, IL-12, and IL-22(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01) and increased TGF-β, IL-10, IL-4, and IL-5(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01); lower p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.01); decreased Th1 and Th17(P&lt;0.01) and increased Th2 and Treg cell populations in the spleen(P&lt;0.01); and decreased protein and mRNA levels of T-bet and RORγt(P&lt;0.01) but increased GATA3 and Foxp3 protein and mRNA levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, Zhuyu Pills may regulate inflammatory cytokines through the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway, restore Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg polarization balance, maintain immune cell homeostasis, and thereby exert therapeutic effects on inflammatory skin lesions in acne.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42389517 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is intricately linked to gut microbiota dysbiosis and tryptophan (Trp) metabolic dysregulation. This study aimed to clarify the role and mechanisms of 20(S/R)-ginsenoside Rh1 in suppressing colorectal cancer through the regulation of gut microbiota and Trp metabolism. Azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium (AOM/DSS)was employed to induce a CRC mouse model, followed by treatment with 20(S/R)-ginsenoside Rh1 at 100 mg·kg-1·day-1 for 6 weeks. 20(S/R)-ginsenoside Rh1 significantly reduced the disease activity index (DAI) score, restored colon length, and decreased tumor count. 20(S/R)-Ginsenoside Rh1 ameliorated gut dysbiosis by increasing gut microbial diversity and elevating the prevalence of beneficial bacteria, including Lactobacillus, and stimulated the production of indole derivatives, including indole-3-propionic acid (IPA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and indole-3-lactic acid (ILA) by enriching Trp -metabolizing bacteria such as Lactobacillus reuteri. These changes further activated the AhR/CYP1A1/IL-22 and PXR/TLR4 pathways, upregulated the expression of intestinal tight junction proteins, suppressed the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IFN-γ, and elevated the levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Furthermore, 20(S/R)-ginsenoside Rh1 reduces the serum kynurenine (Kyn)/Trp ratio, downregulates the expression of forkhead box P3 (FoxP3), a marker of regulatory T (Treg) cells, and increases the number of CD8+ T cells by inhibiting the expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) in colonic tissue. In conclusion, 20(S/R)-ginsenoside Rh1 showed potential anti-CRC activity, with our study observing links between its action and gut microbiota structure regulation, Trp metabolism modulation, AhR/PXR-mediated intestinal barrier activation, and IDO1-related immune suppression reversal.
To explore the underlying effect mechanism of fire needle therapy on hydroquinone-induced vitiligo based on transcriptome sequencing.Eighteen C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, and a fire needle group, with 6 mice in each group. The vitiligo mouse model was established in the model and fire needle groups using the hydroquinone depigmentation method. After successful modeling, in the fire needle group, fire needle therapy was operated on the white skin lesions, once a week and for 4 consecutive weeks. The skin and hair depigmentation conditions and depigmentation scores were observed before and after intervention. HE staining was used to observe skin morphology and melanin granules. Skin tissue from the local white lesions of 3 randomly selected mice in each group was subjected to RNA-seq to screen differentially expressed genes in skin tissue, followed by bioinformatics analysis.The mRNA expression of the partial differentially expressed genes was detected by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR.Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the epidermis and dermis were thickened, and the depigmentation score of the skin and hair was higher (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were decreased (P < 0.05). Compared with the model group, the depigmentation score of the skin and hair in the fire needle group was decreased (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were increased (P<0.05). In comparison with the blank group, 1 291 differentially expressed genes were screened in the model group (including 985 up-regulated genes and 306 down-regulated genes), the functional enrichment analysis of gene ontology (GO) primarily focused on keratinization and keratinized envelope, and the metabolic pathway analysis from the Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG)was mainly enriched in the interactions between viral proteins and cytokines/cytokine receptors. When compared with the model group, 306 differentially expressed genes were screened in the fire needle group, and the GO enrichment was in keratinized envelope and the establishment of skin barrier, and the KEGG metabolic pathway analysis was enriched in the interaction between cytokines and cytokine receptors. Through WikiPathways enrichment analysis, fire needle therapy significantly exerted its effect through the oxidative stress and redox pathways. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA)showed that the Hippo signaling pathway and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway were significantly activated. Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the mRNA expression was elevated for superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), quinone oxidoreductase 1(NQO1), monoamine oxidase (MAO), interleukin 18 (IL-18), interleukin 1 family member 8 (IL-1F8), interleukin 1 family member 9 (IL-1F9), C-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CCL8), serine/threonine protein kinase 4 (MST1), and MOB kinase activator 1A (MOB1A) in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the mRNA expression was reduced for glutathione S-transferase alpha 3 (GSTA3), glutathione S-transferase alpha 4 (GSTA4), gamma-glutamyl cyclotransferase (GGCT), Wnt family member 3A (WNT3A), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), catalase (CAT), and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3) (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the fire needle group showed the decrease in the mRNA expression of SOD3, PPARγ, NQO1, MAO,IL-18, IL-1F8, IL-1F9, CCL8, MST1 and MOB1A in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the increase in the mRNA expression of GSTA3, GSTA4, GGCT, WNT3A, TYRP1, CAT and FOXP3 (P<0.05).Fire needling therapy can attenuate the depigmentation of skin in vitiligo induced by hydroquinone in mice. Its effect mechanism may involve the regulation of Hippo signaling pathways and PPAR signaling pathways, thereby mitigating oxidative stress and inflammatory response, and regulating the immune system, ultimately promoting the recovery of melanocytes and reducing the size of white patches.
The regenerative capacity of the liver critically determines recovery outcomes following partial liver transplantation or hepatectomy. While cytokines, immune responses, and metabolic dynamics modulate hepatic regeneration, the role of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (Acod1)-a key enzyme catalyzing itaconate biosynthesis-remains underexplored. This study elucidates the regulatory function of Acod1 in liver regeneration and its underlying mechanisms. Male wild-type (WT) and Acod1-knockout (Acod1-/-) mice underwent 70% or 90% partial hepatectomy (PHx), with interventions including 4-octyl itaconate (4OI) and citraconate administration. Postoperative assessments at 0, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36 and 48 h included liver-to-body weight ratios, serum ALT/AST levels, histopathology, proliferation markers (Ki67, PCNA), cell cycle gene expression, and survival analysis. RNA seq and metabolic profiling were performed to explore mechanistic pathways. Our results demonstrated that Acod1 expression peaked at 36 h post-hepatectomy. In 90% lethal PHx model, Acod1-/- mice showed significantly improved survival versus WT controls. Following 70% PHx, Acod1-/- mice exhibited enhanced liver regeneration at 36 h, with significantly lower serum transaminase levels compared to WT controls. Exogenous 4-OI administration abrogated this pro-regenerative phenotype in Acod1-/- mice, whereas CITRA treatment in WT mice produced a similar pro-regenerative pattern, improving both regeneration-associated readouts and survival. Mechanistically, RNA-seq revealed upregulated ketone body metabolism genes in Acod1-/- mice, concomitant with elevated hepatic β-hydroxybutyrate and reduced intrahepatic lipids versus WT controls. This study demonstrates that Acod1 deficiency enhances post-hepatectomy liver regeneration by suppressing itaconate production, thereby promoting fatty acid mobilization. These findings support Acod1-associated metabolic regulation as a potential therapeutic target for optimizing liver regeneration and postoperative recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autoimmune uveitis is a vision-threatening inflammatory disorder driven by dysregulated T helper 17 (Th17) responses, yet therapeutic strategies targeting Th17 differentiation are lacking. Through transcriptomic screening of an experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model and validation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients, we identified MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S) as a pivotal, conserved regulator. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1S constrains pathogenic Th17 responses and alleviates EAU through a dual mechanism coordinating transcriptional control and autophagic degradation. Mechanistically, MAP1S binds to EGR2 (early growth response 2) and restrains its acetylation at Lys368, thereby suppressing Lcn2 (lipocalin 2) transcription. Besides, MAP1S facilitates autophagosome biogenesis and lysosomal trafficking, promoting the autophagic clearance of LCN2 protein. Notably, MAP1S deficiency enhances EGR2 acetylation, increases Lcn2 transcription, disrupts autophagosome trafficking, impairs LCN2 degradation, and promotes LCN2 accumulation, collectively driving Th17 polarization and exacerbating EAU pathology. Adoptive transfer of cervical lymph node cells from map1s knockout mice reproduced severe disease in wild-type recipients. Moreover, pharmacological activation of MAP1S with spermidine suppressed Th17 responses and alleviated disease severity. Our findings establish MAP1S as a critical node integrating acetylation signaling of EGR2 and autophagic flux to govern LCN2 homeostasis and Th17 pathogenicity, revealing a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune uveitis and potentially other Th17-mediated diseases.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACOD1: aconitate decarboxylase 1; AU: autoimmune uveitis; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; CDLNs: cervical draining lymph nodes; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EAU: experimental autoimmune uveitis; EGR2: early growth response 2; GDF15: growth differentiation factor 15; HDAC4: histone deacetylase 4; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; IL17: interleukin 17; IL17f: interleukin 17f; IL22: interleukin 22; K: lysine; KAT2A/GCN5: K(lysine) acetyltransferase 2A; KO: knockout; LCN2: lipocalin 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1S: microtubule-associated protein 1S; MS: mass spectrometry; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PCR: polymerase chain rection; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PTX: pertussis toxin; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription and quantitative real-time RCR; SAA3: serum amyloid A3; SPD: spermidine; Th1 cells: T helper 1 cells; Th17 cells: T helper 17 cells; TF: transcriptional factor; Tregcells: regulatory T cells; VKH disease: Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease; WT: wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42392922 is a review article
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA), the most prevalent form of hair loss, is driven by the dysfunction of dermal papilla cells (DPCs). Emerging evidence implicates DPC senescence in the pathogenesis of AGA; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated.We employed a multi-faceted experimental approach, including analyses of human scalp tissues, primary DPCs, a dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced AGA mouse model, and immortalized DPCs stimulated with DHT. Cellular senescence was evaluated via expression of senescence markers (p16INK4a, p21, p53) and senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining. Cell proliferation, migration, and apoptosis were also assessed. Mitochondrial function was evaluated using transmission electron microscopy, MitoTracker, MitoSOX, JC-1, and Seahorse assays. RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analyses were performed to identify differentially expressed genes. The interaction between Aconitate Decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) and DDX1 was verified via co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and molecular docking. Metabolomic analysis was performed to profile intracellular metabolic alterations. Functional experiments included ACOD1 knockdown/overexpression and exogenous supplementation with 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI). Hair follicle morphology and hair loss in AGA mice were evaluated following 4-OI treatment.Senescence markers were significantly elevated in AGA DPCs, accompanied by increased senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining, reduced cell proliferation and migration, and enhanced apoptosis. DHT-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in DPCs was characterized by increased mitochondrial fragmentation, decreased mitochondrial cristae, superoxide accumulation, reduced membrane potential, and impaired oxidative phosphorylation. RNA sequencing identified ACOD1 as significantly downregulated in DHT-treated DPCs. ACOD1 knockdown induced mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular senescence, and functional impairment in DPCs, while ACOD1 overexpression ameliorated these DHT-induced phenotypes. Mechanistically, ACOD1 interacted with DDX1 to inhibit its methylation; ACOD1 knockdown enhanced DDX1 methylation, correlating with mitochondrial dysfunction and DPC senescence. Metabolomic analysis demonstrated that ACOD1 knockdown significantly reduced itaconate levels. Exogenous 4-OI supplementation reduced DDX1 methylation, ameliorated DHT-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and cellular senescence, promoted cell proliferation and migration, suppressed apoptosis, mitigated hair follicle miniaturization, and alleviated hair loss in AGA mice.Our findings reveal a novel mechanism underlying DPC senescence in AGA, wherein ACOD1 deficiency promotes DDX1 methylation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and subsequent DPC senescence. ACOD1 represents a promising therapeutic target for AGA, and 4-OI may have translational potential for the treatment of AGA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42028144 is a review article
To investigate the expression level of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its role in HCC cell growth, as well as the underlying mechanisms.The expression of the ACOD1 gene in HCC and its correlation with patient survival were analyzed using the GTEx and TCGA databases. ACOD1 protein expression in four paired HCC and adjacent non-tumor tissues was detected by Western blotting. After ACOD1 knockdown in HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 HCC cells, cell proliferation and death were assessed by MTT and LDH assays, respectively. Following ACOD1 knockdown, 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI) was administered to observe changes in cell proliferation. Potential mechanisms were predicted using the cBioPortal database through KEGG enrichment analysis, and the expression of autophagy-related proteins LC3-Ⅱ and p62 was measured by Western blotting. After ACOD1 knockdown, cells were treated with chloroquine (CQ) or supplemented with 4-OI to observe changes in autophagy marker proteins and cell proliferation.ACOD1 protein expression was significantly overexpressed in HCC tissues than in adjacent tissues (approximately 2-fold). Patients with ACOD1 overexpression had shorter overall survival (P < 0.05). Knocking down ACOD1 in HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells, which expressed high levels of ACOD1, inhibited cell proliferation (by approximately 20% and 30%, respectively; both P < 0.05) and increased cell death (by approximately 30% in both cell lines; both P < 0.05). 4-OI promoted cell growth in a concentration-dependent manner and reversed the decrease in cell viability caused by ACOD1 knockdown, restoring it to 93% and 90% of control levels, respectively (both P < 0.05). KEGG analysis suggested a potential association between ACOD1 and the autophagy pathway. ACOD1 knockdown significantly increased LC3-Ⅱ levels (by approximately 7-fold and 10-fold, respectively; both P < 0.05) and decreased p62 levels (by 40% and 30%, respectively; both P < 0.05) in HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells. CQ treatment increased the LC3-Ⅱ/LC3-Ⅰ ratio and p62 protein expression (both by approximately 2-fold; P < 0.05). Combined ACOD1 knockdown further increased the LC3-Ⅱ/LC3-Ⅰ ratio (by approximately 10%; P < 0.05), while p62 protein expression did not increase significantly (P > 0.05). Supplementation with 4-OI reversed the changes in LC3-Ⅱ and p62 protein expression induced by ACOD1 knockdown. Furthermore, CQ treatment partially rescued the decrease in viability of HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells caused by ACOD1 knockdown (restoring viability to 75% and 80%, respectively; both P < 0.05).ACOD1 is overexpressed in HCC and its' overexpression is associated with poor prognosis. ACOD1 promotes HCC cell growth by synthesizing itaconate, which inhibits cellular autophagy.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Kawasaki disease (KD), a systemic vasculitis and the leading cause of acquired heart disease in children, stems from an uncontrolled inflammatory response that fails to resolve in up to 20% of IVIG-treated patients. This treatment resistance increases the risk of cardiovascular complications and highlights the need for more targeted therapeutics.We used the Lactobacillus casei cell wall extract (LCWE) murine model of KD vasculitis to investigate the therapeutic potential of itaconate, an anti-inflammatory metabolite, in the pathogenesis of KD. The expression of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (Acod1), which encodes the mitochondrial enzyme that produces itaconate, was assessed in both samples from KD patients and vascular tissues of LCWE-injected mice. LCWE-injected mice were treated with itaconate, and the severity of LCWE-induced KD vasculitis was evaluated.LCWE injection led to the development of cardiovascular lesions, specifically aortitis, coronary arteritis, and abdominal aorta dilatation. Expression of ACOD1 was upregulated in KD patients during the acute phase of the disease and in cardiovascular lesions of LCWE-injected mice. Treatment with itaconate significantly reduced the development of LCWE-induced cardiovascular lesions. Mechanistically, exogenous itaconate suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activation in LCWE-induced cardiovascular lesions and decreased IL-1β secretion.Itaconate treatment provides cardiovascular protection in an experimental mouse model of KD vasculitis by decreasing NLRP3 inflammasome activation and reducing vascular inflammation. Itaconate may be a promising therapeutic agent for patients with KD.Copyright © 2026 Lee, Namba, Atici, Aubuchon, Lane, Ross, Noval Rivas and Arditi.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41919324 is a review article
Itaconate is produced by inflammatory macrophages and promotes negative feedback on inflammation. It is synthesized by aconitate decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) from cis-aconitate, a metabolite of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Here, we focused on the role of ACOD1 in the immunometabolic reprograming of inflammatory microglia. Similar to macrophages, ACOD1 deficient microglia displayed a stronger inflammatory response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) compared to their wild type counterparts. The proinflammatory effects of ACOD1 deficiency were associated with enhanced ATP citrate lyase (ACLY) activity and elevated acetyl-CoA amounts, and reprogramed arginine metabolism entailing enhanced argininosuccinate synthesis at the expense of polyamine biosynthesis. These effects of ACOD1 deficiency on arginine metabolism were reversed by ACLY inhibition. These findings provide new insights in the immunometabolic role of ACOD1.Copyright © 2026 Karadima, Yilmaz, Sinha, Fodelianaki, Dimothyra, Nirakis, Traikov, Zamboni, Wielockx, Verginis, Peitzsch, Chavakis and Alexaki.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) have been confirmed to cause inflammation exacerbation and tissue injury in various diseases. Aconitate decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1), which catalyzes cis-aconitate decarboxylate to itaconate (ITA), has been found to participate in hepatic diseases. However, further investigation is needed to elucidate the function of ACOD1/ITA in liver injury, particularly with regard to neutrophil ACOD1. We aim to explore the relationship between ACOD1 and NETs, along with its mechanism in liver injury. Acod1 was predominately expressed in neutrophils in healthy and injured liver with single-cell RNA sequencing datasets. Acod1 deficiency promoted NETs and aggravated fatty liver injury induced by methionine-choline-deficient and high-fat diet, accompanied by increasing neutrophil Gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage. In vitro, ITA suppressed GSDMD cleavage and NETosis in murine neutrophils. Pharmacological blockade of GSDMD suppressed liver tissue and neutrophil GSDMD cleavage, accompanied by a decrease in NETosis, resulting in the amelioration of fatty liver injury. Mechanistically, ITA alkylated GSDMD at the Cys192 residue, suppressing the cleavage of GSDMD. Furthermore, infusion of wild-type neutrophils presented a reduction in NETs and an alleviation of liver injury compared to Acod1-/- neutrophils. Conclusion: ACOD1/ITA axis suppresses the formation of NETs by alkylating GSDMD, and alleviates murine liver injury, providing innovative ideas for the treatment of liver diseases.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
BACKGROUND: A comprehensive single-cell map of Activated B-cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (ABC-DLBCL) that profiles malignant B-cell heterogeneity and TME immune dynamics is urgently needed. METHODS: We generated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) profiles of 12,709 cells from a study of three ABC-DLBCL patients which was deposited in the GSE1824364. Malignant B-cell subsets were survival-linked by Scissor against two bulk ABC cohorts. R-loop scores, pseudotime, immune re-clustering, and cell–cell communication were computed; poor-outcome driver was validated by Immunohistochemistry (IHC). RESULTS: We identified five major immune cell types and 2350 malignant B cells. Malignant B cells showed upregulation of oxidative phosphorylation, MYC targets, and IL-2/STAT5 signaling. Reclustering revealed a poor-prognosis malignant B cells subpopulation enriched for inflammatory and immunosuppressive pathways. Pseudotime analysis indicated malignant B cells occupied later differentiation states with heightened B cell activation and immune evasion signaling. Subclustering of immune cells uncovered diverse T and myeloid populations, with CD8⁺T cells and macrophages being predominant. Cell–cell communication analysis revealed that poor-prognosis malignant B cells uniquely activated CD70-CD27 signaling, promoting Treg expansion and T cell exhaustion, while good-prognosis cells engaged T cells via ICAM1. Integrative analysis across datasets identified transmembrane immune signaling adaptor (TYROBP) as a key gene associated with poor survival, tumor aggressiveness, and Treg infiltration. IHC validation confirmed that TYROBP is significantly overexpressed in ABC-DLBCL tissues. CONCLUSION: Our study uncovered TYROBP as a readily detectable biomarker and a tractable target to counteract the dual drivers of resistance in ABC-DLBCL.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a severe microvascular complication of diabetes. This study aimed to identify hub genes and explore potential therapeutic drugs for DN. Differentially expressed genes were analyzed between DN and normal samples from the GSE104948 and GSE47183 datasets. Hub genes were identified through weighted gene coexpression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network analysis and validated using two external datasets. Receiver operating characteristic curves were employed to assess the diagnostic accuracy of the hub genes. Virtual screening identified potential small-molecule compounds targeting the hub genes CD163 and transmembrane immune signaling adaptor TYROBP (TYROBP). High-glucose (HG)-induced human glomerular mesangial cells (HGMCs) were used to construct an in vitro DN model. Cell viability was assessed using a cell counting kit-8, and inflammatory factors were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and mesangial extracellular matrix-related protein levels were detected by Western blot. Two hub genes, CD163 and TYROBP, were identified as significantly upregulated in DN samples and HG-induced HGMCs, demonstrating high specificity and sensitivity for DN diagnosis. Demethyleneberberine (DMB) and dehydroevodiamine (DHE) exhibited strong binding affinity to CD163 and TYROBP and effectively suppressed HG-induced HGMC proliferation, inflammatory responses, and extracellular matrix deposition. In conclusion, CD163 and TYROBP serve as key biomarkers and therapeutic targets for DN, while DMB and DHE show promise as natural compounds for DN treatment.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is the most prevalent type of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), with a high incidence and mortality rate. There is a lack of sensitive biomarkers. Therefore, the discovery of accurate biomarkers for KIRC patients is critical to improve prognosis.We determined hub genes and their associated pathways involved in the pathogenesis of KIRC from the GSE66272 dataset consisting of KIRC (n = 26) and corresponding control (n = 26) samples and later validated the expression and methylation level of the identified hub genes on The Cancer Genomic Atlas (TCGA) datasets and Human RCC 786-O and normal HK-2 cell lines through RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and targeted bisulfite sequencing (bisulfite-seq) analyses.The identified up-regulated four hub genes include TYROBP (Transmembrane Immune Signaling Adaptor TYROBP), PTPRC (Protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, C), LCP2 (Lymphocyte cytosolic protein 2), and ITGB2 (Integrin Subunit Beta 2). Moreover, the higher expression of TYROBP, PTPRC, LCP2, and ITGB2 in KIRC patients insignificantly correlates with a poor prognosis in KIRC patients. In addition, hub genes were involved in the "Fc epsilon RI signaling pathway, asthma, natural cell killer mediated cytotoxicity, T cell receptor signaling pathway, primary immunodeficiency, Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis, malaria, leukocyte transendothelial migration, and legionellosis" pathways and associated with the infiltration level of CD8+ T, CD4+ T, and macrophage cells.Our integrated in silico and in vitro analysis identified important hub genes (TYROBP, PTPRC, LCP2, and ITGB2) involved in the pathogenesis of KIRC as possible diagnostic biomarkers.AJTR Copyright © 2023.
Retinoblastoma (RB) is the most common type of aggressive intraocular malignancy in children. The alteration of immunity during RB progression and invasion has not yet been well defined. This study investigated significantly altered immune-associated genes and cells related to RB invasion.The differentially expressed immune-related genes (IRGs) in noninvasive RB and invasive RB were identified by analysis of two microarray datasets (GSE97508 and GSE110811). Hub IRGs were further identified by real time PCR. The single-sample gene set enrichment analysis algorithm and Pearson correlation analysis were used to define immune cell infiltration and the relationships between hub IRGs and immune cells. Cell viability and migration were evaluated by CCK-8 and Transwell assays. A xenograft mouse model was used to verify the relationship between Src homology 3 (SH3) domain GRB2-like 2 (SH3GL2) expression and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs).Eight upregulated genes and six downregulated IRGs were identified in invasive RB. Seven IRGs were confirmed by real-time PCR. Moreover, the proportions of MDSCs were higher in invasive RB tissues than in noninvasive RB tissues. Furthermore, correlation analysis of altered immune genes and cells suggested that SH3GL2, Langerhans cell protein 1 (LCP1) and transmembrane immune signaling adaptor TYROBP have strong connections with MDSCs. Specifically, decreased SH3GL2 expression promoted the migration of RB cells in vitro, increased the tumor size and weight, and increased the numbers of MDSCs in the tumor and spleen in vivo.This study indicated that SH3GL2 and MDSCs play a critical role in RB progression and invasion and provide candidate targets for the treatment of RB.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a global health issue, but the precise underlying mechanism has not yet been elucidated. The present study aimed to integrate microRNA (miRNA or miR) and mRNA profiles of AD and identify hub genes via bioinformatics analysis. Datasets associated with AD (GSE113141, GSE104249 and GSE138382) were integrated. Bioinformatics analysis was used to identify the hub mRNAs. TargetScan was used to predict miRNAs that have binding sites for the hub genes. Reverse transcription‑quantitative (RT‑q)PCR and western blot analysis was performed to assess miRNA and mRNA expression levels in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and human U251 cells. Luciferase reporter assay and RNA interference were utilized to verify the functions of these miRNAs in vitro. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that expression levels of the gene encoding transmembrane immune signaling adaptor TYROBP were upregulated in both the GSE113141 and GSE104249 datasets; TYROBP also served as the hub gene in AD. miR‑628‑5p was predicted to have binding sites for TYROBP and was downregulated in GSE138382. RT‑qPCR confirmed low miR‑628‑5p and high TYROBP expression levels in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and human U251 cells. Western blot analysis demonstrated high protein expression levels of amyloid β (Aβ) precursor protein, Aβ and TYROBP in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and U251 cells. Dual luciferase reporter assay confirmed that TYROBP was targeted by miR‑628‑5p. miR‑628‑5p/TYROBP may inhibit progressive neurodegeneration in AD and could be used as novel biomarkers and candidate drug targets.
The limited ability to regenerate axons after spinal cord injury (SCI) is influenced by factors such as astrocyte activation, reactive proliferation, and glial scar formation. The TGF-β/Smad (transforming growth factor-β/mothers against decapentaplegic homolog) pathway, associated with astrocytic scarring, plays a crucial role in recovery post-injury. This study aims to investigate how icariin (ICA) interacts with reactive astrocytes in the treatment of spinal cord injury.A rat SCI model was constructed, and the recovery of motor function was observed after treatment with ICA.HE staining, LFB staining, immunofluorescence staining, and Western blotting were employed to assess ICA's ability to inhibit astrocyte proliferation in rats following spinal cord injury by modulating YAP, as well as to evaluate the reparative effects of ICA on the injured spinal cord tissue. Primary astrocytes were isolated and cultured. Immunoprecipitation-Western Blot (IP-WB) ubiquitination and cytoplasm-nuclear separation were employed to assess PPM1B ubiquitination and nuclear translocation.The CatWalk XT gait analysis, BBB (Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan) score, electrophysiological measurements, HE staining, and LFB staining collectively demonstrated that ICA promotes motor function and tissue recovery following spinal cord injury in rats. Immunofluorescence staining and Western Blot analyses revealed that ICA inhibits astrocyte proliferation in rats post-spinal cord injury by suppressing YAP activity. Furthermore, the activation of YAP by XMU-MP-1 was shown to compromise the efficacy of ICA in these rats after spinal cord injury. Additional immunofluorescence staining and Western Blot experiments confirmed that ICA inhibits TGFβ1-induced astrocyte activation through the regulation of YAP. The knockdown of PPM1B (protein phosphatase, Mg2+/Mn2+-dependent 1B) in astrocytes was found to inhibit TGFβ signaling. Additionally, YAP was shown to regulate PPM1B ubiquitination and nuclear translocation through immunoprecipitation-Western blot analysis, along with the segregation of cytoplasm and nucleus.Icariin promotes functional recovery in rats after spinal cord injury by inhibiting YAP and regulating PPM1B ubiquitination to inhibiting the activation of reactive astrocytes.Copyright © 2024 Feng, Liu, Cheng, Zhou, Zhu, Zhao, Chen, Kan, Fu, Hu and Zhu.
RASAL2 (RAS protein activator like 2), a RASGTPase activating protein, can catalyze the hydrolysis of RAS-GTP into RAS-GDP to inactivate the RAS pathway in various types of cancer cells. However, the cellular function of RASAL2 remains elusive. Here we showed that RASAL2 can attenuate PRKAA/AMPKα phosphorylation by recruiting phosphatase PPM1B/pp2cβ, thus inhibiting the initiation of basal autophagy under normal conditions. In addition, we found that glucose starvation could induce dissociation of PPM1B from RASAL2 and then RASAL2 at S351 be phosphorylated by PRKAA, followed by the binding of phosphorylated-RASAL2 with to PIK3C3/VPS34-ATG14-BECN1/Beclin1 complex to increase PIK3C3 activity and autophagy. Furthermore, RASAL2 S351 phosphorylation facilitated breast tumor growth and correlated to poor clinical outcomes in breast cancer patients. Our study demonstrated that the phosphorylation status of RASAL2 S351 can function as a molecular switch to either suppress or promote AMPK-mediated autophagy. Inhibition of RASAL2 S351 phosphorylation might be a potential therapeutic strategy to overcome the resistance of AMPK-activation agents.Abbreviations: AICAR: aminoimidazole carboxamide ribonucleotide; AMPK: adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase; ATG14: autophagy related 14; C.C: compound C; CQ: chloroquine; DKO: double-knockout; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PIK3R4/VPS15: phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 4; PPM1B/pp2cβ: protein phosphatase, Mg2+/Mn2+ dependent 1B; PRKAA/AMPKα: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; RASAL2: RAS protein activator like 2; RasGAPs: RasGTPase activating proteins; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TNBC: triple-negative breast cancer.
The term CASM describes a process in which MAP1LC3B/LC3B and other Atg8-family proteins are covalently ligated to lipids in damaged endomembranes. While CASM is commonly described as a cytoprotective response to multiple types of membrane damage, how CASM helps cells maintain homeostasis is still unclear. Here, we show that CASM maintains Golgi apparatus architecture following the loss of TRIM46, a ubiquitin ligase with roles in microtubule organization. TRIM46 deficient cells were notable for enhanced TFEB-driven lysosomal biogenesis and Golgi ribbon fragmentation, with colocalization of the trans-Golgi marker TGOLN2 and the Atg8-family proteins LC3B and GABARAP. Further studies revealed that the Golgi Atg8ylation seen in TRIM46 knockout cells was not degradative and mechanistically resembled CASM. Genetic inhibition of CASM in TRIM46 deficient cells reduced TFEB activation and exacerbated the Golgi morphology defects, suggesting that CASM contributes to Golgi repair. Accordingly, Golgi reformation after drug-induced fragmentation was impaired upon knockdown of CASM genes. Together, these studies identify lysosomal biogenesis and CASM as coordinated features of a Golgi damage response, with CASM acting to preserve Golgi integrity.Abbreviations: AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase); ATG3 (autophagy related 3); ATG5 (autophagy related 5); ATG7 (autophagy related 7); ATG12 (autophagy related 12); ATG13 (autophagy related 13); ATG16L1 (autophagy related 16 like 1); BECN1 (beclin 1); CASM, conjugation of Atg8 to single membranes; GABARAP (GABA type A receptor-associated protein); GABARAPL1 (GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1); GABARAPL2 (GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2); GOLGA2 (golgin A2); HT (HaloTag); HL (HaloTag ligand); MAP1LC3A/LC3A (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha); MAP1LC3B/LC3B (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta); MAP1LC3C/LC3C (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 gamma); MTORC1 (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1); PE (phosphatidylethanolamine); PIK3C3/VPS34 (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3); PS (phosphatidylserine); TECPR1 (tectonin beta-propellor repeat containing 1); SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1); TFEB (transcription factor EB); TFE3 (transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3); TGOLN2 (trans-golgi network protein 2); TRIM46 (tripartite motif containing 46); ULK1 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1); ULK2 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 2): VAIL (V-ATPase-ATG16L1 induced LC3 lipidation).
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is increasingly recognized as a consequence of impaired mitochondrial quality control in renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs). In this study we show that the nuclear receptor ESRRA (estrogen related receptor alpha) transcriptionally activates ATG5 (autophagy related 5) to sustain PINK1 (PTEN induced kinase 1)-dependent mitophagy and preserve tubular homeostasis. ESRRA and ATG5 expression were markedly reduced in human DKD biopsies, and their abundance correlated positively with estimated glomerular filtration rate and inversely with albuminuria. Conditional deletion of Esrra in mouse tubules or CRISPR-Cas9 knockout in primary TECs suppressed mitophagy, exacerbated mitochondrial dysfunction and aggravated tubulointerstitial fibrosis, whereas tubular Esrra re-expression or Atg5 overexpression restored mitophagy and attenuated renal injury. Multi-omics and mechanistic assays identified the natural polyphenol salvianolic acid C (SAC) as a high-affinity ESRRA agonist that binds Asp326, Phe382 and Ala396, stabilizes the receptor and upregulates ATG5. SAC dose-dependently improved proteinuria, renal function, mitochondrial respiration and insulin sensitivity in db/db and high-fat diet-streptozotocin DKD models without overt toxicity. Metabolomic profiling revealed that ESRRA-ATG5-driven mitophagy targets ARG2 (arginase 2) for autophagy-lysosomal degradation, thereby shifting L-arginine flux from urea production toward nitric-oxide synthesis; exogenous L-arginine partly rescued renal injury in Esrra-deficient mice. Collectively, this study uncovers an ESRRA-ATG5 axis that couples selective mitophagy to L-arginine metabolism as a pivotal defense against DKD, and identifies SAC as a first-in-class, naturally derived ESRRA activator with therapeutic potential.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACR: albumin:creatinine ratio; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; AKI: acute kidney injury; ALB: albumin; ARG2: arginase 2; ATG12: autophagy related 12; ATG16L1: autophagy related 16-like 1; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BUN: blood urea nitrogen; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; ChIP-qPCR: chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative PCR; ChIP-Seq: chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CON: control; Cr: creatinine; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DHE: dihydroethidium; DKD: diabetic kidney disease; eGFR: estimated glomerular filtration rate; ESRD: end-stage renal disease; ESRRA: estrogen related receptor alpha; FSGS: focal segmental glomerulosclerosis; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; GTT: glucose tolerance test; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; HOMA-IR: homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; IF: immunofluorescence; IgAN: immunoglobulin A nephropathy; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IOD: integrated optical density; ITT: insulin tolerance test; KD: equilibrium dissociation constant; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; KO: knockout; LUC: luciferase; MCN: minimal change nephrosis; MST: microscale thermophoresis; MTS: mitochondrial targeting sequence; NAFLD: non-alcoholic fatty liver disease; NIH: National Institutes of Health; NO: nitric oxide; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PAS: periodic acid-Schiff; PCR: polymerase chain reaction; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RNA-seq: RNA sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative PCR; SAC: salvianolic acid C; SAFI: salvianolic acid for injection; SDH: succinate dehydrogenase; SEM: standard error of the mean; SPF: specific pathogen-free; SPR: surface plasmon resonance; STZ: streptozotocin; TCA: tricarboxylic acid; TECs: tubular epithelial cells; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFAM: transcription factor A, mitochondrial.
The inhibitory effect of baicalin on infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) replication is closely related to expression of the mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) in chicken embryonic kidney (CEK) cells. Baicalin significantly upregulated MAVS expression dose-dependently and maintained mitochondrial function through MAVS. Baicalin increased expression of mitofusin-1 (Mfn1), anti-apoptotic mitochondrial import receptor subunit TOM70 (TOM70), voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1), autophagy-related 5 (Atg5), and autophagy-related 12 (Atg12). Overexpression of Mfn1, VDAC1, TOM70, Atg5, and Atg12 enhanced baicalin-mediated interferon-β (IFN-β) expression, while knockdown of Mfn1, TOM70, VDAC1, TRADD, Atg5, or Atg12 significantly decreased IFN-β protein levels. In MAVS-knockdown cells, overexpression of Mfn1, mitofusin-2 (Mfn2), VDAC1, TNFR1-associated death domain protein (TRADD), Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD), Atg5, and Atg12 did not affect baicalin-mediated IFN-β expression. Thus, baicalin promotes mitochondrial fusion, permeability, metabolism, and autophagy. Baicalin upregulates IFN-β via Mfn1, VDAC1, TOM70, Atg5, and Atg12 dependent on MAVS. Moreover, baicalin inhibits key cytokines in the NF-κB pro-inflammatory pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Acute lung injury (ALI) caused by sepsis is a fatal disease characterized by an systemic inflammatory response to invading pathogens. Inducing macrophage macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical strategy to combat the inflammatory response in septic ALI. The E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21 plays important roles in autophagy. However, the mechanism connecting macrophage TRIM21-associated autophagy to ALI development remains unclear. Therefore, this study was aimed to investigate the role of macrophage TRIM21 in septic ALI in human and mice. TRIM21 levels were significantly increased in the macrophages of septic mice and in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of septic ALI patients relative to the controls. Intriguingly, Trim21-specific agonist administration exacerbated ALI and inflammatory responses in septic mice. To elucidate the role of macrophage TRIM21 in the development of septic ALI, we developed a clinically relevant macrophage trim21-specific knockout mouse sepsis model (trim21M-KO). trim21 deficiency significantly reduced mortality in septic ALI model mice by inhibiting sepsis-induced pulmonary edema and inflammatory infiltration, thereby improving the mechanical barrier properties of the alveolar mucosal epithelium and permeability of the alveolar membrane. Mechanistically, TRIM21 inhibits macrophage autophagy by enhancing the K11-linked ubiquitination of the autophagy-regulating proteins ULK1, SQSTM1/p62, BECN1/beclin1, and MAP1LC3B/LC3B and accelerating their ubiquitination-dependent proteasome degradation. This further promotes pro-inflammatory M1 macrophage polarization, aggravating the inflammation of septic lung tissue and exacerbating ALI. Collectively, our data demonstrate a novel role for macrophage TRIM21 in mediating autophagy to accelerate septic ALI. These new findings may provide a framework for potential interventions against septic ALI.Abbreviations: AL: autolysosome; ALI: acute lung injury; ARG1: arginase, liver; ATG12: autophagy related 12; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BALF: bronchoalveolar lavage fluid; Bbox: B-box; BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CC: coiled-coil; CCL2/MCP1: C-C motif chemokine ligand 2; CHX: cycloheximide; CLP: cecum ligation puncture; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DEG: differentially expressed genes; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: gene ontology; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MRC1/CD206: mannose receptor, C type 1; NLRP3: NLR family, pyrin domain containing 3; NOS2/iNOS: nitric oxide synthase 2, inducible; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative PCR; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a significant global health concern, as both acute and chronic hepatitis caused by HCV can lead to liver cancer and long-term liver damage. Thymoquinone (TQ), the active compound found in the remarkable herb Nigella sativa, has various anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative effects. In this study, we investigated the effect of TQ on the interferon-alpha (IFN-α) pathway and its ability to prevent HCV replication in the HepG2 cell line. Our findings showed no significant alterations in cell viability or lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) production in TQ-treated cells, while significant alteration in both factors was detected in cells treated with Sovaldi, the most commonly used drug for treatment of HCV infection. Interestingly, the level of the HCV NS5A protein was significantly reduced in infected cells treated with either TQ or Sovaldi in a dose-dependent manner. The expression of phosphorylated Raf-1 (phospho-Raf-1) and phospho-Mek-1 in infected cells was inhibited by TQ treatment, and the potential interaction between TQ and Ref-1 was confirmed by a molecular docking simulation. Unlike autophagy-related 12 (Atg12), the expression of LC3B in infected cells was also inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by TQ treatment. Conversely, the levels of interleukin-27 (IL-27) and interferon-alpha (IFN-α) in infected cells were significantly increased in a time- and dose-dependent manner by TQ treatment. These data suggest that TQ exerts antiviral effects in HepG2 cells by disrupting HCV replication through targeting of the Raf-1 signaling pathway and promoting the overproduction of IL-27 and IFN-α in infected cells.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part of Springer Nature.
The aim of our research was to explore the character of autophagy related 12 (ATG12) in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A total of  145 HCC tissues as well as paired adjacent normal tissues were collected, then immunohistochemistry was conducted to access the expression of ATG12. HCC cells were transfected with pcDNA ATG12 or si-ATG12 to overexpress ATG12 or downregulate ATG12. The vitality of HCC cells was accessed using CCK-8 assay, and the ability of invasion of them was tested through Transwell assay. The apoptotic rate of HCC cells was calculated by flow cytometry. The expression of ATG12 was lower in HCC tissues than that in normal tissues, and HCC patients with high ATG12 level survived longer. Overexpressed of ATG12 restrained vitality and invasion of HCC cells, while elevated apoptotic rate of HCC cells. Silence of ATG12 expression yielded opposite results to overexpression of ATG12 in HCC cells. In conclusion, ATG12 is low expressed in HCC, which attenuated the growth and invasion of HCC, while induced the apoptosis of HCC cells. Current research suggested that ATG12 might be a potential target for the diagnosis and treatment of HCC.© 2024. The Author(s).
MFN1 (mitofusin 1) and MFN2 are key players in mitochondrial fusion, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria juxtaposition, and macroautophagy/autophagy. However, the mechanisms by which these proteins participate in these processes are poorly understood. Here, we studied the interactomes of these two proteins by using CRISPR-Cas9 technology to insert an HA-tag at the C terminus of MFN1 and MFN2, and thus generating HeLa cell lines that endogenously expressed MFN1-HA or MFN2-HA. HA-affinity isolation followed by mass spectrometry identified potential interactors of MFN1 and MFN2. A substantial proportion of interactors were common for MFN1 and MFN2 and were regulated by nutrient deprivation. We validated novel ER and endosomal partners of MFN1 and/or MFN2 with a potential role in interorganelle communication. We characterized RAB5C (RAB5C, member RAS oncogene family) as an endosomal modulator of mitochondrial homeostasis, and SLC27A2 (solute carrier family 27 (fatty acid transporter), member 2) as a novel partner of MFN2 relevant in autophagy. We conclude that MFN proteins participate in nutrient-modulated pathways involved in organelle communication and autophagy.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin, beta; ATG2: autophagy related 2; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG12: autophagy related 12; ATG14: autophagy related 14; ATG16L1: autophagy related 16 like 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; BFDR: Bayesian false discovery rate; Cas9: CRISPR-associated endonuclease Cas9; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1-like; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; Faa1: fatty acid activation 1; FC: fold change; FDR: false discovery rate; FIS1: fission, mitochondrial 1; GABARAP: gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor associated protein; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; HA: hemagglutinin; KO: knockout; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MARCHF5: membrane associated ring-CH-type finger 5; MDVs: mitochondria-derived vesicles; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; NDFIP2: Nedd4 family interacting protein 2; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OPA1: OPA1, mitochondrial dynamin like GTPase; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PINK1: PTEN induced putative kinase 1; PS: phosphatidylserine; RAB5C: RAB5C, member RAS oncogene family; S100A8: S100 calcium binding protein A8 (calgranulin A); S100A9: S100 calcium binding protein A9 (calgranulin B); SLC27A2: solute carrier family 27 (fatty acid transporter), member 2; TIMM44: translocase of inner mitochondrial membrane 44; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1; VCL: vinculin; VDAC1: voltage-dependent anion channel 1; WT: wild type.
Listeria monocytogenes (L. monocytogenes, Lm) is widely used in the laboratory as an infection model for the research on pathogenesis and host defense against gram-positive intracellular bacteria. Macroautophagy (called simply "autophagy" hereafter), is important in the host defense against pathogens, such as bacteria, viruses, and parasites. BECN1 plays a pivotal role in the initiation of autophagy and accumulating evidence indicates that post-translational modifications of BECN1 provide multiple strategies for autophagy regulation. In this study, we demonstrated that the RING1-IBR-RING2 (RBR) family member RNF144A (ring finger protein 144A), which was induced by Lm infection, promoted Lm infection in an autophagy-dependent but STING1-independent pattern. rnf144a deficiency in mice protected mice from Lm infection with inhibited innate immune responses. Interestingly, RNF144A decreased Lm-induced autophagosome accumulation. Mechanistic investigation indicated that RNF144A interacted with BECN1 and promoted its K48-linked ubiquitination, leading to the subsequent proteasome-dependent degradation of BECN1 and reduced autophagosome accumulation. Further study demonstrated that RNF144A promoted the ubiquitination of BECN1 at K117 and K427, and these two ubiquitination sites were essential to the role of BECN1 in autophagy and Lm infection. Thus, our findings suggested a new regulator in intracellular bacterial infection and autophagy, which may contribute to our understanding of host defense against intracellular bacterial infection via autophagy.Abbreviations: ATG3: autophagy related 3; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG10: autophagy related 10; ATG12: autophagy related 12; ATG16L1: autophagy related 16 like 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; BMDC: bone marrow-derived dendritic cell; BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophage; CFUs: colony-forming units; CHX: cycloheximide; CQ: chloroquine; CXCL10/IP-10: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; IFIT1/ISG56: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFNB/IFN-β: interferon beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IRF3, interferon regulatory factor 3; Lm: L. monocytogenes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PLA: proximity ligation assay; PMA: phorbol myristate acetate; PMA-THP1, PMA-differentiated THP1; PMs: peritoneal macrophages; PTMs: posttranslational modifications; RBR: RING1-IBR-RING2; RNF144A: ring finger protein 144A; STING1, stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1, TANK binding kinase 1; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39007805 is a review article
A large proportion of patients with chronic pain experience co-morbid anxiety. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is proposed to underlie this comorbidity, but the molecular and neuronal mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, we reported that impaired neuronal macroautophagy in the prelimbic cortical (PrL) subregion of the mPFC paralleled the occurrence of anxiety-like behaviors in rats with chronic spared nerve injury (SNI). Intriguingly, such macroautophagy impairment was mainly observed in a FOS/c-Fos+ neuronal subpopulation in the PrL. Chemogenetic inactivation of this comorbid anxiety-related neuronal ensemble relieved pain-induced anxiety-like behaviors. Rescuing macroautophagy impairment in this neuronal ensemble relieved chronic pain-associated anxiety and mechanical allodynia and restored synaptic homeostasis at the molecular level. By contrast, artificial disruption of macroautophagy induced early-onset co-morbid anxiety in neuropathic rats, but not general anxiety in normal rats. Taken together, our work identifies causal linkage between PrL neuronal macroautophagy dysfunction and comorbid anxiety in neuropathic pain and provides novel insights into the role of PrL by differentiating its contribution in pain-induced comorbid anxiety from its modulation over general anxiety-like behaviors.Abbreviation: AAV: adeno-associated viruses; ACC: anterior cingulate cortex; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG12: autophagy related 12; CAMK2/CaMKII: calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II; CNO: clozapine-N-oxide; CQ: chloroquine; DIA: data independent acquisition; DIO: double floxed inverse orf; DLG4/PSD-95: discs large MAGUK scaffold protein 4; Dox: doxycycline; GABA: γ-aminobutyric acid; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GO: gene ontology; Gi: inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding proteins; HsCHRM4/M4D: human cholinergic receptor muscarinic 4; HsSYN: human synapsin; KEGG: Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LC3-II: PE conjugated microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain3; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; mPFC: medial prefrontal cortex; P2A: 2A self-cleaving peptide; PPI: protein-protein interaction networks; PrL: prelimbic cortex; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; rtTA: reverse tetracycline-transactivator; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SHANK3: SH3 and multiple ankyrin repeat domains 3; SLC1A1/EAAC1: solute carrier family 1 (neuronal/epithelial high affinity glutamate transporter, systemXag), member 1; SNAP23: synaptosomal-associated protein 23; SNI:spared nerve injury; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SYT3: synaptotagmin 3; TRE: tetracycline-responsive element; TRE3G: third-generation tetracycline-responsive element.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver disease globally. Chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), a key component of bile acids, improves hepatic lipid metabolism. The present study aimed to investigate whether CDCA regulates hepatic lipid metabolism by interacting with pyruvate kinase (PK), and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanism. High-fat cell and murine models were generated. The levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in cells and animal livers were measured. BODIPY and Oil Red staining were employed to detect the lipid droplet content. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was used to assess the expression of the lipid-related genes. Immunoprecipitation and molecular docking were used to examine the interaction between CDCA and PK, as well as their interaction sites. The effects of their binding on PK activity and pyruvate synthesis were investigated. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that compared with the high-fat group, the TG, TC and MDA levels in the CDCA-treated group were markedly reduced. In addition, lipid droplet count was markedly decreased and SOD activity was increased. The mRNA expression levels of lipid synthesis genes (such as fatty acid synthase and sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1) were notably decreased, whereas those of lipid metabolism genes (CTP synthase 1 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α) exhibited the opposite trend. CDCA specifically bound to the PK-M2 subtype, which promoted PK activity and pyruvate production. Pretreatment with a PK inhibitor completely reversed lipid synthesis inhibition and β-oxidation enhancement induced by CDCA. CDCA notably ameliorated hepatic lipid deposition, and its underlying mechanism was revealed to be closely associated with the direct binding of CDCA to PK and subsequent enhancement of PK activity.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al.
MALAT1 has been validated to favor the progression of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but its detailed mechanism remains obscure. This study explored the functional roles of ALL cells-derived exosomal MALAT1 in chemoresistance and malignant growth of ALL cells, as well as its underlying mechanisms.The expression of target molecules was evaluated by qRT-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemical staining. CCK-8, EdU staining and flow cytometry were conducted to determine cell proliferation and apoptosis. RIP, RNA-pull down, Co-IP, and MeRIP were used to investigate molecular mechanisms. ALL cells were injected into nude mice to evaluate in vivo tumor formation.MALAT1 and methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) were up-regulated in ALL, which exhibited a positive correlation. METTL14-mediated m6A modification raised MALAT1 stability and expression, and consequently facilitated ALL cell growth and apoptosis inhibition. Furthermore, MALAT1 was packaged into ALL cells-derived exosomes by hnRNPA2B1, and then transferred to NK92-MI cells. Exosomal MALAT1 suppressed tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27)-mediated ubiquitination of High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in NK92-MI cells, thereby leading to adriamycin resistance and malignant development of ALL cells.ALL cells-derived exosomal MALAT1 was up-regulated by METTL14-mediated m6A modification, and subsequently restrained HMGB1 ubiquitination and degradation in NK92-MI cells, which resulted in adriamycin resistance and malignant growth of ALL cells. Therefore, inhibition of METTL14/MALAT1/HMGB1 axis might be a therapeutic strategy for ALL patients.(1)METTL14 and MALAT1 were positively correlated in ALL samples.(2)METTL14 increased MALAT1 stability and expression in an IGF2BP1-mediated m6A manner.(3)ALL cells transferring exosomal MALAT1 suppressed TRIM27-mediated HMGB1 ubiquitination in NK92-MI cells.(4)HMGB1 silencing in NK92-MI cells enhanced adriamycin sensitivity of ALL cells.(5)MALAT1/HMGB1 axis inhibition delayed in vivo ALL growth via NK cell activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Interferon regulatory factor 2 binding protein 2 (IRF2BP2) suppresses the interferon response and inflammation. Individuals who carry 2 copies of a genetic variant (rs3045215) that deletes 9 nucleotides from the long 3'UTR of IRF2BP2 have lower IRF2BP2 protein expression in white blood cells and increased risk of coronary atherosclerosis and calcification.RNAfold revealed that the deletion variant of IRF2BP2 disrupts an RNA stem-loop structure that can recruit the eukaryotic initiation factor 4H (eIF4H) to facilitate translation. siRNA knockdown of eIF4H reduced expression of endogenous IRF2BP2 protein. Similarly, it impaired translation of a luciferase reporter bearing the whole 3'UTR of IRF2BP2 but had no effect on one bearing the 9-nucleotide deletion variant (rs3045215). This deletion variant happens to be co-inherited with an IRF2BP2 coding variant that changes proline to serine at position 78. Overexpression of either isoform of IRF2BP2 (Pro78 or Ser78) suppressed translation of the luciferase reporter containing the whole IRF2BP2 3'UTR to the same level but had no effect on the deletion-bearing reporter. RNA gel mobility shift assay using cytosolic extracts of LPS-stimulated THP1 macrophages revealed that the 9-nucleotide deletion variant prevents endogenous IRF2BP2 protein from interacting with its own 3'UTR RNA sequences.The rs3045215 9-nucleotide deletion that increases the risk of heart disease abolishes IRF2BP2 autoregulation through an eIF4H-dependent translational enhancer.Copyright © 2026 Duong, Chen and Stewart.
DLGAP5 is frequently upregulated in human cancers and is associated with tumor progression. However, its biological role, regulatory mechanism, and downstream signaling in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remain unclear.Public databases were used to analyze DLGAP5 expression, diagnostic value, and prognostic significance across cancers, especially in LUAD. Functional assays in LUAD cells and xenograft models were performed to evaluate the effects of DLGAP5 on proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor growth. Mechanistic studies were conducted to examine cell cycle- and EMT-related proteins, as well as the transcriptional regulation of DLGAP5 by YY1.DLGAP5 was significantly upregulated in multiple cancers and showed strong diagnostic value. High DLGAP5 expression predicted poor overall survival and disease-specific survival, and was an independent prognostic factor in LUAD. DLGAP5 knockdown inhibited LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor growth. Mechanistically, DLGAP5 silencing reduced CDK4 and CDK6 expression and suppressed the Wnt/β-catenin/EMT pathway, as shown by decreased N-cadherin, Slug, Snail, Twist1, and β-catenin, with increased E-cadherin. In addition, YY1 directly bound to the DLGAP5 promoter and positively regulated its expression. YY1 knockdown reduced DLGAP5 expression and impaired LUAD progression.DLGAP5 promotes LUAD progression by enhancing cell proliferation, metastasis, and EMT, while YY1 acts as its upstream transcriptional activator. The YY1/DLGAP5 axis may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
The nervous system is highly sensitive to alterations in the dosage of genes crucial for neurodevelopment, as exemplified by retinoic acid-induced 1 (RAI1). A 50% change in RAI1 gene copy number, resulting in either reduced or increased protein levels, leads to distinct neurodevelopmental disorders. RAI1 haploinsufficiency causes Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS), whereas RAI1 duplication underlies Potocki-Lupski syndrome. We recently demonstrated that restoring Rai1 levels can improve SMS-related disease phenotypes in mice. However, despite protein stability being a major determinant of protein abundance, there are currently no therapeutic approaches to modulate RAI1 protein stability. Here, we performed a forward CRISPR screen in human cells to identify post-translational regulators of RAI1 steady-state levels and identified tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27) as a destabilizer of RAI1. We show that RAI1 degradation occurs primarily through the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with TRIM27 interacting with RAI1 and enabling TRIM27-dependent lysine(K)48- and K63-linked RAI1 ubiquitination. Finally, in SMS mouse primary neurons, we demonstrate that knocking down TRIM27 partially rescues SMS-associated morphological phenotypes. Our findings provide the first mechanistic insight into RAI1 proteostasis and highlight TRIM27 as a potential therapeutic target for SMS, highlighting the potential of manipulating ubiquitin-mediated proteostasis to restore gene dosage altered by copy number variations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
Interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF2) is a transcription factor that critically modulates innate antiviral immunity through regulation of interferon (IFN). In this study, two IRF2 homologs, AjIRF2 and AjIRF2a, were identified and characterized from Japanese eel (Anguilla japonica). Sequence analysis revealed that both proteins harbor a highly conserved DNA-binding domain (DBD). Expression analysis demonstrated that AjIRF2 and AjIRF2a are ubiquitously expressed across tissues, with AjIRF2a exhibiting consistently higher basal expression, particularly in the kidney. Upon infection with Anguillid herpesvirus 1 (AngHV-1), as well as stimulation with poly I:C, both AjIRF2 and AjIRF2a were markedly upregulated. Functional analyses showed that AjIRF2/2a attenuate the induction of AjIFNs and interferon-stimulated genes triggered by AngHV-1 or poly I:C, thereby facilitating viral replication. Dual-luciferase reporter assays further demonstrated that AjIRF2/2a antagonize AjIRF1- and AjIRF11-mediated activation of the AjIFN promoter by competing for interferon-stimulated response element (ISRE) binding, which depends on four key residues (Arg82, Cys83, Asn86, and Ser87) located within the α3 helix of the DBD. Notably, DBD-deficient mutants of AjIRF2/2a retained the ability to suppress AjIFN promoter activity following poly I:C stimulation, indicating the involvement of ISRE-independent mechanisms. Further studies revealed AjIRF2/2a facilitate the ubiquitination-dependent degradation of AjSTAT1a, thereby dampening IFN signaling output. Taken together, these findings establish AjIRF2 and AjIRF2a as negative regulators of antiviral innate immunity in Japanese eel, acting through both direct transcriptional interference and post-translational modulation of key signaling components to constrain IFN responses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The association between skeletal muscle gene expression and knee osteoarthritis (OA) was examined among older adult participants of the Study of Muscle, Mobility and Aging (SOMMA).Inclusion criteria included knee radiographs and bulk RNA sequencing (RNAseq) in vastus lateralis muscle, resulting in 523 participants (56% female). Radiographic knee OA was determined by Kellgren-Lawrence (KL) grades. Differential gene expression was analyzed using a control group (KL ≤ 1, n = 326) and two nested case groups: (a) KL ≥ 2 (n = 197), (b) KL ≥ 3 (n = 112).Compared with controls, there were 27 and 41 genes associated (FDR ≤ 0.05) with KL ≥ 2 and KL ≥ 3, respectively, and 16 genes significantly associated in both contrasts. For 15 of the 16 genes, the association magnitude was larger with more severe OA (KL ≥ 3). Genes associated in both contrasts included brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and interferon regulatory factor-2 (IRF2). Gene sets enriched in KL ≥ 2 and KL ≥ 3 contrasts included DNA repair and branched chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolism.Our results in older adult SOMMA participants indicate that knee OA is associated with genes and pathways expressed in skeletal muscle that are involved in pain sensitization, BCAA catabolism, muscle function preservation, calcium transport and storage, inflammation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Additional longitudinal studies will be needed to determine how these genes could affect the progression of knee OA.
KRAS-mutant colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits an aggressive metastatic phenotype, largely driven by TGFβ-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, the downstream effectors mediating TGFβ-driven metastasis in this context remain incompletely defined. This study identifies interferon regulatory factor 2 (IRF2) as a key metastasis suppressor and direct transcriptional repression target of TGFβ-SMAD2/3 signaling. IRF2 expression is markedly downregulated at invasive tumor fronts, showing a significant inverse correlation with p-SMAD2 levels and advanced metastatic stage. Single-cell trajectory analysis reveals temporal IRF2 suppression precisely coinciding with TGFβ/EMT program activation during metastatic progression. Mechanistically, SMAD2/3 complexes directly bind the IRF2 promoter to mediate repression, and IRF2 overexpression effectively reverses TGFβ1-induced invasive phenotypes in vitro. Pharmacological TGFβR1 inhibition restores IRF2 expression, slowing tumor progression and extending survival in the KRAS-driven iKAP mouse model. Furthermore, IRF2 reconstitution potently inhibits CRC cell invasion and metastasis by transcriptionally repressing EMT-related genes and enhancing anti-tumor immunity, characterized by increased CD8+ T-cell infiltration and reduced regulatory T cells (Tregs). While active in various CRC contexts, the TGFβ-SMAD2/3-IRF2 axis is particularly critical in KRAS-mutant CRC, where IRF2 loss acts as a functional second hit to accelerate dissemination. These findings uncover a TGFβ-SMAD2/3-IRF2 axis governing EMT and metastatic dissemination, positioning IRF2 restoration as a promising therapeutic strategy for aggressive KRAS-mutant CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sustained proliferation is a hallmark of tumor cells. Cancer-associated alternative splicing (AS) events can provide proliferative advantages in tumors, suggesting that identifying aberrant RNA splicing events linked to proliferation in ovarian cancer (OC) may reveal novel therapeutic targets. In this study, we found that small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide E (SNRPE) was overexpressed in OC, particularly in the proliferative subtype, and indicated worse clinical prognosis. SNRPE knockdown significantly slowed tumor cell proliferation, inducing G1 phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. RNA sequencing analysis identified CTP synthase 1 (CTPS1), the rate-limiting factor in the conversion of UTP to CTP, as a critical downstream effector of SNRPE. Mechanistically, SNRPE deficiency led to the retention of intron 15 in CTPS1 mRNA, triggering the degradation of unspliced transcripts through the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway and reducing the level of functional CTPS1. Notably, CTPS1 knockdown significantly suppressed the tumor progression driven by SNRPE overexpression. Given that the loss of CTPS2 was prevalent in OC, OC cell proliferation could be more effectively controlled by the suppression of CTPS1. We propose a strategy to regulate CTPS1 expression by modulating its efficient splicing through SNRPE. Consequently, the SNRPE-CTPS1 axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for OC patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aortic dissection (AD) is a fatal acute cardiovascular emergency. SUMOylation participates in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammation, but its role in AD, especially via TOPORS, remains unclear. This study investigates how TOPORS regulates AD pathogenesis through SUMOylation. AD and normal aortic samples were collected to detect TOPORS expression. AD mouse and VSMCs models were constructed to assess TOPORS depletion and overexpression effects on AD progression. In AD aortic tissues, TOPORS expression was upregulated, while tripartite motif containing 27 (TRIM27) and Sentrin-specific protease 6 (SENP6) expression showed no significant change. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that inhibition of TOPORS alleviated aortic dilation and elastic fiber degradation. TOPORS knockout suppressed the secretion of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IFN-α), promoted PI3K/AKT phosphorylation, and downregulated p53 signaling. The p53 inhibitor PFTα reduced AD-induced cell apoptosis and upregulation of inflammatory cytokines. Co-immunoprecipitation further confirmed that inhibition of TOPORS decreases SUMOylation of p53. Conclusions: TOPORS activates p53, inhibits PI3K/AKT phosphorylation via SUMOylation, promotes vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) apoptosis and inflammation, and exacerbates AD pathogenesis.
Human babesiosis is an emerging disease in North America caused by the red blood cell (RBC)-infecting parasite Babesia microti. Despite a rise in clinical cases in recent years, the pathogenesis and host immune response to B. microti infection remain unclear. CD47 is a 'marker of self' transmembrane glycoprotein expressed on cell membranes that inhibits phagocytosis through interactions with macrophage signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα). We posit that disruption of CD47-SIRPα signalling will induce macrophage uptake of Babesia-infected RBCs and reduce parasitaemia in susceptible hosts. To evaluate this, we compared the in vivo clearance of B. microti in CD47 knockout (CD47-/-) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Our results showed pronounced differences in infection kinetics between the two mouse strains. C57BL/6J mice showed steadily increasing parasitaemia that peaked at an average of 12%, whereas CD47-/- mice exhibited parasitaemia that never exceeded 1.5% throughout infection. Parasitaemia became undetectable by Day 21 in C57BL/6J and by Day 16 in CD47-/- mice, indicating resolution of infection. These results imply that, in the absence of CD47, growth of B. microti is diminished due to more efficient phagocytosis of infected RBCs by macrophages. We propose that CD47-SIRPα signalling plays a key role in the innate response to Babesia and suggest CD47 modulation as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of babesiosis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ontorpacept, a recombinant signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα)-blocking fusion protein, has antitumour activity by disrupting CD47-SIRPα signalling. This Phase 1/2 study examined ontorpacept with doxorubicin in patients with leiomyosarcoma.Eligible patients were ≥18 years with metastatic or locally advanced high-grade soft-tissue sarcomas (high-grade leiomyosarcoma in Phase 2). In Phase 1, patients received escalating doses of ontorpacept plus doxorubicin. Phase 2 dose expansion evaluated ontorpacept doses 0.2, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg plus doxorubicin. The primary endpoints were safety (Phase 1); and objective response rate (ORR) (Phase 1/2).Seventy-six patients were enrolled (Phase 1, n = 9; Phase 2, n = 67). No dose-limiting toxicities occurred in Phase 1. The most common treatment-related adverse events were neutrophil count decreased/neutropenia (grade ≥3 in 66% of patients). In Phase 1, one patient receiving ontorpacept 2.0 mg/kg had a confirmed partial response. In Phase 2, six patients receiving ontorpacept 0.2 mg/kg (ORR, 18.8%; 95% CI, 7.2-36.4) and one patient receiving 2.0 mg/kg (ORR, 4.5%; 95% CI, 0.1-22.8) had confirmed partial responses.This first study of CD47 inhibition with chemotherapy in leiomyosarcomas shows manageable safety, supporting further investigation of ontorpacept dosing and schedule, in combination with doxorubicin and as monotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500710 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494867 is a review article
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
Enhancing myeloid effector cell recruitment may improve immunotherapy by monoclonal antibodies, including those against acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). To assess the expression of target antigens in B-cell ALL (B-ALL), we compared mRNA profiling of 559 patient leukemia samples across 18 molecular subtypes with that of representative cell lines. The latter served as target cells to compare human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) or IgA2 variants against CD19, CD20, or CD38 in antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) by macrophages and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) by polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). Interestingly, antibodies against broadly expressed CD19 were negligibly effective in mediating ADCP or ADCC. Antibodies against CD20 or CD38, the former variably expressed across subtypes, triggered ADCP by macrophages both as IgG1 and IgA2. However, PMN-mediated ADCC against CD20 or CD38 was only observed with IgA2 variants but not with respective IgG1 antibodies. Blocking the myeloid checkpoint CD47/signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα) enhanced ADCP and ADCC by IgA2 antibodies against CD20 and CD38 but not CD19. Both CD47 and its enzymatic modifier glutaminyl-peptide cyclotransferase-like protein (QPCTL), which can be inhibited by small molecules, were broadly expressed across B-ALL subtypes. QPCTL catalyzes the formation of an N-terminal pyroglutamic acid on CD47, which is directly involved in CD47/SIRPα interactions as shown by novel engineered CD47 variants. Importantly, the combination of anti-CD38 IgA2 and CD47 blockade was effective against xenografted B-ALL in human FcαRI (CD89) transgenic NXG mice. Together, these studies support combining anti-CD38 IgA2 with CD47 interference to improve myeloid effector cell recruitment for B-ALL immunotherapy.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Bispecific antibodies (BsAbs) represent a growing class of cancer immunotherapeutics, yet their wider adoption remains limited by complex recombinant production and limited manufacturing efficiency. Here, we report a chemically assembled macrophage-engaging glypican-3 × signal regulatory protein-α (SIRP-α) bispecific antibody for the treatment of liver cancer. Using our bifunctional linker, glypican-3-binding peptide dimers were conjugated to a native anti-SIRP-α IgG via a rapid one-pot, two-step process, yielding a novel dendritic bispecific antibody (dBsAb). Such a construct simultaneously targets glypican-3-positive hepatocellular carcinoma cells and blocks the CD47-SIRP-α axis, thereby promoting macrophage engagement and phagocytosis. In vitro studies showed substantially enhanced macrophage adhesion and tumor cell clearance compared with the monoclonal antibody. In an in vivo experiment, dBsAb demonstrated a 68% reduction in tumor growth, with increased macrophage infiltration, M1 polarization, and elevated antigen presentation without observable systemic toxicity. This chemical assembly approach offers a practical alternative to recombinant methods for constructing bispecific antibodies and may facilitate the development of macrophage-directed immunotherapies.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Pan-neddylation inhibitors exhibit potent hypoglycemic effect. The target organs and mechanisms underlying the hypoglycemia effect of pan-neddylation inhibitors are incompletely understood. We found that inhibition of cullin 3 leads to a dual insulin sensitization and insulinotropic effect. Selective inhibition of cullin 3 neddylation is a feasible approach to lower hyperglycemia.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494121 is a review article
Speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP), a substrate receptor for the Cullin-3-RING (CRL3) ubiquitin ligase, is mutated in different cancers. Both activating and inactivating mutations in SPOP drive oncogenesis, underscoring the need for precise regulation. Among substrate receptors, SPOP uniquely assembles into filaments that are multivalent for substrate binding. Conversely, many substrates contain multiple SPOP-binding motifs. How this unusual reciprocal multivalent architecture regulates ubiquitination and how mutations activate SPOP are unclear. Gain-of-function mechanisms are also generally poorly understood. Here, we reveal that SPOP assemblies exist in an equilibrium between an active filament and a large, autoinhibited, circular "double-donut" state. Activating mutations shift the equilibrium, resulting in aberrant substrate turnover. Combinations of activating and inactivating mutations can produce intermediate activities, thus uncovering a tunable regulatory axis with implications for targeted cancer therapies. Therefore, SPOP's ability to assemble into long filaments is required for its regulation in human cells and underlies a gain-of-function mechanism.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the major global health challenge. As a newly discovered molecular mechanism, ferroptosis offers great potential to eliminate cancer cells. This study identified KLHL18 (Kelch-like Protein 18), an understudied adaptor of the Cullin3 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, as a tumor suppressor in HCC. We demonstrated that KLHL18 was downregulated in HCC tissues and that its overexpression suppressed tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, KLHL18 promotes ferroptosis by interacting with GPX4, a key glutathione peroxidase that prevents lipid peroxidation, and promoting GPX4 ubiquitination, leading to proteasomal degradation. This proteasomal degradation is associated with K48-linked ubiquitination, with lysine 191 of GPX4 identified as a major ubiquitination site. Furthermore, KLHL18 expression modulated ferroptotic and antitumor responses of HCC cells to sorafenib. Our findings reveal a novel regulatory axis in which KLHL18-mediated GPX4 degradation contributes to ferroptotic cell death and suppresses HCC progression, suggesting that KLHL18 is a potential biomarker and molecular target warranting further clinical investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP)-associated vision loss is driven by pathological retinal angiogenesis. Current therapies suppress neovascularization but do not fully restore vascular integrity or prevent long-term visual deficit. Activation of the sigma-1 receptor (Sig1R) has been reported to confer neuroprotection, yet its role in retinal vascular protection remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigated whether Sig1R activation confers vascular protection in experimental ROP.The oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) mouse model was induced in wild-type and Sig1R-/- mice with or without systemic (+)-pentazocine ([+]-PTZ) administration to activate Sig1R. Retinal vascular pathology, barrier integrity, and avascular areas were evaluated by fluorescein angiography and retinal flatmount analysis. Molecular changes in metabolic, oxidative, and inflammatory pathways were assessed by immunostaining/blotting and ELISA assay.Sig1R expression was reduced in OIR retinas, accompanied by decreased cullin-3 ubiquitin ligase (Cul3) and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK) and increased pAkt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), indicative of metabolic and endothelial stress. Activation of Sig1R with (+)-PTZ restored Sig1R, Cul3, and pAMPK levels, suppressed pAkt/eNOS signaling, reduced oxidative stress, and attenuated Müller glial activation. OIR-induced upregulation of phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) and pro-angiogenic/inflammatory mediators, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), IL-6, TNF-α, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), and tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), were markedly reduced by (+)-PTZ. Functionally, Sig1R activation improved retinal vascular barrier integrity, reduced arterial tortuosity and pathological neovascularization, and promoted revascularization of avascular retina. Importantly, (+)-PTZ treatment failed to confer any vascular benefit in Sig1R-/- mice, confirming that these vascular benefits are Sig1R dependent.Sig1R activation preserves vascular integrity and suppresses pathological angiogenesis in OIR. Together with known neuroprotective effects, Sig1R represents a promising dual neurovascular therapeutic target for ROP.
Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1) acts as a repressor of nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a major transcription factor regulating cellular antioxidant response. Keap1 is the substrate adaptor subunit of the cullin 3-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that specifically facilitates Nrf2 ubiquitination and its proteasomal degradation. Keap1 is rich in cysteine residues, and several of them undergo various modifications, such as sulphydration, nitrosylation and glutathionylation under cellular stress conditions. Some of these modifications alter the conformation of Keap1, preventing Nrf2 from ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation. As a result, newly synthesised Nrf2 translocates to the nucleus to induce the expression of diverse genes involved in protecting cells against oxidative stress. Protein CoAlation is a reversible redox-dependent post-translational modification (PTM) in which coenzyme A (CoA) forms disulphide bonds with oxidised cysteine residues under oxidative or metabolic stress. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that disulphide Keap1 dimer undergoes CoAlation in cellular response to oxidative stress induced by various oxidising compounds. Furthermore, glucose deprivation also induces CoAlation of the disulphide Keap1 dimer in HEK293/Pank1β cells. We also demonstrate that the Keap111 Cys-less mutant is not CoAlated in response to diamide treatment or glucose deprivation. In summary, this study uncovers a novel PTM of Keap1 by the key metabolic integrator CoA, which provides new insights into the regulation of the Keap1-Nrf2 antioxidant pathway under oxidative and metabolic stress.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42128708 is a review article
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is the most prevalent chronic liver disease and strongly linked to obesity and insulin resistance. We previously reported that the common nuclear envelope variant rs6461378 (g.842031C>T; SUN1 H118Y) associated with MASLD and related traits including insulin resistance. To gain insight into how wild-type (WT) and H118Y SUN1 might differentially impact insulin signaling, we performed affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) in human liver-derived cells stably expressing WT or H118Y SUN1. Unbiased AP-MS revealed a novel SUN1-CUL3 interaction, with comparative analysis showing that WT SUN1 interacted robustly with CUL3, while CUL3 interaction was markedly diminished with H118Y SUN1. Cells in which SUN1 was silenced via siRNA, or in which H118Y SUN1 was ectopically expressed, showed increased CUL3 neddylation, which is required for cullin RING ligase (CRL)-mediated ubiquitination of insulin receptor substrate (IRS) proteins. Inhibition of neddylation restored IRS-1 levels and insulin signaling in H118Y SUN1-expressing cells. Together, our findings provide a potential mechanism of H118Y SUN1-driven insulin resistance and a viable therapeutic approach for its reversal.
During the course of an immune response, antigen-reactive T cells undergo clonal expansion and are subsequently eliminated by cytokine withdrawal-induced cell death (CWID), an intrinsic apoptotic program essential for immune homeostasis. However, the mechanisms orchestrating CWID remain poorly understood. Here, we performed genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 knockout screens in CTLL-2 cells, which identified the transcriptional repressor Capicua (CIC) as a critical mediator of CWID. CIC mediates CWID but not apoptosis induced by staurosporine or etoposide. Deficiency of CIC attenuates IL-2 withdrawal-induced death of mouse primary CD8+ but not CD4+ T cells. CIC promotes CWID via a BIM-independent pathway, and simultaneous deletion of CIC and BIM fully abrogates CWID. Although CIC is activated upon IL-2 withdrawal to repress its target genes, its role in CWID is independent of its transcriptional repression. Instead, CIC promotes CWID by facilitating Cullin-3/KEAP1-mediated BCL2 degradation and disrupting the BAX-BCL2 interaction. In a Listeria monocytogenes infection model, CIC-deficiency suppresses apoptosis of activated CD8+ T cells, resulting in their increase in the later phase of infection. Our findings suggest that CIC plays a vital role in CWID through a noncanonical mechanism, providing new insights into how the immune system limits uncontrolled inflammation and immunopathology.© 2026 The Authors.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent subtype of lung cancer, the leading cause of global cancer-related mortality. Genetic mutations play critical roles in LUAD pathogenesis. This study aims to investigate the role of XIAP-associated factor 1 (XAF1) rs117407731, a nonsense mutation in certain splice variants (p.22W>*, TGG to TGA), in LUAD susceptibility and cellular function. Genotyping of XAF1 rs117407731 was conducted using blood samples of 103 LUAD patients and 229 healthy individuals. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was carried out to identify independent factors associated with LUAD risk. Immunofluorescence staining showed the expression of XAF1 and XIAP in LUAD tissues. TUNEL staining was employed for cell apoptosis analysis in patient LUAD tissues or mouse tumors. A549 cells were transduced with lentiviral vectors carrying wild-type or mutant XAF1 (XAF1-WT or XAF1-MUT) for functional experiments. XAF1 rs117407731 significantly increased susceptibility to LUAD. XAF1 protein expression was reduced, XIAP expression was elevated, and cell apoptosis was decreased in LUAD tissues from rs117407731 carriers. Overexpressing XAF1-MUT abated XAF1-mediated impairment of A549 cell proliferation and enhancement of apoptosis in vitro. XAF1-MUT overexpression impaired tumor suppression in the xenograft mouse model. XAF1 rs117407731 contributes to LUAD risk by impairing XAF1-mediated apoptosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Hypertension is a multifactorial condition of unknown cause that affects more than 1.28 billion adults worldwide and impacts the sexes differently. The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) plays a central role in blood pressure (BP) regulation by modulating sympathetic tone and releasing neuropeptides that affect the cardiovascular function. In this study, we investigated the transcriptomic profile of the PVN in hypertensive strains and across sexes, aiming to identify novel sex-specific molecular pathways involved in the regulation of BP.To accomplish this goal, we sequenced RNA from the PVNs of normotensive Wistar rats and Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats (SHR), both male and female. We also performed a cardiovascular assessment based on blood pressure (BP) measurements and their variability.Cardiovascular assessment revealed higher SBP in SHRs than in Wistar rats; while males exhibited greater autonomic regulation associated with vasomotor and neurohumoral mechanisms, while females maintained comparable SBP levels primarily through an increase in heart rate, reflecting distinct autonomic adaptations. Hypertension also impacted gene expression, with influences from both the hypertensive state and sex. Compared with female SHRs, male SHRs presented a marked increase in differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Key upregulated genes in males, including Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (Bdnf) and Hypocretin (Hcrt), have already been linked to elevated BP, and Angiotensin II Receptor Type 1 (Agtr1a) is possibly associated with increased SBP-VLF variability, which serves as an indirect measure of enhanced sympathetic tone. In contrast, the female transcriptomic signature was characterized by the upregulation of anti-inflammatory pathways, with upregulation of NLR Family CARD Domain Containing 3 (Nlrc3) and Paired Ig-like Receptor B (Pirb), and downregulation of Absent in Melanoma 2 (Aim2), and S100 Calcium Binding Protein B (S100b). Notably, genes associated with neuroinflammation, such as the downregulation of Annexin A1 (Anxa1) and the upregulation of Solute Carrier Family 11 Member 1 (Slc11a1), were consistently altered in both sexes.These results provide new insights into the cardiovascular and molecular basis of sex differences in hypertension, suggesting distinct neurohumoral autonomic profile in males, whereas in females a greater anti-inflammatory component. These findings offer a valuable framework for developing future sex-specific therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) continues to be the primary contributor to deaths associated with cancer. Current treatments are often limited by drug resistance and toxicity, highlighting the need for novel therapeutic approaches. Building on previous findings demonstrating that Gamabufotalin (CS-6) is effective against hepatocellular carcinoma, this study explores its mechanism of action in NSCLC. The findings indicate that CS-6 suppresses the proliferation and migratory capacity of NSCLC cells in a concentration-dependent manner, while significantly inducing apoptosis. The 48-hour half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) ranged from 30 to 80 nM. In xenograft models, CS-6 effectively suppressed tumor growth (P < 0.05) without causing significant systemic toxicity at effective doses (25 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg). Mechanistically, coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain-containing protein 2 (CHCHD2) was identified as the direct molecular target of CS-6 through Limited Proteolysis-Mass Spectrometry (LiP-MS), validated by cell thermal shift assay (CETSA), MicroScale Thermophoresis (MST), and Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR). CHCHD2, also known as mitochondrial nuclear retrograde regulator 1 (MNRR1), is a bi-organelle regulator located primarily in the mitochondrial intermembrane space, where it controls respiratory chain stability and cristae structure, thereby regulating cell survival and apoptosis[1-3]. CHCHD2 is essential for NSCLC cell survival, as both its knockdown and overexpression reduced the efficacy of CS-6. Furthermore, transcriptomic analysis revealed that targeting CHCHD2 with CS-6 activates interferon signaling and significantly upregulates the tumor suppressor X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP)-associated factor 1 (XAF1). In conclusion, these findings establish the mitochondrial CHCHD2-XAF1 axis as a key mediator of CS-6 activity, thereby highlighting CS-6 as a promising candidate for targeted therapy in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aminoglycoside antibiotics are essential in managing many life-threatening diseases. However, their derivatives, such as neomycin, are associated with severe side effects such as persistent sensorineural hearing loss. Therefore, it is essential to elucidate the molecular and biochemical mechanisms of aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity and identify targets for alleviating ototoxic injury. Here, we provide a detailed cochlear cell atlas of neomycin-induced acute and chronic ototoxicity-related changes through single-nucleus RNA sequencing profiling. Utilising this cochlear cell atlas, we used the Augur and scDist algorithms to evaluate cell-type-specific susceptibility to neomycin injury. We observed aberrant expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (Xiap)-associated factor 1 (Xaf1) in neomycin-exposed cochleae using the cochlear cell atlas, and we identified a novel role for Xaf1 in facilitating PANoptosis through overexpression and knockdown assays in vitro. Finally, we assessed the protective role of Xaf1 against neomycin-induced ototoxicity by Xaf1 knockdown in cochlear hair cells using adeno-associated virus-based gene delivery. Mechanistically, Xaf1 orchestrates PANoptosis activation through direct interaction with and transcriptional regulation of ZBP1, establishing its hierarchical position upstream in the signalling cascade. This study presents detailed cochlear cellular maps of neomycin-induced ototoxicity and serves as a valuable resource for identifying transcriptome-wide disease-driving perturbations at the single-cell level. More importantly, we identified Xaf1 as a critical target for modulating the PANoptosis pathway, offering a promising treatment strategy for aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity.© 2025 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tripartite motif-containing 47 (TRIM47) is a member of the TRIM family, which has E3 ligase activity and has been demonstrated to be involved in tumor development. In this work, we found that TRIM47 is highly expressed in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) tissues. TRIM47 overexpression promoted HNSCC cell proliferation. Downregulation of TRIM47 suppressed HNSCC cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis and autophagy. TRIM47 suppression caused cell proliferation inhibition and apoptosis promotion could be reversed by 3-MA, an autophagy inhibitor. In mechanism, TRIM47 interacted with XIAP-associated factor 1 (XAF1), promoting its ubiquitination and degradation. XAF1 promoted HNSCC cell apoptosis and autophagy. TRIM47 overexpression caused cell proliferation promotion and autophagy inhibition could be reversed by XAF1 overexpression. Animal experiments confirmed that the knockdown of TRIM47 inhibits tumor growth in vivo. Ultimately, TRIM47 promotes the ubiquitination and degradation of XAF1 and suppresses apoptosis and autophagy to promote the progression of HNSCC.© 2024 The Authors.
The Human Silencing Hub (HUSH) guards the genome from the pathogenic effects of retroelement expression. Composed of MPP8, TASOR, and Periphilin-1, HUSH recognizes actively transcribed retrotransposed sequences by the presence of long (>1.5-kb) nascent transcripts without introns. HUSH recruits effectors that alter chromatin structure, degrade transcripts, and deposit transcriptionally repressive epigenetic marks. Here, we report the crystal structure of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of MPP8 necessary for HUSH activity. The MPP8 CTD consists of five ankyrin repeats followed by a domain with structural homology to the PINIT domains of Siz/PIAS-family SUMO E3 ligases. AlphaFold3 modeling of the MPP8-TASOR complex predicts that a SPOC domain and a domain with a novel fold in TASOR form extended interaction interfaces with the MPP8 CTD. Point mutations at these interfaces resulted in loss of HUSH-dependent transcriptional repression in a cell-based reporter assay, validating the AlphaFold3 model. The MPP8 chromodomain, known to bind the repressive mark H3K9me3, bound with similar or higher affinity to sequences in the H3K9 methyltransferase subunits SETDB1, ATF7IP, G9a, and GLP. Hence, MPP8 promotes heterochromatinization by recruiting H3K9 methyltransferases. Our work identifies novel structural elements in MPP8 required for HUSH complex assembly and silencing, thereby fulfilling vital functions in controlling retrotransposons.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Metabolic syndrome and diabetes in obese individuals are strong risk factors for development of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and colorectal cancer. The pathogenic mechanisms of low-grade metabolic inflammation, including chronic hyperglycemic stress, in disrupting gut homeostasis are poorly understood. In this study, we sought to understand the impact of a hyperglycemic environment on intestinal barrier integrity and the protective effects of small molecular weight (35 kDa) hyaluronan on epithelial barrier function.Intestinal organoids derived from mouse colon were grown in normal glucose media (5 mM) or high glucose media (25 mM) to study the impact of hyperglycemic stress on the intestinal barrier. Additionally, organoids were pretreated with 35 kDa hyaluronan (HA35) to investigate the effect of hyaluronan on epithelial barrier under high glucose stress. Immunoblotting as well as confocal imaging was used to understand changes in barrier proteins, quantitative as well as spatial distribution, respectively. Alterations in barrier function were measured using trans-epithelial electrical resistance and fluorescein isothiocyanate flux assays. Untargeted proteomics analysis was performed to elucidate mechanisms by which HA35 exerts a protective effect on the barrier. Intestinal organoids derived from receptor knockout mice specific to various HA receptors were utilized to understand the role of HA receptors in barrier protection under high glucose conditions.We found that high glucose stress decreased the protein expression as well as spatial distribution of two key barrier proteins, zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) and occludin. HA35 prevented the degradation or loss of ZO-1 and maintained the spatial distribution of both ZO-1 and occludin under hyperglycemic stress. Functionally, we also observed a protective effect of HA35 on the epithelial barrier under high glucose conditions. We found that HA receptor, layilin, was involved in preventing barrier protein loss (ZO-1) as well as maintaining spatial distribution of ZO-1 and occludin. Additionally, proteomics analysis showed that cell death and survival was the primary pathway upregulated in organoids treated with HA35 under high glucose stress. We found that XIAP associated factor 1 (Xaf1) was modulated by HA35 thereby regulating apoptotic cell death in the intestinal organoid system. Finally, we observed that spatial organization of both focal adhesion kinase (FAK) as well as F-actin was mediated by HA35 via layilin.Our results highlight the impact of hyperglycemic stress on the intestinal barrier function. This is of clinical relevance, as impaired barrier function has been observed in individuals with metabolic syndrome. Additionally, we demonstrate barrier protective effects of HA35 through its receptor layilin and modulation of cellular apoptosis under high glucose stress.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
An obligate step in the life cycle of HIV-1 and other retroviruses is the establishment of the provirus in target cell chromosomes. Transcriptional regulation of proviruses is complex, and understanding the mechanisms underlying this regulation has ramifications for fundamental biology, human health, and gene therapy implementation. The three core components of the Human Silencing Hub (HUSH) complex, TASOR, MPHOSPH8 (MPP8), and PPHLN1 (Periphilin 1), were identified in forward genetic screens for host genes that repress provirus expression. Subsequent loss-of-function screens revealed accessory proteins that collaborate with the HUSH complex to silence proviruses in particular contexts. To identify proteins associated with a HUSH complex-repressed provirus in human cells, we developed a technique, Provirus Proximal Proteomics, based on proximity labeling with C-BERST (dCas9-APEX2 biotinylation at genomic elements by restricted spatial tagging). Our screen exploited a lentiviral reporter that is silenced by the HUSH complex in a manner that is independent of the integration site in chromatin. Our data reveal that proviruses silenced by the HUSH complex are associated with DNA repair, mRNA processing, and transcriptional silencing proteins, including L3MBTL2, a member of the non-canonical polycomb repressive complex 1.6 (PRC1.6). A forward genetic screen confirmed that PRC1.6 components L3MBTL2 and MGA contribute to HUSH complex-mediated silencing. PRC1.6 was then shown to silence HUSH-sensitive proviruses in a promoter-specific manner. Genome wide profiling showed striking colocalization of the PRC1.6 and HUSH complexes on chromatin, primarily at sites of active promoters. Finally, PRC1.6 binding at a subset of genes that are silenced by the HUSH complex was dependent on the core HUSH complex component MPP8. These studies offer new tools with great potential for studying the transcriptional regulation of proviruses and reveal crosstalk between the HUSH complex and PRC1.6.
Over-activated osteoclast (OC) is a major cause of diseases related to bone loss and bone metabolism. Both bone resorption inhibition and apoptosis induction of osteoclast are crucial in treating these diseases. X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP)-associated factor 1 (XAF1) is an important interferon-stimulated and apoptotic gene. However, how XAF1 regulates bone formation and remodeling is unknown.We generate global and chimeric Xaf1 knockout mouse models and utilize these models to explore the function and mechanism of XAF1 in regulating bone formation and remodeling in vivo and in vitro.We show that XAF1 depletion enhances osteoclast generation in vitro. XAF1 knockout increases osteoclast number and bone resorption, thereby exacerbating bone loss in both OVX and osteolysis models. Activation of XAF1 with BV6 (a potent XIAP inhibitor) suppresses osteoclast formation. Mechanistically, XAF1 deletion decreases osteoclast apoptosis by facilitating the interaction between XIAP and caspase-3/7.Our data illustrates an essential role of XAF1 in controlling osteoclastogenesis in both osteoporosis and osteolysis mouse models and highlights its underlying mechanism, indicating a potential role in clinical treatment.The translational potential of this article: The translation potential of this article is that we first indicated that osteoclast apoptosis induced by XAF1 contribute to the progression of osteoporosis and osteolysis, which provides a novel strategy in the prevention of osteoporosis and osteolysis.© 2024 The Authors.
Chronic inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) arises from prolonged interactions among immune cells, functional cells, and inflammatory cytokines. The Qibai Pingfei Capsule (QBPF), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), has been utilized clinically for over two decades to treat COPD. However, robust evidence is required to validate its clinical effectiveness. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology offers comprehensive insights into the immune-inflammatory microenvironment of COPD at the single-cell level, providing valuable strategies for integrating TCM into COPD management.To clarify the mechanism of QBPF in treating COPD through scRNA-seq.A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study performed to investigate the QBPF efficacy in COPD patients. PBMCs from these patients were subjected to scRNA-seq, and lung tissue scRNA-seq data were obtained from the public database (GEO: GSE162610). The regulatory mechanism of QBPF was confirmed using a COPD rat model.Acute exacerbation frequency was significantly decreased (p = 0.042), and CAT scores improved (p = 0.008) following QBPF treatment. Nevertheless, no significant changes were recorded in lung function, the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), or the mMRC scale. Within the QBPF group, the 6MWT (p < 0.01) and FEV₁/FVC% (p < 0.01) significantly improved from baseline to 3 months. ScRNA-seq confirmed immune dysfunction, especially the depleted NK cells and impaired activation. QBPF altered the expression of functional markers in NK cells of COPD patients, and animal studies confirmed that QBPF enhanced NK cell activity by modulating the expression of hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2 (HAVCR2) and killer cell lectin-like receptor C2 (KLRC2). Additionally, scRNA-seq analysis revealed impaired immune function in COPD patients, specifically NK cell exhaustion and dysfunction.These findings demonstrated that QBPF can ameliorate and alleviate COPD symptoms, and its therapeutic effects have been linked to its potential to modulate NK cell function. This study provides some evidence that QBPF can improve NK cell activity in COPD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
DExH-box helicase 58 (DHX58/LGP2) is an innate immune regulator with a previously uncharacterized role in oncology. This study evaluates the multifaceted role of the DHX58 gene, examining its pan-cancer expression, prognostic value, and therapeutic potential across various tumor types through an extensive pan-cancer bioinformatics analysis.We conducted a bioinformatics analysis of DHX58 using TCGA and GTEx data from four platforms: GEPIA2, TIMER 2.0, UALCAN, and starBase. We assessed differential expression, prognostic significance and survival outcomes, drug sensitivity, functional enrichment, genomic alterations, protein-protein interactions, and DNA methylation across 32 cancer types.Our findings revealed that the differential expression of the DHX58 gene across numerous cancers was context-dependent, with consistent downregulation in lung squamous cell carcinoma and upregulation in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Low DHX58 expression correlated with poor survival in kidney chromophobe renal cell carcinoma, sarcoma, and skin melanoma, but with favorable outcomes in other cancers, such as colon adenocarcinoma. Notably, low DHX58 expression was associated with increased sensitivity to birinapant and saracatinib. Genomic alterations were infrequent, and methylation patterns were largely unchanged. Functional enrichment analysis emphasized DHX58's established role in innate immunity and antiviral responses, with its co-expressed genes implicated in viral defense pathways. Genomic profiling identified various alterations, including mutations and copy number variations, contributing to DHX58 dysregulation. Protein-protein interaction mapping solidified its central role in immune signaling, while DNA methylation analysis highlighted epigenetic regulation as another layer of control.Our pan-cancer analysis reveals that DHX58 has context-specific prognostic and predictive roles. While discrepancies between platforms exist, DHX58 emerges as a potential biomarker in specific cancers, particularly in the context of therapies involving agents like birinapant. These findings warrant further mechanistic and clinical investigation.
Dysregulated SPP1 expression has been involved in the pathogenic progression of various tumors. However, more information is still necessary to understand the adverse effects of SPP1 in cancers.A systematic assessment was performed to determine the expression features of SPP1 and its clinical implications in a wide range of human cancer types. SPP1 expression was determined by implementing transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) projects. The prognostic value of SPP1 was assessed by Kaplan-Meier method. SPP1-related protein network was constructed using the STRING database and visualized by Cytoscape. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted through the DAVID resources. The correlation between SPP1 expression and immune infiltration was examined using TIMER and TISIDB platforms with multiple algorithms.SPP1 expression is commonly upregulated in diverse human cancers. Increased SPP1 significantly contributes to cancer progression with worse clinical outcomes. SPP1 is positively correlated with the abundance of functionally immunosuppressive lymphocytes such as regulatory T cells (Treg), myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), M2-polarized macrophages, and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), and also associated with the upregulation of immunosuppressors such as colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) and hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2 (HAVCR2).Elevated SPP1 recruits progressively a range of cancer pathways and contributes to poorer clinical outcomes. This study provides an integrative proof that SPP1 serves as a progressive and prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target for the majority of cancer types.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Society of Clinical Oncology.
Skeletal muscle ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury is a common clinical condition associated with oxidative stress and inflammation that leads to muscle damage and multi-organ failure. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis remain incompletely understood. R software and the limma package were used to analyze mRNA expression profiles from the GSE275811 dataset. Hub genes were identified using the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis, and their diagnostic performances were assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. The roles of hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2 (HAVCR2) were explored in IR-induced Sprague-Dawley rat models and in vitro hypoxia-reoxygenation (HR)-treated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). A total of 188 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened, primarily enriched in pathways associated with immune responses and inflammation regulation. CX3CR1, HAVCR2, IL1B, LYZ2, and PTPRC were identified as key genes with potential to distinguish between normal and IR samples. HAVCR2 silencing alleviated rat muscle fiber disruption, inflammatory infiltration, and oxidative stress, with reduced levels of ROS, MDA, IL-6, and TNF-α and elevated levels of GSH, SOD, MnSOD, and CAT. Similarly, HAVCR2 knockdown conferred protective effects in HUVECs subjected to HR injury, improving cell viability, enhancing migratory ability, and restoring antioxidant defenses. HAVCR2 knockdown inhibited oxidative stress in the skeletal muscle IR, suggesting that targeting HAVCR2 represents a promising therapeutic strategy for skeletal muscle IR injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a major global health burden with limited treatment options. Identifying the molecular mechanisms underlying GC progression is critical for developing novel therapeutic strategies. We integrated whole-genome bisulfite sequencing and bulk RNA sequencing to identify hub genes involved in GC. Functional annotations were performed using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses, supplemented by data from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Key findings were validated using western blotting, immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, and methylation-specific PCR. DExH-box helicase 58 (DHX58) was identified as a hypomethylated, highly expressed hub gene in GC. Mechanistically, DHX58 expression is regulated by the transcription factor CCAAT enhancer-binding protein α. Immune profiling further implicated DHX58 in the development of resistance to GC immunotherapy. Our study revealed that DHX58 hypomethylation drives its overexpression in GC, making it a promising therapeutic target. These findings offer new insights into the pathogenesis of GC and suggest potential immunotherapeutic approaches.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
T cell exhaustion (Tex) induced by chronic antigen exposure critically limits cancer immunotherapy. Mechanistic understanding remains incomplete, largely due to inefficient, costly in vivo models and a lack of effective interventions. Improved in vitro models are therefore urgently needed for mechanism discovery and drug screening.An optimized in vitro T cell exhaustion model was established via chronic anti-CD3 antibody stimulation, achieving robust reproducibility, high cell yields (∼108), and suitability for high-throughput analyses. Exhaustion was validated functionally and by proteomic profiling across multiple timepoints. Rho family-interacting cell polarization regulator 2 (RIPOR2) was identified as a key regulator and functionally verified through siRNA knockdown assays. Molecular docking screened Ginsenoside F3 (GF3) targeting RIPOR2, and GF3 was tested both in vitro and in a mouse NSCLC model with anti-PD-1 therapy.Our model accurately recapitulated clinical exhaustion phenotypes, notably reproducing diminished cytotoxicity (∼60% reduction compared to controls). Proteomics dynamically revealed significant protein alterations during exhaustion, including a ∼14-fold downregulation of RIPOR2 mRNA in exhausted T cells. RIPOR2 depletion further exacerbated exhaustion (e.g.,Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) secretion reduced ∼30%, Programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) increased ∼20%). GF3 robustly bound RIPOR2, significantly reversed exhaustion phenotypes (reducing PD-1+TIM-3+(Hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2) cells by ∼40%), and restored cytokine production. In vivo, GF3 enhanced CD8+T cell infiltration, synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy, and significantly reduced tumor burden (∼40% decrease).RIPOR2 is identified as a critical immunometabolic regulator of T cell exhaustion. GF3-mediated RIPOR2 restoration effectively reverses exhaustion, presenting a novel immunotherapeutic strategy. Our optimized in vitro model provides an efficient platform for future mechanistic and pharmacological research.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The oligomerization of the transmembrane helices of single-pass membrane proteins is crucial to biological function and its misregulation can lead to many diseases. The study of transmembrane helix oligomerization is facilitated by the availability of genetic reporter assays, which are essential tools for understanding the organization and biology of single-pass systems. In particular, reporter assays are crucial for mapping the oligomerization interfaces of transmembrane helices through scanning mutagenesis but their application is limited by the need to clone and measure each construct individually. Here, we present "TOXGREEN sort-seq," a high-throughput version of the TOXGREEN assay that enables the direct measurement of transmembrane helix oligomerization in large libraries using fluorescence-activated cell sorting and next-generation sequencing. We show that TOXGREEN sort-seq is robust and accurately reproduces the direct measurements of individual constructs. The method produced high-quality mutational profiles from a library of 17,400 constructs designed to probe the interface of 100 potential GASright dimers predicted from sequences of human single-pass membrane proteins. We report the validated structural model of twelve dimers involved in a variety of biological functions, including immune response (interleukin-22 receptor subunit alpha-1, butyrophilin-like protein 3, hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2), transport (transferrin receptor protein 1), and cell-surface signaling and proliferation (syndecan-3; semaphorins 5A, 6B, and 6D). Remarkably, all semaphorins in the dataset formed strong dimers and produced mutational profiles consistent with the computational structure. These findings suggest that dimerization may be relevant to these proteins' activity and provide a validated interface for assessing their biological role.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of National Academy of Sciences.
The oligomerization of the transmembrane helices of single-pass membrane proteins is crucial to biological function and its misregulation can lead to many diseases. The study of transmembrane helix oligomerization is facilitated by the availability of genetic reporter assays, which are essential tools for understanding the organization and biology of single-pass systems. In particular, reporter assays are crucial for mapping the oligomerization interfaces of transmembrane helices through scanning mutagenesis but their application is limited by the need to clone and measure each construct individually. Here, we present "TOXGREEN sort-seq", a high-throughput version of the TOXGREEN assay that enables the direct measurement of transmembrane helix oligomerization in large libraries using fluorescence-activated cell sorting and next-generation sequencing. We show that TOXGREEN sort-seq is robust and reproduce the direct measurements of individual constructs with good accuracy and sensitivity. The method produced high-quality mutational profiles from a library of 17,400 constructs designed to probe the interface of 100 potential GASright dimers predicted from sequences of human single-pass membrane proteins. We report the validated structural model of twelve dimers involved in a variety of biological functions, including immune response (interleukin-22 receptor subunit alpha-1, butyrophilin-like protein 3, hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2), transport (transferrin receptor protein 1), and cell-surface signaling and proliferation (syndecan-3; semaphorins 5A, 6B and 6D). Remarkably, all three semaphorins in the dataset formed strong dimers and produced mutational profiles consistent with the computational structure. These findings open the possibility that dimerization may be relevant to these proteins' activity and provide a validated interface for assessing their biological role.
Genome-wide association studies have revealed numerous loci associated with coronary artery disease (CAD). However, some potential causal/risk genes remain unidentified, and causal therapies are lacking.We integrated multi-omics data from gene methylation, expression, and protein levels using summary data-based Mendelian randomization and colocalization analysis. Candidate genes were prioritized based on protein-level associations, colocalization probability, and links to methylation and expression. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were used to assess differential expression in the coronary arteries of patients with CAD. TAGLN2 (Transgelin 2), APOB (Apolipoprotein B), and GIP (Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide) were identified as the genes most strongly associated with CAD, with TAGLN2 exhibiting the most significant association. Higher methylation levels of TAGLN2 at specific Cytosine-phosphate-Guanine sites were negatively correlated with its gene expression and associated with a lower risk of CAD, whereas higher circulating TAGLN2 protein levels were positively associated with CAD risk (odds ratio,1.66 [95% CI, 1.32-2.08). These results suggest distinct regulatory mechanisms for TAGLN2. In contrast, APOB and GIP showed positive associations with CAD risk, whereas DHX58 (DExH-box helicase 58) and SWAP70 (Switch-associated protein 70) were associated with decreased risk.Our findings provide multi-omics evidence suggesting that TAGLN2, APOB, GIP, DHX58, and SWAP70 genes are associated with CAD risk. This work provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of CAD and highlights the potential of integrating multi-omics data to uncover potential causal relationships that cannot be fully captured by traditional genome-wide association studies.
miR-19-3p has been implicated in various pathological and physiological processes, including immune response, inflammation, oncogenesis and cell damage. However, its function in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) has not been well elucidated. In this study, the expression patterns of miR-19-3p and target gene DExH-Box helicase 58 (DHX58) in rainbow trout infected with infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) were detected, and regulatory mechanism and function of miR-19-3p were investigated by overexpression and inhibition experiment in vitro and in vivo. Expression patterns showed that miR-19-3p and DHX58 displayed significant time-dependent changes in IHNV-infected rainbow trout intestines, skins, gills, and liver cells, and their expression were negatively correlated at multiple time points. In vitro, the targeting relationship between miR-19-3p and DHX58 was confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation assay, and overexpression of miR-19-3p significantly suppressed the expression of DHX58 and downstream genes interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7), interferon (IFN), myxovirus 1 (MX1), interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB), and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), whereas the expression levels of DHX58 and downstream genes were significantly increased after transfecting miR-19-3p inhibitor. In vivo, agomiR-19-3p significantly inhibited the expression of DHX58, and then reduced the expression levels of IRF3, IRF7, IFN, MX1, NF-κB, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), and ISG15. Additionally, overexpression of miR-19-3p significantly increased IHNV copies and cell proliferation number, and suppressed apoptosis, while the opposite results were obtained after miR-19-3p repressing. This study confirmed that miR-19-3p regulates rainbow trout antiviral immune by DHX58-mediated interferon pathway in vitro and in vivo, which provides potential for using miRNAs as anti-viral target drugs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major complication occurring in hemorrhagic shock, liver resection, and transplantation. Big mitogen-activated kinase-1 (BMK1), a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinases family, is essential for regulating endothelial cell integrity and organ development.We explored the putative role of BMK1 in human liver transplant recipients and in a murine model of partial warm liver IRI.Liver biopsies from adult transplant patients (n = 60) revealed that increased intrahepatic BMK1 expression was associated with well-preserved histology and improved graft function. In mice, the ischemia insult (90 min) induced hepatocellular BMK1 expression, peaking at 6 h of reperfusion. Inhibiting intrahepatic BMK1 (siRNA/chemically) made livers more vulnerable to IR stress, as evidenced by elevated serum alanine aminotransferase levels, damaged hepatic architecture, increased necrosis, and inflammation. Conversely, BMK1-overexpression protected livers from IR stress in a Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4)-dependent manner. Further in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that BMK1 overexpression upregulated hepatic yes-associated protein (YAP) mRNA/protein levels and promoted YAP dephosphorylation, whereas YAP silencing abrogated the protective effects of BMK1. The hypoxia-reoxygenation in vitro assay indicated that hepatocellular BMK1 regulated YAP function via itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase-related ubiquitination to large tumor suppressor homolog 1. Hypoxia-reoxygenation stress in BMK1-overexpressed hepatocytes resulted in increased intracellular itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase and decreased phosphorylated large tumor suppressor homolog 1, whereas no change in the phosphorylation level of mammalian sterile 20-like protein kinase-1. Furthermore, dual hepatocyte immunofluorescence staining revealed that BMK1 relied on the nuclear YAP-KLF4 cooperation, as hepatic deficiency of either BMK1, YAP, or KLF4 enhanced the severity of hepatic IRI.This study documents the crucial role/underlying mechanism of BMK1 signaling and points to a novel target to minimize hepatocellular dysfunction in IR-stressed liver transplantation.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most prevalent cancers affecting the female reproductive system and originates from the uterine epithelium, posing a significant health burden to postmenopausal women. As an E3 ubiquitin ligase, itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) plays a key role in the progression of multiple kinds of solid cancers, but its function in EC remains unclear. This work aims to explore the roles of ITCH during the carcinogenesis of EC.The messenger RNA (mRNA) level of ITCH in 47 paired EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls was examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The protein level of ITCH in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls from 47 patients with EC was detected by immunohistochemistry. Data on the RNA levels of ITCH and forkhead box P1 (FOXP1), along with prognostic information for 541 patients with EC, were obtained from the Human Protein Atlas database. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was employed to investigate the interaction between FOXP1 and the promoter of the KRAS proto-oncogene GTPase (KRAS).Both ITCH mRNA and protein levels are upregulated in EC tissues. Patients with lower ITCH expression exhibit prolonged overall survival. In EC tissue samples, ITCH protein level negatively correlates with the FOXP1 protein level. ITCH interacts with FOXP1 in EC cells and promotes its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. FOXP1 inhibits KRAS expression in EC cells by binding to its promoter region. ITCH overexpression suppresses the FOXP1-KRAS axis, leading to increased proliferation and reduced apoptosis of EC cells.ITCH functions as an oncogene in EC, promoting carcinogenesis by inducing FOXP1 degradation and upregulating KRAS expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
The regulator of G-protein signaling 2 (RGS2) plays a key role during pregnancy, whose dysregulation is closely associated with the progression of gestational disorders such as preeclampsia (PE). Therefore, investigating the downstream mechanisms regarding to RGS2-mediated biological events in trophoblasts would provide a better understanding of maintenance and progression of pregnancy. The present study describes the roles and underlying mechanisms of a regulation loop between RGS2 and the Hippo pathway in human trophoblasts, and additionally clarify that RGS2 independently mediates Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) protein degradation by promoting its ubiquitination. At the molecular level, the ectopic expression of RGS2 deactivates the Hippo signaling but destabilizes CTGF by the Dual-specificity phosphatase 1(DUSP1)-Itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH)-mediated ubiquitination of CTGF. Reciprocally, as a transcriptional co-activator, TAZ transactivates RGS2 through binding to and activating CREB. Consistently, the results could be verified in transgenic mouse placentas. Our results therefore identify the critical role of the RGS2-Hippo loop in regulating physiological function of trophoblasts during gestation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteosarcoma remains a highly aggressive malignant tumor with strong metastatic potential and limited therapeutic options. E3 ubiquitin ligases, particularly the HECT-type family, regulate oncogenic pathways via targeted protein degradation. Among them, Itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) has been implicated in poor prognosis in multiple cancers. However, its functional effects and clinical relevance in osteosarcoma pathogenesis remain completely unexplored. Herein, ITCH expression in osteosarcoma tissues was detected using qRT-PCR, Western blot, and IHC. In vitro and in vivo, the function of ITCH was evaluated by soft agar colony formation assay, Transwell assay, CCK8 assay, wound healing assay, immunofluorescence, flow cytometric analysis, and xenograft tumor assay. Downstream targets were further investigated using proteomic analysis, Western blot, and immunoprecipitation. ITCH was aberrantly overexpressed in osteosarcoma tissues, exhibiting a strong negative correlation with patient survival. Mechanistically, ITCH directly bound P53 and mediated its ubiquitination and degradation. ITCH-driven P53 loss enhanced malignant phenotypes, whereas ITCH knockdown restored P53 stability. This study demonstrates that ITCH functions as an oncogene in osteosarcoma by targeting P53 for degradation and suggests ITCH as a promising therapeutic target.These findings define a molecular mechanism underlying the oncogenic role of ITCH through P53 ubiquitination-dependent degradation.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Variants in OTUD5 are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the pathogenicity of a novel OTUD5 variant (c.697G > A, p.Val233Met) and elucidate its regulatory role in neural progenitor cell (NPC) proliferation and differentiation, thereby uncovering the function of OTUD5 in neurodevelopment.The OTUD5 variant was identified in two NDD patients via exome sequencing. Patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and CRISPR/Cas9-corrected isogenic controls were generated. NPC proliferative activity was assessed by Ki67 immunofluorescence staining, cell-cycle distribution was analyzed by flow cytometry, and neuronal differentiation was evaluated by Tuj1/MAP2 immunofluorescence staining. Substrate screening was conducted in HEK293T cells using co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and mass spectrometry. Deubiquitination capacity and protein stability were validated through ubiquitination assays and cycloheximide (CHX) chase experiments.The p.Val233Met variant, located within the catalytic OTU domain, induced a marked conformational alteration in the OTUD5 protein. Functionally, the variant caused aberrant NPC proliferation (1.8-fold increase in Ki67+ cells, accompanied by release of G1 arrest) and impaired neuronal differentiation (60% reduction in Tuj+ cells). Mechanistically, wild-type OTUD5 stabilized GSK3β by removing K48-linked ubiquitin chains, whereas the mutant isoform exhibited diminished deubiquitinase activity, accelerating GSK3β degradation and shortening its half-life by 40%.This study establishes a novel disease mechanism whereby OTUD5 mutations disrupt NPC homeostasis through GSK3β destabilization, highlighting the critical role of ubiquitination regulation in neurodevelopment. Our iPSC model provides a platform for testing GSK3β-targeted therapies in OTUD5-related NDDs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly aggressive primary liver malignancy characterized by limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. Within the tumor microenvironment (TME), tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) predominantly exhibit an M2-like phenotype, contributing to immune escape and tumor progression. Zymogen granule protein 16 (ZG16) has been reported to be downregulated in HCC, but its precise biological function and molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the impact of ZG16 on HCC cell metastasis and TAM infiltration, as well as to elucidate its molecular mechanism.Gain- and loss-of-function assays were used to verify the effect of ZG16 on HCC cell metastasis, as well as the recruitment and M2 polarization of TAMs. The underlying mechanism of ZG16 was explored by immunoprecipitation-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (IP-LC/MS) analysis, co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assay, and GST pull-down assay.Our results demonstrated that ZG16 overexpression significantly inhibited metastasis of HCC cells while also suppressing the recruitment and M2 polarization of TAMs, suggesting its dual role in both tumor cell-intrinsic and microenvironmental regulation. Notably, sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a facilitator of HCC, was identified as a downstream target of ZG16. Mechanistically, we uncovered that ZG16 physically interacted with SNX9 and promoted its protein degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Functional rescue experiments provided compelling evidence that SNX9 overexpression effectively counteracted ZG16-mediated suppression of both HCC progression and TAM M2 polarization. Further mechanism exploration confirmed that ZG16 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of SNX9 by recruiting itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH).Our findings certify that ZG16 suppresses tumor progression and M2 polarization of TAMs in HCC through ITCH-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of SNX9. The ZG16/ITCH/SNX9 axis may represent an important regulatory pathway and potential therapeutic target for HCC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver.
Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a chronic autoimmune liver disease characterized by cholestasis caused by intrahepatic small bile duct injury. Promoting the molecular mechanism of OTU deubiquitinase 5 (OTUD5) in the treatment of PBC requires further exploration. This study unraveled the molecular underpinnings of PBC through bio-informatics analysis and experimental verification for the development of targeted therapeutic strategies.This study screened immune-related genes and validated their expression patterns in whole blood of patients with PBC using microarray based on GEO datasets. The expression level of OTU deubiquitinase 5 (OTUD5) was validated in peripheral blood samples using RT-qPCR and immunofluorescence. Subsequently, proteomic bioinformatics analyses were conducted utilizing STRING and InBio Discover databases to predict interactions with the mitochondrial antiviral signalling protein (MAVS). Furthermore, immunochemical and immunofluorescence analyses of MAVS expression in liver tissues were conducted with a thorough analysis of immune cell infiltration specific to the disease by utilizing single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) derived from both patients with PBC and healthy controls.Compared with those of healthy controls, the liver tissues of patients with PBC presented increased NK cell activation, monocyte/mast cell numbers, and eosinophil numbers. Compared with those in 10 healthy controls, the expression of OTUD5 and MAVS was increased in 16 tissues of patients with PBC. High expression of OTUD5-MAVS in subpopulation 11 mononuclear macrophages was screened by PBMC scRNA-seq, and mononuclear cells with the subgroup 11 phenotype presented highly differentiated characteristics. The expression of OTUD5 and MAVS was inhibited in RAW264.7 cells when OTUD5 was knocked down (P < 0.05).This study focused on the overexpression of OTUD5 and its interaction with MAVS within macrophage subset 11 in patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). The expression of OTUD5 and MAVS is increased in patients with PBC and is a potential target for the diagnosis and treatment of PBC.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most frequent subclass of lung cancer with a gloomy prognosis. Ring finger protein 125 (RNF125), as a ubiquitin E3 ligase, functions on the progression and development of various tumors. This study attempted to address the function and mechanism of RNF125 in NSCLC. The level of RNF125 was predicted with GEPIA2 website and verified in tumor tissues from NSCLC patients. The role of RNF125 in the malignant processes of NSCLC was determined by cell counting kit-8, the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation, transwell, flow cytometry and sphere‑formation experiments. The ubiquitinated role of RNF125 on DEAD-box helicase 5 (DDX5) was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation, ubiquitination and cycloheximide assays. The function of RNF125 was revealed in xenografted mice. Low RNF125 expression predicted poor prognosis in NSCLC. RNF125 inhibited the levels of indexes involved in proliferation, migration, invasion and stemness, but promoted apoptosis rate in both A549 and H1299 cells. Mechanically, RNF125 directly bound to DDX5. Overexpression of RNF125 enhanced the DDX5 ubiquitination, but knockdown of RNF125 reduced the degradation of endogenous DDX5. The inhibitory role of RNF125 overexpression in the malignant progressions of A549 cells was recovered with the upregulation of DDX5, vice versa. Besides, overexpression of RNF125 declined tumor weight and volume, the level of Ki-67 and the numbers of liver metastasis foci in vivo, vice versa. Also, RNF125 overexpression reduced the protein expressions of invasion markers and stemness markers in vivo. Collectively, low expression of RNF125 predicted poor prognosis of NSCLC patients. Upregulation of RNF125 repressed proliferation, mobility, invasion and stemness of NSCLC through the ubiquitinated degradation of DDX5.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Dysregulation of protein ubiquitination and deubiquitination is a key mechanism driving tumor progression. However, the role of upstream regulators and post-translational mechanisms regulating signal-induced proliferation-associated 1 (SIPA1) stability in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate novel deubiquitinases that directly bind to and stabilize SIPA1 based on its catalytic activity, along with their underlying action mechanisms. Notably, ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L3 (UCHL3) was identified as the novel deubiquitinase. Mechanistically, UCHL3 removed K48-linked polyubiquitin chains from SIPA1 at lysine 805, protecting it from proteasomal degradation. In contrast, the E3 ligase itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) promoted SIPA1 ubiquitination and degradation, acting antagonistically to UCHL3. Furthermore, UCHL3 enhanced CRC cell proliferation, invasion, and metastasis through a SIPA1-dependent mechanism. Interestingly, tripartite motif-containing protein 21 regulated UCHL3 post-translationally by targeting UCHL3 for proteasomal degradation. Clinically, UCHL3 and SIPA1 were found to be upregulated in CRC tissues, whereas ITCH was downregulated, with their expression correlating with poor patient prognosis. Altogether, the findings of this study reveal the novel UCHL3-ITCH-SIPA1 regulatory axis that modulates oncogenic signaling and CRC progression, offering new insights into the post-translational regulation of SIPA1 and identifying potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) activate and transdifferentiate into tumor-promoting myofibroblasts, which is an essential cause of colorectal liver metastasis. In addition to cytokines such as transforming growth factor-β, matrix stiffness is also a vital factor for promoting HSC activation. Our recent study reveals that OTU deubiquitinase 5 (OTUD5) promotes hepatocellular carcinoma progression, but its role and molecular mechanism in stiffness-induced HSC activation remain unclear. Polyacrylamide hydrogels with different composition ratios were used to simulate different matrix stiffnesses. Western blotting and immunofluorescence were performed to detect OTUD5, α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), Yes-associated protein (YAP), cysteine-rich angiogenic inducer 61 (CYR61), HA, FLAG, ubiquitin (UB), and MYC levels. RT-qPCR was used to assess the expression of OTUD5, YAP, CYR61, and CTGF mRNA. The interaction between OTUD5 and YAP, as well as the YAP ubiquitination level, was determined using a co-immunoprecipitation assay. The proliferation and invasion of HT-29 cells were determined by CCK-8 and transwell assays. The nude mouse subcutaneous co-injection model was used to evaluate the growth of HT-29 cells in vivo. HSCs cultured on a stiff substrate (11 kPa) showed significantly higher OTUD5 expression compared to those in the soft substrate (2 kPa). OTUD5 knockdown prominently attenuated stiffness-induced HSC activation. The stiffness-induced increase in OTUD5 expression was significantly abolished by YAP knockdown in HSCs. YAP overexpression enhanced, while YAP knockdown and inhibition reduced OTUD5 expression. In turn, OTUD5 positively regulated YAP protein level and YAP target genes, such as CYR61 and CTGF, in HSCs. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence assays confirmed the interaction between OTUD5 and YAP. Mechanistically, OTUD5 functioned as a deubiquitinase, removing the K48 ubiquitin chain from YAP and maintaining protein stability. Functionally, OTUD5 knockdown markedly attenuated HSCs-induced HT-29 cell proliferation and invasion in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. Our results highlight the critical role of OTUD5/YAP feedback loop in stiffness-induced HSC activation, offering a potential therapeutic target for colorectal liver metastasis.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Breastfeeding anchors infant immunity and long-term health, but its benefits are threatened by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) mastitis, an increasingly prevalent condition driven by antimicrobial resistance and therapeutic limitations. Beyond compromising maternal wellness, mastitis threatens the safety and continuity of breast milk, highlighting a critical need for innovative intervention strategies. Herein, we demonstrated that α‑ketobutyrate (α-KB), a metabolite of the transsulfuration pathway, mitigated S. aureus‑induced inflammation, oxidative stress, and blood-milk barrier (BMB) disruption both in vivo and in vitro. α‑KB enhanced macroautophagic/autophagic responses, marked by increased ATG5, BECN1 (beclin 1), and LC3-II:LC3-I conversion and reduced SQSTM1/p62, through a RIPK1-lactate-TFEB axis. Specifically, it directly bound and stabilized RIPK1, elevated lactate production, and drove TFEB nuclear translocation to activate macroautophagy/autophagy and promote intracellular bacterial clearance. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested stable α‑KB and RIPK1 binding via hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions; RIPK1 knockout abolished α‑KB-induced autophagy and lactate generation, effects rescued by lactate supplementation. This study identifies a novel immunometabolic circuit linking a metabolite to RIPK1-lactate-TFEB-mediated autophagy, offering therapeutic potential against antibiotic‑resistant S. aureus mastitis and presenting a new paradigm for safeguarding breastfeeding quality and infant health.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; α-KB: α‑ketobutyrate; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BMB: blood-milk barrier; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; DARTS: drug affinity responsive target stability; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MST: microscale thermophoresis; NOS2: nitric oxide synthase 2; OCLN: occludin; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PTGS2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; Rapa: rapamycin; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerasechain reaction;S. aureus:Staphylococcus aureus; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TJP1: tight junction protein 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WT: wild-type.
Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), caused by mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) infection, remains a major global health threat. Macrophages serve as the primary host cells for M.tb, and the bacterium's ability to manipulate macrophage function is critical for its survival and pathogenesis. However, the specific molecular mechanisms regulating M.tb-induced macrophage injury require further elucidation. This study aimed to screen key regulatory genes and investigate the underlying mechanisms involving m6A modification in M.tb-induced THP-1 macrophages. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between M.tb-induced THP-1 macrophages and normal THP-1 macrophages were identified through bioinformatics analysis of the GSE203261 dataset. Expression levels of the target gene were validated in clinical blood samples and M.tb-induced THP-1 cells via quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting. Loss-of-function experiments were performed using small interfering RNA (siRNA), while overexpression plasmids were utilized for gain-of-function studies. The association between N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification and the target gene was investigated using methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Cell viability, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine levels, and oxidative stress markers were assessed to evaluate cellular injury, and flow cytometry was employed to analyze M1 macrophage polarization. Colony-forming unit (CFU) assay was performed to assess the survival of M.tb. NF-κB pathway-related markers were detected by Western blotting. Sialic acid binding Ig like lectin 1 (SIGLEC1) was identified as a significantly upregulated gene in M.tb-induced THP-1 macrophages, and its high expression was confirmed in the blood of pulmonary TB patients and M.tb-induced THP-1 macrophages. Knockdown of SIGLEC1 attenuated M.tb-induced injury by enhancing cell viability, suppressing apoptosis, reducing the levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α), reactive oxygen species (ROS), and malondialdehyde (MDA), and increasing superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels. Additionally, SIGLEC1 silencing inhibited M1 polarization. Mechanistically, the methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) was found to bind to SIGLEC1 mRNA and enhance its stability in an m6A-dependent manner, a process dependent on the reader protein insulin like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2). Rescue experiments demonstrated that while METTL3 knockdown alleviated M.tb-induced macrophage injury and inactivated the NF-κB pathway, these protective effects were reversed by SIGLEC1 overexpression. This study elucidated a novel METTL3/IGF2BP2/SIGLEC1 regulatory axis that mediated M.tb-induced macrophage injury and M1 polarization via the NF-κB signaling pathway. These findings highlight the potential of SIGLEC1 as a promising biomarker and provide a rationale for its further investigation as a therapeutic target for pulmonary TB.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42338606 is a review article
Toxoplasma gondii is a globally prevalent foodborne zoonotic pathogen that threatens animal production and human health. Consumption of undercooked meat like pork and lamb is a major route of human infection. In this study, we performed a genome-wide CRISPR knockout screen in the porcine cell line PK15 to identify host factors that are critical for T. gondii replication. The results showed that disrupting the ELFN2 (extracellular leucine rich repeat and fibronectin type III domain containing 2) gene in PK15 did not affect host cell growth, but significantly reduced the proliferation of Toxoplasma parasites. Loss of ELFN2 decreased macroautophagy/autophagy in PK15 cells and impaired lipid metabolism, resulting in reduced lipid availability for the parasites and consequent suppression of T. gondii proliferation. Exogenous lipid supplementation or pharmacological activation of autophagy could fully restore the replication of parasites in ΔELFN2 cells. The requirement of host ELFN2 for optimal parasite proliferation in vivo was validated by constructing elfn2-/- mice, which showed increased resistance to T. gondii infection and reduced parasite burden, highlighting the value of ELFN2 in breeding Toxoplasma-resistant animals. Notably, naturally occurring loss-of-function mutations in ELFN2 could be found in certain pig breeds, further indicating the feasibility of breeding T. gondii-resistant animals like pigs, to reduce the transmission of Toxoplasma.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; BODIPY-C12: BODIPY FL C12; CCK-8: Cell Counting Kit-8; ComN2: complemented with an ectopic copy ofELFN2; ELFN2: extracellular leucine rich repeat and fibronectin type III domain containing 2;elfn2-/-:elfn2homozygous knockout; FASII: type II synthesis pathway; GFP: green fluorescent protein; KO: knockout; LD: lipid droplets; MG: monoacylglycerol; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; PV: parasitophorous vacuole; PVM: parasitophorous vacuole membrane; T. gondii: Toxoplasma gondii; WT: wild type.
The annual incidence of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) has shown a steady increase in the number of cases. Advances in minimally invasive surgical techniques and the growing frequency of late-stage diagnoses have collectively heightened the complexity of PTC management and treatment. Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor-interacting protein (TRAIP), which has been implicated in the progression of various malignancies, remains inadequately characterized in terms of its expression patterns and functional roles in papillary thyroid carcinoma. In this study, we implemented a comprehensive experimental strategy integrating tissue-based analyses, cellular functional assays, and in vivo animal models. We constructed a protein-protein interaction network and established stable cell lines with TRAIP overexpression, knockdown, knockout, and mutation. These models were subsequently analyzed using Western blotting and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assays. Experimental results demonstrated significantly upregulated TRAIP expression in PTC. Silencing TRAIP markedly inhibited PTC cell proliferation and migratory potential. BRAF, a critical oncogene in PTC pathogenesis, exhibited a positive correlation with TRAIP expression both in vitro and in vivo. TRAIP was shown to regulate BRAF ubiquitination and was linked to MAPK pathway activation. However, mutation-based studies indicated that BRAF degradation did not occur via TRAIP-dependent ubiquitination. Furthermore, TRAIP was found to physically interact with both TRAF2 and BRAF, with TRAF2 displaying a higher binding affinity for TRAIP than BRAF. Overexpression of TRAIP reduced the interaction between TRAF2 and BRAF, whereas TRAF2 independently mediated BRAF ubiquitination. These findings demonstrate that TRAIP attenuates TRAF2-mediated BRAF ubiquitination, thereby promoting MAPK pathway activation in PTC cells, which subsequently enhances their proliferation and migration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remains a clinical challenge with limited prognostic tools. This study aimed to identify a novel autophagy-related gene signature for precise prognosis prediction and to elucidate its potential clinical utility in guiding risk stratification and personalized treatment strategies for OSCC patients.A prognostic risk-score model was established based on autophagy-related differentially expressed genes (ARDEGs) in The Cancer Genome Atlas(TCGA)cohort and further validated in the independent GSE41613 cohort from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) . Clinical relevance was further evaluated using multivariate Cox regression and functional enrichment. In addition, the expression levels of Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase(GAPDH), Fas-Associated protein with Death Domain(FADD), and Autophagy Related 5(ATG5) in OSCC tissues and normal control tissues were validated using immunohistochemistry (IHC).A three-gene signature comprising GAPDH, FADD, and ATG5 was significantly associated with OSCC outcomes. High-risk patients demonstrated markedly reduced survival, and the risk score served as an independent prognostic factor.A prognostic model for OSCC, comprising GAPDH, FADD and ATG5, was established in this study. The model effectively discriminated among patients with different risk levels, and its performance was preliminarily validated in an external cohort. As a simplified scoring tool derived from differentially expressed autophagy‑related genes, this model holds potential value for prognostic assessment and risk stratification in OSCC and warrants further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Mutations in mitochondrial protein CHCHD2 and its paralog CHCHD10 were identified in patients with Parkinson disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or Alzheimer disease (AD). CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 mutations caused neurodegeneration in model animals as seen in patients, but their pathophysiological roles remain elusive. Here we reported a direct role of CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 in autophagy. We identified a protein complex composing of CHCHD2-CHCHD10-C1QBP/p32-Atg8-family proteins (ATG8s), in which each molecule interacted with another. CHCHD2, CHCHD10 and C1QBP/p32 associated with ATG8s, preferentially, GABARAPs. Disease-associated CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 mutations exhibited varied interaction with ATG8s. By binding to GABARAPs, CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 underwent autophagic degradation, and recruited the ULK1 complex. Autophagy initiation defects occurred upon transient knockdown of CHCHD2, and also in human iPSC-derived CHCHD2-/- or CHCHD2T61I dopaminergic neurons. Importantly, CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 promoted autophagy. CHCHD2 reduced protein aggregates in cells and toxic SNCA/α-synuclein species in mouse striatum. Our study thus revealed mitochondrial proteins CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 as both autophagy substrates and autophagy activators and laid groundwork for therapy targeting patients with neurodegeneration.Abbreviations: AA: amino acid; AD: Alzheimer disease; ALS: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG8: mammalian Atg8-family protein; ATG13: autophagy related 13; bafA1: bafilomycin A1; C1QBP/p32/gC1qR/HABP1: complement component 1, q subcomponent binding protein; CHCHD2/MNRR1/MIX17B: coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain containing 2; CHCHD10/MIX17A: coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain containing 10; CHX: cycloheximide; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CQ, chloroquine; DA: dopaminergic; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; FTD: frontotemporal dementia; GABARAP: gamma-aminobutyric acid receptorbassociated protein; GABARAPL1: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; hESC: human embryonic stem cells; iPSC: induced pluripotent stem cell; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2A; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; LIR: LC3-interacting region; PD: Parkinson disease; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TARDBP/TDP-43: TAR DNA binding protein; TH: tyrosine hydroxylase; TMR, tetramethylrhodamine; WT: wild type; UB: ubiquitin; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1.
It is well established that the function of DCs (dendritic cells) is impaired during malaria infection; however, the underlying mechanisms responsible for this impairment remain poorly understood. In this study, we found that ATG5 (autophagy related 5) deficiency in DCs significantly suppressed the growth of malaria blood-stage parasites, and this effect was independent of both canonical and non-canonical macroautophagy/autophagy pathways in these cells. The reduced parasite growth observed in atg5f/f Itgax/Cd11c-Cre+ mice was associated with an enhanced parasite-specific CD4+ T cell response, which provided crucial support for the functional activation of Plasmodium-specific CD8+ T cells. Mechanistically, ATG5 deficiency led to a marked increase in the expression of the phagocytic receptor CD209A/DC-SIGN on conventional DCs (cDCs), thereby enhancing their capacity to activate Plasmodium-specific CD4+ T cell responses. Furthermore, the expression of CD209A was mediated by the TLR2 (toll-like receptor 2) signaling pathway, which was significantly augmented in the absence of ATG5. Thus, we reveal a novel role for ATG5 in modulating anti-malarial cellular immune responses by influencing TLR2-mediated CD209A expression in cDCs. These findings not only enhance our understanding of impaired DC function during malaria infection but also provide valuable insights for the design of more effective malaria vaccines.Abbreviations: ATG5: autophagy related 5; cDCs: conventional dendritic cells; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester; DC-SIGN: dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; LAP: LC3-associated phagocytosis; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; NFKB1/NF-κB: nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B cells 1, p105; pRBCs: parasitized red blood cells; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; TLR2: toll-like receptor 2; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
Mitochondrial damage is a pivotal driver of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (MIR) injury. While PRKN (parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase), a key E3 ubiquitin ligase in the PINK1 (PTEN induced kinase 1)-PRKN mitophagy pathway, has been extensively studied, its role and mechanisms in acute MIR injury remain incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrated that PRKN exacerbates MIR injury by promoting cardiomyocyte ferroptosis under hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R) conditions. Mechanistically, PRKN interacts with and mediates the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of IMMT/MIC60 (inner membrane mitochondrial protein), a core mitochondrial inner membrane protein essential for cristae architecture and mitochondrial integrity. This disruption of IMMT facilitates lysosomal degradation of GPX4 (glutathione peroxidase 4), a major ferroptosis suppressor, thereby triggering ferroptosis. Consistent with these findings, cardiac-specific immt knockout mice displayed increased susceptibility to MIR injury in vivo. Our findings establish PRKN-driven IMMT degradation as a key pathological mechanism in MIR injury and identify the PRKN-IMMT axis as a potential therapeutic target for cardioprotection.Abbreviations: ATG5, autophagy related 5; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; CCCP, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CHX, cycloheximide; cKO, cardiomyocyte-specific knockout; CQ, chloroquine; CRISPR, clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; EF, ejection fraction; Fer-1, ferrostatin-1; FS, fractional shortening; GO, Gene Ontology; GPX4, glutathione peroxidase 4; GST, glutathione S-transferase; gRNA, guide RNA; hiPSC-CMs, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes; H/R, hypoxia-reoxygenation; IF, immunofluorescence; IHC, immunohistochemistry; IMMT/MIC60, inner membrane mitochondrial protein; IP, immunoprecipitation; LoxP, locus of X-overP1; KO, knockout; KR, lysine residues mutated to arginine; MDA, malondialdehyde; MFN2, mitofusin 2; MIR, myocardial ischemia reperfusion; MMP, mitochondrial membrane potential; mPTP, mitochondrial permeability transition pore; mtROS, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC, N-acetylcysteine; OMM, outer mitochondrial membrane; PRKN, parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RAB7, RAB7, member RAS oncogene family; RNA-seq, RNA sequencing; UB, ubiquitin; WB, western blot; WT, wild-type.
Doxorubicin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical application is hindered by severe cardiotoxicity. Among immune cells, Cx3cr1+ macrophages have emerged as key regulators of cardiovascular disease, with their development and maturation tightly controlled by CSF1R (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor). Using multi-omics sequencing, we observed a marked expansion of Cx3cr1+ macrophages in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, yet their precise functional role in this pathological process has remained elusive. This study employed various genetically modified mouse models, including cell depletion models, lineage tracing models, and conditional gene knockout models targeting Cx3cr1+ macrophages, alongside transcriptomic sequencing, proteomic profiling, and multi-level in vivo and in vitro experiments to elucidate the role and mechanisms of Cx3cr1+ macrophages and their receptor CSF1R in doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. We found that Cx3cr1+ macrophages are significantly enriched in hearts affected by doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, and their depletion notably improves cardiac function. Further investigation revealed that in these macrophages, CSF1R competitively binds to the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of PARP1. This process promotes inflammasome activation and pyroptosis, driving massive IL1B secretion. IL1B directly suppresses cardiomyocyte mitophagy, disrupts energy metabolic homeostasis, and ultimately leads to cardiac dysfunction. Notably, the use of the CSF1R inhibitor PLX3397 or an IL1B-neutralizing antibody effectively halted these pathological processes and significantly improved cardiac function. In summary, this study unveils a novel mechanism through which Cx3cr1+ macrophages regulate cardiomyocyte function via the CSF1R-PARP1-IL1B-mitophagy signaling axis, providing a new theoretical foundation and intervention strategy for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy targeted therapy.Abbreviations: BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CKMB: creatine kinase MB isoenzyme; CSF1R: colony stimulating factor 1 receptor; csf1r-cKO: csf1r conditional knockout; DIC: doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; DOX: doxorubicin; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HW:TL: heart weight:tibial length; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtuble-associated protein 1 light chain 3; NPPA: natriuretic peptide type A; PI: propidium iodide; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; TNNT2/cTnT: troponin T2, cardiac; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Intrinsic resistance limits chemo-immunotherapy efficacy in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). While metabolic reprogramming is linked to immune evasion, the precise mechanistic orchestration remains unclear. Here, utilizing single-cell transcriptomics and quantitative lactylome profiling, we show that elevated tumor lactate drives resistance by broadly suppressing PANoptosis. Mechanistically, under chemotherapeutic stress, the Lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) catalyzes the specific lactylation of the inner mitochondrial membrane ADP/ATP translocator 2 (ANT2) at K92. Lactylated ANT2 recruits the phosphoglycerate mutase 5 (PGAM5) to dephosphorylate Cyclophilin D (CypD). This cascade restricts mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening, preserving mitochondrial homeostasis and averting immunogenic cell death. Crucially, a cell-penetrating competitive peptide targeting the KAT8-ANT2 interface effectively uncouples this metabolic lock, re-sensitizing TNBC tumors to cytotoxic stress and restoring chemo-immunotherapy efficacy in vivo. Our findings unveil a profound mechanistic link between the Warburg effect and mitochondrial homeostasis, establishing KAT8-mediated ANT2 lactylation as a targetable vulnerability to improve chemo-immunotherapy efficacy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
IFNG (interferon gamma)-activated macrophages contribute to accelerated clearance of platelets and excessive secretion of inflammatory cytokines in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). In this study, we identified two distinct subpopulations of activated macrophages: phagocytic macrophages (M[IFNG]p), which predominantly exhibit phagocytic activity, and inflammatory macrophages (M[IFNG]i), characterized by their pro-inflammatory capacity. The M(IFNG)p and M(IFNG)i subsets were functionally disturbed in patients with ITP. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) deficiency in macrophages was discovered in ITP and has been reported to induce sustained inflammation. Furthermore, CMA interference enhanced pro-inflammatory function rather than phagocytic activity of macrophages in vitro. In parallel, macrophage-specific conditional lamp2a (lysosome associated membrane protein 2A) knockout mice exhibited expansion and excessive cytokine release of M(IFNG)i. Restoring CMA restrains M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member) in ITP. Here, anti-ITGB3/CD61 immune-sensitized splenocytes were transferred into severe combined immunodeficient mice to establish an active murine model of ITP. CMA activation diminished the pro-inflammatory and phagocytic activity of activated macrophages and ameliorated thrombocytopenia in ITP mice. MeRIP-sequencing identified PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) as a crucial activator for LAMP2A, exhibiting decreased m6A methylation and subsequent downregulation, which indicated a potential mechanism underlying CMA deficiency in activated macrophages. In conclusion, restoring CMA restrains the M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms the M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 to raise platelet counts in ITP. Targeting CMA in activated primary human macrophages presents a promising therapeutic strategy to rapidly and sustainably increase platelet counts and restore immune balance in ITP.Abbreviation ALDH2: aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member; ALKBH5: alkB homolog 5, RNA demethylase; CCL: C-C motif chemokine ligand; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CSF1/M-CSF: colony stimulating factor 1; CUT&Tag: Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation; CXCL: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCGR/FcγR: Fc gamma receptor; HLA-DR: major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; IGF2R: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; IL: interleukin; ITP: immune thrombocytopenia; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; m6A: N6-methyladenosine; MeRIP-seq: methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; MFI: mean fluorescence intensity; mRNA: messenger RNA; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NOS2/iNOS: nitric oxide synthase 2; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homolog; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; Th1: T-helper 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WTAP: WT1 associated protein.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic autoimmune disease primarily characterized by symmetrical synovial inflammation, leading to joint swelling, pain, and progressive cartilage and bone destruction. Unfortunately, the clinical treatment of RA still faces numerous challenges. Although melatonin (MT), the circadian rhythm hormone, is known to relieve the pathological process of RA, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Herein, we assess the impacts of MT on collagen or K/BxN serum-induced arthritis (two well-established models of RA) and confirm its excellent therapeutic effect. Mechanistically, MT activates MTNR1A (melatonin receptor 1A) to promote mitophagy for the elimination of reactive oxygen (ROS) and leaked mitochondrial DNA triggered by damaged mitochondria, which in turn limits NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Mice with deletion of the autophagy-related gene Atg5 in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2/LysM-cre) barely display any benefits of MT in K/BxN serum-induced arthritis. Our results indicate that mitophagy promoted by MT is essential to deactivate NLRP3 inflammasome and alleviate the development of arthritis, which provides a candidate for the treatment of RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG5: autophagy releated 5; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow derived macrophages; BV:TV: bone volume to tissue volume; CASP1: caspase 1; CYCS: cytochrome c; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GSDMD: gasdermin D; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL18: interleukin 18; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MT: melatonin; MTNR1A: melatonin receptor 1A; MTNR1B: melatonin receptor type 1B; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mt-DNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NT-GSDMD: N-terminal gasdermin D; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; Ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKAA/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen; SD: standard deviation; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Lysosomal defects are closely linked to Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in the GBA1 gene, encoding the lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GCase), are major genetic risk factors for PD. GBA1 deficiency causes lysosomal dysfunction, leading to α-synuclein (α-syn) accumulation and PD progression. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we identified a novel GBA1-KAT8 regulatory pathway that controls lysosomal activity. GBA1 overexpression enhances lysosomal enzyme expression, regulates histone H4 acetylation at K16 via KAT8, and promotes lysosome-associated gene expression, highlighting an epigenetic mechanism in lysosomal biogenesis. Furthermore, GBA1 upregulated KAT8 expression, increased lysosomal enzyme levels, and decreased PFF-induced α-syn accumulation both in vitro and in vivo. The involvement of KAT8 as a critical acetyltransferase that modulates nuclear-lysosomal signaling pathways provides a mechanistic explanation for GBA1 deficiency-induced lysosomal dysfunction in association with PD pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Macrophages play central role in driving airway inflammation during asthma pathogenesis, though the molecular mechanism governing their function remains incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) plays a critical role in papain-induced neutrophilic airway inflammation through post-translational modification of poly(C)-binding protein 1 (PCBP1). We show that papain exposure significantly upregulates KAT8 expression in lung macrophages both in vivo and in vitro. Myeloid-specific Kat8 deficiency conferred protection against papain-induced airway inflammation, reducing CXCL1 and CXCL2 production and consequent neutrophil recruitment. Mechanistically, KAT8 interacted with PCBP1 via its C2HC zinc finger domain and acetylated it at lysine 119 (K119), an essential modification for CXCL1 and CXCL2 secretion. Moreover, KAT8 enhanced M1 macrophage polarization in papain-exposed mice. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of KAT8 significantly attenuated neutrophil infiltration and allergic airway inflammation in vivo. Our findings establish KAT8 as a pivotal regulator of neutrophilic airway inflammation through PCBP1 acetylation and highlight the KAT8-PCBP1 axis as a promising therapeutic target for severe asthma.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Distal ischemic necrosis remains a major challenge in reconstructive surgery. Mitochondria and lysosomes interact via signaling and membrane contacts to maintain cellular homeostasis. Mitochondrial-derived peptide MOTS-c, encoded by the MT-RNR1/12S rRNA open reading frame, enhances mitochondrial function by reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and stabilizing the membrane potential, potentially preserving lysosomal integrity and reducing lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP). This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of MOTS-c in ischemic flaps. RNA sequencing explored MOTS-c mechanisms in ischemic flaps. Tissue clearing, laser speckle contrast imaging and Doppler analyses revealed improved blood flow perfusion following MOTS-c treatment. Histological staining (HE, Masson, F-CHP) demonstrated enhanced angiogenesis and collagen remodeling. Western blotting, ELISA, and immunofluorescence were used to assess pyroptosis, macroautophagy/autophagy, LMP, and MAPK1/ERK2-MAPK3/ERK1-NFKB/NF-κB pathway-related proteins. MOTS-c reduced endothelial pyroptosis, enhanced autophagy, and attenuated LMP in ischemic flaps. Mechanistically, in vivo overexpression of PLA2G4A/cPLA2 (phospholipase A2, group IVA (calcium, calcium dependent)) via AAV confirmed that MOTS-c enhances autophagy and reduces pyroptosis and LMP by suppressing PLA2G4A phosphorylation. Furthermore, MOTS-c inhibited PLA2G4A via the MAPK1-MAPK3-NFKB signaling cascade, thereby reducing LMP and enhancing flap survival. These findings suggest that MOTS-c restores cellular homeostasis by targeting the PLA2G4A-LMP axis, representing a promising therapeutic strategy for improving outcomes in ischemic flap surgery.Abbreviations: AA = arachidonic acid, AAV = adeno-associated virus, ACTA2/α-SMA = actin alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta, ALs = autolysosomes, BECN1 = beclin 1, CASP1 = caspase 1, CQ = chloroquine, CTSB = cathepsin B, CTSD = cathepsin D, CTSL = cathepsin L, Co-IP = co-immunoprecipitation, DEGs = differentially expressed genes, ELISA = enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, F-CHP = 5-FAM-conjugated collagen hybridizing peptide staining, GSDMD = gasdermin D, GO = gene Ontology, GPT/ALT = glutamic pyruvic transaminase, soluble, GOT1/AST = glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, soluble, HE = hematoxylin-eosin, HUVECs = human umbilical vein endothelial cells, IP/MS = immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, IL1B/IL-1β = interleukin 1 beta, IL18 = interleukin 18, IP = intraperitoneal injection, IV = intravenous injection, LDBF = laser Doppler blood flow, LMP = lysosomal membrane permeability, MAP1LC3/LC3 = microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3, MAPK = mitogen-activated protein kinase, NAGLU = alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB), NFKB/NF-κB = nuclear factor kappa B, NLRP1 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 1, NLRP3 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 3, PECAM1/CD31 = platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1, PLA2G4A/cPLA2 = phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium-dependent), PYCARD/ASC = PYD and CARD domain containing, PIK3C3/VPS34 = phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3, PMA = phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, ROS = reactive oxygen speciesSQSTM1/p62 = sequestosome 1, SPR = surface plasmon resonance, scRNA-seq = single-cell RNA sequencing, UMAP = uniform manifold approximation and projection, WB = western blotting.
Rheumatoidarthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease accompanied by joint swelling,stiffness, and pain, leading to a sharp decline in quality of life. However,the treatment of RA still faces numerous challenges. Clinical studies indicatethat specific hypoglycemic agents alleviate the symptoms of RA, while the potentialmolecular mechanism remains unknown. Herein, we initially assess the efficacyof various categories of anti-diabetic medications including biguanides, GLP1R(glucagon like peptide 1 receptor) agonists, SLC5A2/SGLT2 (solute carrierfamily 5 member 2) inhibitors, DPP4 (dipeptidyl peptidase 4) inhibitors,sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, and insulin analog in RA models ofcollagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and serum-transfer arthritis (STA). Resultsdemonstrate that solely thiazolidinediones (pioglitazone [PIOG]) confersuperior efficacy, whereas the other anti-diabetic agents provide minimal or notherapeutic benefits. Mechanistically, thiazolidinediones (PIOG) activatesPPARG/PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma) to promotemitophagic flux, thereby inhibiting aberrant NLRP3 inflammasome activation andreducing pro-inflammatory factors IL1B/IL1-BETA (interleukin 1 beta) and IL18 (interleukin18) release. Notably, loss of autophagy either genetically or pharmacologicallysubstantially diminishes the anti-inflammatory effects of PIOG both in vitroand in vivo. In summary, these results offer new mechanistic insight intodisease crosstalk and support the translational value of thiazolidinedionesPIOG as a candidate for precision therapy in RA or multimorbidity of RA and type2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ALUM: aluminum hydroxide adjuvant; ANOVA: analysis of variance; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophage; BV:TV: bone volume:tissue volume; CIA: collagen-induced arthritis; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DNA: deoxyribonucleic acid; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; FG: Fast Green; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GSDMD: gasdermin D; IL1B/IL1-BETA: interleukin 1 beta; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; Micro-CT: micro-computed tomography; MSU: monosodium urate; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NLRP1B: NLR family, pyrin domain containing 1B; NLRP3: NLR family, pyrin domain containing 3; NLRC4: NLR family, CARD domain containing 4; OGTT: oral glucose tolerance test; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PINK1: PTEN induced putative kinase 1; PIOG: pioglitazone; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; STA: serum transfer arthritis; STZ: streptozotocin; T2DM: type 2 diabetes mellitus; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Sp: trabecular separation; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; THP-1: human monocytic leukemia cell line; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
Programmed cell death protein 1/its ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) blockade has revolutionized cancer immunotherapy, yet its efficacy is limited by incomplete checkpoint inhibition and persistent PD-L1 transcription. In this work, lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) is identified as a nucleator of liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS)-mediated condensates that concentrate transcription factors to drive sustained PD-L1 transcription and promote immune resistance. Leveraging this mechanism, a PD-1-functionalized hybrid vesicle-liposome platform (PD-1-HVL-siKAT8) is developed to deliver small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting KAT8 for LLPS modulation and enhanced cancer immunotherapy. In this platform, the PD-1-presenting vesicles enable tumor accumulation and PD-L1 blockade, while the fused liposomes provide efficient siRNA encapsulation and cytosolic release, leading to potent KAT8 silencing and condensate dissolution. This LLPS modulator platform markedly suppresses PD-L1 expression and reshapes the tumor immune microenvironment, augmenting type I interferon signaling, dendritic cell maturation, cytotoxic T-cell activation, and M1-like macrophage polarization. In subcutaneous and recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma models, PD-1-HVL-siKAT8 significantly inhibits tumor growth, prevents recurrence, and extends survival with negligible toxicity. Collectively, this approach integrates PD-L1 blockade with disruption of LLPS-dependent transcription for durable immunotherapy.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Introduction Galectin-9, a β-galactoside-binding protein, is elevated in various kidney diseases. While exogenous galectin-9 attenuates kidney injury in experimental models, it remains unclear whether endogenous plasma galectin-9 reflects renal histopathology and independently predicts long-term adverse outcomes in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Methods Plasma galectin-9 levels were prospectively measured in 366 participants from the Taipei Renal Transcriptomics and Outcomes Investigation (TRTOI) cohort. Renal histopathology and chronicity were assessed using a modified Mayo Clinic Chronicity Score (MCCS). Major adverse renal events (MAREs) were defined as ≥40% decline in eGFR, kidney failure, or death. Findings were validated in 549 participants from the Boston Kidney Biopsy Cohort (BKBC). In vitro, mouse mesangial cells (SV40-MES-13) were used to evaluate galectin-9 effects on TGF-β-induced mesangial activation. Results Transcriptomic analysis showed upregulation of LGALS9 (encoding galectin-9) in fibrotic kidneys. Plasma galectin-9 positively correlated with urine protein-to-creatinine ratio and MCCS, and inversely with eGFR. Elevated galectin-9 was independently associated with mesangial expansion. In vitro, exogenous galectin-9 attenuated TGF-β-induced mesangial cell activation, proliferation, and profibrotic responses; these effects were reversed by lactose, a competitive inhibitor of the carbohydrate recognition domains of galectin-9. In the TRTOI cohort, participants in the highest galectin-9 tertile had a significantly increased risk of MAREs, independent of confounders. Validation in the BKBC cohort confirmed that higher galectin-9 levels were independently associated with increased all-cause mortality. Conclusion Elevated plasma galectin-9 is associated with mesangial expansion and predicts a higher risk of MAREs in patients with CKD.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Cardiomyocyte-macrophage crosstalk is essential for post-infarction repair, with Galectin-9 (Gal-9) acting as a key immunoregulatory mediator. However, the mechanisms governing its expression and secretion remain unclear. Here, we show that hypoxia stabilizes HIF-1α in cardiomyocytes, driving Gal-9 expression. Pharmacological activation of HIF-1α with deferoxamine enhanced Gal-9 secretion, promoted macrophage polarization toward M2 phenotype, and improved cardiac function after myocardial infarction. These benefits were abrogated by HIF-1α inhibition or Gal-9 deletion, underscoring the HIF-1α-Gal-9 axis as a central regulator of cardiac healing. Mechanistically, Gal-9 secretion occurred via a TMED10-dependent, non-classical vesicular pathway. TMED10 interacted with Gal-9 through a glycan-independent interface to facilitate vesicle loading. Furthermore, Gal-9 underwent S-palmitoylation at Cys137, a modification required for membrane anchoring and secretion. ZDHHC3 was identified as the primary palmitoyl acyltransferase mediating this process; ZDHHC3 knockdown or Cys137 mutation markedly suppressed Gal-9 release. These findings define a novel regulatory network in which HIF-1α upregulates Gal-9, while TMED10 and ZDHHC3 coordinate its palmitoylation-dependent secretion. This pathway links hypoxic signaling to immune modulation, providing new mechanistic insight and therapeutic targets for post-infarction myocardial repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481329
Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) are highly modular drug nanocarriers that have significantly progressed in the development and application of novel RNA therapeutics. While instrumental in current vaccine and hepatic gene therapy applications, extrahepatic LNP delivery remains a challenging hurdle, severely limiting clinical applications for individualized therapies that require cellular- and tissue-specific enrichment. Novel platform development remains needed to generate targeted LNPs capable of modeling targeted uptake in vitro prior to in vivo applications. Herein, we developed and utilized an antibody-based targeting bispecific-LNP (TbsAb-LNP) platform simultaneously binding LNP polyethylene glycol motifs and desired cell surface markers. By colocalizing TbsAb-LNP complexes with desired cell surface markers, we enable mRNA-LNP accumulation in the desired cell types. We additionally assessed the endosomal efficiency kinetics of TbsAb-LNP complexes generated at various bispecific loading ratios in a Galectin-9 in vitro expression model. Leveraging this facile and modular platform that eliminates the need for complex chemical conjugation approaches, we successfully achieved targeted LNP delivery to xhuCD3-expressing lymphoblasts and xmTfR1-expressing cell lines in vitro as well as xmTfR1-expressing cells in vivo. Enrichment of TbsAb-LNPs to splenic cells demonstrates the potential utility of this platform for clinical vaccine and T-cell delivery applications.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains an aggressive hematologic malignancy with heterogeneous responses to induction chemotherapy. Reliable biomarkers to distinguish patients achieving complete remission (CR) from those with refractory disease are needed to support immunological assessment of treatment response.To evaluate whether serum soluble CD25 (sCD25), galectin-9 (Gal-9), and CXCL9 differ between AML patients in CR, refractory AML patients, and healthy controls, and to assess their discriminative performance for refractory versus CR status.In this single-center case-control study, 155 participants were enrolled (50 healthy controls, 55 AMLCR, 50 AML-Refractory). Serum sCD25, Gal-9, and CXCL9 were quantified by sandwich ELISA. Between-group comparisons used the Kruskal-Wallis test with Dunn post-hoc pairwise contrasts; p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons using the Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). Discriminative performance was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis with bootstrap-derived 95% confidence intervals (1000 resamples), and pairwise AUC comparisons were performed using DeLong's test.Serum sCD25 and Gal-9 were significantly elevated in refractory patients compared with CR and controls (adjusted p < 0.001 for both), whereas CXCL9 was highest in the CR group and lowest in refractory patients (adjusted p < 0.001). For discrimination between refractory and CR status, CXCL9 showed the highest single-marker performance (AUC = 0.94, 95% CI: 0.90-0.98), followed by sCD25 (AUC = 0.91, 95% CI: 0.86-0.96) and Gal-9 (AUC = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.83-0.94). A combined logistic regression model incorporating all three markers yielded cross-validated AUC = 0.96 (95% CI: 0.93-0.99); the improvement over CXCL9 alone did not reach statistical significance (DeLong p = 0.31).sCD25, Gal-9, and CXCL9 collectively describe two complementary immunological axes in AML chronic activation/exhaustion (sCD25, Gal-9) and effector-cell trafficking (CXCL9) and robustly discriminate refractory from remission status in this cross-sectional cohort. Prospective longitudinal studies are required before these markers can be recommended for prognostic use or clinical decision-making.The present study identifies a reproducible serum biomarker panel (sCD25, Galectin-9, and CXCL9) that reflects the dynamic balance between immune activation and exhaustion in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The combined measurement of these markers can distinguish patients in complete remission from those with refractory disease, correlating with treatment response and residual immune dysregulation. These findings highlight a practical, non-invasive immunological tool that could support early detection of relapses, guide therapeutic monitoring, and enhance risk stratification in AML management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) influences extracellular matrix remodeling. We investigated its clinical, prognostic, and immunomodulatory significance in colorectal cancer (CRC). COMP was quantified via ELISA in 107 paired CRC and normal tissues. Expression was correlated with clinicopathological features, mutational profiles, microsatellite instability (MSI), tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), immune checkpoints, and multiplex cytokine networks. For transcriptomic validation, the FieldEffectCrc dataset was used for Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) CRC cohort for survival analysis. COMP was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues (p < 0.001) and correlated with advanced T, N, and overall pathological stages (all p < 0.05, tau = 0.18, 0.21, and 0.23, respectively). High COMP expression was linked to restricted immune infiltration (reduced stromal TILs, p < 0.05, tau = -0.23), elevated levels in microsatellite stable (MSS) compared to MSI tumors (p < 0.01), and correlated positively with immune exhaustion markers (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM-3), galectin-9 (GAL9), sialic acid-binding Ig-like lectin 9 (SIGLEC9)). Transcriptomic data linked high COMP to worse disease-specific and progression-free survival, and enrichment in pro-tumorigenic pathways (epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, angiogenesis, IL-6 signaling). COMP upregulation defines an immunosuppressive microenvironment in CRC, particularly in MSS tumors. It represents an important prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for overcoming immunotherapy resistance.
Human immunodeficiency virus and tuberculosis (HIV/TB) coinfection remains a major global health challenge. Immune dysregulation in HIV complicates TB diagnosis. The type of immune response mounted in tuberculosis is a key determinant in deciding the outcome of the infection. Hence, estimating immune markers is critical for developing diagnostic, monitoring and treatment approaches. A study was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic potential of host-based biomarkers in individuals with HIV/TB coinfection in comparison to HIV monoinfection receiving antiretroviral therapy. Host-based biomarkers were quantified using commercially available kits. Receiver operated curve (ROC) analysis was conducted to determine diagnostic performance. Routine investigations showed significantly raised ratios of neutrophils, monocytes, and platelets-to-lymphocytes and alkaline phosphatase levels in HIV/TB coinfection (AUC values > 0.76). Plasma galectin-9 and osteopontin levels had an AUC > 0.8. IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-12 levels were also significantly raised (AUC values > 0.95) while levels of GM-CSF and IL-6 were significantly low in HIV TB coinfection. The ROC analysis revealed the highest diagnostic accuracy of IL-12, indicating its potential as an adjunct immunological biomarker in identifying TB among HIV-infected individuals. However, a large-scale prospective study is required to confirm the findings and to understand their role in predicting the development of tuberculosis disease in people living with HIV.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449718 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a highly prevalent malignancy with limited treatment options for advanced stages, and immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) efficacy is restricted by primary or acquired resistance. This study investigated the role of suppressor of cytokine signaling 5 (SOCS5) in CRC progression and immune evasion. We found SOCS5 is overexpressed in CRC tissues and correlates with poor patient prognosis. Functionally, SOCS5 does not affect CRC cell proliferation but impairs anti-tumor CD8+ T-cell immunity by negatively regulating type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling. Mechanistically, SOCS5 acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase to promote K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of IFNAR1, inhibiting IFN-I pathway activation. Furthermore, high SOCS5 expression is associated with reduced ICB response in CRC patients, and targeting SOCS5 enhances the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in preclinical models by boosting CD8+ T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. These findings identify SOCS5 as a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target to improve ICB outcomes in CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415519 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568100 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate whether interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor inhibitors affect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) metabolites in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients. The initial phase employed drug-targeted Mendelian randomization to investigate the association between IL-6 receptor inhibitors and T2D across diverse populations. Subsequently, variables related to T2D were utilized as mediators in the relationship between IL-6 receptor inhibitors and CSF metabolites. Finally, the mediating effect of T2D was evaluated using mediation analysis. In the European cohort, the use of IL-6 receptor inhibitors was associated with a 25.3% reduction in the risk of T2D, as indicated by an odds ratio of 0.747 with a 95% confidence interval ranging from 0.556 to 0.938 (P = .003). In the East Asian cohort, IL-6 receptor inhibitors were associated with a 1.188-fold increase in the risk of elevated fasting insulin levels, with an odds ratio of 1.188 and a 95% confidence interval of 1.034 to 1.343 (P = .029). Mediation analysis revealed that IL-6 receptor inhibitors significantly elevated the levels of galacto-glycero-lipid (GG) in CSF, with 3.06% of the effect attributable to the reduced risk of T2D, and 96.94% directly resulting from the action of the IL-6 receptor inhibitors. The findings preliminarily indicated that race constituted a variable potentially influencing the differential effects of IL-6 receptor inhibitors among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) across various regions. While the administration of IL-6 receptor inhibitors might impact glucose concentrations in CSF, the role of T2D as a mediator in CSF metabolites was weak. The predominant determinant appeared to be the administration of IL-6 receptor inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Mechanical and/or microbial stimuli can prompt extracellular ATP release in many cell types, where it acts as an inflammatory mediator to amplify pain signals and inflammation. This study aimed to investigate the synergistic effects of microbial and/or mechanical stimulation on ATP and cytokine release from dental pulp cells (DPCs) and to determine if the inflammatory signalling identified was dependent on ATP acting via the purinergic receptor, P2X3.DPCs were prepared from sound third molars using explant culture method. P2X3 protein expression and functionality in DPCs were investigated by immunostaining and calcium mobilisation assays using the P2X3 agonist αβmeATP and antagonist AF-353. ATP or interleukin-6 (IL-6) release from DPCs treated with lipoteichoic acid (LTA) and fluid shear stress or stretch was measured using the ATPlite luciferase assay (PerkinElmer) or ELISA (R&D Systems), respectively. To assess the role of P2X3 activation in IL-6 release, the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 was included in ELISA experiments. Data were checked for normality and analysed by Mann-Whitney test for two-group comparisons and Kruskal-Wallis or ANOVA test with Dunn's or Dunnett's multiple comparisons test where appropriate for multiple-group comparisons.The DPCs expressed functional P2X3 receptors. The cells' response to αβmeATP was significantly inhibited by AF-353 (p < 0.0001). Increased ATP and IL-6 release were observed following co-stimulation with LTA and fluid shear stress (p < 0.01, p < 0.05) or LTA and stretch (p < 0.05). The addition of AF-353 reduced IL-6 release by 34% and 36% (p < 0.05) in DPCs co-stimulated with LTA and fluid shear stress or stretch, respectively.This study demonstrates that the combined bacterial mimetic and mechanical stimulation of DPCs significantly enhances ATP and IL-6 release. The inhibition of IL-6 release by the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 indicates the importance of P2X3 receptor activation in this process. These findings offer insights into the molecular mechanisms of dental pulp inflammation and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). International Endodontic Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Endodontic Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
Reversible splenial lesion syndrome (RESLES), mild encephalitis/encephalopathy with a reversible splenial lesion (MERS), and cytotoxic lesions of the corpus callosum (CLOCCs) are overlapping clinicoradiological constructs associated with infection, seizures, metabolic disturbance, and drug exposure. We report an 11-year-old right-handed boy with recurrent paroxysmal speech arrest over approximately 24 hours. During the episodes, consciousness and comprehension were preserved; he could vocalize and communicate by typing but could not produce meaningful speech. Transient left upper-limb or generalized weakness and upper respiratory symptoms accompanied the spells. Respiratory adenovirus testing was positive, and a Mycoplasma pneumoniae (M. pneumoniae) antibody titer was reported as 1:160, although respiratory and cerebrospinal fluid M. pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction testing was negative. Cerebrospinal fluid contained 1 white cell/microL, with normal protein, glucose, and chloride and mildly elevated interleukin-6 (IL-6). Baseline electroencephalography showed abundant right frontopolar, frontal, anterior temporal, and Fz interictal discharges without a captured electroclinical seizure. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a splenial lesion with symmetric posterior periventricular and centrum semiovale abnormalities, compatible with a type II MERS/RESLES pattern or CLOCC-spectrum process. He received two 40 g doses of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and later intravenous methylprednisolone followed by oral prednisone, together with empirical acyclovir, azithromycin, mannitol, and supportive care. No further speech arrest or weakness was documented on or after illness day 5, and methylprednisolone was initiated on illness day 6. Follow-up electroencephalography on illness day 48 showed qualitatively fewer discharges confined to sleep, but no habitual event. Serial imaging showed lesion regression with residual fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) signal on illness day 74. At approximately 4.5 months, he remained asymptomatic during prednisone tapering. Because formal language and motor-speech testing was not performed during an episode, aphasia could not be definitively distinguished from anarthria, dysarthria, apraxia of speech, or focal speech arrest. This case highlights the diagnostic overlap among resolving callosal-white matter lesions, transient speech-output disturbance, and interictal epileptiform abnormalities, while cautioning against attributing recovery to a single treatment or equating residual magnetic resonance signal with active inflammation.Copyright © 2026, Yu et al.
Obesity is a major metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation and adipocyte differentiation. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MEK5) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in adipogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic effects of BIX02189, a selective MEK5 inhibitor, using 3T3-L1 adipocytes, human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), and zebrafish models. Treatment with BIX02189 significantly reduced lipid accumulation and triglyceride content during adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner without marked cytotoxicity. BIX02189 effectively suppressed MEK5 phosphorylation and downregulated the expression of key adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP-α). In addition, BIX02189 decreased the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5, as well as the expression of lipogenic markers such as fatty acid synthase (FAS), perilipin A, and leptin. Conversely, BIX02189 enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and markedly reduced the protein and mRNA expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a key enzyme involved in fatty acid synthesis. Similar anti-adipogenic effects were observed in hASCs. Furthermore, BIX02189 significantly attenuated lipid accumulation in a zebrafish obesity model without affecting body length or causing overt toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of MEK5 suppresses adipogenesis and lipid accumulation through regulation of the STAT3/STAT5-PPAR-γ axis and activation of AMPK signaling. These findings provide the first evidence that MEK5 inhibition exerts anti-adipogenic effects in adipocytes and zebrafish, highlighting the MEK5 signaling pathway as a previously unrecognized regulator of adipogenesis and lipid metabolism.
Pre-eclampsia is a significant obstetric complication. Immune cells within the maternal circulatory system hold substantial promises for the diagnosis and treatment of pre-eclampsia. However, research focusing on the maternal circulatory system remains inadequate.We conducted differential analysis and weighted correlation network analysis on a dataset to identify blood biomarkers for early-onset pre-eclampsia. These biomarkers were subsequently validated through ELISA. Multiple bioinformatic analyses were subsequently performed to predict the biological functions associated with the selected genes and potential protein‒miRNA regulatory relationships. Additionally, by analysing single-cell transcriptomic data from blood samples, we predicted the genetic profiles of the selected genes, investigated changes in the proportion of blood immune cells and abnormalities in intercellular communication in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia, and predicted potential protein-compound interactions.We identified and validated the expression levels of F2R-like trypsin receptor 1 (F2RL1) and granzyme H (GZMH) in maternal blood samples obtained from women with and without pre-eclampsia. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that F2RL1 participates in the regulation of classic signaling pathways, including the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway, oxidative stress-induced endogenous apoptosis signaling pathway, and vesicle targeting process. GZMH primarily contributes to immune processes associated with natural killer cells. Analysis of single-cell sequencing datasets revealed significant alterations in T cells and haematopoietic stem cell growth factor (HSC-G-CSF) within the maternal blood system during the onset of pre-eclampsia. Furthermore, receptor-ligand interaction analysis and protein-compound interaction analysis highlighted the critical role of aspirin in alleviating pre-eclampsia pathology, while also revealing the potential therapeutic value of tyrosine kinase inhibitors.This study identified the pre-eclampsia biomarkers F2RL1 and GZMH, which showed good diagnostic value. This research provides new insights for the prediction of pre-eclampsia and deepens our understanding of changes in the maternal blood immune system during pre-eclampsia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Circulating monocyte trans-endothelial migration is critical for vascular diseases. The monocyte surface proteins, i.e., integrins and membrane receptors are central in this process. Previous studies demonstrate that ablation of the mitochondrial arginase-2 (ARG2) reduces monocyte/macrophage infiltration in cardiovascular disease. We further investigate whether ARG2 regulates integrin and surface receptor levels in monocytes and facilitates trans-endothelial migration, contributing to atherogenesis.For this purpose, human THP1 cells deficient in ARG2 gene (THP1ARG2-/-) were generated by CRISPR-U™-mediated genome engineering. Atherosclerotic Apoe-/-Arg2+/+ mice and Apoe-/-Arg2-/- mouse models are used. Proteomic profiling, cellular/molecular biology methods, and confocal microscopy were utilized for gene or protein expression analysis.As compared to the control THP1WT cells, the THP1ARG2-/- cells reveal decreased adhesion and trans-endothelial migratory activities towards chemoattractants in a transwell co-culture system, accompanied by lower levels of αL and α4 integrins, CD99 and PECAM1 (CD31) (surface molecules for trans-endothelial activity) and CCR2 (the chemoattractant receptor). The monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells is reduced by blocking LFA-1 (αLβ2) or VLA-4 (α4β1) integrin. Pro-inflammatory polarization of the THP1 cells with LPS does not affect the integrin and surface receptor levels, however, enhances release of several pro-inflammatory cytokines, which is reduced in THP1ARG2-/- cells due to reduced TLR4-ERK-NF-κB signaling. Conditioned medium from the LPS-primed THP1WT reveals higher capacity to enhance endothelial VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 levels than the THP1ARG2-/- cells, that is partly mediated by IL-1β. Moreover, ARG2-dependent TGF-β signaling was found to selectively regulate αL expression in monocytes. Finally, as compared to Apoe-/-Arg2+/+ mice, the ApoE-/-Arg2-/- mice show significantly decreased macrophage integrin, chemoattractant receptor levels, and atherosclerosis.Our study identifies ARG2 as a key regulator of monocyte-mediated vascular inflammation and atherogenesis by controlling integrin, chemoattractant receptor expression, and pro-inflammatory cytokine release through TLR4-ERK-NFκB signaling, highlighting ARG2 as a potential therapeutic target for vascular and chronic inflammatory diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Elevated intracellular glutathione, intratumoral hypoxia, and excessive polyamines severely compromise the efficacy of radiotherapy (RT) by attenuating radiation damage and maintaining an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (ITME). Strategies that concurrently address these obstacles are urgently needed to enhance RT outcomes. Herein, we fabricated a biomimetic nanoplatform (PCuP) via the self-assembly of copper ions and piceatannol into CuP nanometal-polyphenol cores, followed by surface camouflage with platelet membranes (PM). Owing to the platelet membrane coating, PCuP preferentially accumulates in tumor tissues with disrupted vasculature. At the tumor site, PCuP catalyzes hydrogen peroxide to produce oxygen, relieving hypoxia and sensitizing the tumors to RT. Simultaneously, it generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) that cooperate with RT to induce immunogenic cell death (ICD). Furthermore, PCuP inhibits arginase 2 (Arg2) to deplete polyamines, suppressing tumor DNA repair and remodeling the ITME. In vivo experiments using oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) models demonstrated that PCuP promotes dendritic cell maturation, activates systemic antitumor immunity, and drastically reduces post-RT tumor recurrence. This study presents the first nanoplatform integrating polyamine depletion with radioimmunotherapy, offering a promising strategy to design advanced radiosensitizers for improving RT efficacy and lowering tumor recurrence.
Distant metastasis is the leading cause of mortality in many cancers. Although metabolic reprogramming is recognized as a hallmark of cancer, how tumor-intrinsic metabolic enzymes regulate tumor-immune crosstalk during metastatic progression remains poorly understood. Here, using a high-throughput functional CRISPR-Cas9 screen targeting metabolic genes in an orthotopic 4T1 murine mammary carcinoma model of spontaneous lung metastasis, we identify a selective enrichment of arginase 2 (ARG2)-deficient tumor cells in metastatic lungs of immunocompetent but not RAG1-deficient mice, indicating a lymphocyte-dependent mechanism. Loss of ARG2 enhances spontaneous lung metastasis without affecting primary tumor growth. Further, metastatic outgrowth in the lung is not affected when tumor cells are injected intravenously, indicating that ARG2 regulates an early stage of the metastatic cascade. Mechanistically, ARG2 deficiency upregulates nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2), resulting in increased nitric oxide production, accumulation of cytosolic DNA, and activation of the cGAS-STING-NF-κB pathway, leading to upregulation of inflammatory cytokines. ARG2-deficient tumors exhibit an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment characterized by enrichment of Th17 cells and reduced anti-tumor immune populations. Functionally, Th17 cells enhance tumor cell migration in vitro and promote spontaneous lung metastasis in vivo . Genetic deletion of NOS2 attenuates cytosolic DNA accumulation, reduces STING-NF-κB activation, restores anti-tumor immunity, and suppresses ARG2 deficiency-driven metastatic burden in vivo . Collectively, these findings define a tumor cell-intrinsic ARG2-NOS2 axis that regulates inflammatory signaling and the tumor microenvironment to promote metastasis, highlighting a targetable vulnerability in metastatic breast cancer.
Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a complex hematological malignancy characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of malignant plasma cells. Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs) have recently been implicated in cancer, but the role in MM remains unclear. This study aimed to identify NETs-related biomarkers in MM and explore the underlying mechanisms using machine learning and experimental validation. Methods and Methods: Three MM-related microarray datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differential expression and weighted gene co-- expression network analyses were applied to identify NETs-related hub genes for MM. Machine learning algorithms were used to refine the biomarkers. The core genes were validated using receiver operating characteristic analysis, nomogram construction, and an external dataset. Functional analyses were performed to explore the underlying mechanisms. Drug-gene interaction analysis was performed to predict potential therapeutic drugs. Finally, gene expression was validated by quantitative real-time PCR in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from three MM patients and three healthy controls.A total of 24 NETs-related hub genes were identified. Machine learning algorithms identified three NETs-related core biomarkers for MM: KIT proto-oncogene (KIT), Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), and F2R-like trypsin receptor 1 (F2RL1). The predictive model showed good predictive performance in both the training and external cohorts. Functional analyses showed significant associations between the biomarker genes and immune-related biological processes. Additionally, potential therapeutic drugs targeting these biomarkers were identified, including diphenylpyraline, Crizotinib, 1,4-chrysenequinone, and histamine. The expression patterns of the biomarker genes were confirmed in clinical MM samples.This study combined multiple machine learning models to identify key NETs-related biomarkers for MM. Clinical validation confirmed the relevance of the biomarkers in clinical practice. These findings provide a foundation for further research into the immune microenvironment and therapeutic strategies for MM.This study successfully identified and validated NETs-related biomarkers for MM through machine learning and experimental validation. Understanding the role of NETs-related biomarkers in MM could not only deepen our understanding of the disease but also offer information for clinical applications.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2) are the key effector cells in airway inflammation of asthma. Arginase 2 (Arg2) and the NF-ĸB pathway are both involved in the inflammatory response, but the mechanism by which they jointly regulate the function of ILC2s remains unclear. In this study, an OVA-induced mouse asthma model was used, combined with in vivo and in vitro experiments, flow cytometry and targeted metabolomics to explore the roles of both and their mutual regulatory relationship. In OVA-induced asthmatic mice, airway inflammation was aggravated and the proportion of lung ILC2s increased, while Arg2 expression was upregulated and the NF-ĸB pathway was activated. In the in vivo experiments, the Arg2 inhibitor nor-NOHA or the NF-ĸB inhibitor DHMEQ could alleviate inflammation, and the combined treatment was more effective. Experiments in vitro have shown that NF-ĸB may promote the expression of Arg2, and inhibiting the expression of Arg2 can partially reduce the activation of the NF-ĸB pathway; combined inhibition can reduce the secretion of pro-inflammatory factors by ILC2s. Additionally, TNF-α could weaken the inhibitory effect of nor-NOHA on Arg2. In summary, NF-ĸB may regulate the expression of Arg2 in ILC2s, and Arg2 may feedback-regulate the NF-ĸB-mediated inflammation through arginine metabolism. The two synergistically affect the activation of ILC2s and the type 2 inflammation of asthma. Targeting both simultaneously can alleviate airway inflammation and provide a potential new idea for asthma treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bone metastasis is a lethal consequence of breast cancer. AT-rich interaction domain 1 A gene (ARID1A), a subunit of the switch/sucrose non-fermentable (SWI/SNF) complex, regulates immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. However, its specific role in bone metastasis remains unclear. Here, we show that female patients with ARID1A‑mutated triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) exhibit a higher bone metastasis incidence. Most ARID1A mutations result in loss of protein expression. ARID1A deficiency upregulates the arginine metabolic pathway, increasing ornithine and spermine levels that promote the expansion of polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells (PMN-MDSCs) within the bone marrow, thereby facilitating bone metastasis. Targeting key enzymes of arginase 2 (ARG2) and ornithine decarboxylase 1 (ODC1) in arginine metabolic pathway effectively reduces bone metastasis in ARID1A-deficient models. Collectively, these findings reveal that ARID1A deficiency promotes bone metastasis by activating arginine metabolism to expand PMN-MDSCs and potentially offers therapeutic strategies for preventing bone metastasis in female patients with ARID1A-deficient TNBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554391 is a review article
Mood disorders, including major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder, constitute a primary source of global disability, and with conventional monoamine-targeted pharmacotherapy, approximately one-third of patients remain with treatment-resistant disease. Over the past decade, the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) has emerged as a systems-level pathophysiological framework that explains the chronic neuroinflammation, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity, and impaired neuroplasticity that characterize treatment-resistant mood disorders. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are key molecular mediators in MGBA signaling, exerting epigenetic regulation through the inhibition of histone deacetylase, suppression of microglial toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor-kappa B signaling, reinforcement of intestinal and blood-brain barrier integrity, and rebalancing of tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism. A few small randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses have reported that restoring SCFA output using next-generation psychobiotics (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Akkermansia muciniphila, and Clostridium butyricum), prebiotic-rich dietary patterns, defined synbiotics, and direct postbiotic supplementation is associated with symptom improvement, although the evidence base remains preliminary, and have been proposed as candidate prognostic biomarkers. This narrative review synthesizes 2022 to 2026 mechanistic and clinical evidence on SCFA-producing psychobiotics in mood disorders; integrates these findings within a clinical nutrition framework that positions dietary fiber, microbiota-accessible carbohydrates, and targeted psychobiotic supplementation as legitimate adjuncts to conventional psychopharmacology; and discusses the translational challenges of strain specificity, dosing variability, and precision-psychobiotic medicine. Nevertheless, current evidence remains dominated by preclinical models, with human trials constrained by size, duration, and number.
Acalabrutinib (ACP-196), a second-generation BTK inhibitor, is an FDA-approved drug for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Beyond targeting malignant B cells, BTK inhibitors can modulate the abundance and functional properties of certain myeloid cell subsets in patients with CLL or MCL. In this study, we investigated the effects of acalabrutinib on the frequency, number, and phenotype of myeloid cell subsets using a mouse model of chronic inflammation induced by repeated injections of heat-killed Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). We found that acalabrutinib did not inhibit the expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) or affect macrophage abundance in wild-type (WT) or myeloid cell-specific Traf3-deficient (M-Traf3-/-) mice, a mouse model that exhibits MDSC hyperexpansion during chronic inflammation. Interestingly, acalabrutinib significantly inhibited the expression of the immunoinhibitory ligand PD-L1 on monocytic MDSCs (M-MDSCs), macrophages, and dendritic cells (DCs) in vivo. Using cultured MDSCs and macrophages, we demonstrated that acalabrutinib suppressed Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-induced transcript expression of genes encoding PD-L1 and other immunosuppressive molecules, including IL-10, Cox2, and iNos. Mechanistically, acalabrutinib attenuated TLR4-induced activation of NF-κB and Akt signaling. In summary, acalabrutinib inhibits the expression of PD-L1 and other immunosuppressive mediators in MDSCs and macrophages during inflammatory responses by suppressing TLR-driven signaling pathways. Our findings provide novel mechanistic insights and support a potentially broader therapeutic use of acalabrutinib in infectious and inflammatory diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pain is a common neurological manifestation of COVID-19, yet the mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 spike protein fragments contribute to nociceptive processing remain poorly understood. We investigated whether spike-derived peptides directly activate spinal neuroimmune pathways involved in pain signalling.Male C57BL/6 mice received intrathecal administration of three synthetic SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides (PSPD2001, PSPD2002 or PSPD2003) or saline. Mechanical nociception was assessed using the von Frey test. The involvement of spinal Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), microglia and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling was investigated using pharmacological antagonists, TLR4 knockout mice, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, CX3CR1GFP/+ mice, human C20 microglial cells and molecular dynamics simulations.All spike-derived peptides induced mechanical nociception, with PSPD2003 producing the most pronounced response. PSPD2003 increased spinal TLR4 expression, elevated TNF-α and IL-6 levels and promoted activation of dorsal horn microglia, demonstrated by increased TMEM119- and CX3CR1-positive cells. These nociceptive and neuroinflammatory effects were abolished by pharmacological inhibition of TLR4, microglia, p38 MAPK and NF-κB signalling, as well as in TLR4-/- mice, demonstrating that TLR4 signalling is essential for PSPD2003-induced pain. PSPD2003 also induced a hypertrophic phenotype in human microglial cells, while molecular dynamics simulations supported a stable interaction with the TLR4/MD-2 complex.These findings identify a previously unrecognized neuroimmune mechanism whereby a SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptide triggers spinal nociception through TLR4-dependent microglial activation and downstream p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling, highlighting the spinal TLR4-microglia axis as a potential therapeutic target for COVID-19-associated and post-viral pain.This study provides the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides directly activate a spinal TLR4-dependent neuroimmune pathway to induce nociception. By integrating behavioural, pharmacological, genetic, cellular and computational approaches, it identifies microglial activation and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling as key mechanisms linking viral peptides to pain, providing a mechanistic framework for COVID-19- and post-viral pain and supporting TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Pain published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Pain Federation ‐ EFIC ®.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a mycotoxin that impairs the function of various vital organs of the body including testes. Prunin (PRU) is a plant derived flavonoid with potential pharmacological properties. The current research was performed to assess the potential role of PRU to counter AFB1-induced testicular toxicity in male albino rats. Forty-eight male rats (Weight: 230-250 g; Age: 8-10 week) were divided into four equal groups, including control, AFB1 (50 μg/kg) group, AFB1 + PRU (50 μg/kg + 20 mg/kg) co-treated group, and only PRU (20 mg/kg) group. The groups were treated with their respective doses for 56 days and then the rats were euthanized, samples were collected and biochemical as well as histopathological analyses were performed. The outcomes of our research showed that AFB1 upsurged the expressions of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Moreover, AFB1 reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes i.e., HO-1, GSR, GPx, CAT, SOD, while elevating ROS, MDA and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and IL-6) levels. AFB1 intoxicated group showed notable reduction in the HOS coiled tail sperms and spermatogenic indices i.e., sperm motility, count and viability. Furthermore, AFB1 increased the structural defects in mid-piece, head and tail of sperms and lowered the levels of testosterone. AFB1 also induced histological injuries in the testicles of rats. Additionally, AFB1 lowered the expressions of Bcl-2 and steroidogenic enzymes and increased the expressions of Caspase-3 and Bax. However, PRU supplementation markedly recovered the testicular tissues from AFB1-induced injuries. Our findings proposed that PRU exhibits the protective effects against AFB1-instigated testicular toxicity due to its oxidative stress mitigating and TLR4/NF-κB pathway modulating properties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Despite the established importance of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in redox biology, strategies to modulate its endogenous levels remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that a keratin fraction (KF) obtained from natural sources modulates H2S homeostasis and protein redox state through sulfhydration. Chemoproteomic analysis identified keratin 2 (K2; UniProtKB P25691, keratin, type II microfibrillar, component 5) as the most hyperreactive keratin toward sulfhydration. Oral administration of K2 to mice alleviated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory fever and led to the generation of K2-derived peptides (K2Ps) and their sulfhydrated form (K2P-SSH) in the intestine. Compared with K2Ps, K2P-SSH showed enhanced anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities and promoted widespread protein sulfhydration. Mechanistically, K2P-SSH induced sulfhydration of high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) at Cys23 and Cys106, which was associated with reduced disulfide bond formation and dimerization, impaired interaction with toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), and attenuation of downstream inflammatory signaling. Taken together, this study reveals a previously unrecognized role of K2 in converting H2S into protective sulfhydration signals and identifies K2P-SSH as a bioactive intermediate that alleviates oxidative-inflammatory stress via sulfhydration of HMGB1 at Cys23 and Cys106.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Interleukin-33 (IL-33) is a key orchestrator of broad-spectrum downstream host-response mechanisms, including inflammation, tissue homeostasis, and repair. Dysregulation of IL-33 signaling is associated with several pathological conditions. The FRONTIER program comprised four phase 2 signal-finding studies of tozorakimab, an anti-IL-33 human immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody, in diabetic kidney disease (FRONTIER-1), moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (FRONTIER-2), moderate-to-severe asthma (FRONTIER-3), and moderate-to-severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic bronchitis (FRONTIER-4). This analysis assessed the safety data from these clinical studies.FRONTIER-1-4 were randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies evaluating the efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and immunogenicity of tozorakimab in adults. Participants received subcutaneous tozorakimab (FRONTIER-1, 30-300 mg; FRONTIER-2, 60-600 mg; FRONTIER-3, 300-600 mg; FRONTIER-4, 600 mg) or placebo every 4 weeks for 4-7 doses, with follow-up periods ranging from 24-36 weeks from the first dose. Safety (adverse events [AEs], serious AEs, and AEs of special interest) and immunogenicity endpoints from the FRONTIER studies were summarized.In total, 1076 patients were included in this analysis (tozorakimab, n=738; placebo, n=338). Deaths occurred only in FRONTIER-1, in similar proportions between treatment groups (tozorakimab, 0.9%; placebo, 0.8%), and were unrelated to tozorakimab. The proportion of participants experiencing at least one treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) or serious TEAEs was generally similar between tozorakimab and placebo groups. The proportion of participants experiencing AEs of special interest, including events of progression of heart failure, was low (tozorakimab, 0.0-1.5%; placebo, 0.0-0.8%), with no meaningful differences between groups; the frequency of injection-site reactions was however higher in tozorakimab than in placebo recipients (tozorakimab, 1.2-20.9%; placebo, 0.0-4.9%). No clinically significant trends were observed in laboratory or vital-sign parameters, and immunogenicity was low.Tozorakimab was well tolerated across a range of inflammatory diseases, with no safety concerns identified.© 2026 Patel et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539630 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534767 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528868 is a review article
Therapies capable of resolving rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-associated lung disease, particularly in the setting of environmental exposures, are lacking. This study sought to determine whether blocking interleukin (IL)-33 in a murine model of RA-associated lung disease induced by combined collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and repeated inhalant lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposures could be advantageous. Arthritis prone male DBA/1J mice received CIA (vs saline) injections (days 1 and 21) plus intranasal LPS (100 ng) or saline daily for 4 weeks and were subsequently treated with 5 doses of anti-IL-33 (10 mg/kg) or isotype over 11 days. Anti-IL-33 therapy significantly (P < .05) mitigated several CIA+LPS-induced effects. Anti-IL-33 reduced arthritis inflammatory score by 76% and serum acute phase reactant pentraxin-2 by 70% and reversed weight loss induced by CIA+LPS coexposure. Anti-IL-33 reduced CIA+LPS-induced antimalondialdehyde acetaldehyde but not anticitrullinated autoantibodies in serum and reduced serum levels of inflammatory mediators. Lung cell infiltrates induced by coexposure, including neutrophils, activated lung macrophages, transitional monocytes-macrophages, monocytic-like cells, and dendritic cells, were reduced with anti-IL-33. Anti-IL-33 also reduced CIA+LPS-induced lung levels of chemokines involved in monocyte-macrophage recruitment and fibrotic/repair mediators collagen deposition, IL-33 expression, inflammatory CC motif chemokine receptor 2+ monocytes/macrophages, and airway Muc5b immunostaining induced by CIA+LPS were reduced with anti-IL-33. CIA+LPS-induced lung expression of post-translational modified autoantigens including citrullinated and malondialdehyde acetaldehyde and its common substrate, vimentin, was reduced with anti-IL-33 treatment. Blocking IL-33 was beneficial in hastening lung recovery after establishment of disease by coexposure to CIA+LPS and potentially represents a novel therapeutic approach in RA-associated lung disease. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Blocking the interleukin (IL)-33 signaling pathway after the establishment of, but not during the induction of, rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-associated lung disease, as modeled by coexposure of collagen-induced arthritis with repetitive inhalant endotoxin, demonstrated beneficial consequences in reducing inflammatory joint, systemic, and lung disease. Treatment with anti-IL-33 agents, particularly in men with a history of environmental exposures, may represent a novel approach to reduce disease burden in humans with established RA-lung disease, underscoring an important role for the IL-33 pathway.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519674 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42514935 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509731 is a review article
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has emerged as a pivotal cancer treatment by activating antitumor immunity. However, its clinical efficacy remains limited in many patients, highlighting the need for combination strategies to overcome resistance. Inducing immunogenic cell death (ICD) represents a promising approach to remodel the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and improve ICB efficacy.A high-throughput screen of a natural compound library identified potent ICD inducers. Polyphyllin II (PPII), a bioactive component from Paris polyphylla, was selected for further investigation. Its effects on ICD markers, tumor growth, and immune activation were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry was employed to identify the direct target of PPII, followed by mechanistic studies using molecular and immunological assays.PPII was identified as a potent ICD inducer, stimulating the release of high mobility group box 1, ATP, and calreticulin from tumor cells. PPII suppressed tumor growth and enhanced antitumor immunity by promoting dendritic cell maturation and antigen cross-presentation, leading to CD8+ T-cell activation. Mechanistically, PPII directly bound to glucose-regulated protein 75 (GRP75), enhancing endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial tethering, provoking endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial calcium overload, and promoting cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. This cascade ultimately triggered gasdermin E (GSDME)-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPII synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 therapy by reprogramming the tumor immune microenvironment and promoting systemic antitumor immunity.Our findings identify GRP75 as a novel therapeutic target for cancer immunotherapy and highlight PPII-driven immune reprogramming as a translatable strategy to potentiate ICB efficacy through the induction of immunogenic pyroptosis.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Plant nitrogen uptake and utilization are governed by a complex network involving nitrate transporters and signal-responsive genes. Here, we show that the high mobility group box 1 protein OsHMGB1 directly binds to the OsNRT2.2 promoter and functions as a transcriptional repressor, negatively regulating its expression. Knockout of OsHMGB1 upregulates OsNRT2.2 expression, leading to increased nitrate accumulation and enhanced tolerance to low-nitrogen (LN) conditions in rice seedlings. Furthermore, OsHMGB1 expression is significantly reduced in OsCBL1-knockdown (OsCBL1-KD) plants, suggesting its dependence on OsCBL1-mediated signaling. OsHMGB1 acts additively with OsCCA1, a known repressor that binds the OsNRT2.2 promoter, to negatively regulate OsNRT2.2 expression. Notably, sequence variation in the OsHMGB1 promoter between indica and japonica rice varieties correlates with lower expression levels in indica varieties, which are associated with higher nitrogen use efficiency (NUE)-related agronomic traits, specifically, greater grain yield and increased number of effective panicles, in indica varieties compared with japonica. Together, these findings identify OsHMGB1 as a key repressor of OsNRT2.2, associated with OsCBL1-dependent nitrate signaling and act additively with OsCCA1 to enhance LN tolerance, suggesting that OsHMGB1 expression levels correlate with NUE-related traits under LN conditions. This work elucidates a link between calcium signaling and nitrate response in rice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignancy closely linked to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, and its progression is intricately associated with remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the role of EBV-associated extracellular vesicles (EVs), particularly those containing high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), in NPC development remains poorly understood.This study utilized multiomics approaches to investigate the role of HMGB1-containing EVs (HMGB1-EVs) derived from EBV-associated NPC cells. Serum EVs from NPC patients were analyzed for HMGB1 content, and their diagnostic performance was evaluated. Mechanistic studies were performed to elucidate the regulation of HMGB1-EV biogenesis and their functional effects on immune cells within the TME.HMGB1-EVs exhibited high sensitivity and specificity for NPC diagnosis (AUC = 0.83), with significantly elevated HMGB1 levels detected in serum EVs from NPC patients. These levels were strongly associated with tumor stage, EBV-DNA load, and metastasis risk (AUC = 0.9), suggesting their potential as liquid biopsy biomarkers. Mechanistically, EBV infection induced Rab26 expression, facilitating the release of EV-associated HMGB1. In the TME, HMGB1-EVs were associated with an immunosuppressive macrophage phenotype by upregulating PD-L1 expression on macrophages via PLGRKT.This study reveals the molecular mechanism by which EBV-associated HMGB1-EVs may contribute to NPC progression and potential immune evasion. HMGB1-EVs hold promise as both diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, offering novel insights into the precision management of NPC.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Dual-target c-Met/VEGFR kinase inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for cancer therapy, although their underlying antitumor mechanisms remain poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that foretinib, a selective c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibitor, triggers immunogenic cell death (ICD) in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. This process is characterized by the surface exposure of calreticulin (CRT) and extracellular secretion of ATP and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), which subsequently drives the maturation and activation of dendritic cells (DCs). Mechanistically, foretinib activates the p53 signaling pathway, thereby transcriptionally upregulating Death Receptor 5 (DR5), a critical mediator of the extrinsic apoptotic cascade. Furthermore, foretinib remodels the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) by facilitating DCs maturation and potentiating the infiltration and activation of T cells. Moreover, combined treatment with foretinib and anti-CD47 antibody exerts synergistic antitumor effects. Together, these findings uncover a previously unreported immunomodulatory function of c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibition, demonstrating that foretinib elicits potent anti-CRC efficacy via direct cytotoxicity and immunogenic regulation, and highlighting its considerable clinical therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Evidences indicate that tumor-derived exosomes released by cancer cells are key mediators of intercellular communication and disease progression in various cancers. This study aimed to investigate the expression of key molecules endothelin-1 (ET-1) and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), as well as the enzymatic activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in serum-derived exosomes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).Serum samples were obtained from twenty-five patients with CLL and twenty-five controls. Exosomes were purified from serum and further characterized through dynamic light scattering (DLS), atomic force microscopy (AFM), and flow cytometry. Real-time PCR was used to determine the mRNA expression of ET-1 and HMGB1 in isolated exosomes. Protein patterns of isolated exosomes were visualized by SDS-PAGE, and then MMP-9 enzymatic activity was assessed using gelatin zymography.Isolated exosomes from serum exhibited the expected morphology and marker expression based on characterization data obtained from DLS, AFM, and flow cytometry assays. Real-time PCR results indicated a significant overexpression of ET-1 and HMGB1 in CLL-derived exosomes compared to healthy controls (p < 0.05). In gelatin zymography, the activity of the MMP-9 dimer was significantly higher in patient-derived exosomes than that of controls (p < 0.001).These findings showed that serum-derived exosomes from CLL patients have higher expression of ET-1 and HMGB1 and higher MMP-9 enzymatic activity. These alterations suggest that exosomal ET-1, HMGB1, and MMP-9 may serve as potential non-invasive biomarkers for disease monitoring and warrant further investigation regarding their biological and clinical significance in CLL.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Endometrial decidualization is essential for successful embryo implantation and pregnancy establishment. This study investigates the role of high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in endometrial stromal cells (hESCs) during decidualization. We found that HMGB1 expression was upregulated during decidualization in vitro and in normal decidual tissues but was reduced in decidua from patients with recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA). HMGB1 Knockdown in hESCs impaired decidualization by disrupting stromal cell differentiation, reducing the expression of prolactin (PRL) and insulin like growth factor binding protein 1 (IGFBP1), and promoting aberrant cell proliferation. HMGB1 deficiency resulted in mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP production, and altered mitochondrial morphology and membrane potential. Mechanistically, HMGB1 regulated the expression of PPARG coactivator 1 alpha (PPARGC1A), a key regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism, suggesting that HMGB1 contributes to decidualization through PPARGC1A mediated metabolic regulation. Furthermore, reduced PPARGC1A expression in RSA decidua further supports the involvement of the HMGB1-PPARGC1A axis in decidual dysfunction. In addition, HMGB1 exhibited dynamic expression patterns in the uterus of early pregnant mice, with enriched expression in decidual regions at implantation sites. Collectively, these findings identify HMGB1 as an important regulator of decidualization by coordinating mitochondrial function and cellular energy metabolism, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying decidual dysfunction and pregnancy complications.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Complement C1q-binding protein (C1QBP) is exploited by protozoan parasites. In this forum, we summarize direct evidence for C1QBP as an adhesion receptor (Plasmodium) and an immune subversion target (Toxoplasma), highlight gaps, and propose research priorities to define C1QBP as a multifunctional signaling hub at the host-parasite interface.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Periodontitis reflects a dysregulated inflammatory response in which impaired resolution and efferocytosis may play a central role. The TAM receptor MerTK and its ligand growth arrest-specific-6 (Gas6) are key regulators of these processes; however, their profile in gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) across the periodontal disease spectrum remains unclear. This cross-sectional study aimed to evaluate GCF levels of Gas6 and soluble MerTK (sMerTK) in individuals with periodontal health, gingivitis, and periodontitis, and to examine their associations with clinical periodontal parameters. Methods: Eighty-one systemically healthy adults were enrolled into three groups: periodontal health, gingivitis, and periodontitis. Full-mouth clinical periodontal measurements were recorded. Gas6 and sMerTK levels were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: sMerTK progressively decreased from periodontal health to gingivitis and periodontitis, with significant differences among all groups (p < 0.001). Gas6 total amount was higher in the diseased groups, whereas its concentration decreased. The Gas6/sMerTK ratio increased stepwise with disease severity (p < 0.001), showing positive correlations with clinical attachment loss and other clinical periodontal parameters, while sMerTK showed inverse correlations. Conclusions: These findings suggest that the local GCF Gas6/sMerTK balance is altered across periodontal states, primarily due to a marked reduction in sMerTK. The Gas6/sMerTK ratio may represent a potential exploratory indicator of periodontal inflammatory status, although longitudinal validation is required.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disorder involving various pathological mechanisms, such as amyloidosis, immune dysfunctions, and synaptic impairments, which are important therapeutic targets. Repurposing drugs to target these mechanisms offers a promising approach to reduce the costs and duration of drug development. Genetic studies underscore the critical role of microglial clearance of amyloid-beta (Aβ) in AD pathogenesis. Specifically, soluble ST2 (sST2)-one of the two major isoforms of the ST2 protein encoded by the IL1RL1 (interleukin-1 receptor-like 1) gene-acts as a decoy receptor isoform that interferes with IL-33/ST2 signaling and has been identified as a disease-modifying factor that impairs microglial Aβ clearance functions. In this study, we investigated drug repurposing opportunities to modulate sST2 levels and alleviate AD pathologies. Unbiased screening of commonly used medications in AD patients, followed by validation in model systems, identified trazodone-an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorder-as a leading negative regulator of sST2. Trazodone primarily suppresses sST2 expression through its antagonistic effects on adrenergic signaling. In the APP/PS1 transgenic mouse model of AD, trazodone treatment enhanced microglial interaction with Aβ and alleviated Aβ pathology. Furthermore, trazodone reduced neurodegeneration and rescued synaptic deficits in APP/PS1 mice. Comprehensive molecular profiling of APP/PS1 mouse brains showed that trazodone restored the expression of synaptic proteins critical for synaptic integrity and plasticity. Overall, these findings demonstrate that trazodone is a promising repurposing candidate for AD that targets underlying immune dysfunctions and synaptic impairment.
To investigate the regulatory effect and mechanism of nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1) on the apoptosis of dendritic cells (DCs) in septic mice.Nufip1+/- C57BL/6J mice were generated, and Western blotting was performed to verify the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs. A total of 48 SPF male wild-type (WT) mice and Nufip1+/- mice were divided into the sham group (18 mice) and the sepsis group (30 mice). Three independent replicate experiments were conducted, and mice were grouped using a random number table in each trial. The cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was performed to establish the sepsis model in the sepsis group; mice in the Sham group only underwent laparotomy and cecal separation without ligation. Twenty-four hours after operation, orbital blood was collected. The mice were then sacrificed, and heart, lung, liver, kidney tissues as well as spleens were harvested for isolation and extraction of splenic DCs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins including caspase-3, Bcl-2, heat shock protein 5 (HSPA5), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), phosphorylated EIF2AK3 (p-EIF2AK3), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (EIF2A), phosphorylated EIF2A (p-EIF2A), activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and DNA damage-inducible transcript 3 protein (DDIT3) in splenic DCs. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adopted to detect the serum levels of interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was performed to observe the injury of heart, lung, liver and kidney under light microscope. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology of splenic DCs was observed under a laser confocal microscope. An additional 20 WT mice and 20 Nufip1+/- mice were respectively assigned to the sham group and sepsis group, with 10 animals in each subgroup. The 7-day survival rate after CLP was observed in all groups.Western blotting results showed that the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs of Nufip1+/- mice was lower than that of WT mice (NUFIP1/β-actin: 1.080±0.233 vs. 2.178±0.440, P<0.05), indicating the successful construction of NUFIP1 gene-deficient mice. Flow cytometry results revealed that the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs at 24 h after CLP in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was higher than that in the WT sepsis group [(43.41±1.70)% vs. (30.43±4.99)%, P<0.05]. Meanwhile, compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression level of caspase-3 in splenic DCs was increased, while the protein expression level of Bcl-2 was decreased in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (caspase-3/β-actin: 1.23±0.17 vs. 0.59±0.14, Bcl-2/β-actin: 0.46±0.13 vs. 0.72±0.08, all P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the serum levels of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were decreased [IL-2 (ng/L): 8.54±0.27 vs. 209.70±1.56; IFN-γ (ng/L): 391.60±9.24 vs. 512.70±31.50, all P<0.05], whereas the serum levels of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β were increased [IL-4 (ng/L): 73.19±2.38 vs. 28.52±0.98; IL-10 (ng/L): 359.20±2.02 vs. 267.60±5.05; TGF-β (ng/L): 826.20±26.73 vs. 497.30±3.33, all P<0.05], and the IFN-γ/IL-4 ratio was decreased (7.98±0.46 vs. 16.59±0.40, P<0.05). These findings suggested that peripheral immunosuppression was further aggravated in Nufip1+/- mice during sepsis relative to WT mice. HE staining demonstrated that the injury of heart, lung, liver, kidney and other tissues in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was markedly severer than that in the WT sepsis group, and the 7-day survival rate was lower in Nufip1+/- mice [20% (2/10) vs. 50% (5/10), P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression levels of HSPA5, the ratio of p-EIF2AK3 to EIF2AK3, the ratio of p-EIF2A to EIF2A, ATF4 and DDIT3 in splenic DCs after CLP were all up-regulated in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (HSPA5/β-actin: 0.93±0.38 vs. 0.34±0.02, p-EIF2AK3/EIF2AK3 ratio: 1.67±0.28 vs. 0.59±0.05, p-EIF2A/EIF2A ratio: 0.90±0.09 vs. 0.61±0.08, ATF4/β-actin: 1.71±0.77 vs. 1.60±0.48, DDIT3/β-actin: 1.18±0.12 vs. 0.56±0.34, all P<0.05). Laser confocal microscopy showed that the morphological changes of ER in splenic DCs of the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were more obvious than those in the WT sepsis group, presenting irregular distortion, swelling and fragmentation.NUFIP1 gene deficiency induces extensive apoptosis of splenic DCs in the early stage of sepsis, further aggravate peripheral immunosuppression, exacerbate multiple organ damage and worsen survival outcomes in septic animals.
To investigate interleukin-1 receptor-like 1 (IL1RL1) expression and its clinical relevance in children with food and inhalation allergies through transcriptome analysis and a prospective cohort.The sequencing data of childhood allergic diseases were analyzed. A prospective cohort study of childhood food or inhalation allergies was conducted in one-year follow-up with clinical materials and serum samples of IL1RL1 levels.Transcriptome analysis demonstrated a significant upregulation of IL1RL1 expression in children with allergies relative to non-allergic controls. In the prospective cohort of 296 children, serum IL1RL1 levels were greater in the group of allergy than control (29.46 vs. 17.12 pg/mL, p < 0.05) and were correlated positively with eosinophil counts and percentages. Receiver operating characteristic curve demonstrated diagnostic value, with areas under the curve (AUCs) of 0.76 for childhood allergies, 0.72 for food allergies, and 0.70 for inhalation allergies. IL1RL1 was an independent risk factor for allergic conditions (OR = 1.53; p < 0.001), food allergies (OR = 1.37; p < 0.001), and inhalation allergies (OR = 1.33; p < 0.01). IL1RL1 levels were higher in persistent allergies than in transient allergies. Prognostic analysis revealed a modest ability to predict persistent food allergies (AUC = 0.62).The IL1RL1 could be useful for the diagnosis and prognostic prediction of childhood food and inhalation allergies.
Brain metastases (BrM) remain a major cause of mortality in breast cancer (BC), yet the spatial organization and molecular circuitry of the metastatic immune microenvironment are poorly defined.To address this gap, we integrated high-plex imaging mass cytometry (IMC) performed on human primary breast tumors (n=20 regions of interests (ROIs)) and human brain-metastasis tissues (n=40 ROIs) with publicly available datasets, including single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) from BC (n=10) and BrM (n=12) and spatial transcriptomic (ST) data from BC (n=7) and BrM (n=1), enabling single-cell resolution of tissue architecture, functional states, and intercellular signaling.IMC resolved nine major cell classes and diverse epithelial, myeloid, and T-cell subtypes, and revealed a striking shift in macrophage polarization: CD163-CD11b- macrophages were markedly depleted in brain metastases, whereas CD163+ subsets persisted. Spatial analysis demonstrated the loss of the immune-permissive CN1 neighborhood in brain metastases, which is enriched in memory T cells, B cells, and dendritic cells, and the expansion of the immunosuppressive CN9 niche in brain metastases, containing CD163+ macrophages, invasion-like epithelial cells, and exhausted T cells. ScRNA-seq integration corroborated these findings by refining the annotation of major immune and stromal lineages and confirming CD163 expression patterns across macrophage subsets. ST deconvolution further reproduced these CN1-like and CN9-like domains in situ, validating their anatomical organization across BC and BrM. Ligand-receptor inference highlighted specific inhibitory pathways-including programmed cell death protein 1/programmed death-ligand 1, growth arrest-specific 6-Tyro3, Axl, and Mer receptor tyrosine kinase family, nectin cell adhesion molecule 2 (NECTIN2)-T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-prostaglandin E2 receptor 4-that are associated with immune evasion and metastatic growth. Functional validation in an in vivo brain metastasis model further supported the therapeutic relevance of targeting these immunoregulatory pathways.Together, these findings show a shift from permissive to suppressive immune niches, accompanied by pronounced macrophage reprogramming, as central features of BC adaptation to the brain. This spatially resolved framework provides mechanistic insight into the poor responsiveness of brain metastases to current immunotherapies and identifies defined inhibitory ligand-receptor axes as actionable targets for combination immunotherapy.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) devastates shrimp aquaculture, yet safe antivirals remain scarce. Here we identify a druggable host-directed pathway centered on hemocyanin (HMC). This pathway coordinates endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial crosstalk to promote WSSV replication, which could be counteracted by the natural anthraquinone emodin. In Litopenaeus vannamei, emodin suppressed viral replication with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 1.174 μM, improved survival in both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens, remained effective after per os administration, and retained antiviral activity in water for up to 4 d. Target fishing, orthogonal biophysics, and docking analyses show that emodin binds HMC (Kd = 4.49 μM) and interferes with HMC-HSPA5/BiP (heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5) association. Mechanistically, emodin weakens the ITPR/IP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor)-VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel)-MCU (mitochondrial calcium uniporter) conduit at ER-mitochondrial contact sites, thereby limiting Ca2+ transfer, restoring mitochondrial membrane potential and organelle spacing, and attenuating ER stress. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that WSSV induced phosphoinositide and amino acid dysregulation, whereas emodin selectively normalizes phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns[1,4,5]P3) signaling and rebalances amino acid, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) intermediates. Correspondingly, emodin inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT/protein kinase B-MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) signaling and restored lysosome-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy. HMC RNAi or ITPR and MCU inhibition phenocopied emodin, whereas exogenous HMC or ER stress activation exacerbated infection and was mitigated by emodin or MCU blockade. These findings establish HMC-anchored ER-mitochondrial contact as a central proviral vulnerability and position emodin as a practical scaffold for next-generation antivirals in aquaculture.Abbreviations: 2-APB: 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG1/ULK1: autophagy related 1; ATG13: autophagy related 13; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DDIT3/Chop: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EAS6B: epoxy-activated sepharose 6B; EGTA: ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EPC: epithelioma papulosum cyprini; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HMC: hemocyanin; HPLC-MS: high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA9/GRP75: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; ITPR/IP3R: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAMs: mitochondria-associated ER membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCU: mitochondrial calcium uniporter; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; OPLS-DA: orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PA: phosphatidic acid; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PCA: principal component analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PLS-DA: partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns(1,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2: phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate; RPS6KB1/S6K1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPR: unfolded protein response; VDAC: voltage dependent anion channel; WSSV: white spot syndrome virus; XBP1: X-box binding protein 1.
IL20RB, interleukin 20 receptor subunit beta, functions as a cytokine receptor subunit coding gene and has been discovered to serve an essential function in human malignancies. However, the link between IL20RB expression, clinical outcomes, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remains unclear.The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) was utilized to compile data on the IL20RB expression in both normal and ccRCC tissues. The link between IL20RB expression and clinicopathologic characteristics was examined utilizing the TCGA database. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were employed for performing the survival analysis. Furthermore, a protein network involving IL20RB was established using data from the GeneMANIA database. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were undertaken, and the relationship between IL20RB and tumor immune infiltration was examined via single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA). Additional examination of the link between tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIIC) and IL20RB was executed utilizing the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) and TISIDB databases. IL20RB expression in tumor specimens was detected through immunohistochemistry (IHC). IL20RB expression levels in tumor cells were confirmed via Western blot analysis. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays evaluated IL20RB's impact on ccRCC cell viability. Wound Healing and Transwell assays assessed IL20RB's influence on ccRCC cell migration.Peritumor samples exhibited notably reduced IL20RB expression compared to ccRCC samples. IL20RB expression levels correlated markedly with sample classification, lymph node status, tumor differentiation, and disease progression. Enhanced IL20RB expression is linked to poor Disease-Specific Survival (DSS) and Overall Survival (OS) in ccRCC patients (p < 0.01). Subsequently, a significant link was observed between IL20RB overexpression and immunomodulators, chemokines, and a heightened presence of infiltrating Treg, NK CD56 cells, Th1 cells, cytotoxic cells, and T helper cells in ccRCC. IHC showed that the IL20RB level in the adjacent normal tissues was notably diminished relative to that in ccRCC samples. IL20RB suppression through small interfering RNA (siRNA) markedly diminished ccRCC cell proliferation and migration.Heightened IL20RB expression is linked to a dismal prognosis and infiltration of immune cells in ccRCC, indicating its potential importance in the development of immunotherapeutic strategies.©2026 Liu et al.
Lung cancer (LC) is the most prevalent and aggressive cancer worldwide. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) can improve treatment outcomes, but a large number of patients still fail to respond to ICIs, suggesting the presence of additional synergistic inhibitory signaling pathways in the tumor microenvironment. Interleukin-20 receptor subunit beta (IL20RB), as a single transmembrane receptor protein, plays crucial roles in host defence, autoimmune responses, and tissue repair. This study aims to investigate the relationships of IL20RB with the prognosis and immune infiltration in LC patients.We obtained clinical data and RNA sequencing data of 1,149 samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Differential expression analysis identified a total of 2,739 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 36 differentially expressed immune-related genes (DEIRGs). Further least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis identified 16 DEIRGs as significant prognostic factors, with IL20RB emerging as a key target due to its high expression in LC. Functional enrichment analysis, prognosis-related gene feature verification, immune cell infiltration analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed for IL20RB. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was used to detect IL20RB expression levels in cell lines, and potential drugs were screened.Survival analysis revealed that a high IL20RB expression level was correlated with a poorer overall survival, suggesting its potential as a prognostic biomarker, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.875. Functional enrichment analyses such as Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) indicated that IL20RB was involved in tumorigenesis and immunosuppressive pathways. Furthermore, IL20RB expression was positively correlated with multiple immune cells such as Th2 and natural killer (NK) CD56dim cells, and negatively correlated with eosinophils and Th17 cells. PPI networks constructed by STRING and GeneMANIA revealed the effects of IL20RB in immune receptor-mediated signaling activity and pathways. Pharmacological prediction analysis further identified that quercetin was a potential therapeutic agent targeting IL20RB.IL20RB is highly expressed in LC patients, correlates with tumor immune infiltration, and serves as an independent prognostic factor, suggesting its potential as a biomarker for immunotherapy and prognosis assessment in LC.© AME Publishing Company.
Zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12A (ZC3H12A), also known as monocyte chemotactic protein-induced protein 1, has emerged as having a potential role in the landscape of some human cancer types, contributing to anti-tumorigenesis through signaling pathways of inflammation, apoptosis, autophagy and angiogenesis. However, its specific impact on the prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remains to be investigated.We conducted in-vitro cell models in a pilot study and performed a retrospective cohort study involving 242 patients with OSCC to unravel the association between ZC3H12A expression level and oral cancer prognosis during 3, 5, and 10-year follow-up.The findings showed that endogenous ZC3H12A expression was decreased in both the malignant (BQO) and highly metastatic (HSC-3-M3) OSCC cell lines compared to dysplastic oral keratinocytes (DOK) and the parental cell line of HSC-3-M3 (HSC-3). The analysis of clinical cancerous tissue arrays from patients with OSCC showed a significant association between complete loss of ZC3H12A expression and heightened cancer mortality, particularly at 3 and 5 years. Moreover, the complete loss of ZC3H12A expression may be associated with increased risk of lymph node involvement in OSCC.Our investigation suggests that the complete loss of ZC3H12A expression exacerbated the unfavorable prognosis of OSCC in this Taiwanese population, but further study on elucidating the gradual decline of ZC3H12A expression in OSCC is imperative.Copyright © 2025, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The abnormal expression of Zinc Finger Protein 683 (ZNF683) has been implicated in various cancers, yet its role in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remains underexplored. Understanding the prognostic significance of ZNF683 and its correlation with tumor-infiltrating immune cells in ccRCC could offer insights into its potential as a therapeutic target.We assessed the expression of ZNF683, its correlation with clinical pathological variables, and clinical outcomes using databases such as The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), UALCAN, Gene Expression Profiling Interaction Analysis (GEPIA), and Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter. Additionally, quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to evaluate ZNF683 transcriptional expression in renal cancer tissues. A comprehensive analysis of multiple databases, including TIMER, GEPIA, TISIDB, the ESTIMATE algorithm, and the CIBERSORT algorithm, was conducted to determine the correlation between ZNF683 and tumor-infiltrating immune cells in ccRCC.Our analysis revealed that ZNF683 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in ccRCC tissues compared to normal tissues. ZNF683 protein was highly expressed in cancer tissues, particularly in renal tumor cells, as indicated by the Human Protein Atlas (HPA). Notably, increased ZNF683 expression was significantly associated with the infiltration of CD8 + T cells, B cells, macrophages, Treg cells, NK cells, and dendritic cells in ccRCC. Bioinformatics analyses demonstrated a strong correlation between ZNF683 expression and several immune checkpoints, including PD-1. This association suggests that ZNF683 might impact the efficacy of immunotherapy in ccRCC. Patients with high ZNF683 expression exhibited reduced sensitivity to immunotherapy.Our study identifies ZNF683 as a significant prognostic biomarker in ccRCC and highlights its correlation with immune cell infiltration. These findings suggest that ZNF683 could play a crucial role in ccRCC progression and response to immunotherapy, warranting further investigation into its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
Gastric cancer ranks among the most prevalent malignancies globally, characterized by limited treatment efficacy and high recurrence rates. Effective management of this disease requires a comprehensive understanding of its underlying pathogenic mechanisms. Galectins have emerged as promising targets in gastric cancer therapy, with Galectin-9 (LGALS9) receiving considerable attention in recent years. However, Galectin-9B (LGALS9B) remains relatively under-explored in gastric cancer research. Our study investigates the role of LGALS9B in gastric cancer progression, demonstrating that its over-expression enhances cellular proliferation, migration, and invasion, while its knockdown inhibits these processes both in vitro and in vivo. We further elucidate that LGALS9B competes with the E3 ligase HERC5 for binding to eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 delta (EEF1D), thereby preventing its protein degradation. This interaction results in the enrichment of EEF1D, which activates the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and ultimately promotes gastric cancer progression. These findings highlight the regulatory role of LGALS9B in the pathogenesis of gastric cancer, offering valuable insights into potential novel therapeutic strategies for managing this challenging disease.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
We found a novel gene, named "transformed follicular lymphoma" (TFL), in a patient who developed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma from follicular lymphoma. TFL modulates several cytokines and chemokines by binding their 3'UTR region of mRNA with its unique RNase motif. TFL is part of a family called zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12A-D. Due to its unique RNase motif, the TFL family is also called regulatory RNase (Regnase 1-4). TFL is expressed in lymphoid tissue and is upregulated by an inflammatory response, contributing to autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis via IL-17 in CNS and worsening inflammation (cachexia) due to lymphoma progression through CXCL-13. Loss of TFL expression is reported to be a valuable biomarker for various cancers, including lung adenocarcinoma, endometrial cancer, and possibly lymphoma. In addition to its mRNA modulation function, Regnase1 is known to have deubiquitinase activity for TRAF2, 3, and 6, attenuating JNK and NFκB activity, and TFL captures and transports naked nonvesicular extracellular mRNA of IL-1β to the nucleus, enhancing the tumor-killing activity in NK cells. Based on its potential to modulate inflammation, TFL could be a future treatment target for autoimmune diseases and cancer.
B cell transcriptomic signatures hold promise for the early prediction of vaccine-induced humoral immunity and vaccine protective efficacy. We performed a longitudinal study in 232 healthy adult participants before/after a 3rd dose of MMR (MMR3) vaccine. We assessed baseline and early transcriptional patterns in purified B cells and their association with measles-specific humoral immunity after MMR vaccination using two analytical methods ("per gene" linear models and joint analysis). Our study identified distinct early transcriptional signatures/genes following MMR3 that were associated with measles-specific neutralizing antibody titer and/or binding antibody titer. The most significant genes included: the interleukin 20 receptor subunit beta/IL20RB gene (a subunit receptor for IL-24, a cytokine involved in the germinal center B cell maturation/response); the phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate-induced protein 1/PMAIP1, the brain expressed X-linked 2/BEX2 gene and the B cell Fas apoptotic inhibitory molecule/FAIM, involved in the selection of high-affinity B cell clones and apoptosis/regulation of apoptosis; as well as IL16 (encoding the B lymphocyte-derived IL-16 ligand of CD4), involved in the crosstalk between B cells, dendritic cells and helper T cells. Significantly enriched pathways included B cell signaling, apoptosis/regulation of apoptosis, metabolic pathways, cell cycle-related pathways, and pathways associated with viral infections, among others. In conclusion, our study identified genes/pathways linked to antigen-induced B cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and clonal selection, that are associated with, and impact measles virus-specific humoral immunity after MMR vaccination.Copyright © 2024 Haralambieva, Chen, Quach, Ratishvili, Warner, Ovsyannikova, Poland and Kennedy.
Hypoxia is a major contributor to tumor microenvironment (TME) and metastasis in most solid tumors. We seek to screen hypoxia-related genes affecting metastasis in breast cancer and to reveal relative potential regulatory pathway. Based on gene expression profiling of GSE17188 dataset, differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between highly metastatic breast cancer cells under hypoxia and samples under normoxia. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was utilized to determine hub genes. The gene expression profiling interactive analysis database (GEPIA2) and quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were employed to quantify hub genes. Moreover, overexpression of zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12A (ZC3H12A) was performed both in breast cancer cells and xenograft mouse model to determine the role of ZC3H12A. We identified 134 DEGs between hypoxic and normoxic samples. Based on PPI analysis, 5 hub genes interleukin (IL)-6, GALN (GAL), CD22 molecule (CD22), ZC3H12A and TNF receptor associated factor 1 (TRAF1) were determined; the expression levels of TRAF1, IL-6, ZC3H12A and GAL were remarkably downregulated while CD22 was upregulated in breast cancer cells. Besides, patients with higher expression of ZC3H12A had favorable prognosis. Overexpression of ZC3H12A could inhibit metastasis and tumor growth of breast cancer; overexpression of ZC3H12A downregulated the expression of IL-17 signaling pathway-related proteins such as IL-17 receptor A (IL-17RA), IL-17A and nuclear factor κB activator 1 (Act1). This study reveals ZC3H12A and IL-17 signaling pathway as potential therapeutic targets for hypoxic breast cancer.
Pancreatic cancer is an aggressive malignancy with high mortality, and cancer cell stemness and related drug resistance are considered important contributors to its poor prognosis. The objective of this study was to identify regulatory targets associated with the maintenance of pancreatic cancer stemness.Pancreatic tumor samples were collected from patients at Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, followed by immunofluorescence analysis. Pancreatic cancer cell lines with Interleukin-20 receptor subunit beta (IL20RB) overexpression and knockdown were established, and clonal formation, spheroid formation and side population cell analysis were conducted. The effects of IL20RB knockdown on the tumor-forming ability of pancreatic cancer cells and chemotherapy resistance in vivo were explored.IL20RB expression was significantly upregulated in pancreatic cancer tissues, and was correlated with unfavorable prognosis. The IL20RB receptor promotes stemness and chemoresistance in both in vitro and in vivo models of pancreatic cancer. Mechanistically, IL20RB enhances the stemness and chemoresistance of pancreatic cancer by promoting STAT3 phosphorylation, an effect that can be counteracted by a STAT3 phosphorylation inhibitors. Additionally, Interleukin-19 derived from the microenvironment is identified as the primary ligand for IL20RB in mediating these effects.Our findings demonstrate that IL20RB plays a crucial role in promoting stemness in pancreatic cancer. This discovery provides a potential therapeutic target for this lethal disease.© 2023. The Author(s).
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) exhibit pivotal functions in cancer via intercellular communication through shuttling microRNA (miRNA) and protein. Therefore, we aim to elucidate the function of EVs containing miR-143-3p derived from M2 macrophages in colorectal cancer (CRC). EVs derived from M2 macrophages were isolated and characterized. Expression changes in miR-143-3p were calculated in the EVs. The effects of M2 macrophage-derived EV carrying miR-143-3p on cell biological processes and in vivo tumorigenic ability concerning ZC3H12A were examined. EVs derived from M2 macrophages could stimulate the aggressive tumor biology of CRC cells. Meanwhile, in vivo results showed that M2 macrophage-derived EVs facilitated tumor growth and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. M2 macrophage-secreted EVs could transfer miR-143-3p to CRC cells, in which miR-143-3p bound to the 3'UTR of ZC3H12A and inhibited its expression, leading to elevation of the expression of transcription factor C/EBPβ. Overall, M2 macrophage-derived EV miR-143-3p inhibits ZC3H12A gene and increases C/EBPβ expression to facilitate the development of CRC, which provides novel targets for the molecular treatment of CRC.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Structural phase transitions driven by atomic rearrangements at the interaction interfaces of biological macromolecules, particularly proteins, are fundamental to regulating critical physiological processes, making their effective modulation key to developing targeted therapeutics. Existing induction strategies encounter substantial limitations: Chemical methods have difficulty accessing shallow binding pockets and can lead to invasive, irreversible modifications, while common visible and near-infrared modulation technologies are hindered by side effects induced by exogenous agents and restricted deep-tissue penetration. Here, using molecular dynamics simulations of the programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 complex, we find terahertz light (40.2 THz) to be a reversible, nonthermal, and noninvasive physical induction modality to drive a directed structural phase transition. Energetic analyses reveal that the terahertz field markedly decreases the binding affinity by more than 3-fold and reduces the free energy barrier by nearly 3-fold. Fundamentally, our research demonstrates that this directed decoupling process originates from the coherent resonance of certain key interfacial residues. Collectively, our findings propose a universal physical strategy to modulate macromolecular interfaces, providing an essential computational framework to guide future experimental validations in noninvasive tumor immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Chenzhi Tang et  al.
To examine associations of inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (iciHHV-6) with incident dementia and mortality, characterize proteomic and metabolomic correlates of carrier status, and evaluate whether these biomarkers relate to dementia and mortality risk.We analyzed UK Biobank participants ≥50 years of age with plasma metabolomics (N = 138,676) and proteomics (N ≤ 15,416) data and ≈15 years of follow-up. Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for key confounding factors evaluated associations of iciHHV-6 with dementia and mortality. Multivariable linear models assessed iciHHV-6 associations with metabolomic and proteomic profiles. Mediation and interaction were evaluated using structural equation models and Cox models with biomarker interactions. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression identified independent proteomic and metabolomic predictors using imputed biomarker data.iciHHV-6 was associated with higher dementia risk (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.32), particularly among women (HR = 1.66) and individuals with elevated Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk (HR = 1.49). Branched-chain amino acids (leucine and isoleucine) were elevated among carriers without mediating dementia risk. Proteomic analyses identified 126 nominally associated iciHHV-6-related proteins, many of which (Neurofilament Light Chain (NEFL), Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP), Yes-Associated Protein 1 (YAP1), Sialic Acid-binding Immunoglobulin-like Lectin 5 (SIGLEC5), Interleukin 19 (IL19), A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs 16 (ADAMTS16), Sphingomyelin Phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1)) were also associated with dementia and/or mortality. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested enrichment of proteins related to immune regulation and post-translational modification. Predictive models identified NEFL, GFAP, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A (VEGF), Brevican (BCAN), remnant cholesterol, and polyunsaturated fatty acids as dementia predictors (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.83), whereas NEFL, Growth Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15) Latent Transforming Growth Factor Beta Binding Protein 2 (LTBP2), Ectodysplasin A2 Receptor (EDA2R) and Advanced Glycosylation End-product Specific Receptor (AGER) predicted mortality (AUC = 0.70).iciHHV-6 was associated with increased dementia risk, particularly among women and genetically susceptible individuals, with neuroimmune and metabolic biomarker profiles potentially relevant to brain aging and mortality risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Background Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype of breast malignancy characterized by poor clinical outcomes and limited therapeutic options. The identification of reliable biomarkers for predicting prognosis and immunotherapeutic response remains an urgent clinical need. This study aimed to develop an integrative lactylation-related gene signature to simultaneously evaluate prognostic trajectories and immunotherapeutic sensitivity in TNBC. Methods Transcriptomic and clinical data from public TNBC cohorts were systematically analyzed. Lactylation-related gene signatures were used to stratify patients via consensus clustering. A scoring model was constructed based on differentially expressed genes between clusters, and its associations with immune infiltration, pathway enrichment, drug sensitivity, and clinical outcomes were evaluated. Finally, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blot and Confocal immunofluorescence Microscopy were used to validate the hub genes. Results Significant gene expression differences stratified TNBC patients into high- and low-score groups, with the high-score group demonstrating superior clinical outcomes. These patients also showed better responses to immunotherapy, as indicated by immune checkpoint profiles and chemotherapy sensitivity. Experimental validation confirmed Programmed Cell Death 1 Ligand 2, Immunoglobulin J Chain, and Colony Stimulating Factor 2 Receptor Beta as key molecular nodes. Our scoring model predicts immunotherapy efficacy, and these three genes may represent potential candidates for further therapeutic exploration in TNBC. Conclusions This study establishes a novel lactylation-related gene signature that effectively predicts both prognosis and immunotherapeutic sensitivity in TNBC. The identified hub genes represent promising biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets warranting further investigation.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
To quantify interleukin-36 receptor antagonist (IL-36Ra), interleukin-37 (IL-37), and interleukin-38 (IL-38) levels in aqueous humor and plasma of patients with primary glaucoma, and investigate their correlations with glaucomatous structural damage.Matched aqueous humor and plasma samples were collected from patients with acute primary angle-closure glaucoma (APACG), chronic PACG (CPACG), and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), and age-related cataract controls (ARC). Levels of IL-36Ra, IL-37, and IL-38 were quantified and correlated with average retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (RNFLT).A total of 96 participants were enrolled, including 25 APACG, 23 CPACG, 23 POAG, and 25 ARC. In aqueous humor, IL-36Ra was significantly elevated in CPACG compared to all other groups, while IL-37 and IL-38 were markedly increased in both CPACG and POAG compared to ARC and APACG (all p < 0.05). In plasma, IL-36Ra was significantly lower in the POAG and APACG than in ARC and CPACG, and IL-38 was reduced in APACG compared to all other groups (all p < 0.05). All three cytokines in aqueous humor, as well as plasma IL-36Ra and IL-38, showed significant negative correlations with average RNFLT. Notably, aqueous humor IL-38 exhibited the strongest association with RNFLT, particularly within the POAG (r = -0.745, p < 0.001) and CPACG (r = -0.496, p = 0.016) subgroups, suggesting an association with structural damage in chronic glaucoma.Aqueous humor IL-38 levels correlated with RNFLT thinning in POAG and CPACG, suggesting a potential role as a biomarker associated with structural damage. IL-36Ra was independently elevated in CPACG, supporting its potential as a subtype-related biomarker. Further studies are needed to clarify the mechanisms of these cytokines in glaucoma pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Yawen Li et al. Journal of Ophthalmology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the leading cause of acute liver failure in Western countries. However, the inflammatory mechanisms underlying APAP-induced liver injury (AILI) remain poorly understood. Interleukin (IL)-19 exerts its biological effects through binding to the IL-20 receptor complex (IL-20R1/IL-20R2). This study aimed to investigate the role of IL-19 in AILI.Il19-deficient mice and myeloid cell-specific Il20r2 knockout mice were generated and subjected to AILI. Single-cell RNA sequencing (ScRNA-seq) was performed to analyze hepatic macrophage subsets.Il19-deficient mice exhibited increased susceptibility to AILI, accompanied by a distinct transcriptional profile and a marked increase in proinflammatory macrophage infiltration. Treatment with recombinant IL-19 significantly suppressed proinflammatory macrophage infiltration and attenuated AILI. scRNA-seq analysis revealed that myeloid cell-specific Il20r2 deficiency exacerbated AILI and was associated with increased infiltration of S100A8/A9+ proinflammatory macrophages. Mechanistically, IL-19 downregulated CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ) expression in macrophages by promoting its post-translational SUMOylation. This reduced C/EBPβ-mediated transcription of proinflammatory genes, including those regulating S100A8/A9 expression, thereby ameliorating AILI.IL-19 plays a key role in limiting proinflammatory macrophage infiltration and thereby ameliorates early-stage AILI. These findings suggest that IL-19 may represent a promising therapeutic target for AILI.Although IL-19 signals through the IL-20 receptor complex (IL-20R1/IL-20R2), its role in liver disease remains incompletely understood. Here, we show that IL-19 protects against APAP-induced liver injury by restricting the infiltration of S100A8/A9+ proinflammatory macrophages. Both Il19-deficient mice and myeloid cell-specific Il20r2-deficient mice displayed increased susceptibility to APAP hepatotoxicity and enhanced accumulation of S100A8/A9+ proinflammatory macrophages. Mechanistically, IL-19 promotes C/EBPβ SUMOylation, thereby suppressing proinflammatory gene expression. These findings identify IL-19 as a potential therapeutic target for acute liver injury.Copyright © 2026 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Mast cell tumors (MCTs) are common skin neoplasms in dogs. They are graded histologically, and dogs with high-grade MCT have poorer prognosis. Canine MCTs express mRNA for programmed cell death-1 ligand 2 (PD-L2), which regulates T cell activity and serves as a prognostic indicator for various human tumors. We hypothesized that PD-L2 contributes to immune evasion and affects the prognosis of canine MCTs. PD-L2 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 38 canine MCTs, including 15 Kiupel low-grade and 23 high-grade cases. PD-L2 was primarily detected on tumor cell surfaces, and most cells in low-grade MCTs (median percentage of PD-L2-positive tumor cells: 83.5%) expressed PD-L2. In contrast, PD-L2 expression was highly variable in high-grade MCTs (median: 25.5%), and cases with fewer PD-L2-positive tumor cells had poorer prognosis than those with more (median survival time: 148 vs. 468 days). This unexpected result led us to examine the novel hypothesis that PD-L2 on tumor cells negatively regulates behavior of tumor cells by receiving reverse signals. Consistent with this, RNA-sequencing detected altered expression of 70 genes, following adenovirus-mediated PD-L2 gene transfer in the canine MCT cell line BR and subsequent soluble PD-1 exposure. Moreover, PD-1-PD-L2 reverse signaling suppressed cell proliferation in PD-L2-expressing BR cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate the prognostic significance of PD-L2 expression in dogs with high-grade MCTs and suggest that cell proliferation of PD-L2-positive tumor cells may be regulated by PD-L2 reverse signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Keratinocyte apoptosis dysregulation is central to psoriasis pathogenesis. Interleukin-19 (IL-19) is upregulated in psoriatic lesions, but its functional role in apoptotic signaling remains unclear. This study investigated the impact of IL-19 on keratinocyte apoptosis and its underlying mechanism via the Bcl-2/Caspase-3 axis.Clinical samples from psoriasis vulgaris patients (n = 34) and healthy controls (n = 32) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. In vitro experiments employed M5-stimulated HaCaT cells with IL-19 knockdown/overexpression, assessed by CCK-8, flow cytometry, TUNEL, qPCR and Western blot. In vivo, an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis-like mouse model was used to evaluate skin inflammation, apoptosis, and pathway modulation.IL-19 expression was significantly higher in psoriatic epidermis and correlated positively with Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) scores. In vitro, IL-19 knockdown promoted keratinocyte apoptosis, reduced Bcl-2, and increased cleaved-caspase-3/PARP; these effects were reversed by IL-19 overexpression. In vivo, IL-19 knockdown ameliorated IMQ-induced psoriasiform skin lesions and epidermal hyperplasia while enhancing keratinocyte apoptosis and modulating Bcl-2/cleaved-caspase-3. Conversely, IL-19 overexpression exacerbated the psoriasiform phenotype and suppressed apoptosis.IL-19 promotes epidermal hyperplasia and inhibits keratinocyte apoptosis by regulating the Bcl-2/Caspase-3 signaling axis. These findings not only clarify a key molecular mechanism in psoriasis pathogenesis but also highlight IL-19 and its downstream pathway as promising candidates for targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Interleukin-19 like (IL-19L) is a member of the interleukin-10 family and plays a crucial role in inflammation, immune regulation, and other biological processes. Although the characteristics and functions of IL-10 family members in mammals have been elucidated, those of IL-19L in fish remain poorly understood. In this study, we cloned the IL-19L gene from the large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea), designated as LcIL-19L. The open reading frame (ORF) of LcIL-19L comprises 684 base pairs, encoding 227 amino acids, and lacks a signal peptide. It possesses a typical IL-10 domain and six conserved cysteine residues. The predicted three-dimensional structure of LcIL-19L consists of eight α-helices and two β-sheets. Genomic synteny analysis revealed that it is adjacent to the IL-10 gene. LcIL-19L was constitutively expressed in all examined tissues and cells. In vivo experiments demonstrated that poly(I:C) stimulation and Vibrio alginolyticus infection induced the expression of LcIL-19L in the head kidney and spleen. In vitro experiments also showed that poly(I:C), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), phytohemagglutinin (PHA), and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) promoted the expression of LcIL-19L in primary head kidney leukocytes (HKLs). The recombinant LcIL-19L (rLcIL-19L) protein was able to induce the expression of cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF-α1, and TGF-β1) and reduce the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). To our knowledge, this study is the first report on the cloning, expression, and functional characterization of fish IL-19L. In summary, LcIL-19L in fish exhibits immune-regulatory functions and may serve as a key molecule that regulates the inflammatory response, laying the foundation for further investigating the mechanisms underlying the immune-regulatory role of fish IL-19L.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
2-Bromo-4,6-dinitroaniline (BDNA), a synthetic intermediate of brominated azo dyes, poses potential nephrotoxicity risks; however, its early molecular injury mechanisms remain elusive. This study integrated network toxicology prediction, machine learning algorithms (least absolute shrinkage and selection operator [LASSO], support vector machine recursive feature elimination [SVM-RFE], and random forest), and transcriptomic data mining with a 90-day subchronic male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat exposure model to identify early biomarkers of BDNA-induced nephrotoxicity. Cross-validation of three algorithms identified CD45 (protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, PTPRC) and cyclophilin C (peptidylprolyl isomerase C, PPIC) as high-confidence core targets (training area under the curve [AUC] = 0.951; validation AUCs = 0.958 and 0.929). Single-gene gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) revealed PTPRC enrichment in immune-inflammatory pathways and PPIC in protein homeostasis-related pathways. Single-cell analysis confirmed their cell type-specific expression patterns. Subchronic BDNA exposure induced dose-dependent renal tubular epithelial injury with significant upregulation of both targets, without interstitial fibrosis or glomerulosclerosis in male SD rats. PTPRC and PPIC may serve as potential early response biomarkers for BDNA-induced renal tubular injury, involving immune-inflammatory activation and proteostasis imbalance. This study establishes an integrative toxicological framework from computational prediction to experimental validation, while acknowledging that causal roles require further functional verification.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Advances in genetic engineering have enabled the development of highly modified porcine models for xenotransplantation. Among available technologies, somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) remains the most reliable method for generating multi-genic pigs carrying complex genetic modifications, including the knockout of porcine xenoantigens and the insertion of human immune regulatory genes. Despite these advances, the physiological viability of highly engineered cloned animals remains a major challenge. In our previous study, we generated cloned pigs carrying a knockout of α-1,3-galactosyltransferase (α-gal) and knock-in of five human immune-related genes: human decay-accelerating factor (hDAF), CD39 (hCD39), tissue factor pathway inhibitor (hTFPI), C1 inhibitor (hC1INH), and TNF-α-induced protein 3 (hTNFAIP3). Although genomic integration and cellular expression of these transgenes were confirmed, all piglets in this cohort died within 48 h after birth. Necropsy revealed no evidence of external trauma or systemic abnormalities in major organs. However, hemorrhagic lesions were observed in the left ventricular myocardium of all necropsied piglets, and histological examination confirmed localized intramyocardial hemorrhage without ventricular rupture or pericardial effusion. We propose that incomplete epigenetic reprogramming associated with SCNT, combined with the physiological burden of multi-gene expression, may have compromised myocardial microvascular integrity. Under the abrupt hemodynamic transition that occurs after birth, this structural vulnerability may predispose the left ventricle to intramyocardial hemorrhage and rapid cardiogenic collapse. These findings suggest that left ventricular hemorrhage may represent a previously underrecognized cause of early neonatal death in highly engineered SCNT-derived pigs.Copyright © 2026 Kim, Kim, Kim, Hwang, Sok, Hwang and Lee.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a disease that causes significant functional impairment and high mortality, imposing a heavy economic burden on patients and society. In this in-silico study, we investigated the potential therapeutic targets and underlying mechanisms of naringenin (NAR) in SCI by integrating network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. The intersection of NAR and SCI targets was used to construct a protein-protein interaction network using the STRING database. Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and Wiki Pathway enrichment analyses were performed using the DAVID bioinformatics resource. Finally, we used molecular docking and MD simulation to study the binding interactions between NAR and the core targets. The results show that the core targets of NAR for spinal cord injury include estrogen receptor 1, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, B-cell lymphoma 2, PPARG, MAPK8, mechanistic target of rapamycin, protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha, and HRas proto-oncogene, GTPase. These targets and associated biological processes provide multiple mechanisms supporting NAR's action. In addition, enrichment analysis indicates that the AMPK, FoxO, and PI3K-Akt-mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathways, autophagy, and apoptosis are the main pathways through which NAR acts in SCI. Molecular docking results show that the binding energy between NAR and key proteins ranges from -7.1 to -8.2 kcal/mol, providing a molecular basis for NAR's treatment of SCI. Molecular dynamics simulation results indicate that the AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-NAR and B-cell lymphoma 2-NAR complexes exhibit good stability. In summary, this study systematically predicts the key targets and signaling pathways through which NAR may act in SCI, providing a theoretical basis for future mechanistic and translational research. However, because the findings are based on computational analyses alone, further in vitro and in vivo validation is required.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Emerging evidence from recent pathological investigations has demonstrated that inflammation plays a critical role in the progression of gastrointestinal diseases. However, the causal relationships between inflammation and gastritis still lack further validation.Mendelian Randomization (MR) was used to evaluate the causal effects of inflammatory factors on gastritis. The datasets of 91 inflammatory factors were obtained from the Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) database, and the genetic datasets of Acute Gastritis (AG) and Chronic Gastritis (CG) were obtained from the GWAS database and the FinnGen database, respectively. Heterogeneity and pleiotropy were assessed with Cochran's Q test and MR-Egger's intercept test, respectively.After accounting for heterogeneity and horizontal pleiotropy, MR analysis identified Axin-1, C-X-C motif chemokine 10 (CXCL10), and Fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand to be significantly associated with acute gastritis, while linking CXCL10, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, Leukemia Inhibitory Factor Receptor (LIFR), hepatocyte growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor 19 to chronic gastritis. Furthermore, reverse MR analysis revealed that CG could significantly downregulate the levels of Interleukin-2 receptor subunit beta, Interleukin-15 receptor subunit alpha, Interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha, LIFR, and Interleukin-1-alpha.This study found that AG and CG were associated with distinct inflammatory factors and that CG could reverse the levels of inflammatory factors. CXCL10 and LIFR may be potential biomarkers for gastritis.This study systematically identified causal relationships between inflammatory factors and gastritis. The identified inflammatory factors offer new insights into potential targets for gastritis.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Objective: To investigate the potential mechanism by which the mechanically sensitive ion channel protein Piezo1 responds to mechanical pressure to regulate acute inflammatory stress in periodontal tissue following dental trauma. Methods: An inflammatory model of human gingival fibroblasts (HGF) was induced using lipopolysaccharide (LPS), followed by the use of a hydrostatic pressure loading system to construct a HGF mechanical stress-inflammation composite model, simulating the mechanical microenvironment of dental trauma. The cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch test, real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), and immunofluorescence staining were employed to assess cell viability, migration ability, inflammatory factor expression levels, and cytoskeletal morphology. The Piezo1-specific agonist Yoda1 and inhibitor Dooku1 were used to intervene in the HGF mechanical stress-inflammation composite model to evaluate inflammation-related biological behaviors of cells. Transcriptomics was used to screen the biological mechanisms by which Piezo1-mediated mechanosensation accelerates acute periodontal inflammation after dental trauma, validated by Western blotting assays. Results: A HGF mechanical stress-inflammation composite model was established using 1 g/cm² (1 g/cm2=0.01 N/cm2) hydrostatic pressure combined with 1 μg/ml LPS. Compared with the control group, cells in the model group showed significantly reduced proliferation and migration abilities, with notable increases in interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and Piezo1 mRNA expression (P<0.05). Treatment of the composite model with 5 μg/ml Yoda1 exacerbated these phenotypes, reducing the proportion of live cells at 48 h to [(37.74±0.97)%] (P<0.01) and upregulating inflammatory factor expression (P<0.01), while 5 μg/ml Dooku1 reversed these effects, increasing live cells to [(59.49±0.62)%] (P<0.01), downregulating inflammatory factor expression, and restoring cell function (P<0.05). Transcriptome sequencing indicated that mechanical stress-inflammation stimulation enhanced mechanical stress response and calcium signal release, coordinating the mechanoadaptive inflammatory microenvironment. Western blotting assays confirmed elevated protein expression of Piezo1, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha, matrix metalloproteinase-3, P-AKT1, and CREB1 in the composite model group, further upregulated by Yoda1 and inhibited by Dooku1. Conclusions: Abnormal mechanical forces during dental trauma activate the mechanically sensitive ion channel protein Piezo1, triggering the AKT1/CREB1 signalling pathway, thereby driving overexpression of inflammatory factors, inhibiting cell migration, and ultimately exacerbating periodontal tissue inflammation.
Hypertensive nephropathy (HTN) is a major public health concern worldwide. This study aims to investigate the potential causal relationships between inflammatory factors and HTN, as well as to identify possible underlying biological pathways. Using genome-wide association study data from large publicly available population cohorts, we applied a bidirectional 2-sample Mendelian randomization approach to investigate whether 91 inflammatory factors influence the risk of HTN. Additionally, we examined whether HTN has a potential causal effect on the levels of these inflammatory factors. Finally, we performed pathway enrichment analysis to explore the underlying biological pathways involved in these associations. Mendelian randomization results indicated that interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha, caspase 8, CUB domain-containing protein 1, and stem cell factor were associated with a reduced HTN, while interleukin-18 receptor 1, leukemia inhibitory factor, oncostatin-M, and interferon-gamma were associated with an increased HTN. Pathway enrichment analysis further identified several biological pathways potentially involved in the development of HTN. This study provides evidence for causal relationships between multiple inflammatory factors and HTN, offering valuable insights that may inform disease management strategies and policy development related to HTN.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Cylindrospermopsin (CDN) is a highly toxic secondary metabolite of cyanobacteria that is reported to induce severe organ toxicity. The current investigation was conducted to explore cardiotoxic potential of CDN in a dose-dependent manner. Thirty-two Sprague Dawley rats were apportioned into control, CDN low dose (0.105 μg/kg) group, CDN (0.140 μg/kg) moderate dose group, and CDN high dose (0.175 μg/kg) treated group through oral route. CDN administration induced severe disruption of sympathetic β-adrenergic pathway via suppressing the expression of cAMP responsive element-binding protein 1 (CREB1), guanine nucleotide-binding protein (GNAS), Protein Kinase CAMP-Activated Catalytic Subunit Alpha (PRKACA), β1-adrenoceptor (ADRB1)/β2-adrenoceptor (ADRB2) while upregulating the expression of phospholamban (PLN) at all the tested doses. Besides, CDN intoxication reduced HR while escalating IVSd, IVSs, PWd, PWs, LVIDd, ESV, EDV and LVIDs in a dose-response manner. The catalytic activities of HO-1, GPx, SOD, GSR, CAT, and GST were suppressed while the levels of MDA and ROS were augmented following the exposure to CDN. Additionally, CDN administration upregulated the levels of CK-MB, LDH, CRP, CPK, Troponin (I and T), and BNP. Cardiac tissues exhibited elevated levels of COX-2, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, CDN exposure induced severe myocardial disruptions including vascular congestion, myofibrillar degeneration, cytoplasmic vacuolization, extensive fibers disarray, and a high rate of inflammatory cells infiltration. These findings highlight the cardiotoxic potential of CDN at all the tested doses thereby warranting further clinical investigation to elucidate these impacts in humans.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42104523 is a review article
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Microglia play an important role in ischemic stroke (IS). However, the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying microglial ferroptosis in IS remain incompletely understood. In this study, blood samples were collected from 20 IS patients and 15 healthy volunteers. Microglia BV-2 subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) and mice undergoing middle cerebral artery occlusion-reperfusion (MCAO/R) surgery were used to establish IS models. Our results revealed that in blood samples from IS patients and in OGD/R-treated BV-2 cells, ZFP36 ring finger protein like 1 (ZFP36L1) and Acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 1 (ACSL1) expression was increased, while the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) protein expression was decreased. ACSL1 silencing attenuated ferroptosis and inflammation in OGD/R-treated microglia, as evidenced by decreased levels of malondialdehyde, Fe2+, lipid peroxidation, inflammatory factors, along with an increased Glutathione/Glutathione disulfide ratio. Additionally, ZFP36L1 silencing suppressed the OGD/R-induced promotion of ferroptosis and inflammation in microglia and alleviated cerebral ischemic injury in MCAO/R mice, whereas ACSL1 overexpression reversed these alterations caused by ZFP36L1 silencing. Mechanistically, ZFP36L1 decreased FTO messenger RNA (mRNA) stability and reduced FTO expression. FTO overexpression reduced ACSL1 N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification and ACSL1 expression. In conclusion, ZFP36L1 increased ACSL1 m6A modification and ACSL1 expression to promote microglial ferroptosis, neuroinflammatory response, and cerebral ischemic injury in IS by reducing FTO mRNA stability.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Hyperuricemia closely correlates with obesity, yet high uric acid (UA) is largely viewed as a consequence or biomarker of obesity rather than a causal driver. Integrating human clinical analyses with animal studies, we redefine UA as a liver-derived endocrine regulator that drives obesity by modulating gut ecology. UA remodels the gut microbiota, selectively depleting Lactobacillus johnsonii by disrupting peptidoglycan synthesis. This depletion reduces microbial phenyllactic acid (PLA)-a metabolite produced by L. johnsonii lactate dehydrogenase that we identify as an endogenous suppressor of intestinal peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) signaling. Consequently, PPARα disinhibition upregulates fatty acid transporters, accelerating lipid absorption and promoting obesity. Leveraging human genetic data, we pinpoint lysine acetyltransferase 5 (TIP60) as a master regulator of hepatic UA production. Hepatic TIP60 ablation lowers UA, restoring the L. johnsonii-PLA axis and conferring obesity resistance. These findings establish a UA-driven liver-gut axis and nominate TIP60 inhibition as a dual-target therapy for obesity and hyperuricemia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Takayasu arteritis (TAK) is a chronic granulomatous vasculitis, and accurate early diagnosis and assessment of disease activity remain significant clinical challenge. Traditional biomarkers such as CRP and ESR have insufficient sensitivity and specificity. High-throughput proteomics provides a robust method for discovering new biomarkers for TAK.A comparative serum proteomic analysis of 8 TAK patients and 9 healthy controls (HCs) was conducted using mass spectrometry. Bioinformatic analyses were performed on differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Candidate biomarkers were prioritized through machine learning and correlation analyses. An independent validation cohort with 51 TAK patients and 31 HCs was used to confirm the biomarkers using ELISA. The correlations were assessed between the new biomarkers and the clinical parameters as well as disease activity scores.We identified 88 DEPs between TAK patients and HCs. Pathway analysis revealed enrichment in phagosome, platelet activation, and inflammatory response. Among these, Haptoglobin (HP) and Orosomucoid 1 (ORM1) were selected as top candidate biomarkers based on their high feature importance scores and strong correlation with inflammatory markers. ELISA validation confirmed that serum levels of HP and ORM1 were significantly elevated in TAK patients compared with HCs, and further increased in active TAK compared with stable TAK patients. Both biomarkers showed significant positive correlations with clinical inflammatory indicators (ESR, FIB, WBC) and immune cell counts, as well as disease activity scores.Our integrated proteomic analysis identified HP and ORM1 as 2 novel serum biomarkers significantly associated with disease activity, inflammatory and immune processes in TAK.© 2026 Wang et al.
BackgroundImmune checkpoint blockade therapy aims to restore T-cell function within the tumor microenvironment (TME), eliciting durable antitumor responses. However, clinical response rates to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors remain limited, particularly in immunologically "cold" tumors such as pancreatic cancer, underscoring the need for alternative immunotherapeutic strategies. V-set and immunoglobulin domain-containing 4 (VSIG4) has been implicated in tumor progression, but its functional role in T-cell regulation and mechanisms of tumor immune evasion remain unclear.Syngeneic tumor models and human VSIG4 knock-in mice were employed to investigate the therapeutic effect of VSIG4 blockade. Mouse-specific and human-specific neutralizing antibodies against VSIG4 were administered across multiple tumor types, including pancreatic cancer. Tumor-infiltrating immune cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and functional assays. Mechanistic studies examined the interaction between VSIG4 and solute carrier family 3 member 2 (SLC3A2) and its impact on amino acid transport, ion flux, and T-cell activation.Therapeutic blockade of VSIG4 significantly suppressed tumor growth and prolonged survival in several cancer models, with particular efficacy in pancreatic cancer. VSIG4 expression correlated with tumor aggressiveness, and its blockade reactivated CD8+ T cells within the TME, enhancing intratumoral infiltration and effector function. Mechanistically, VSIG4 directly bound to SLC3A2, a chaperone for amino acid transporters, thereby impairing glutamine uptake, disrupting sodium and calcium flux, and ultimately suppressing T-cell activation. VSIG4 blockade restored nutrient and ion availability to CD8+ T cells, thereby reinvigorating antitumor immunity.These findings define a previously unrecognized metabolic-ionic checkpoint axis by which VSIG4 restricts T-cell activation through SLC3A2. Blockade of VSIG4 reprograms the TME and enhances antitumor immunity, highlighting VSIG4 as a promising therapeutic target, particularly in metabolically repressive tumors such as pancreatic cancer.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Autophagy is a hallmark of aging, but autophagy-related proteins have not been exclusively targeted to attenuate the progressive decline in physical function associated with aging. Here, we combined Tat-Beclin1, an autophagy agonist, and endurance training to determine whether Tat-Beclin1 enhances exercise adaptation in old male mice. Tat-Beclin1 was administered intraperitoneally (TB group, 15 mg/kg, 2x/week) as a standalone therapy, or in combination with endurance training (TB+Exe group, 70% of maximal running speed 3x/week) for 1 month in 23-month-old male C57BL/6J mice. Control groups were age-matched cage controls and exercise-only groups. Animals were assessed for grip strength, endurance capacity on a treadmill, and balance and coordination on a rotarod. Gastrocnemius/plantaris (G/P) and tibialis anterior muscles were harvested for western blotting, myofiber typing, and proteomic profiling (G/P only). TB+Exe led to significant increases in grip strength, endurance capacity, and balance and coordination performance beyond those observed in the TB and Exe groups alone. Autophagy markers, including Beclin1, the LC3B-II/I ratio, and p62, did not differ among groups. A proteomic analysis of the G/P muscle revealed that TB upregulated biological processes involved in muscle contraction and adaptation, whereas TB+Exe increased mitochondrial bioenergetic processes and, surprisingly, upregulated acute inflammatory responses, including proteins such as haptoglobin and orosomucoid-1. We conclude that combining Tat-Beclin1 and endurance training may represent a new approach to attenuate aging-related decline in physical function.We show evidence that combining Tat-Beclin1 and endurance training (TB+Exe) resulted in greater improvements in physical function in 24-month-old male mice than either standalone therapy. We also show that TB+Exe upregulates traditional exercise-like biological processes and unexpectedly upregulates acute-inflammatory proteins (e.g., orosomucoid-1), which are thought to improve physical function in preclinical studies. Our study suggests that TB may be a new drug enhancing physical function, especially when combined with endurance training in old male mice.
G protein-coupled receptor 174 (GPR174), a key modulator of autoimmune responses, maintains immune homeostasis through distinct G protein signaling pathways, particularly Gs and Gi. Although the structural mechanism of lysophosphatidylserine (LysoPS)-activated GPR174 in the Gs pathway has been characterized, how hydration-mediated interactions influence GPR174 activation and signaling selectivity remains unclear. Here, we determined high-resolution cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of LysoPS-activated human GPR174 bound to Gs (2.0 Å) and Gi (3.4 Å), revealing a continuous hydration-mediated signal transduction network that bridges the sodium-binding pocket, the NPxxY and DRY motifs, and the G protein-binding interface. This network stabilizes the active-state conformation of GPR174 and dynamically reshapes the intracellular cavity, thereby enabling differential engagement of Gs and Gi. Molecular dynamics simulations and functional assays demonstrated that the hydration network is essential for receptor activation and selectively modulates G protein coupling. To evaluate its conservation, we performed sequence alignments and structural analyses across class A GPCRs, defining three hydration cavities: the conserved water cavity (CWC), the junctional water cavity (JWC), and the extended water cavity (EWC), whose hydration is determined by residue properties at position 5.58. Together, our study reveals a hydration-driven molecular mechanism that underlies the activation of GPR174 and its dual G protein selectivity. These findings advance the understanding of hydration-mediated signaling in GPR174 and provide a framework for investigating water-mediated regulation across class A GPCRs.Copyright: © 2026 Dong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Psoriasis is a complex chronic inflammatory skin disease. While typical cases are often diagnosed based on clinical features, achieving objective assessment of disease activity and precise early-stage identification remains a clinical focus. This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic value of monocytes (MONO), Orosomucoid-1 (ORM1), Orosomucoid-2 (ORM2), and Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP), and to develop a nomogram for the objective and early identification of psoriasis.This retrospective case-control study included 140 participants, comprising 70 patients with psoriasis confirmed by the dermatology department and 70 healthy individuals who underwent routine health examinations during the same period. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory data (including MONO, ORM1, ORM2, and AGP) were collected for all participants. Potential risk factors were initially screened using univariate Logistic regression, followed by feature selection via the combination of Lasso regression and Boruta algorithm to identify features with the highest predictive value. Restricted cubic spline (RCS) plots were utilized to visually illustrate the non-linear associations between the selected variables and the risk of psoriasis onset. Finally, the selected features were incorporated into a multivariate Logistic regression model to determine the independent risk factors, and a diagnostic nomogram was constructed accordingly.Based on the results of univariate analysis, LASSO regression and Boruta algorithm, we ultimately selected four key variables, namely MONO, ORM1, ORM2 and AGP, for the construction of the subsequent multivariate diagnostic model. The calibration curve of the model showed that the actual probability was highly consistent with the predicted probability, indicating that the model had good calibration performance. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve indicated that the overall predictive ability of the model was excellent, with an area under curve (AUC) of 0.888 (95% CI: 0.835-0.941). In addition, the ROC curves of each variable analyzed separately showed that ORM2 (AUC = 0.777), ORM1 (AUC = 0.720), MONO (AUC = 0.638) and AGP (AUC = 0.673) all had different degrees of predictive ability for the risk of psoriasis.The novel biomarker combinations with stable and high expression in the early stage have shown great potential in the research of psoriasis. These research results should be applied to clinical.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Hu, Zhang and Zheng.
The purpose of our study was to assess if spinacetin (SPC), a flavonoid found in spinach, can alleviate the cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced changes in cystometric and inflammatory parameters indicative of the development of hemorrhagic cystitis. The animal experiments were conducted in female Wistar rats. The cohort of 60 animals was grouped as follows: I-control, II-CYP group, III-SPC group, and IV-CYP + SPC group. The cystometry and biochemical analyses were performed after a fortnight of SPC administration. SPC was found to restore normal cystometric parameters in CYP-induced cystitis and, similarly, it normalized c-Fos expression changes in the central micturition regions. SPC further prevented a massive increase in the bladder wall thickness/permeability due to exposition to CYP administration. CYP instillation resulted in the elevation of biomarkers found in urine (brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF, and nerve growth factor, NGF), and in the bladder detrusor muscle (Rho kinase and vesicular acetylcholine transporter, VAChT), which were successfully restored after administration of SPC. As for the biomarkers in the bladder urothelium, the CYP-induced increases in TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), malondialdehyde, 3-nitrotyrosine, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), occludin, organic cation transporter 3 (OCT-3), orosomucoid-1 (ORM1), pituitary adenylate cyclase receptor 1 (PAC1), synaptosomal-associated protein 23 (SNAP23), SNAP25, and synaptic vesicle glycoprotein (SV2A) levels were attenuated by SPC. Finally, CYP administration resulted in a decrease in the heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF), hemopexin (HPX), T-H protein, and tight junction protein (Z01), and we noted the successful restoration of all these changes in concentrations after application of SPC. In summary, SPC robustly mitigated cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystometric dysfunction and biochemical alterations characteristic of iatrogenic hemorrhagic cystitis. These findings position SPC as a compelling therapeutic candidate and warrant further translational investigation for the management of CYP-induced bladder injury.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) represents a global health burden with limited therapeutic strategies. While the hepatocyte transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (CEBPA) regulates hepatic gene expression and liver fibrosis, its role in ALD pathogenesis remains undefined. Here, hepatocyte CEBPA was examined for its modulation of alcohol-associated hepatic steatosis and ALD.Hepatocyte-specific CEBPA knockout mice, adeno-associated virus serotype transduction studies, and reporter gene assays were carried out using acute and chronic mouse ALD models. Western blotting was performed on liver tissues from human patients with ALD. Hepatic CEBPA expression decreased during ALD progression in human patient cohorts. Hepatocyte-specific Cebpa -knockout mice exhibited exacerbated alcohol-associated steatosis in both the acute and chronic ALD models. Inducible ablation of CEBPA in hepatocytes during late-stage ALD, accelerated disease progression, demonstrating the persistent protective function of CEBPA. Global transcriptomics identified Orm1 encoding orosomucoid 1 (ORM1) as the top CEBPA-upregulated gene in hepatocytes, while reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) revealed that CEBPA directly activated Orm1 transcription by binding CEBPA response elements upstream of the Orm1 promoter. Loss of hepatocyte ORM1 potentiated the severity of ALD in mice. Conversely, restoring CEBPA or ORM1 via i.v. adeno-associated virus serotype 8 delivery or i.p. administeration of recombinant ORM1 protein rescued hepatic lipid accumulation and reduced disease progression. Consistently, serum ORM1, a hepatocyte-secreted hepatokine, inversely correlated with ALD severity in patients.These findings identify the hepatocyte CEBPA-ORM1 axis as a critical suppressor of ALD, offering therapeutic targets and nominating serum ORM1 as a potential biomarker for staging ALD severity.Copyright © 2026 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41744432
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41744431
Objective: Chronic lung diseases (CLDs), for example, interstitial lung disease, manifest as an extra-articular complication of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The contribution of anti-bactericidal permeability-increasing protein antibodies (BPI Abs) in lung involvement in RA or primary Sjögren's syndrome has been reported. Studies related to anti-BPI Abs in RA with CLD are infrequent. Here, the involvement of anti-BPI Abs with RA and CLD complications was evaluated. Methods: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were used to measure anti-BPI Abs in RA sera. Results: Higher anti-BPI Ab amounts were present in the RA with usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) than without CLD (mean ± standard deviation, 10.4 ± 23.5 [ng/mL] vs. 1.3 ± 3.8, p = 0.0020). Area under the curve values of receiver operating characteristic curves for anti-BPI Ab and Krebs von den lungen-6 were alike between RA with UIP and without CLD (0.8616, 95% CI 0.8184-0.9048; 0.8716, 95% CI 0.8151-0.9282, p = 0.5933, respectively). A relationship between anti-BPI Ab and anti-carbamylated protein Ab levels was observed in RA patients (rho 0.3508, p = 1.47 × 10-14). Conclusions: Anti-BPI Abs were related to UIP in RA patients and might be biomarkers for UIP. These findings predict anti-BPI Abs involvement in UIP pathogenesis in RA.
Persistent pruritus (itch) affects the quality of life, and many itch syndromes remain untreatable. Previously, we identified the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) playing a critical role in mediating histamine-independent itch signaling. In this study, we aimed to identify small-molecule GRPR antagonists to treat histamine-independent itch. Starting with the known small-molecule GRPR antagonist PD 176,252, we conducted systematical structure-activity relationship studies. This effort led to the discovery of antagonists that exhibit up to an 11-fold increase in binding affinity compared to PD 176,252. Compound 45 (MP-4222), a GRPR antagonist with a four-fold increased binding affinity and equal selectivity over the neuromedin B receptor (NMBR), significantly inhibited itch behavior in the chloroquine (CQ)-induced acute itch mouse model. Additionally, we attempted to reconcile the discrepancy between our in vitro experimental data and the computational docking outcome using the recently reported GRPR-PD176252 cryo-EM structure. Our studies also suggested several potential modifications to improve potency, as well as identified functional groups that have the potential in radiolabeling for targeted GRPR imaging.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is characterized by a complex and highly heterogeneous tumor microenvironment (TME), the regulation of which remains incompletely understood. This study systematically investigated the role of protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6 (PTPN6) in RCC. Through integrated bioinformatics analysis of TCGA and GEO datasets, we found PTPN6 was consistently overexpressed in multiple cancers, including clear cell (KIRC) and papillary (KIRP) RCC subtypes, where it served as a robust diagnostic marker. Elevated PTPN6 specifically correlated with advanced stage, metastasis, and poor survival exclusively in KIRC. Functional assays in renal carcinoma cells revealed that PTPN6 knockdown minimally affected short-term migration but modestly reduced long-term clonogenic potential. Critically, PTPN6 expression strongly correlated with an immunosuppressive TME signature, enriched stromal/immune scores, and infiltration of M2 macrophages and Tregs. In vitro co-culture experiments and transcriptome sequencing established a mechanistic axis whereby PTPN6 in tumor cells promotes M2 macrophage polarization via upregulation of thrombospondin 1 (THBS1). Furthermore, high PTPN6 expression defined a coherent immunosuppressive landscape and identified a patient subgroup (high PTPN6/low cytolytic activity) with the worst prognosis. Finally, PTPN6 expression was linked to distinct drug sensitivity profiles, and in silico docking supported its potential as a direct pharmacological target. In conclusion, our work establishes PTPN6 as a multifaceted promoter of immunosuppressive microenvironment remodeling and a pivotal regulator of the TME in RCC, positioning it as a promising prognostic marker and a new therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42421744 is a review article
Central respiratory chemoreceptors (CRCs) are critically important for maintaining normal systemic levels of pH and PCO2. Their specific identity has been controversial. It is widely acknowledged that CRCs must respond to small changes in pH via cell-autonomous (intrinsic) mechanisms. However most studies designed to identify CRCs have only blocked a limited subset of synaptic mechanisms. Here we used patch-clamp recordings to compare chemosensitivity of two candidates for CRCs: (1) Phox2b-expressing neurones of the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN) and (2) serotonin (5-HT)-producing neurones of the medullary raphe nuclei. We used acute dissociation to ensure responses were intrinsic. In response to a change in CO2 from 5% to 9% (pH 7.4 to ≈7.2) 48% of medullary 5-HT neurones (n = 118) increased their firing rate by more than 20% with a mean increase of 139%, whereas 16% of RTN neurones (n = 93) increased their firing rate by more than 20% with a mean increase of 46%. RTN neurones that expressed Neuromedin B (Nmb) (a proposed biomarker of RTN CRCs) were not more likely to have a larger pH response. After 3 days in culture many RTN neurones began to receive excitatory synaptic drive from 5-HT neurones and also responded to acidosis. These results support the conclusion that a subset of medullary 5-HT neurones are CRCs. Many RTN neurones may play a role in integration and relay of pH information from 5-HT neurones and other chemoreceptor sites but contribute less to direct pH sensation. KEY POINTS: Central respiratory chemoreceptors in the brainstem detect changes in CO2 and pH via intrinsic mechanisms and induce changes in breathing to maintain pH homoeostasis. The identity of these cells is controversial. We measured the pH response of two prominent candidates for these chemoreceptors after they were acutely isolated from all other cells to ensure that their responses were intrinsic. A small percentage of neurones from the retrotrapezoid nucleus had a small response to acidosis. A much larger percentage of serotonin neurones were stimulated by acidosis with a large increase in firing rate. Over the first few days in cultured neuronal preparations serotonin neurones formed synapses on retrotrapezoid neurones and stimulated them in response to acidosis. These results reveal that a large subset of serotonin neurones have properties consistent with central chemoreceptors, whereas a small number of retrotrapezoid neurones have a small response, and may be more important as relays of chemoreceptor information rather than as direct sensors of pH themselves.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
Distinguishing acute bacterial meningitis (ABM) from acute viral meningitis (AVM) remains challenging in clinically ambiguous scenarios, particularly during early disease stages or following partial antibiotic treatment. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lipocalin-2 (LCN-2) and Bactericidal/Permeability-Increasing Protein (BPI) for the rapid differentiation of ABM from AVM.In this prospective study (November 2020-October 2021), 90 adult patients were categorized into ABM, AVM, and control groups based on clinical and laboratory definitions. CSF LCN-2 and BPI levels were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Group comparisons were performed using Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis tests. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analyses to determine sensitivity, specificity, and optimal cut-off values.Analysis of a cohort of 90 patients revealed that CSF LCN-2 levels were significantly higher in the ABM group (median: 103.2 ng/mL) compared to the AVM group (median: 99.3 ng/mL; p = 0.003) and controls (p < 0.001). Applying a threshold of greater than 100.7 ng/mL, LCN-2 differentiated ABM from AVM with a sensitivity of 83.3% and a specificity of 60.0%. In contrast, CSF BPI levels did not demonstrate significant diagnostic value (p > 0.05).CSF LCN-2 demonstrated high sensitivity as a biomarker for distinguishing ABM from AVM, indicating its potential as an adjunctive tool for early clinical decision-making. In contrast, BPI did not demonstrate adequate diagnostic utility in this cohort. Further multicenter studies with larger sample sizes are necessary to confirm the clinical applicability of LCN-2.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Background/Objectives: Src homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 1 (SHP-1), also known as protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6, functions as a tumor suppressor in breast, hepatocellular, and prostate cancers and an oncogene in glioblastoma and cervical cancer. A previous analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset revealed that lower SHP-1 transcript levels in bladder tumors were associated with poorer overall survival. Methods: This study aimed to evaluate the role of SHP-1 in bladder cancer and to assess the functional impact of its forced expression and knockdown in bladder carcinoma cell lines. SHP-1 expression was assessed in 19 bladder cancer cell lines and 26 bladder tissues. Lentiviral transduction was used to knock down or overexpress SHP-1 in four cell lines, followed by Western blot analysis of SHP-1 and pAkt/Akt protein expression. Results: SHP-1 protein levels were significantly lower in highly invasive cell lines (p < 0.001) and muscle-invasive tumors (p < 0.05). Functional studies demonstrated that SHP-1 modulation influenced the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) phenotype. SHP-1 expression was positively correlated with E-cadherin expression (p < 0.001) and negatively correlated with N-cadherin (p < 0.01) and Vimentin (p < 0.05) expression. Alteration of SHP-1 expression in bladder cancer cell lines affected proliferation, invasion, and migration (p < 0.05). RNA-seq analysis of the transduced cell lines revealed enrichment of gene sets related to EMT and signaling pathways involving MYC, PI3K, Akt, and mTOR. Furthermore, SHP-1 alteration impacted pAkt/Akt ratios (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Collectively, lower SHP-1 protein expression correlated with more aggressive phenotypes in bladder cancer cell lines and bladder tumors. In our limited dataset, reduced SHP-1 expression correlated with muscle-invasive disease, suggesting a potential link to more advanced tumor biology, consistent with TCGA associating reduced SHP-1 transcript expression to poorer survival rates. Our data provide preliminary functional evidence that SHP-1 may modulate Akt signaling in bladder cancer. Together, these results support further investigation of SHP-1 as a possible tumor suppressor, candidate prognostic biomarker, and potential therapeutic target in bladder cancer.
Pathological accumulation of toxic SNCA species and loss of E3-ligase function of PRKN are two key features observed in Parkinson disease (PD). Here, we established the contribution of an E3-ligase-independent transcriptional function of PRKN in SNCA regulation. PRKN depletion decreased SNCA and GBA1 (glucosylceramidase beta 1) mRNA levels and reduced CMA-driven degradation of SNCA, thereby triggering the accumulation of its phosphorylated aggregation-prone toxic species. We established that PRKN controls the CMA player LAMP2A but not HSPA8/HSC70 in isolated lysosomal fractions prepared from human neuronal and mouse fibroblastic cells. Further, we showed that PRKN-associated regulation of LAMP2 is isoform specific. We showed that PRKN-mediated control of SNCA, GBA1 and LAMP2A occurs in vivo and is impaired in the paraquat-treated PD mice model. We showed that the levels of phosphorylated SNCA and PRKN are correlated in sporadic PD human brain samples and that fibroblasts of patients carrying pathogenic PRKN mutations exhibit impaired CMA activity. Our study decrypts a new molecular mechanism linking three PD major therapeutic targets. It enriches the portfolio of transcriptional targets of PRKN and establishes PRKN as a novel CMA regulator. Further, it shows that PRKN controls both direct and indirect (GBA1-dependent) transcriptional regulation of SNCA. This novel molecular cascade opens potential new avenues in PD treatment.Abbreviations: ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; ΔPkPr: deleted PRKN-RE Snca promoter; GBA1: glucosylceramidase beta 1; HAP1: human haploid cell; GBA1+: human haploid control cells; GBA-: human haploid invalidated for GBA1 cells; HSPA8/HSC70: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; LAMP2A: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2A; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; Prkn+/+: MEF and mice Prkn control; prkn-/-: MEF and mice prkn knockout; PD: Parkinson disease; PQ: paraquat; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PRKN-RE: PRKN responsive element; PRKN [SC]: PRKN control; PRKN [KD]: PRKN-depleted; SNCA: synuclein alpha; SNCA [M]: monomeric synuclein alpha; SNCA [O]: oligomeric synuclein alpha; SNCA p-S129: phosphorylated synuclein alpha, SPD: sporadic Parkinson disease; TF: transcription factor; TH: tyrosine hydroxylase; WTPr: wild-type Snca promoter.
Caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 9 (CARD9) deficiency is classically characterized by chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC) and invasive Candida infections, including central nervous system (CNS) disease. Susceptibility to mycobacterial infection has not been considered a defining feature of CARD9 deficiency. We describe a patient with a typical clinical phenotype of CARD9 deficiency associated with compound heterozygous variants in CARD9, initially presenting with CMC and later manifesting CNS candidiasis, complicated by a concurrent CNS infection caused by Mycobacterium intracellulare. This unexpected finding prompted detailed immunological analyses to determine whether the mycobacterial infection represented a coincidental event or reflected an underlying susceptibility. Immunological studies demonstrated preserved neutrophil nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase-dependent reactive oxygen species production, whereas bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein (BPI) was uniquely and markedly reduced among neutrophil antimicrobial proteins. In parallel, monocyte-derived dendritic cells exhibited impaired tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) production in response to mycobacterial stimulation, suggesting impaired cytokine responses downstream of CARD9. These findings suggest that impaired dendritic cell cytokine responses to mycobacteria, together with markedly reduced neutrophil BPI content, may have contributed to the development of M. intracellulare infection in this patient. Our study highlights a potential mechanism underlying susceptibility to mycobacterial infection in CARD9 deficiency.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
C-terminal Src kinase (Csk) is crucial for the normal function of platelet integrin αIIbβ3 because it inactivates Src kinase. While the molecular mechanism by which cytoplasmic Csk associates with membrane-bound Src is known in resting platelets, it remains unknown in activated platelets. Using surface plasmon resonance, a kinase assay, and microscale thermophoresis, we discovered that Csk binds directly to phospho-Tyr747 on the β3 tail via its SH2 domain and that this binding fully activates Csk. Moreover, we found that phospho-Thr753 on the β3 tail prevents Csk from binding. Collectively, our findings provide new insight into the regulation of Csk function in activated platelets, suggesting that Tyr747-phosphorylated β3 recruits Csk near active Src, whereas phospho-Thr753 on β3 inhibits this interaction.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type 22 (PTPN22) is a key negative regulator of T cell activation, acting with C-terminal Src kinase (Csk) to suppress early T cell receptor (TCR) signaling and maintain immune tolerance. Given that the autoimmune disease-associated R620W variant alters T cell responses, we investigated the effects of PTPN22 on T cell activation. We identified a role for PTPN22 in modulating cytoskeletal dynamics at the immunological synapse in Jurkat cells through its interaction with proline-serine-threonine phosphatase-interacting protein 1 (PSTPIP1), a cytoskeletal adaptor protein that recruits actin nucleation-promoting factors, including WASp, to the TCR. PTPN22 deficiency or inhibition disrupted Arp2/3-dependent actin remodeling, leading to excessive central F-actin foci, PSTPIP1 mislocalization, and enhanced Ca2+ signaling, especially under low-affinity stimulation of the TCR. Super-resolution DNA-PAINT analysis revealed that loss of PTPN22 promoted aberrant PSTPIP1-TCR nanoscale colocalization and increased TCR clustering. These findings uncover a PTPN22-PSTPIP1 signaling axis that is critical for regulating cytoskeletal remodeling and receptor organization, providing insights into T cell hyperactivation that may be relevant to autoimmune disease.
We report two siblings with hematopoietic protein 1 (HEM1), also named Nck-associated protein 1-like (NCKAP1L), deficiency and varying clinical phenotype and the first case of successful hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for recurrent infections and EBV-induced hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, showing curative potential.© 2026 Thalhammer et al.
Aplastic anemia (AA) is a rare hematological disorder characterized by the failure of bone marrow hematopoiesis. Although somatic mutations are known to play pivotal roles in the pathogenesis and clinical progression of AA, their molecular characteristics in Chinese AA patients remain poorly characterized. In this study, we perform whole-exome sequencing on 126 Chinese AA patients to delineate the somatic mutation landscape. Our analysis reveal recurrently mutated genes enriched in immune regulatory pathways. Notably, we identify eight AA cases harboring mutations in the tyrosine kinase motif of C-terminal Src kinase (CSK), a critical regulator of T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling. Functional validation and RNA sequencing in Jurkat T cells demonstrate that these mutations induce aberrant T-cell activation in vitro, suggesting a potential mechanistic link to AA pathogenesis. Furthermore, we detect copy number variations in multiple loci containing immune-related genes, which may additionally contribute to disease development. Collectively, our study provides a comprehensive characterization of somatic mutations in a large Chinese AA cohort and elucidates the functional impact of CSK mutations on AA pathogenesis. These findings deepen our understanding of the disease mechanisms underlying AA and identify potential molecular targets for future therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
T cell receptor (TCR) signaling is critically dependent on the Src-family kinase Lck, whose activation is tightly regulated both spatially and conformationally during antigen recognition. Here, we employ an improved second-generation FRET-based biosensor (TqLckV2.3) to visualize Lck conformational dynamics in live T cells with high spatial resolution. Upon TCR engagement, we observe a paradoxical increase in whole-cell FRET signal, which immunolabeling reveals to be due to selective internalization of inactive Lck (pY505), while active Lck (pY394) remains membrane-associated and enriched at the immune synapse (IS). Using CD8α mutants that disrupt Lck binding, we demonstrate that free Lck undergoes more pronounced conformational activation than CD8-bound Lck. Furthermore, we show that C-terminal Src kinase (Csk) preferentially phosphorylates free Lck at Y505, while CD45 suppresses its activation via dephosphorylation of Y394, suggesting a dual regulatory mechanism that maintains free Lck in an inactive state under resting conditions. High-resolution imaging confirms sustained activation of Lck at the IS and transient inactivation at the periphery, revealing a spatially confined signaling architecture. These findings uncover a novel regulatory mechanism involving selective internalization and spatial segregation of Lck conformations and establish TqLckV2.3 as a powerful tool for dissecting TCR signaling dynamics.
Temozolomide (TMZ) resistance represents a primary cause of treatment failure and poor outcomes in glioblastoma (GBM). Exosome-mediated intercellular communication is increasingly recognized as a pivotal mechanism driving the dissemination of chemoresistance; however, the specific contribution of exosomal circular RNA cargos to this adaptive process remains elusive. This study systematically characterized the biological function of exosomal circ_0017636 in remodeling the TMZ-resistant microenvironment. We identified that circ_0017636 was significantly downregulated in TMZ-resistant tissues and correlated with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, circ_0017636 functions as a competing endogenous RNA that physically sponges miR-665 to de-repress Arrestin Beta 1 (ARRB1). Crucially, we isolated exosomes from sensitive cells and confirmed their identity via transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and marker analysis. Utilizing CD63-GFP fluorescent tracking, we visually demonstrated the efficient internalization of these vesicles by resistant recipient cells, confirming that circ_0017636 is physically packaged into these exosomes as a transferable cargo. Upon uptake, these circ_0017636-loaded exosomes effectively propagated chemosensitivity signals, significantly reducing the expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 and the multidrug resistance protein P-glycoprotein (P-gp), thereby suppressing malignant phenotypes. Furthermore, vivo experiments confirmed that intratumoral delivery of circ_0017636-enriched exosomes significantly retarded xenograft tumor growth and overcame TMZ resistance. Collectively, this study elucidates a novel exosome-based communication axis, wherein circ_0017636 acts as a transferable tumor suppressor. Our findings suggest that leveraging exosomes as natural vehicles to deliver circ_0017636 represents a promising therapeutic strategy, while also indicating its potential as a diagnostic biomarker.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fgr, a member of the Src family of nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, is expressed in myeloid hematopoietic cells and is a validated drug target in acute myeloid leukemia. Like other Src family kinases, Fgr consists of an N-terminal unique domain, SH3 and SH2 regulatory domains, a catalytic kinase domain, and a C-terminal tail. Notably, Fgr is constitutively active when ectopically expressed in fibroblasts, with kinase activity uncoupled from SH3-SH2 domain regulation, a feature that distinguishes it from other family members. To support structural and biochemical studies, we developed a chaperone-assisted method to express and purify soluble, active Fgr in Escherichia coli. Fgr was coexpressed with C-terminal Src kinase to maintain C-terminal tail phosphorylation and with the protein-tyrosine phosphatase 1B catalytic domain to keep the activation loop dephosphorylated. While this strategy stabilizes soluble Src and Hck in E. coli, it was insufficient for Fgr. To enhance solubility, we added coexpression with the E. coli GroEL-GroES chaperone complex. This significantly improved Fgr solubility, although the kinase initially remained bound to GroEL-GroES. Washing column-bound GroEL-GroES-Fgr with ATP-MgCl2 partially dissociated the chaperone complex, enabling isolation of pure Fgr through subsequent size-exclusion and ion exchange chromatography. This method reliably produced highly pure, active recombinant Fgr, with consistent yields of 1 mg per 2 l of bacterial culture.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A number of processes and pathways have been reported in the development of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), however, novel biomarkers need to be identified for a better diagnosis and management. We used the Limma package to identify differential genes, combined with weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and five machine learning algorithms to screen, and finally obtained five key genes. We used eight machine learning algorithms to construct the predictive model, and the results demonstrated that the support vector machine (SVM) algorithm had the best predictive efficiency, with an area under curve (AUC) value of 0.894303363. To clarify the decision-making process of the model, we used the Shapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) method to rank the importance of the model's display features on all model samples. An immune-cell infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in the relative abundances of immune cells between controls and PTSD patients and a correlation with the key genes. Then we confirmed the expression of these five biomarkers in stress-related brain regions (prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus (HIP), amygdala (AMY)) of Single prolonged stress and electric foot shock (SPS&S) rats through a series of experimental validation, and found that arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2) gene expression was significantly down-regulated in HIP, and verified the expression of ARRB2 in HIP by further Western Blotting as well as immunofluorescence experiments. In conclusion, machine learning and bioinformatics analysis along with experimental techniques identified ARRB2 as potential biomarkers for PTSD.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The overexpression or activation of C-terminal Src kinase (CSK) has been recognized as a pivotal factor in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), positioning CSK as a promising therapeutic target. Despite this potential, no CSK-specific inhibitors have been developed for HCC treatment to date. Addressing this gap, our study established a robust virtual screening protocol that integrates energy-based screening techniques with machine learning methodologies. Through this systematic approach, we identified a novel compound, 6, exhibiting potent CSK inhibitory activity, as evidenced by an IC50 value of 675 nM in a homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF) bioassay. Notably, this compound demonstrated significant growth inhibition in Huh-7 and Huh-6 cell lines, along with the suppression of clone formation. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we conducted molecular dynamics simulations, which revealed critical binding interactions between compound 6 and CSK. Specifically, residues Phe333 and Met269 were found to play essential roles in mediating these interactions, providing valuable insights into the compound's mode of action.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
The opioid epidemic remains a persistent public health challenge in the United States, leaving many people affected by or vulnerable to opioid use disorder (OUD). Although US Food and Drug Administration-approved medications for OUD improve the odds of recovery and reduce mortality, relapse rates remain high and access, adherence, and individual response variabilities limit their overall impact. The ongoing burden of OUD therefore underscores the need to develop additional therapeutics that target complementary biological mechanisms and support long-term recovery. One strategy of interest is to delineate the biological overlap between OUD and other motivated behaviors, particularly the neurobiology underlying appetitive and reward-driven processes. The orexigenic peptide hormone ghrelin, often referred to as the "hunger hormone," regulates energy homeostasis, hedonic feeding, and reward sensitivity by binding to the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1α (GHS1αR), a receptor expressed in mesolimbic circuits implicated in addiction. In the present study, we used the inverse agonist/antagonist PF5190457 to assess the impact of full GHS1αR blockade on fentanyl-mediated behaviors in preclinical models. We found that PF5190457 significantly reduced fentanyl self-administration and attenuated drug-seeking during cue tests while maintaining a favorable pharmacological and safety profile in risk assessment assays, including measures of withdrawal and respiratory depression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate a functional role for ghrelin-GHS1αR signaling in the reinforcing effects of fentanyl and positions GHS1αR inverse agonism as a promising, mechanistically novel therapeutic strategy for OUD treatment. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The present work demonstrates that the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1α (GHS1αR) inverse agonist/antagonist PF5190457 reduces fentanyl self-administration and drug-seeking while maintaining a favorable safety profile in male rats, supporting ghrelin-GHS1αR modulation as a promising therapeutic strategy for opioid use disorder.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The hormone ghrelin has had limited attention in Equidae, despite connections with appetite and metabolic health in other species. Ghrelin influences hunger and food intake, energy expenditure and storage, glucose metabolism, and thermoregulation, through its receptor-mediated effects on tissues and via interaction with other hormones. There are two circulating forms, acylated and des-acylated ghrelin, considered to have distinct effects on metabolism in other species. The aims of this study were to confirm the presence of ghrelin receptors in equine tissues, to validate an assay for the measurement of total ghrelin (acylated and des-acylated forms) in horses, and to evaluate associations between ghrelin concentrations and prandial state, signalment and morphometry. Gene expression studies were conducted to identify ghrelin receptor isoforms 1a and 1b. A validation of a commercial kit for total ghrelin was undertaken. Finally, associations between active ghrelin concentrations and prandial state, signalment and morphometric traits were determined in a cohort of 35 horses and ponies with no evidence of metabolic disease. Expression of receptor type 1a was confirmed in equine pituitary gland and adrenal medulla, and detected in 6 other peripheral tissues. PCR product consistent with receptor type 1b was expressed in pituitary, adrenal medulla, adrenal cortex and ileum, but low yields prevented confirmation with sequencing. Parallelism and recovery on addition steps of the validation resulted in values outside the acceptable ranges, so total ghrelin concentration could not be measured. Post-prandial active ghrelin concentration was reduced (p = 0.001) by 19% and positively associated with age, but was not associated with bodyweight, height, or body condition. Pre-prandial active ghrelin concentrations were higher (p = 0.0003) in Welsh ponies compared to other horse and pony breeds. Receptor expression in disparate tissues suggests multiple roles for ghrelin in horses. Association of active ghrelin with age and breed warrants further investigation and could indicate physiological diversity in metabolic pathways in this species.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the efficacy and mechanistic foundations of the Traditional Chinese Medicine Yueju pill (YJP, ) for treating the complex comorbidity of heart failure and depression.C57BL/6 male mice were used to establish a robust congestive heart failure (CHF) model with concomitant depressive manifestations. Echocardiographic assessments were conducted to evaluate cardiac structure and function in the mice. Depression-related behavioral tests and the detection of monoamine neurotransmitters were performed to assess the antidepressant-like effectiveness of YJP. Western blot analysis was conducted to measure the expression levels of key components in the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)/heme oxygenase 1 (HO1) antioxidant pathway, NRF2/brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) pathway, and ghrelin/growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R)1a pathway in the myocardium and hippocampus. To explore the mechanistic role of the ghrelin/GHS-R1a pathway, the ghrelin receptor antagonist D-Lys3-growth hormone-releasing peptide-6 was introduced to enable the iterative evaluation of the aforementioned parameters.YJP improved cardiac dysfunction and myocardial fibrosis and markedly ameliorated depressive behaviors. It also improved neuron damage, boosted the growth of dendritic spines to enhance synaptic plasticity, and alleviated monoamine neurotransmitter imbalances. Additionally, the NRF2/BDNF, ghrelin/GHS-R1a, and NRF2/HO1 antioxidant pathways were promoted by YJP, with the increased expression of key components of the three pathways. The addition of a GHS-R1a antagonist impaired the antidepressant and cardioprotective effects of YJP.YJP effectively improved cardiac dysfunction and depressive-like behaviors in mice by activating NRF2 viamediation of the ghrelin/GHS-R1a signaling axis within both the myocardial and hippocampal domains.
Thrombosis remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with cancer. Existing risk models fail to reliably predict venous thromboembolism (VTE), underscoring the need for more accurate predictive models. In this study, we conducted a high-throughput proteomic analysis of 1105 plasma proteins in peripheral blood samples from patients with newly diagnosed lung or gastric cancer who were prospectively monitored for VTE development. Using a Bayesian probabilistic machine learning approach, we developed a predictive model incorporating 11 protein biomarkers and five clinical parameters (age, sex, history of VTE, body mass index, and hemoglobin), which outperformed the standardly used Khorana prediction score [c statistic 0.84 (0.79 to 0.90) as compared with 0.36 (0.27 to 0.45)]. Orthogonal validation in an external placebo cohort from a phase 3 trial confirmed the model's predictive power. Further investigation into the mechanistic role of CD200 receptor 1 (CD200R1), an immune checkpoint receptor known to limit leukocyte inflammatory response that contributed strongly to the model, showed that reduced concentrations in plasma correlated with higher D-dimer concentrations and thrombosis risk. CD200R1-deficient mice were characterized by features of a prothrombotic state, with elevated thrombin-antithrombin complexes, increased interleukin-17A (IL-17A), and endothelial inflammation. Administration of anti-IL-17A antibodies to CD200R1-deficient mice normalized thrombin-antithrombin complexes in vivo, and a meta-analysis of human COVID-19 studies showed reduced pulmonary thromboembolism in those on anti-IL-17A antibodies. These findings highlight the utility of plasma proteomics to improve prediction of thrombosis in patients with cancer and to identify unanticipated mechanistic insights and therapeutic targets in thrombo-inflammatory disease.
The deficiency of trace element selenium is a global nutritional issue. Selenium exerts its biological functions in the human body through selenoproteins, which play crucial roles in bone and cartilage development. Selenoprotein S (SelS), a key selenoprotein involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and inflammation, has not been fully elucidated in cartilage development. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of SelS deficiency on cartilage matrix degradation. Chondrocytes with SelS gene knockdown (sh-Sels) and mice with SelS gene knockout were constructed. The mRNA and protein levels of type II collagen (COL II), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP3, MMP10 and MMP13) were measured by RT-qPCR and western blotting, respectively. Changes in cartilage morphology and matrix composition were evaluated using histological staining techniques, including toluidine blue (TB), safranin O-fast green, and sirius red staining. The expression levels of MMP3, MMP13, MMP19 and COL II in the knee joints of mice were detected by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. A TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) was administered to SelS knockdown chondrocytes to verify whether the TGF-β signaling pathway was involved in the matrix degradation induced by SelS deficiency. Compared with the negative vector control (sh-NC) group, the mRNA and protein levels of COL II were decreased in the sh-Sels group. The expression levels of Mmp3, Mmp10 and Mmp13 were also increased significantly, while the metallopeptidase inhibitor Timp2 was downregulated in the sh-Sels group. SelS gene knockout in mice did not affect body length or weight but resulted in reduced proteoglycan and collagen content in articular cartilage. Compared with wild-type mice, the expression of COL II was decreased, while the expressions of MMP3, MMP13, and MMP19 were increased in the articular cartilage of SelS knockout mice. Furthermore, treatment with the TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) partially rescued the reduction in Col2a1 expression induced by SelS deficiency. SelS plays a crucial role in maintaining cartilage homeostasis, and its deficiency results in cartilage matrix degradation. The TGF-β signaling pathway is involved in the degradation of cartilage matrix caused by SelS silencing. This study provides novel insights into the treatment of fibrotic and degenerative cartilage diseases by focusing on selenoproteins.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Interleukin-37 (IL-37) is an anti-inflammatory cytokine with emerging roles in immune regulation and tumor biology. Its functional interaction with the single immunoglobulin IL-1-related receptor (SIGIRR) has been implicated in modulation of inflammatory signaling pathways that may influence leukemogenesis. However, the clinical significance of the IL-37/SIGIRR axis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains insufficiently explored. The present study explored their potential associations with clinical characteristics, molecular mutations and treatment outcomes to determine their utility as potential prognostic biomarkers in the studied population.This study enrolled 50 newly diagnosed adult patients with AML and 50 age and sex matched healthy controls. Expression levels of IL-37 and SIGIRR mRNA were quantified using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). Both IL-37 and SIGIRR mRNA expression levels were significantly downregulated in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) compared to healthy controls (p = 0.011 and p < 0.001, respectively). Notably, patients with refractory disease exhibited significantly lower expression levels of both markers compared to those who achieved complete remission (p = 0.006 and p < 0.001, respectively).The present findings indicate that down-regulation of IL-37 and its receptor SIGIRR is associated with poor therapeutic response in AML. These results suggest that the IL-37/SIGIRR axis represents a potential prognostic biomarker and may contribute to immune-mediated mechanisms involved in AML progression. Further large-scale studies are warranted to validate these findings and to explore the potential of targeting this pathway as a novel immunomodulatory therapeutic strategy in AML.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Inflammation in epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) contributes to cardiovascular disease through the local production of pro-inflammatory cytokines affecting the adjacent myocardium. Selenium (Se) is essential for selenoprotein-mediated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory functions. We investigated associations between Se status and inflammatory markers in EAT and in the circulation in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).Patients with CAD undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 52) and valve disease patients receiving valve replacement serving as controls (n = 22) were included from the ATICH study. EAT biopsies were obtained during open-chest chest surgery. Serum Se was measured by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Associations between Se and EAT mRNA expression of Nod-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome components and cytokines, as well as circulating inflammatory markers, were assessed using Spearman's rho and group comparisons based on median Se levels.Se concentrations were lower in CAD patients than controls (0.9 vs. 1.1 µmol/L, p = 0.025). In CAD patients, Se levels correlated with EAT expression of CASP1 and IL18, and with circulating IL-6. Se levels above the median were associated with lower EAT expression of CASP1 and NLRP3 and reduced IL-6 levels (p < 0.05, all). Our analysis of publicly available RNA seq data demonstrated selenoprotein's presence in EAT.Lower Se status in CAD was associated with increased systemic and EAT inflammation, suggesting a role for selenoprotein-dependent antioxidant mechanisms in regulating cardiac adipose tissue inflammation.
Selenoproteins serve as the primary carriers for the biological functions of selenium (Se) within the body, which can harm health if deficient. Se deficiency is related to cartilage damage and osteoarticular diseases, wherein compromised chondrocyte function leads to disturbed cartilage homeostasis. Preliminary in vitro research showed that low selenium levels reduced chondrocyte selenoprotein S (SelS) expression, but the precise function of SelS in the terminal differentiation of chondrocytes, along with the signaling pathways by which SelS deficiency influences this process, has remained to be thoroughly clarified. This study, focusing on SelS deficiency, was the inaugural investigation into the mechanism by which SelS deficiency activates the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, resulting in impaired terminal differentiation of chondrocytes, and aims to provide an early intervention target for the prevention and treatment of bone and joint diseases associated to low selenium levels. SelS expression was initially evaluated in cartilage samples from rats fed a low-selenium diet and from patients with Kashin-Beck disease (KBD), and reduced SelS expression was found to be associated with cartilage degradation under selenium-deficient conditions. Using in vivo SelS knockout mice and in vitro chondrocyte models, it was found SelS deficiency reduced cartilage thickness and increased terminal differentiation markers OCN and Col1α1. RNA sequencing implicated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, confirmed by functional rescue and inhibition experiments. SelS deficiency activates Wnt/β-catenin, impairing terminal differentiation and contributing to selenium-deficiency cartilage injury. This study offers critical insights into the pathogenesis of selenoprotein-related diseases and presents new experimental evidence regarding the aetiology of cartilage terminal differentiation-associated osteoarthritis, while also establishing a significant strategy for targeted interventions against selenium related diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification and T-cell metabolic reprogramming are increasingly recognized as critical drivers of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, how the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-37 intersects with m6A-mediated metabolic regulation remains unclear. Here, we show that IL-37 alleviates colitis by reducing global m6A levels and reshaping CD4+ T-cell metabolism. Mechanistically, IL-37 signals through its receptor SIGIRR to inhibit IRAK4 and JNK phosphorylation, suppress NF-κB p65 activation, and downregulate METTL14, thereby decreasing m6A deposition. The IL-37/METTL14 axis notably reduces m6A enrichment at the A2445 site in the 3'UTR of SLC2A1, destabilizing its mRNA and suppressing glycolysis. In vitro T-cell polarization and adoptive transfer of METTL14-overexpressing CD4+ T cells confirmed that this metabolic shift restrains Th1/Th17 differentiation while promoting Th2 expansion. Together, these findings reveal the IL-37/SIGIRR-METTL14-m6A axis as a novel regulator of T-cell metabolism and highlight SLC2A1 as a potential therapeutic target in IBD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42238575 is a review article
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common subtype of non-small cell lung cancer and remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality. Despite advances in targeted therapies, tumor heterogeneity and acquired resistance frequently undermine clinical outcomes. This study aimed to identify novel oncogenic drivers and underlying mechanisms in LUAD.We examined cellular retinoic acid-binding protein 2 (CRABP2) expression in human LUAD specimens and evaluated its functional role through in vitro assays (cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis) and in vivo xenograft tumor growth. Mechanistic exploration involved RNA sequencing, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment, and immunoblotting for the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling components, along with rescue experiments to dissect the pathway dependency.CRABP2 was identified as a candidate oncogene in LUAD. Functional assays confirmed that CRABP2 promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion, suppressed apoptosis, and accelerated xenograft tumor growth. Mechanistically, CRABP2 potentiated retinoic acid (RA) signaling and activated the NF-κB pathway, as evidenced by enhanced inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase subunit beta (IKKβ) phosphorylation, subsequent NF-κB inhibitor alpha (IκBα) phosphorylation, and nuclear translocation of total and phosphorylated p65. Rescue experiments revealed that CRABP2‑induced NF-κB activation is RA-dependent and that this activation mediates the oncogenic effects of CRABP2.Our findings establish a CRABP2/RA/NF‑κB axis that drives LUAD progression, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic target for intervention in LUAD.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The PTPN22 gene encodes Lyp, a phosphatase involved in downregulating T-cell receptor signaling and modulating immune homeostasis. Although PTPN22 polymorphisms rs2476601 (R620W) and rs33996649 (R263Q) are associated with autoimmune diseases, their role in infectious diseases such as tuberculosis susceptibility remains unclear.To evaluate the association of PTPN22 polymorphisms with TB susceptibility and assess their functional relevance through gene expression profiling in a South Asian cohort.PTPN22 polymorphisms and expression in 111 TB patients and 85 controls were analyzed by ARMS-PCR and RT-qPCR, with association and predictive analyses performed using logistic regression, ROC, LD (Haploview), and SPSS v26.A significant association was observed between the rs33996649 C/T genotype and increased TB susceptibility (p < 0.008; OR = 5.87), while no significant association was found for rs2476601. Logistic regression indicating a stronger contribution to TB risk for rs33996649 (1.1279) compared to rs2476601 (0.2276). ROC curve analysis yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.63, suggesting good predictive power for the combined genetic model. Linkage disequilibrium analysis demonstrated low correlation between the SNPs (D' ≈ 0.40, r2 ≈ 0), indicating independent inheritance. PTPN22 expression was modestly upregulated in TB patients (mean fold change = 1.2 vs. 1.0 in controls), though the difference was not statistically significant (p > 0.05), possibly reflecting compensatory immune regulation in variant carriers.The PTPN22 rs33996649 (R263Q) variant shows a significant independent association with TB susceptibility, highlighting its role as a genetic risk factor and potential target for immunogenetic research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Baicalin has protective effects against a range of cardiovascular conditions, such as myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury, cardiac dysfunction, and apoptosis in cardiomyocytes. However, the underlying protective mechanisms in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) remain unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the specific molecular mechanism activated by baicalin to ameliorate DCM. The effects of baicalin were investigated in vitro and its potential targets and pathways were identified using network pharmacology, molecular docking, echocardiography, reverse transcription PCR, ELISA, histopathology, immunofluorescence staining and western blotting. Baicalin significantly alleviated high-glucose (HG)-induced injury in H9c2 cells by inhibiting fibrotic markers, inflammatory factors and pyroptosis. Moreover, protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) were identified as crucial targets for baicalin. Molecular docking indicated that baicalin exhibited a strong binding affinity for PTPN22 and TNF. Baicalin successfully suppressed HG-induced pyroptosis, inflammation and fibrotic markers in addition to inhibiting the activation of TNF-α and PTPN22 signaling pathways. In addition, PTPN22-small interfering RNA treatment modulated pyroptosis in vitro. The present study offers insight into the key therapeutic mechanisms activated by baicalin, and its potential therapeutic targets, PTPN22 and TNF-α.Copyright: © 2026 Zhao et al.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Influenza A virus (IAV) is an important zoonotic pathogen responsible for substantial respiratory morbidity and mortality. Elucidating the mechanisms by which IAV evades host innate immunity is critical for developing novel antiviral strategies. Although the IAV non-structural protein 2 (NS2) is well-characterized for the export of viral ribonucleoproteins (vRNPs) from the host cell nucleus, the function of NS2 in evading host innate immunity, especially the NFKB/NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling pathway, remains poorly understood. The present study uncovered that NS2 is a novel viral inhibitor of the NFKB pathway. Mechanistically, NS2 interacted with and mediated the degradation of the NFKB essential modulator (IKBKG/NEMO), thereby suppressing downstream signal transduction. The macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) was exploited by NS2 to mediate the selective autophagic degradation. Furthermore, the K72 residue was critical for the NS2-mediated degradation of IKBKG/NEMO, as the K72R substitution in NS2 disrupted the IKBKG/NEMO-NS2 interaction and abrogated the autophagic degradation. In addition, NS2K72R mutant virus displayed less viral load and milder pathogenicity in mice. In conclusion, these findings highlighted the novel biological function of IAV NS2 in exploiting selective autophagy to evade host defenses, and offered a potential target for controlling IAV infections.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AIV: avian influenza virus; ATG7: autophagy related 7; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CHX: cycloheximide; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CHUK/IKKα: component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, dihydrochloride; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; dpi: days post-infection; EID50: 50% egg infective dose; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; hpi: hours post-infection; IAV: influenza A virus; IFN: interferon; IKBKB/IKKβ: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IFNG: interferon gamma; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit gamma; IKK: IκB kinase; IP: immunoprecipitation; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; IRF7: interferon regulatory factor 7; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP3K14/NIK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 14; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MLD50: 50% mouse lethal dose; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MRV/Sendai virus: murine respirovirus; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NEP: nuclear export protein; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKB2/p100: nuclear factor kappa B subunit 2; NFKBIA/IκBα: NFK inhibitor alpha; NP: nucleoprotein; NS1: non-structural protein 1; OPTN: optineurin; PB1: basic polymerase 1; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; poly(I:C): polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RELB: RELB proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RIGI: RNA sensor RIG-I; RIGI-IN: RIGI-CARD; RLR: RIGI-like-receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SIM: SUMO-interacting motif; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; TRAF6: TNF receptor associated factor 6; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; Vec: empty vector; vRNP: viral ribonucleoprotein.
Investigating the genetic influence of Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Non-Receptor Type 22 (PTPN22) on key inflammatory biomarkers-Interleukin-1β, Interleukin-6, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and to evaluate their association with disease progression in endometriosis. Specifically, this study aims to (i) assess differential expression of PTPN22 in cases versus controls, (ii) examine correlations between PTPN22 expression and inflammatory markers, and (iii) determine the predictive value of these biomarkers using ROC curve analysis.This study involved 150 women with endometriosis and 150 matched controls. Blood samples were analyzed for inflammatory markers (IL-6, IL-1β, hsCRP) using ELISA and PTPN22 gene expression by real-time PCR. Statistical analyses were conducted using Stata 17.0, and ethical approval (01/2022/ICEG) and informed consent was obtained.PTPN22 expression was higher in endometriosis cases (p = 0.0001), suggesting a role in disease pathophysiology. ROC analysis showed moderate predictive accuracy (AUC = 0.63). Among the inflammatory markers, hs-CRP was the most diagnostic, followed by IL-6 and IL-1β, with stronger positive correlations observed in the endometriosis group.These findings highlight the translational relevance of PTPN22 and hsCRP as candidate biomarkers for early detection and risk stratification in endometriosis, underscoring the interplay between genetic susceptibility and inflammatory signaling in its pathogenesis.Copyright © 2025 Tehran University of Medical Sciences. Published by Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease. Targeting inflammatory pathways provides a promising avenue to treat atherosclerosis. Osthole (OS), isolated from the Cnidium plant, has been reported diverse pharmacological activities, including anti-cancer, anti-oxidant, neuroprotective, anti-osteoporosis and anti-inflammatory effects. However, the role on atherosclerosis and molecular targets of osthole remains unclear. We aimed to explore the anti-atherosclerosis role of osthole and investigate the underlying molecular mechanism.Mouse primary peritoneal macrophages (MPMs) were isolated and treated with oxLDL in vitro. Protein microarray and molecular docking were used to identify the target/s of osthole. ApoE-/- mice were fed with a high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks to induce atherosclerosis.Osthole inhibited the inflammatory factor secretion induced by oxLDL and then reduced oxLDL uptake in MPMs. In vivo, osthole administration alleviated atherosclerotic plaque formation and inflammatory response in HFD-fed ApoE-/- mice. Mechanistically, protein microarray incubated with biotin-labelled osthole identified doublecortin like kinase 1 (DCLK1/DCAMKL1) as the top-ranked binding protein of osthole. Osthole directly bound to DCLK1 at I396 and L518 sites, inhibited the phosphorylation of DCLK1, and then prevented its interaction with inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta (IKKβ). Through targeting DCLK1, osthole suppressed NF-κB pathway activation and inflammatory responses in both MPMs and aortic lesions.Taken together, our findings show the therapeutic potential of osthole against inflammatory atherosclerosis and establish a foundation for targeting DCLK1 therapy in atherosclerosis.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42047332 is a review article
This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism uncoupling inflammation from pathological osteogenesis in radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (r-axSpA), specifically investigating the role of transmembrane TNF (tmTNF) reverse signalling.We established a tmTNF-overexpressing transgenic mouse model that spontaneously recapitulates spinal ankylosis characteristic of r-axSpA. Single-cell RNA sequencing, genetic knockout (TNFR1/2), and macrophage depletion strategies were employed to identify cellular effectors. A mannose-modified nanoparticle system delivering Ikbkb siRNA was developed to assess targeted therapeutic intervention.Macrophages were identified as the core drivers of osteogenesis, promoting bone formation via TGF-β3 (transforming growth factor beta 3) and BMP2 (bone morphogenetic protein 2) upregulation. Mechanistically, we discovered a novel reverse signalling axis wherein soluble TNFR1 binds to tmTNF, inducing the interaction of the tmTNF intracellular domain with the proteasome subunit alpha type-1 (PSMA1). This interaction activates the IKKβ/NF-κB (inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta / nuclear factor kappa B) pathway to upregulate TGF-β3 and BMP2, instructing macrophages to drive mesenchymal stem cell ossification. Crucially, targeted silencing of Ikbkb in macrophages significantly inhibited new bone formation.This study reveals a distinct sTNFR1-tmTNF-PSMA1-NF-κB reverse signalling axis that empowers macrophages to drive pathological osteogenesis in r-axSpA. Targeting this axis offers a precise therapeutic strategy to arrest structural damage beyond solely controlling systemic inflammation.Copyright © 2026 European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background. Recovery from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) probably leads to long-term symptoms, including immune system complications. Recent publications have reported that severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection or, sometimes, vaccination against it may trigger autoimmune responses in vulnerable cohorts. Purpose of the research. To investigate the differences in the expression of the Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22), Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF-1) and Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) genes in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and healthy controls following SARS-CoV-2 infection or vaccination. Methods. Blood samples were collected from 61 patients diagnosed with RA post COVID-19 Rheumatoid arthritis patients after SARS-CoV-2 infection (RAI), and 40 controls (C) who had experienced at least one COVID-19 infection. RNA was extracted and used to prepare cDNA from each sample and was then used to analyse the expression of PTPN22, TRAF-1 and IL-1β using relative gene expression. Results. The study covered all 61 patients; 17 had been vaccinated without prior COVID-19 infection Rheumatoid arthritis patients after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination (RAV), while 44 were diagnosed with RA after recovery from COVID-19 (RAI). A statistically significant decrease in the gene expression of TRAF-1 was observed in both RAI and (RAV) patients compared with the C group (P=0.042). A consistently significant increase in gene expression of IL-1β was observed in both RAI and RAV samples compared with controls. However, the reduction in PTPN22 expression was not statistically significant. Conclusion. In this study, TRAF-1 was significantly downregulated, but IL-1β was upregulated in patients with RA post either COVID-19 infection or vaccination, while PTPN22 showed a non-significant reduction. The study findings suggest that triggered immune response post SARS-CoV-2 exposure, through infection or vaccination, may influence molecular pathways involved in RA pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors.
Infection with Pseudorabies virus (PRV) triggers a state of oxidative distress in host cells, which consequently results in cellular damage. Although the normal butanol fraction of flavonoids derived from Polygonum hydropiper L. (FNB) is recognized for its strong antioxidant properties, it remains unclear whether FNB can mitigate PRV-induced oxidative damage and whether this protective effect involves long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-mediated regulation during PRV infection. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of FNB against oxidative stress in PRV-infected porcine alveolar macrophage cell line (3D4/2) and to elucidate the associated lncRNA regulatory network. The safe concentration of FNB was determined using the CCK-8 assay, and oxidative stress-related parameters were measured using commercial kits. The expression levels of key factors in oxidative stress signaling pathways were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to construct a lncRNA-mRNA interaction network. The results showed that treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly restored the PRV-suppressed activity of catalase (CAT) (p<0.05), whereas treatment with 12.5 μg/mL FNB for 12 h markedly increased the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in PRV-infected cells (p<0.01). At the molecular level, treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of HO-1 and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) (p<0.01). Transcriptomic analysis identified 6,948 differentially expressed messenger RNAs (mRNAs) after PRV infection and 4,400 differentially expressed mRNAs after FNB intervention compared with the PRV group, with these genes being mainly enriched in oxidative stress-related processes. By screening for key antioxidant-related mRNAs and their potentially interacting lncRNAs, a lncRNA-mRNA network was constructed. In conclusion, FNB may alleviate PRV infection-induced oxidative damage by activating the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway and modulating specific lncRNA-mRNA networks. This study provides novel insights into the antioxidant effect of FNB against PRV infection-induced oxidative damage and the regulatory role of lncRNAs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553762 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a global health challenge with rising incidence in younger populations and limited efficacy of current chemotherapies. In this study, we investigated the anti-tumor mechanisms of metochalcone (MET), a natural chalcone derivative, in CRC. Using a combination of transcriptomic, proteomic, and targeted in vitro and in vivo assays, we found that MET substantially reduced viability, migration, and invasion and arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase in HCT-116 CRC cells. Integrative analysis identified heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) as a key target, and molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assay confirmed that MET directly binds to and stabilizes the HO-1 protein. Mechanistically, MET treatment led to mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by increased reactive oxygen species and decreased membrane potential, which in turn activated PTEN induced kinase 1 (PINK1)/Parkin-mediated mitophagy. In 2 distinct mouse models of CRC, MET potently suppressed tumor growth. Furthermore, 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing revealed that MET treatment was associated with changes in gut microbiota composition in mice, including an increased relative abundance of beneficial Lactobacillus and a decreased abundance of pro-inflammatory Desulfovibrionaceae. Our findings demonstrate that MET exerts multifaceted anti-tumor effects, including direct targeting of HO-1 and activation of PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy, accompanied by alterations in gut microbiota composition.Copyright © 2026 Pingting Chen et al.
The senescence and abnormal osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are important causes of senile osteoporosis. Punicalagin (PUN), a natural polyphenol extracted from pomegranate peel, has demonstrated antioxidant activity in preclinical studies. This study aims to investigate the inhibitory effect of PUN on the aging of BMSCs and its therapeutic effect on senile osteoporosis.The senescence of BMSCs were induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to assess the therapeutic effect of PUN. Intracellular reactive oxygen species measurements, the senescence β-galactosidase staining, western blotting, and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were conducted to evaluate the senescence of BMSCs. Alkaline phosphatase staining, Alizarin red S staining, western blotting, and RT-qPCR were performed to assess the osteogenic differentiation of senescent BMSCs. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to explore the underlying mechanism. In vivo, the therapeutic effects of PUN were investigated in aging rats with senile osteoporosis.PUN reversed the senescence of BMSCs and promoted the osteogenic differentiation in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistically, PUN activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway to protect BMSCs from oxidative stress. In aging rats with senile osteoporosis, intraperitoneal injection of PUN can promote osteogenesis and reduce aging-related bone loss in vivo.PUN alleviates senile osteoporosis by inhibiting the senescence of BMSCs via NRF2/HO-1 pathway, representing a candidate therapeutic drug for aging-related bone diseases.© 2026 The Author(s).
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, prominent eosinophil accumulation, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin (IL)-5 plays a central role in eosinophil differentiation and activation, its involvement in driving EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study investigated IL-5 receptor α (IL-5Rα)-mediated signaling and EMT profiles in ECRSwNP, aiming to determine whether IL-5-activated eosinophil-like cells promote EMT in HNECs.Nasal tissues from healthy controls, non-ECRSwNP patients, and ECRSwNP patients (n=12 per group) were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells and subsequently stimulated with IL-5. HNECs were cocultured with undifferentiated HL-60 cells, differentiated HL-60 cells, or IL-5-stimulated differentiated HL-60 cells using a Transwell system. Expression of EMT-related markers was assessed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence.ECRSwNP tissues demonstrated markedly increased eosinophil infiltration, elevated IL-4 and IL-5 transcript levels, and significantly higher expression of IL-5Rα, phosphorylated Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) compared with controls and non-ECRSwNP tissues. EMT-associated changes, characterized by reduced E-cadherin and increased vimentin expression, were most pronounced in ECRSwNP. In vitro, IL-5 stimulation enhanced IL-5Rα expression, activated JAK2/STAT5 signaling, and increased secretion of eosinophil-associated mediators in differentiated HL-60 cells. Co-culture with IL-5-stimulated eosinophil-like cells induced EMT in HNECs, whereas unstimulated HL-60 cells exerted minimal effects.IL-5Rα-mediated signaling is upregulated in ECRSwNP and may contribute to EMT through eosinophil-dependent mechanisms. IL-5-activated eosinophils promote EMT-related changes in HNECs, providing a mechanistic link between type 2 inflammation and epithelial remodeling. These findings suggest that IL-5Rα signaling may represent a potential therapeutic target for modulating tissue remodeling in ECRSwNP.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a major cause of cardiovascular diseases, with OX-LDL-induced VSMC dysfunction being a critical pathogenic driver of AS development. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a bioactive compound, shows therapeutic potential, but its mechanism in AS is unclear.An atherosclerotic cell model was established by treating hVSMCs with OX-LDL. Intracellular ROS was detected via a fluorescent probe, MDA content and SOD activity via biochemical kits. Inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α) were quantified by ELISA. Lipid parameters (TG, LDL and HDL) were analysed biochemically, and intracellular lipid accumulation was assessed via Oil Red O staining. Autophagy (LC3B and p62) and senescence-related (p16 and p21) protein expression was detected by WB, with cellular senescence further assessed via SA-β-gal staining. SSD's potential targets were predicted via bioinformatics (CTD, SwissTargetPrediction and GeneCards). SSD-EPHB2 interaction was predicted by AutoDock Vina docking (visualised by PyMOL), and its stability was evaluated by using iMODS-based NMA. EPHB2's functional role was confirmed via its overexpression in hVSMCs.SSD significantly attenuated OX-LDL-induced oxidative stress, inflammation, lipid accumulation, autophagic flux impairment and cellular senescence in hVSMCs. Bioinformatics analysis pinpointed EPHB2 as a hub gene. Molecular studies confirmed that SSD directly binds to EPHB2 and downregulates its expression. Crucially, overexpressing EPHB2 abolished all the protective effects of SSD.SSD alleviates OX-LDL-induced hVSMC dysfunction by inhibiting EPHB2, highlighting the SSD-EPHB2 pathway as a potential therapeutic target for AS.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) significantly impacts post-kidney transplantation (KTx), leading to delayed graft function (DGF) and potential graft loss. Current biomarkers and therapies for DGF and graft survival are inadequate. Immune cell infiltration after renal IRI is crucial in driving inflammation and injury.To address this, this study utilized microarray and RNA-seq datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to identify differentially expressed immune infiltration-related genes (DE-IRGs) in IRI patients. Machine learning (ML) algorithms pinpointed hub DE-IRGs, aiding in predictive model development and classification of post-KTx IRI samples into clusters and risk groups. Regulatory networks incorporating transcription factors (TFs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) were constructed using NetworkAnalyst 3.0, and predicted compounds/commonly used immunosuppressants were explored via Enrichr and molecular docking simulations.Analysis revealed 47 DE-IRGs, with hub genes (adrenomedullin [ADM], Serpin Family H Member 1 [SERPINH1], Solute carrier family 2 member 3 [SLC2A3], BCL-2-associated athanogene 3 [BAG3], NFKB inhibitor alpha [NFKBIA], Kruppel-like factor 6 [KLF6], and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta [CEBPD]) linked to DGF and, in part, graft survival. Predictive models showed robust performance based on internal validation, with the DGF models achieving AUCs of 0.832 and 0.975 and graft survival models showing AUCs of 0.773, 0.742, and 0.757 for 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Higher immune cell infiltration correlated with adverse outcomes in cluster A or high-risk groups. Key immune cells associated with DGF included activated CD8 T cells, activated dendritic cells (DCs), and effector memory CD4 T cells. Core regulatory TFs and miRNAs were identified, along with four core predicted compounds: acetaminophen, estradiol, valproic acid, and berbamine (which require further pharmacological validation), and three common immunosuppressants: cyclosporin A, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and tacrolimus.Our study identified potential hub genes most associated with immune cells during the post-KTx IRI process, shedding light on the intricate interplay between genes, immune cells, and KTx outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Yifei Zhang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Pyroptosis promotes the progression of osteoarthritis (OA). This study aims to explore the functions and regulating mechanisms of E74-like factor 3 (ELF3) in chondrocyte pyroptosis. A mouse model of OA and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes were employed. Adenovirus sh-ELF3, miR-9-5p inhibitor or oe-Nuclear Factor kappa B subunit 1 (NFKB1) were administered to OA mice via intra-articular injection. LPS-induced chondrocytes were transfected with sh-ELF3, oe-NFKB1, miR-9-5p mimic/inhibitor or negative controls. Articular cartilage tissues were assessed using H&E staining, Safranin O/fast green staining, and Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI) grading system. Pyroptosis was assessed by flow cytometry combined with Western blot analysis of key markers, while apoptosis was detected by TUNEL staining. Levels of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and Interleukin-18 (IL-18) were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Interactions among ELF3, miR-9-5p, and NFKB1 were validated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and luciferase reporter assays. We found that pyroptosis was enhanced and ELF3 expression was elevated in both the OA mouse model and LPS-induced chondrocytes. Depletion of ELF3 inhibited pyroptosis, apoptosis, extracellular matrix (ECM) degeneration, and inflammation in LPS-injured chondrocytes. Mechanistically, ELF3 suppressed miR-9-5p transcription, which targeted NFKB1, and NFKB1 interacted with ELF3 to form a regulatory loop. miR-9-5p inhibition or NFKB1 overexpression reversed the protective effects of ELF3 knockdown on pyroptosis and ECM degradation. In vivo study further confirmed that silencing ELF3 attenuated articular cartilage injury through miR-9-5p/NFKB1/ NLR Family Pyrin Domain Containing 3 (NLRP3) axis. Overall, the ELF3/miR-9-5p/NFKB1 axis accelerated OA progression by promoting NLRP3-mediated chondrocyte pyroptosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Milk cells are mirrors of mammary health and immune responses in dairy cows. However, their specific physiological or pathological significance in cows with high somatic cell count (SCC) remains poorly understood. Dysregulation of milk cell physiology may contribute to inflammatory responses and impact mammary health and milk production. By investigating the composition and function of milk cells in high and low SCC cows, our study aimed to identify SCC-associated biological processes in the mammary gland. Sixteen animals were divided as two groups, SCC-h group (n = 8, milk SCC > 200 × 103/mL) and SCC-l group (n = 8, milk SCC < 100 × 103/mL). The milk performance traits of dairy cows were assessed, and RNA sequencing of milk cells was conducted. Metabolomic analysis was performed to identify 'find-me' signals associated with efferocytosis. The expression patterns of genes involved in apoptotic and non-apoptotic cell death, actin remodelling and efferocytosis were analysed. The protein levels of inflammatory and anti-inflammatory genes and nuclear receptors were determined. The immune microenvironment in milk cells was also dissected to understand the dysregulation in high SCC cows. The results showed increased expressions of key genes associated with apoptosis, necroptosis and pyroptosis in the high SCC group. However, the 'find-me' signals and 'eat-me' signals in the high SCC group were reduced compared with the low SCC group. Therefore, the protein levels of IL-1β and nuclear factor kappa B subunit 1 (NFκB1) levels were increased, whereas the protein level of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) was decreased in high SCC group. These results demonstrated an enhanced pro-inflammatory signalling and altered immune microenvironment of milk cells in high SCC group. The high SCC group showed higher proportions of various types of immune cells, including dendritic cell, neutrophil and CD8+ T cell, indicating a pro-inflammatory immune microenvironment. Our study highlights the dysregulation of efferocytosis and immune microenvironment in milk cells of high SCC cows, potentially contributing to chronic inflammation and impaired mammary gland health. Reviving proper efferocytic function and rebalancing the immune microenvironment are essential for enhancing disease management and improving dairy cow welfare and productivity. Understanding the significance of milk cells in udder health can facilitate targeted interventions to optimise milk production and maintain mammary health in dairy farming.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To analyze the immune biomarkers, pathogenesis, level of immune infiltration, and anti-Alzheimer's disease (AD) potential of geniposide in immune-related AD. The expression profiles of the GSE132903 dataset were downloaded from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database to obtain differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in AD, while immune-related genes (IRGs) were obtained from the ImmPortal database, and these genes were intersected to obtain immune differential genes. These genes were intersected to obtain immune differential genes, which were subsequently enriched for further analysis. With the help of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and cytoHubba analysis, the key immune differential genes were screened out, and the characteristic biomarkers were further identified and screened by the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression model and SVM-RFE algorithm. The (receiver operating characteristic) ROC curve was validated in the validation group of GSE5281 microarray and the area under the ROC curve value was used to evaluate the diagnostic and therapeutic values. The CIBERSORT algorithm was used to analyze the pattern of immune cell infiltration and the association between immune cells and characteristic biomarkers. Finally, geniposide was subjected to molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulations with core characterized genes to predict its anti-AD potential. In total, 345 DEGs were identified and 18 AD immune-related differential genes were identified by intersecting immune-related genes, which were involved in multiple signaling pathways, cellular components, molecular functions, and pathways. Five characterized genes were identified using integrated machine learning, including glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), VGF Nerve Growth Factor Inducible (VGF), Neuropeptide Y (NPY), Cholecystokinin (CCK), and NFKB Inhibitor Alpha (NFKBIA). The ROC curve validation results were as expected. Immune cell infiltration analysis revealed that multiple immune cells were associated with the characterized genes. Molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulations showed good binding activity and stability between geniposide and the key characterized targets. Characteristic biomarkers of AD were screened using various methods, and the biological processes and signaling pathways related to AD were identified by enrichment analysis, which elucidated immune-related mechanisms. In addition, geniposide may have binding affinity for key target proteins involved in the pathogenesis of AD, suggesting its potential as a candidate worthy of further investigation. And this study provides a new approach to the pathogenesis and targeted therapy for AD.© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Atherosclerosis is attributable to a series of diabetes-related complications. CAV1 (caveolin 1)-mediated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle transcytosis across endothelial cells (ECs) is the initial step of atherosclerosis. MAP1LC3/LC3-interacting regions in the intramembrane domain (IMD) of CAV1 were buried in the caveolae and were not accessible for LC3B interaction, protecting CAV1 from autophagic degradation. However, the CSD domain of CAV1, exposed in the cytosol, directly interacted with a CBM domain of LC3B and inhibited autophagy. Therefore, the peptide IMD-CBM was constructed to induce the selective autophagic degradation of CAV1 and suppress LDL transcytosis in diabetic atherosclerosis. EC-specific expression of IMD-CBM was achieved using adenovirus. IMD-CBM directly interacted with CAV1 and LC3B in ECs, leading to the selective autophagic degradation of CAV1, activation of autophagy, and subsequent inhibition of LDL transcytosis. IMD-CBM promoted the autophagic degradation of CAV1 and consequently reduced the area of atherosclerotic plaques in apoe-/- diabetic atherosclerotic mice. Overall, IMD-CBM expedited the autophagic degradation of CAV1 and inhibited high glucose-induced LDL transcytosis, highlighting its potential as a novel translatable strategy for the management of diabetic atherosclerosis.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; AMPK: 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase; CAV1: caveolin 1; CBM: CAV1-binding motif; CRP: C-reactive protein; CSD: CAV1-scaffolding domain; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HUVEC: human umbilical vein endothelial cell; EC: endothelial cell; FITC: fluorescein isothiocyanate; IL6: interleukin 6; IL10: interleukin 10; IMD: intramembrane domain; LDL: low-density lipoprotein; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IκBα: NFKB inhibitor alpha; NO: nitric oxide; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCR: polymerase chain reaction; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; Rapa: rapamycin; SAA: serum amyloid A; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common, aggressive and poor prognosis malignant brain tumor in adults, that is still orphan of effective medical treatments. The formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), a G protein– coupled receptor implicated in inflammation and cancer biology, has emerged as a potential therapeutic target, yet its role in GBM remains poorly defined. METHODS: We investigated the effects of MR-39, a novel selective FPR2 agonist, in three human GBM cell lines (U87MG, U138-MG, U251-MG). Antiproliferative effects were assessed via CCK-8 assays, cell counts, Ki67 immunostaining, and cell cycle analysis. The specificity of MR-39 was tested using the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 and siRNA-mediated knockdown. Whole-transcriptome analysis, RT-qPCR, Western Blot, woundhealing assays, in vitro tube formation assay, and hypoxia models were used to explore its impact on invasion, angiogenesis, and hypoxia-driven pathways. RESULTS: MR-39 significantly reduced proliferation in all GBM cell lines and induced a non-canonical, p53dependent S-phase arrest associated with the inhibition of both MAPK/ERK and AKT pathways. These effects were reversed by the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 or by FPR2 silencing. Transcriptomic and functional assays revealed downregulation of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) drivers, including Neuralcadherin (N-cadherin), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 2 (Slug), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 1 (Snail), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2), fibronectin 1 (FN1), and increased Epithelialcadherin (E-cadherin) expression, resulting in impaired migration. MR-39 displays anti-angiogenic and anti-hypoxia related activities, indeed it is able to inhibit Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and Vascular Endothelial-cadherin (VE-cadherin) expression, to disrupt endothelial network formation, and to attenuate Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Subunit Alpha (HIF-1α) stabilization under hypoxic conditions. Notably, MR-39 exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects, as evidenced by the downregulation of pro-inflammatory genes, including Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 7. (CXCL-7), Nuclear Factor Kappa B Subunit 1 (NFKB1), Interleukin 1 Beta (IL-1β), and Interleukin 6 (IL6), and the inhibition of NF-κB protein levels. CONCLUSION: This study identifies MR-39 as a potent modulator of FPR2, and identifies its mechanisms of action in GBM, such as anti-tumor activity, including S-phase arrest, inhibition of EMT, and suppression of both angiogenesis and hypoxic adaptation. By directing FPR2 signaling toward an anti-tumor profile, MR-39 represents a promising therapeutic candidate for GBM.
Following the publication of the above article, the authors have contacted the Editorial Office to explain that they inadvertently assembled Fig. 5D on p. 9, showing Oil Red O staining of Hepa1‑6 cells following transfection with a plasmid, incorrectly. Specifically, the same data had been included to show the results of the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment (top row, panel on the right) and the 'FFA‑AK‑10' experiment (bottom row, panel in the middle). Upon investigating this figure, the authors realized that the data shown correctly for the 'FFA‑AK‑10' experiment had been duplicated to show the results for the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment. A revised version of Fig. 5, now showing the correct data panel for the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment in Fig. 5D, is shown on the next page. The authors confirm that the error associated with this figure did not have any significant impact on either the results or the conclusions reported in this study, and all the authors agree with the publication of this Corrigendum. The authors are grateful to the Editor of International Journal of Molecular Medicine for allowing them the opportunity to publish this Corrigendum; furthermore, they apologize to the readership of the Journal for any inconvenience caused. [International Journal of Molecular Medicine 57: 102, 2026; DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2026.5773].
Adenine-thymine (AT)-rich interactive domain-containing protein 5a (Arid5a) is an RNA-binding protein (RBP) that post-transcriptionally stabilizes mRNAs encoding proinflammatory mediators, including Interleukin-6 (IL-6), thereby amplifying inflammation. However, structural basis and regulatory mechanisms of Arid5a function remain poorly defined. In this study, we identified and characterized a conserved allosteric site within the ARID domain that regulates Arid5a-mediated mRNA stabilization. Using integrative in silico modeling and in vitro assays, 2 picolinamide-based inhibitors, NFP1 and NFP2, were designed to specifically engage the allosteric site constituent residues. Mutational and functional analyses revealed Tyr88 and Val91 as key regulatory elements within the allosteric site, essential for transmitting conformational regulation upon ligand engagement. Pharmacological inhibition of the allosteric site disrupted Arid5a interaction with target RNA stem-loop structure, reduced stability of Il6 mRNA, and attenuated inflammatory responses in Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Furthermore, Arid5a inhibitors reduced the stability of other target mRNAs, including Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) and OX40, in polarized T helper 17 (Th17) cells. In a murine model of LPS-induced septic shock, treatment with NFP1 or NFP2 significantly improved survival, reduced clinical severity, and mitigated tissue damage in vital organs. These findings identify a new mechanism regulating Arid5a activity and present Arid5a allosteric inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for managing systemic inflammation including sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disorder in humans that affects memory, thinking and behavior. Impairment in synaptic plasticity is one of the hallmarks in AD, with most of the impairment occurring in the hippocampal region, a key part of the brain for memory and learning. Therefore, the upregulation of hippocampal plasticity is critical to remediate the progression of AD and preserve memory formation and cognitive functions. Recent studies have described β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB), a body building supplement commonly used by athletes, as a candidate molecule for improving hippocampal plasticity. Clinically, AD is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of beta amyloid (Aβ) plaques, coupled with intracellular aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. In addition to enhancing hippocampal plasticity, HMB has been also demonstrated to lower amyloid plaques in a mouse model of AD. Although liver is rich in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), recent findings have established the presence of PPARα in hippocampus and other parts of the brain. Interestingly, HMB has been shown to utilize PPARα for lowering plaques and increasing hippocampal plasticity. Here, we discuss these newly described features of HMB with possible implications for the use of HMB supplement in patients with dementia and AD.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a pivotal oncogenic driver in multiple myeloma (MM), and its constitutive activation promotes malignant plasma cell proliferation, survival, and drug resistance in the bone marrow microenvironment. Despite therapeutic advances, MM remains incurable due to persistent STAT3-driven tumorigenesis and the resilience of MM stem cells. We investigated the therapeutic potential of napabucasin (BBI608), a novel STAT3 inhibitor, in MM. Our data demonstrated that BBI608 potently suppressed MM cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, while significantly impairing the clonogenic potential and inducing robust apoptosis. Mechanistically, BBI608 exhibited dual efficacy by targeting bulk tumor cells and eradicating the stem-like compartment of MM cells, thereby addressing a critical therapeutic challenge. Moreover, we revealed that BBI608 triggered immunogenic cell death (ICD) via the activation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), which subsequently enhanced T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. Our findings highlight STAT3 inhibition as a promising strategy to simultaneously eradicate MM cells, target stem cell reservoirs, and harness anti-tumor immunity, providing a robust rationale for the clinical translation of BBI608 in MM therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health LLC., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
Excessive lipid accumulation impairs digestion and gastrointestinal function. Transmembrane protein 135 (TMEM135) is involved in lipid metabolism of various tissues. Here, TMEM135 deficiency increased intestinal lipid absorption through ELOVL6-dependent oleoylethanolamide production and subsequent activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), which upregulated CD36 at the plasma membrane in the intestine of mice fed a high-fat diet or lard oil. Despite this enhanced lipid uptake, long-term lipid accumulation was suppressed by elevated peroxisomal and mitochondrial β-oxidation through increased fatty acid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation activities without chylomicron secretion in TMEM135-depleted intestine. Inhibition of PPARα or ELOVL6 attenuated these effects. Furthermore, consistent results were observed in both TMEM135 KO and intestine-specific TMEM135iKO mice, confirming tissue-specific rather than systemic effects. Overall, these results provide insight into the role of TMEM135 as a regulatory node connecting intestinal lipid absorption and systemic energy expenditure, contributing to the coordination between lipid storage and oxidation during metabolic adaptation.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway in orthodontic force-induced mechanotransduction and osteogenic differentiation, and explore its potential crosstalk with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), whose regulatory mechanism remains unclear.In vitro, MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts were exposed to cyclic tensile strain (2000 μstrain, 0.5 Hz, 4 h) with or without the specific ERKs inhibitor SCH772984. In vivo, a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established with 4g force, and SCH772984 was locally injected into periodontal tissues. Pathway protein expression, osteogenic marker levels, tooth movement distance, and bone microarchitecture were analyzed.Mechanical strain significantly activated ERKs and STAT3 phosphorylation and upregulated key osteogenic markers (Runx2, OSX, OPN, ALP) in vitro; these effects were inhibited by SCH772984 except for COL1. In vivo, orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, with osteogenic markers predominantly elevated on the tension side. SCH772984 treatment suppressed ERKs activation and reduced tooth movement by ~40% (all P<0.05).The ERKs pathway is a critical mediator of orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, functioning partially through STAT3. These findings establish the ERKs/STAT3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for accelerating orthodontic treatment.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Information regarding the signaling axis involving triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1) and its downstream mediator, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), remains limited in ischemic stroke. We investigated the plasma levels of TREM-1 in patients with ischemic stroke and compared to controls. Second, we investigated the potential correlation between plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and explored their associations with stroke severity and functional outcomes.In an observational case-control study, plasma and PBMCs from participants were collected to measure TREM-1 and STAT3 expression levels. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission, day 7, and 1 and 3 months, and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months post-discharge were assessed. Plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), respectively. The Inflammation-Related Principal Component Score (IRPCS) was examined for its association with 3-month functional outcome.TREM-1 and STAT3 were significantly elevated in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients (p < 0.05, p < 0.0001) and positively correlated (ρ = 0.432, p < 0.0001). Both biomarkers correlated with the NIHSS at 1 and 3 months and mRS at 3 months (all p < 0.05). The composite IRPCS showed the strongest association with poor 3-month functional outcome among the tested biomarkers (OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.32-6.12, p = 0.008).Plasma TREM-1 levels were positively correlated with STAT3 expression. The TREM-1-STAT3 axis was associated with stroke severity and 3-month functional outcome in AIS patients. These findings should be regarded as exploratory and require validation in larger cohorts.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The overall response rate of patients with advanced metastatic melanoma treated with anticancer agents remains poor, and their prognosis is extremely unfavorable. Combination therapy has become a prevalent treatment strategy, but resistance to the key drug dacarbazine (DTIC) contributes significantly to poor outcomes. We focused on programmed cell death 4 (Pdcd4), a tumor suppressor gene, as a potential target for overcoming drug resistance. Recent studies indicate that Pdcd4 expression impacts cell cycle regulation, with its specific function varying with cancer type. To date, detailed mechanisms remain unclear.We established DTIC-resistant mouse melanoma cells and evaluated whether resistance was acquired by measuring the proliferation of those cells. To evaluate the resistance mechanism, we investigated cell cycle regulatory factors using western blotting and flow cytometry. We also examined the relationship between Pdcd4 expression and cell cycle regulation.DTIC-resistant cells showed significantly decreased Pdcd4 protein levels, while expression of Cyclin D1 (a G1 phase regulator) and Cyclin E (involved in S-phase progression) was significantly increased. Expression of p21, a CDK inhibitor, also increased. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that DTIC treatment reduces the S-phase population in non-resistant cells, but not in resistant cells, and Cyclin D1 expression remains elevated in resistant cells even after extended culture in the absence of DTIC.Pdcd4 expression is downregulated in highly malignant DTIC-resistant melanoma cells and the resulting disruption in cell cycle control may contribute to drug resistance. Reactivating Pdcd4 to modulate cell cycle progression may offer a promising approach for overcoming chemotherapy resistance in patients with tumors.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Lymphoma is one of the most common neoplastic diseases in dogs, and T-cell lymphoma in particular has frequently been reported to show limited sensitivity to conventional chemotherapy from the onset of treatment when compared with B-cell lymphoma. Owing to its high-grade and aggressive clinical behavior, there is a strong need to explore novel therapeutic approaches for canine T-cell lymphoma, including strategies targeting aberrant gene regulation. In this study, we focused on the epigenetic enzyme enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) and investigated its functional role in canine T-cell lymphoma. The EZH2 gene was ectopically introduced into canine T-cell lymphoma cell lines using a lentiviral vector system, and colony-forming ability, and apoptosis rate were evaluated. EZH2 overexpression significantly enhanced colony-forming capacity, suppressed apoptosis, and increased the number of viable cells compared with control cells. These findings indicate that elevated EZH2 expression confers a survival advantage to canine T-cell lymphoma cells. The present study provides novel evidence that overexpression of EZH2 itself promotes tumor cell survival and aggressiveness. Our results suggest that EZH2 may play a functional role in the maintenance and progression of at least a subset of canine T-cell lymphoma and may represent a potential driver of tumor malignancy. These findings contribute to a deeper understanding of lymphomagenesis and support the potential of EZH2 as a therapeutic target in canine T-cell lymphoma.Copyright © 2026 Kawamura, Ishikawa-Shinohara, Okamura, Kohno, Gonzalez-Astudillo, Wakabayashi, Aikawa, Kitabayashi, Mizuno, Gotoh, Michishita and Machida.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is characterized by severe structural and electrical remodeling that is driven in part by calcium (Ca2+) mishandling and mitochondrial dysfunction. While programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) has been implicated in several cardiovascular pathologies, its precise role in AF remains unclear.In vivo AF mouse models (Ang II infusion combined with burst pacing) and in vitro models using rapidly paced AC16 cardiomyocytes were established. Atrial electrophysiology, fibrosis, mitochondrial dynamics, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane potential, and Ca2+ transients were evaluated using multi-electrode recordings, histological staining, transmission electron microscopy, fluorescence imaging, flow cytometry, and calcium imaging.PDCD4 was significantly upregulated in both AF atrial tissues and paced cardiomyocytes. In vivo, PDCD4 overexpression exacerbated AF inducibility, prolonged AF duration, shortened the atrial effective refractory period, and aggravated atrial fibrosis. Mechanistically, PDCD4 promoted excessive mitochondrial fission, as evidenced by upregulated DRP1 and FIS1 and downregulated MFN1/2 and OPA1, resulting in mitochondrial fragmentation, ROS overproduction, and loss of membrane potential. This oxidative stress subsequently triggered hyperactivation of the CaM/CaMKII signaling pathway, leading to intracellular Ca2+ overload and prolonged excitation-contraction coupling. Notably, pharmacological blockade of mitochondrial fission using Mdivi-1 blunted ROS production, suppressed CaMKII hyperactivation, and reversed PDCD4-induced atrial remodeling and calcium dyshomeostasis.PDCD4 exacerbates atrial fibrillation by orchestrating a pathogenic mitochondrial fission/ROS/CaMKII axis that disrupts calcium homeostasis and promotes fibrotic remodeling. Targeting the PDCD4-mediated mitochondrial dynamics pathway offers a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating AF progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Platelet-derived microRNAs (miRNAs) are regarded as diagnostic biomarkers as well as potent regulators of cancer development. The expression of miR-21, a vital miRNA, is elevated in the tumor tissues of osteosarcoma (OS) patients. However, platelet-derived miR-21 in OS is unknown. Here, we found that the level of miR-21 is increased in the serum of OS patients. The miR-21 level is associated with advanced tumor stages and poorer clinical outcomes in OS patients. Moreover, platelet-derived microvesicles (PMVs) from OS patients (OS-PMVs) significantly enhanced the miR-21 profile in MG63 OS cells. Functional assays revealed that the proliferation and migration of MG63 cells were promoted by OS-PMV incubation or the transfection of miR-21 mimics, whereas the sensitivity of MG63 cells to methotrexate (MTX), doxorubicin (ADM), and cisplatin (DDP) was reduced. However, inhibiting miR-21 partially reversed the OS-PMV-mediated effects. Furthermore, programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) was identified as a potential target of miR-21 in OS. miR-21 considerably inhibited PDCD4 expression in MG63 cells and reversed the antitumor effects mediated by PDCD4 overexpression. In conclusion, our results suggest that platelet-rich miR-21 may promote the development of OS by targeting PDCD4.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA molecules that bind to target mRNAs, resulting in translational repression and gene silencing. Overexpression of microRNA-21 (miR-21) is associated with various human diseases, including autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and pulmonary fibrosis. In this study, a previously described heterobifunctional molecule, TGP-21-RiboTAC, that degrades the miR-21 precursor (pre-miR-21) in triple-negative breast cancer cells was investigated in polycystic kidney cell lines and a lung fibroblast cell line. In the former, TGP-21-RiboTAC degraded pre-miR-21 and derepressed miR-21's downstream targets, programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), known drivers of ADPKD. The heterobifunctional molecule also inhibited cyst growth and rescued the metabolic alterations that occur in ADPKD. In the lung fibroblast cell line, MRC-5, TGP-21-RiboTAC also reduced pre- and mature miR-21 levels, rescued transforming growth factor β (TGF-β)-induced repression of SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), and inhibited cell invasion. Collectively, these studies demonstrate the potential of targeted RNA degradation as therapeutic agents that retard the development of organ fibrosis.
Programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) protein is a tumour suppressor protein that inhibits mRNA translation by inhibiting RNA helicase, eukaryotic initiation factor 4A (eIF4A). We have previously reported that PDCD4 interacts with the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) element of B-cell lymphoma extra-large (Bcl-xL) mRNA and inhibits its IRES-mediated translation initiation. S6 kinase (S6K)-mediated phosphorylation of PDCD4 activates its degradation and derepresses IRES-mediated translation initiation of Bcl-xL mRNA. eIF3F (one of the subunits of eIF3 complex) was reported to recruit S6K to phosphorylate eIF3G. Therefore, we investigated the possibility of co-regulation of PDCD4 and eIF3F by S6K and the regulation of IRES-mediated translation initiation by PDCD4-eIF3F. Here, we demonstrated that PDCD4 interacts with several subunits of eIF3. Specifically, eIF3F directly interacts with PDCD4 in an RNA-independent manner. Depletion of PDCD4 in glioblastoma (GBM) cells resulted in decreased levels of certain eIF3 subunits, including eIF3F. Additionally, depletion of eIF3F from GBM cells decreased the levels of PDCD4 protein. We also showed that PDCD4 and eIF3F directly interact with Bcl-xL RNA independently of each other. By performing IRES reporter, polysome profiling assays and EMSA we have demonstrated that eIF3F regulates IRES-mediated translation of Bcl-xL mRNA, likely via its interaction with PDCD4.
Programmed cell death 4 (Pdcd4) is a well-established tumor suppressor and inhibitor of protein translation. Although Pdcd4-mediated translational repression contributes to tumor suppression, emerging evidence suggests that Pdcd4 also exerts translation-independent functions. In this study, we found that Pdcd4 suppresses tumorigenesis through direct interaction with the rapamycin-insensitive companion of mTOR (Rictor), a core component of the mTORC2 complex. Using deletion mapping and site-directed mutagenesis, we defined the Rictor-binding domain of Pdcd4 and identified three critical residues, R105, K108, and R110, for this interaction. Co-immunoprecipitation and in vitro kinase assays demonstrated that Pdcd4 binding to Rictor disrupted mTORC2 complex assembly and inhibited its kinase activity. Reverse phase protein array analysis revealed that 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3), a key regulator of glycolysis, was markedly upregulated in Pdcd4-knockdown cells. Restoration of wild-type Pdcd4, but not a Rictor-binding-deficient mutant, reduced PFKFB3 protein abundance by promoting ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation. Functionally, Pdcd4-Rictor interaction suppressed glycolytic activity and inhibited tumor cell proliferation in cultured cells and xenograft models. Consistent with these findings, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tissues exhibited significantly elevated protein levels of Rictor and PFKFB3 compared with adjacent normal tissues, with a positive correlation between their expression. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the translation-independent mechanism by which Pdcd4 disrupts mTORC2 signaling and downregulates PFKFB3 plays a critical role in suppressing NSCLC growth and glycolysis.
Objective MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous single-stranded non-coding RNAs, approximately 20-25 nucleotides in length, that regulate the expression of potential target mRNAs at the post-transcriptional level. miRNAs are abnormally expressed in many malignant tumors, and are closely associated with tumorigenesis and development, functioning either as proto-oncogenes or oncogenes. Studies have revealed that microRNA-21 (miR-21) is one of the most common oncogenes across various cancer types. However, the function of miR-21 in osteosarcoma has not been fully elucidated. This study aims to investigate the effect of miR-21 on the proliferation, invasion and apoptosis of osteosarcoma cell line MG63 and its underlying mechanisms. Methods Bioinformatics was used to predict the potential target genes of miR-21. The expression levels of miR-21 and programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) in osteosarcoma cell line MG63 were measured by qRT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. After the expression of miR-21 was regulated (either up-regulated or inhibited), its biological effects on cell viability, cell cycle progression and apoptosis were assessed. The targeting relationship between miR-21 and PDCD4 was verified by using dual-luciferase reporter gene assay. Results Bioinformatics prediction showed that the 3'-UTR region of human PDCD4 gene contained multiple potential miRNA target sites. qRT-PCR results showed that the expression level of miR-21 in the pcDNA3.1-miR-21 group was significantly higher than that in the pcDNA3.1 group and the blank group. Compared with the blank group, up-regulation of miR-21 significantly promoted the proliferation and invasion of osteosarcoma MG63 cells, while inhibiting cell apoptosis. Luciferase reporter gene assay confirmed that PDCD4 was a direct target gene of miR-21, and there was a negative correlation between miR-21 and PDCD4. Conclusion Up-regulation of miR-21 expression promotes proliferation and invasion while inhibiting apoptosis of osteosarcoma cell line MG63 by suppressing the level of endogenous PDCD4. In contrast, down-regulation of miR-21 expression inhibits proliferation and invasion while promoting apoptosis of osteosarcoma cell line MG63. Therefore, miR-21 functions as an oncogene in the development of osteosarcoma and could be a potential therapeutic target.
Monitoring microglial activation mediators remains challenging in neurodegeneration. Few imaging studies track amyloid-β (Aβ)-linked microglial dynamics across a wide field of view with high spatiotemporal resolution. Leveraging the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), a pivotal Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker that enhances Aβ clearance while suppressing neuroinflammation, we developed a dual-modal probe, TREM2-ICG, by conjugating a TREM2-specific antibody with indocyanine green (ICG), an FDA-approved dye, for robust in vivo photoacoustic and near-infrared-II (NIR-II) fluorescence imaging. Multi-wavelength photoacoustic microscopy imaged AD pathology at 532 nm (hemoglobin, vasculature), 559 nm (Aβ probe AOI987), and 780 nm (TREM2-ICG for peri‑plaque microglia). Time-resolved NIR-II imaging (30 frames/sec) tracked Aβ-oligomer-induced microglial displacement at ∼50 µm resolution, showing a rapid chemotaxis phenomenon. Immunofluorescence-verified TREM2-microglia plaque engagement demonstrates AD pathogenesis. Overall, our multiscale photoacoustic-fluorescence imaging resolved cortex-wide Aβ-microglial interactions, combining wide-field, high-speed, and deep-penetration to overcome confocal depth and two-photon field of view limits. This enabled in vivo tracking of microglial responses to Aβ, revealing potential for investigating AD-specific mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors.
Chronic inflammation is a key driver of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Notably, anti-inflammatory therapies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing cardiac events. We previously reported that TREM2 (triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2) promotes foam cell formation in atherosclerosis. Elevated levels of soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) have been observed in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis. This study sought to investigate the pathological role of sTREM2 in the progression of atherosclerosis, elucidate its underlying mechanistic pathways, and propose potential targeted therapeutic interventions.Plasma sTREM2 levels were measured in patients with carotid atherosclerosis and in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice. To study the functional role of sTREM2, we administered recombinant sTREM2 to Apoe-/- mice and used macrophage-specific Hsp90ab1 knockout mice (Hsp90ab1Mac-KO). Mechanistic pathways were investigated using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and surface plasmon resonance imaging was used to identify sTREM2 antagonists.Plasma sTREM2 levels correlated with atherosclerotic burden in both humans and mice. Exogenous sTREM2 administration exacerbated plaque progression in Apoe-/- mice, an effect abolished in Hsp90ab1Mac-KO mice. Mechanistically, sTREM2 binds to HSP90β (heat shock protein 90 beta), enhancing its interaction with the IKKs (IκB kinase complex), thereby activating the IκBα/NF-κB P65 pathway. This activation potentiates monocyte adhesion and chemotaxis and enhances macrophage inflammatory activation signatures in atherosclerotic lesions-effects that were reversed on myeloid-specific Hsp90ab1 deletion. Additionally, we identified 3-bromopyruvate as a small-molecule antagonist that selectively disrupts the sTREM2/HSP90β interaction and attenuates atherosclerosis.sTREM2 promotes proatherogenic myeloid recruitment and macrophage inflammatory activation via HSP90β-dependent NF-κB activation. Genetic and pharmacological approaches establish the sTREM2/HSP90β axis as a druggable target, with 3-bromopyruvate demonstrating translational potential for atherosclerosis therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500791 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent degenerative joint disease with limited diagnostic biomarkers. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a key regulator of inflammation and bone metabolism, but its role in OA remains unclear.Plasma and synovial fluid samples were collected from patients with OA and patients with joint trauma serving as controls. Levels of TREM2 and IL-6 were measured using RT-qPCR and ELISA. Correlation analyses were conducted to assess relationships among TREM2, IL-6, and clinical parameters. The diagnostic value of TREM2 was evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Additionally, the role and regulatory mechanism of TREM2 were investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes.TREM2 levels were significantly elevated in both plasma and synovial fluid of patients with OA and showed positive correlations with IL-6, Kellgren-Lawrence score and body mass index (BMI). ROC analysis revealed AUCs of 0.880 for plasma TREM2 and 0.869 for synovial fluid TREM2, with superior performance compared to IL-6 in the same cohort. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed that TREM2 remained independently associated with OA after adjusting for confounders (OR = 28.29, P = 0.006). In vitro, LPS treatment upregulated TREM2 expression in chondrocytes, which was associated with changes in cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release and oxidative stress, with preliminary evidence suggesting involvement of the NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis-associated pathway.Elevated TREM2 in plasma and synovial fluid represents a promising exploratory biomarker for OA. In vitro findings suggest that TREM2 may modulate chondrocyte functions in association with NLRP3 inflammasome-associated molecular pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488212 is a review article
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the important pathogens influencing global swine industry. PRRSV infection promotes the secretion and production of soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) in plasma. Whether sTREM2 regulated PRRSV replication remains unknown. In this study, we expressed and purified sTREM2 exogenously, and found that sTREM2 restrained PRRSV replication in vitro. In terms of mechanism, sTREM2 could interact with PRRSV envelope protein GP2a, wherein S112/S116/T120 amino acid sites in sTREM2 were essential for their binding. The interaction between sTREM2 and PRRSV GP2a interfered PRRSV binding stage, thus inhibiting PRRSV replication. In addition, sTREM2 promoted the activation of NF-ĸB signaling pathway and elevated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferons, ultimately suppressing PRRSV replication. Our study demonstrated that sTREM2 possessed strong inhibitory effects against PRRSV and had the potential value for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder associated with amyloid aggregation, tau pathology, and neuroinflammation. In this study, an integrated computational workflow combining ADMET prediction, PASS-based activity screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations was employed to evaluate the interactions of oleuropein with five AD-related protein targets, including β-amyloid, tau, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), and complement protein C1q. ADMET and PASS analyses predicted pharmacokinetic properties and potential biological activities associated with neurodegenerative disease-related pathways. Docking analysis predicted favorable binding affinities across the investigated targets, with the strongest predicted interaction observed for the C1q protein (-7.5 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics (MD) trajectory analyses, including root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF), radius of gyration (Rg), dynamic cross-correlation matrix (DCCM), principal component analysis (PCA), and distance-based metrics, were used to evaluate the dynamic behavior of the protein-ligand complexes during the simulations. The computational analyses suggested relatively stable interactions for tau, C1q, and TREM2 complexes, whereas β-amyloid and ApoE4 exhibited comparatively higher conformational variability during portions of the simulations. These findings provide a preliminary computational assessment of oleuropein interactions with AD-related proteins and may support future experimental studies investigating its potential biological relevance in neurodegenerative disease models.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42458498 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15546383 is a review article
