Single-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is recommended for small brain metastases (< 2 cm). However, long-term outcomes accounting for competing risks-particularly death, which precludes observation of local treatment failure (LTF)-remain limited.We retrospectively analyzed cumulative incidences of LTF, defined as tumor regrowth within the planning target volume, following 18 Gy single-fraction SRS (July 2014-December 2021) in patients with brain metastases. Patients with prior radiotherapy or surgery to the index lesion were excluded. Cumulative incidences of LTF, death without prior LTF, overall survival (OS), and progression-free survival (PFS) were estimated. Outcomes were compared between radioresistant (melanoma, sarcoma, renal cell carcinoma) and radiosensitive tumors. Subdistribution hazard ratios (SDHRs) and cause-specific hazard ratios (CSHRs) identified risk factors for each endpoint.Seventy-two patients (median age 62 years, IQR 55-68) with median tumor volume 0.3 cc (IQR 0.2-0.7) were followed for a median of 57.2 months (IQR 49.3-85.4). Thirty-three tumors were radioresistant and 39 radiosensitive. At 36 months, cumulative LTF was 62% (95% CI, 42%-77%) versus 31% (95% CI, 17%-46%) in radioresistant versus radiosensitive tumors (p = 0.011), whereas death without prior LTF was 19% (95% CI, 7%-34%) versus 46% (95% CI, 30%-61%) (p = 0.003). OS was 42% (95% CI, 28%-63%) and 36% (95% CI, 24%-55%), and PFS was 19% (95% CI, 9%-40%) and 23% (95% CI, 13%-41%), respectively. Radioresistant histology was associated with higher LTF hazard (CSHR 3.19; SDHR 3.91) and lower hazards of death without prior LTF (CSHR 0.37; SDHR 0.24), with no significant effect on OS or PFS. The 36-month cumulative incidence of radiation necrosis was 10% (95% CI, 4%-18%).Local control after 18 Gy SRS is poor in radioresistant brain metastases. Higher LTF incidence is amplified by lower competing mortality, highlighting the interplay between tumor biology and survival. These findings support competing risk-based analyses and consideration of alternative dose-escalation for high-risk tumors.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To explore proteomic changes from heat exhaustion (HE) to heat stroke (HS) and identify biomarkers for HS diagnosis.This prospective 2-center study, conducted from October 2022 to February 2024, included 18 patients with HS and 23 patients with HE from a hospital in China. We used 4D-data-independent acquisition proteomics to analyze protein expression and identified differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) with a fold change ≥1.5 or ≤0.67, considering p < 0.05 as significant. Bioinformatics and Cytoscape were used to characterize DEP functions and identify key proteins. Receiver operating characteristic curves and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator algorithm were used to assess diagnostic potential, and parallel reaction monitoring validated DEPs. An independent cohort was used to validate biomarkers by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.A total of 2604 overlapping proteins were identified, with 176 DEPs screened for significance. These DEPs were predominantly linked to biological processes such as inflammation, immune response, cell signaling, and metabolic regulation. Analysis revealed that apolipoprotein A-IV (APOA4) exhibited the highest area under the curve (AUC) value among the hub proteins and was identified as a significant variable by least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression. Furthermore, 18 proteins identified through 4-dimensional data-independent acquisition proteomics were confirmed using parallel reaction monitoring. Plasma levels of APOA4 were significantly reduced in HS patients compared to those with HE (p = 0.001). The AUC for diagnosing HS using plasma APOA4 was 0.81, with 77.8% sensitivity and 78.3% specificity. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results corroborated these findings, with plasma APOA4 levels in HS patients being significantly lower than in HE patients, yielding an AUC of 0.74, with 66.7% sensitivity, and 84.2% specificity.Plasma APOA4, which was significantly downregulated, may serves as a novel biomarker for the diagnosis of HS.Copyright © 2026 Chinese Medical Association. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of mulberry leaf powder (MLP) on alleviating fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) in laying hens. A total of 180 healthy 33-week-old Hy-Line Gray laying hens were randomly assigned to 3 groups, with 6 replicates per group and 10 chickens per replicate, and fed a basal diet (CON), high-energy-low-protein (HELP) diet (FLHS), and HELP + 5% MLP diet (MLP), respectively. The experiment lasted 56 days. Results showed that the HELP diet successfully induced FLHS, characterized by an increased liver index, hepatic steatosis, and oxidative stress (P < 0.05). MLP significantly alleviated FLHS-induced hepatic steatosis, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, total antioxidant capacity, and glutathione) in serum and liver (P < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified 102 differentially expressed genes, whose expression was increased by FLHS but reversed by MLP, including SREBF1, SLC27A4, PLIN2, ACOT13, APOA4, GLRX, and MSRB1, which mainly participate in lipid droplet dynamics and redox homeostasis. qRT-PCR confirmed that upregulated expression of lipogenic genes (such as FASN, ACACA, SCD, and ELOVL6) and the downregulated expression of oxidative stress-responsive genes (SOD1 and GPX1) in the FLHS group were normalized by MLP (P < 0.05), accompanied by increased expression of PPARα, CPT1A, and CD36 (P<0.05). 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that MLP reduced the abundance of Desulfovibrio, Rikenellaceae_RC9_gut_group, Intestinimonas, and Shuttleworthia, and enriched Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium in the cecum of FLHS laying hens (P < 0.05). Furthermore, MLP increased acetate, propionate, and butyrate levels, and decreased isobutyrate and isovalerate levels (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis showed that cecal acetate, propionate, butyrate, Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium were positively correlated with hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities (P < 0.05), and negatively correlated with hepatic lipogenic gene expression, hepatic lipid deposition and oxidative stress markers (P < 0.05). These findings indicated that MLP alleviated hepatic lipid metabolism disorders and oxidative stress in FLHS laying hens, which might be achieved by modulating gut microbiota structure and short-chain fatty acid production.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) elicits long-lasting increases in phrenic and sympathetic nerve activity, effects known as phrenic (pLTF) and sympathetic long-term facilitation (sympLTF), respectively. In anesthetized, paralyzed, vagotomized and ventilated rats, pLTF magnitude following AIH consisting of 15, 1-min isocapnic hypoxic episodes (i.e., 15x1) is greater during the mid-rest vs mid-active phase of the diurnal cycle. However, it is unknown if sympLTF exhibits similar diurnal regulation. In urethane-anesthetized, mechanically-ventilated, male Sprague-Dawley rats we hypothesized that sympLTF elicited by 15x1 AIH (PaO2 40-55 mmHg) is greater in the mid-rest vs mid-active diurnal phase. We report renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) remained elevated 90 min post-AIH, with similar responses in mid-rest (n=20) vs mid-active phase rats (n=17). No significant increase was observed in time control rats in either mid-rest (n=10) or mid-active phase (n=9). Mean ΔRSNA (%) was 142±184 during mid-rest AIH and 101±124 during mid-active AIH, versus 34±28 and 28±52 in corresponding mid-rest and mid-active time controls. There was a significant main effect of AIH on ΔRSNA (%) (P=0.020), with no effect of time of day (P=0.544) and no interaction (P=0.644). Increases in RSNA following AIH were driven primarily by increases in burst amplitude and duration, with minimal changes in burst frequency. Further, mean arterial pressure did not change from baseline in any group (all P > 0.05). These findings demonstrate that AIH elicits modest increases in RSNA that are not accompanied by increases in arterial pressure and are not modulated by time-of-day, contrasting with the diurnal regulation of pLTF.
Astigmatism is a common refractive error associated with myopia, yet its molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify and validate differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in corneal astigmatism through a label-free quantitative proteomic approach, followed by biomarker validation using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM).This two-phase, retrospective case-control study aimed to identify and verify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) associated with corneal astigmatism. Phase I (discovery) employed label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics to compare stromal samples from 9 patients (10 eyes) with compound myopic astigmatism (Group A) and 8 patients (10 eyes) with simple myopia (Group B). Phase II (verification) involved targeted parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) in an independent cohort comprising 13 patients (15 eyes) in Group A and 14 patients (15 eyes) in Group B, quantifying discovery-prioritized proteins. Bioinformatic analyses including COG, GO, KEGG, and protein-protein interaction mapping were performed to characterize enriched pathways and guide PRM target selection.A total of 127 DEPs were identified, with 31 upregulated and 96 downregulated in Group A. Bioinformatic analysis of the discovery dataset showed enrichment of proteins associated with wound healing, blood coagulation, and lipid metabolism; these enrichments were exploratory and were used only to prioritize candidates for targeted verification. Targeted PRM verified a significant reduction in APOA4 in astigmatism; other candidates showed concordant trends without statistical significance.After targeted verification, APOA4 was the only protein that remained significantly reduced in corneal astigmatism, supporting reduced APOA4 as a candidate biomarker that warrants further study. The discovery-phase associations with coagulation, lipid metabolism, and wound-healing pathways were not confirmed at the protein level and should be regarded as hypothesis-generating, requiring confirmation in larger, adequately powered cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Wei, Li and Zhang.
High-temperature stress poses a critical challenge to cold-water aquaculture; however, the size-associated molecular mechanisms underlying thermal adaptation in triploid rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) remain poorly understood. Here, we integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling of liver tissues, which plays central role in energy metabolism and stress integration, from three body-weight classes-small (0.8 kg ± 0.18 kg), medium (1.5 kg ± 0.22 kg), and large (2.5 kg ± 0.31 kg)-sampled under peak summer heat stress (20.5 °C). Transcriptomic analysis identified 974, 570, and 862 group-specific differentially expressed genes, respectively, revealing a non-linear, size-associated transcriptional pattern. Genes assigned to the ribosome pathway were significantly enriched in comparisons involving MLA and SLA relative to LLA, but not between SLA and MLA, whereas carbon metabolism and amino acid biosynthesis were enriched exclusively in smaller fish, indicating a higher catabolic burden under heat stress. Metabolomic profiling identified 1123 metabolites, with lipids accounting for 45.06%, and showed size-specific enrichments in biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, glycerophospholipid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, and pathways related to necroptosis. Integrative analysis revealed that in smaller fish, pla2g1b and gpx4a coordinately regulate the accumulation of prostaglandin H2 and 16(R)-HETE, forming a regulatory network with ferroptosis-related genes acsl4a and hmox1a; concurrently, chka, lpin1, and phospholipase A2 members drive extensive membrane phospholipid remodeling. The observed negative correlation between hsd17b3 expression and 7α-hydroxytestosterone levels suggests size-associated steroid-mediated energy repartitioning. Collectively, smaller fish undergo extensive transcriptional and metabolic reprogramming with heightened activation of cell death pathways, whereas larger fish maintain greater thermal buffering capacity. These findings provide molecular targets for size-stratified thermal management and selective breeding in rainbow trout aquaculture.
Ocean acidification poses a critical threat to marine invertebrate survival and diversification, yet the post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying acid stress responses remain poorly understood. Here, we employed Oxford Nanopore long-read RNA sequencing to systematically characterize transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses to acidic pH stresses in the marine nematode Litoditis marina. Our analysis revealed 912 upregulated and 728 downregulated genes enriched in autophagy, fatty acid metabolism, and peroxisome activation, alongside 327 differential alternative splicing events and 1512 transcripts with significant usage changes under severe acidic pH stress. By integrating weighted gene co-expression network analysis with databases such as WormExp2, we found that acidic pH stress response exhibited resemblance to oxidative stress response. Specifically, we identified genes involved in the oxidative stress response, such as gpx-1, cyp-13A11, trxr-1, cyc-1, and key regulators, including hlh-30/TFEB. Genes such as gpx-1, trxr-1, and cyp-23A1 might protect L. marina from oxidative stress under acidic pH. Moreover, several ferroptosis-related genes, such as gpx-5, fat-2, and smf-1, might render L. marina vulnerable to acidic pH stress. Among the genes with splicing changes, we identified oxidative stress responding genes such as sod-4, prx-2, coq-2, coq-3, prx-10, ctl-2, gst-7, trx-1, mdt-15, and fat-2. Additionally, we discovered the preference for proximal 3' UTR under acidic pH stress. Genes related to ferroptosis, including cyp-23A1, C07E3.9/PLA2G1B, and C53D5.5/GGT1, exhibited differential 3' UTR usage under acidic pH stress. Our findings shift the focus from traditional gene-centric analyses to capturing the full breadth of post-transcriptional diversity, providing novel insights into post-transcriptional gene regulation in marine metazoans under environmental stress, as well as revealing that alleviating oxidative stress might increase resistance to acid pH stress.
Maternal protein restriction during gestation in rodents is widely used as a model of developmental programming; however, its metabolic effects in offspring are often modest. In humans, protein deficiency is frequently accompanied by deficiencies in essential micronutrients. This study examined whether maternal choline insufficiency, an essential micronutrient whose deficiency in adult rodents induces metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease, modifies the metabolically restrained hepatic phenotype conferred by maternal protein restriction in offspring. Pregnant ICR mice were fed a control, a protein-restricted diet (8% of total energy from protein), or a protein- and choline-restricted diet (25% of the standard choline content, w/w) from gestational day 1. Male offspring were weaned onto a high-fat, high-sucrose diet, as a standardized metabolic challenge, and hepatic histology, biochemical parameters, and metabolic- and oxidative stress-related gene and protein expression were analyzed. Maternal protein restriction alone did not induce hepatic steatosis in offspring and was associated with reduced expression of lipid metabolism-related genes (Apoa4) and decreased hepatic activity of xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR), is a key enzyme involved in reactive oxygen species production. In contrast, maternal choline insufficiency combined with protein restriction induced hepatic steatosis compared with maternal protein restriction alone, accompanied by lipid droplet hypertrophy, increased expression of inflammatory genes (Il1b and Il18), and reactivation of hepatic XOR activity, together with restoration of metabolic gene expression toward control levels, in the offspring. Together, these findings demonstrate that maternal choline insufficiency abolishes the metabolically restrained hepatic phenotype induced by gestational protein restriction and promotes progression to hepatic steatosis in offspring.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481304
Liver fibrosis is a reversible pathological condition caused by chronic liver injury and represents a necessary stage leading to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Currently, liver fibrosis lacks specifically licensed therapeutic drugs. Licorice (Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch.) is a multi-efficacious traditional Chinese medicine, with licorice total flavonoids (LTF) serving as its primary active components, whereas the anti-hepatic fibrosis potential of LTF remains poorly elucidated. This study analyzed the core components of LTF using network pharmacology to investigate its anti-fibrotic targets and signaling pathways. Molecular docking and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis, following BLI fishing, were used to systematically examine the active components and molecular mechanisms of LTF in the treatment of liver fibrosis. Network pharmacology analysis showed that LTF exerted anti-fibrotic effects by regulating multiple targets and pathways, with the TGF-β signaling pathway acting as a key hub. In human hepatocyte-derived stellate cells (LX-2), 16, 32, and 64 µg/mL LTF inhibited transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) induced activation of LX-2 cells and reduced the mRNA and protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), Collagen I, and TGF-β1. LC-MS results from high-throughput bio-layer interferometry (BLI) showed that, compared with the control group, 95 flavonoid active components in the total licorice flavonoids group could serve as candidate compounds for binding TGF-β1, a core target of liver fibrosis. These results indicated that LTF may exert anti-fibrotic effects by regulating TGF-β-related signaling pathways via inhibiting TGF-β1 expression. Moreover, BLI analysis provides a reliable and feasible strategy for elucidating the mechanisms of traditional Chinese medicine in the treatment of hepatic fibrosis.
Macrophages are the primary host cells for Leishmania, and their polarization into either M1 (pro-inflammatory) or M2 (anti-inflammatory) phenotypes determines the course of the infection. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Leishmania tropica, the main agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Türkiye, on the polarization of primary human macrophages. Primary monocytes were isolated from human peripheral blood and differentiated into macrophages using GM-CSF. The cells were infected with L. tropica promastigotes, analyzed after 48 hours. Polarization was evaluated through morphological changes, flow cytometry for surface markers (CD80, CD163, CD206, CD209), and qPCR for gene expression of M1 (NOS2, IDO1, IRF4) and M2 (ARG1, CCL22, CCL1) markers. An infection rate of 56.5% was achieved, with infected macrophages shifting from a spindle-like morphology to a rounded and granular appearance. Flow cytometry revealed a significant decrease in the expression of M1 marker CD80 and M2 markers CD206 and CD209 (p<0.01), while CD163 expression showed a non-significant increase. qPCR analyses demonstrated a significant down regulation of M1-related genes and a significant upregulation of the M2-related gene ARG1 (p<0.05). The findings suggest that L. tropica infection induces a shift in macrophage polarization from an M1-like phenotype toward an M2-like phenotype, with partial resemblance to an M2c-like profile, though the concurrent decrease in CD206 and CD209 underscores the complexity of the phenotype and indicates that the activated state does not conform neatly to any single M2 subtype. This shift likely serves as an immune escape strategy, promoting parasite persistence and influencing the chronicity of CL. Further studies incorporating additional M2c subtype markers, multiple time points, and functional assays are needed.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559272 is a review article
Intracellular bacterial infections remain difficult to treat due to antibiotic tolerance, immune evasion, and the emergence of multidrug resistance. Here, we identify Fangchinoline (Fcn), a natural alkaloid, as a host-directed immunomodulator that restricts intracellular Salmonella through NOS2-dependent nitric oxide (NO) signalling. Fcn enhances macrophage bactericidal activity and promotes Th1 immunity, leading to improved bacterial control in vitro and in vivo. Pharmacological inhibition of NO synthesis and loss of protection in NOS2-/- mice establish NO as a central effector mechanism. Serum metabolomics indicate Fcn is associated with immunometabolic changes consistent with enhanced NO biosynthesis. In addition, Fcn synergizes with suboptimal-dose Ciprofloxacin to control Salmonella infection while preserving host immune responses. Notably, Fcn primes memory-like T cell responses and enhances resistance upon subsequent infection. Collectively, these findings suggest Fangchinoline as a host-directed immunotherapeutic that integrates metabolic, innate, and adaptive immune programs to restrict intracellular enteric pathogens, including multidrug-resistant strains, and augment antibiotic efficacy.© 2026 The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary pathogenic mechanism underlying dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate mitochondrion-targeted therapeutic strategies, we utilized the MitoPark mouse model, in which mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is selectively ablated in midbrain dopamine neurons, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration. We designed multifunctional lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles (LCNPs) of the cubosome and hexosome types for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery. These nanocarriers were engineered with lipids essential for membrane integrity (plasmalogens and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)) and a nonlamellar structural lipid (monoolein). They coencapsulated the neuroprotective antioxidants ginkgolide B and quercetin. To facilitate neuronal targeting and uptake, the surface of the LCNP was modified by conjugation with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and a rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG)-derived peptide-oleic acid (RVG-OL) conjugate. In vitro studies using differentiated SH-SY5Y cells subjected to oxidative stress demonstrated that the targeted LNPs enhanced cellular uptake and activated key neuroprotective signaling cascades, including AKT, ERK, and STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, intranasal administration of the optimized LNPs in MitoPark mice was associated with a trend toward the preservation of dopaminergic neuronal markers (such as tyrosine hydroxylase) and the regulation of mitochondrial-related proteins such as ATP5A1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive molecular reprogramming. The peptide-functionalized LNPs upregulated genes enriched in mitochondrial biogenesis (Ppargc1a and Pink1) and survival (Bcl2) but downregulated the expression of neuroinflammatory mediators (Il6, Nos2, Myd88, and Trem2) and apoptotic effectors. These findings establish peptide-targeted, therapeutic lipid (plasmalogen/PUFA)-based nanoassemblies as a potent nonviral platform for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery that may modulate mitochondrial- and neurodegeneration-related signaling pathways in a genetic model of PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Macrophages are the predominant immune cells in the tumor microenvironment of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), but the role of DNA methylation in regulating macrophage heterogeneity remains unclear. Integrating single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk transcriptomic, and methylation data, we identified six macrophage subtypes and three DNA methylation-associated prognostic subtypes. A three-gene signature (HLA-DRA, HCST, and RNASE2) demonstrated robust prognostic performance across external cohorts and was validated by qRT-PCR. Molecular docking identified Dactolisib as a potential therapeutic agent. These findings provide novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for prognosis and personalized treatment of ccRCC.
Hyperglycemia has increasingly been recognized among individuals recovering from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19); the host factors contributing to heterogeneous metabolic outcomes remain poorly understood. This cohort study investigated the association between innate immune genetic polymorphisms and hyperglycemia in post-COVID-19 patients. A total of 471 adults with previous mild-to-moderate COVID-19 were enrolled through the post-COVID follow-up program at Siriraj Hospital, Thailand, and classified as normoglycemic (HbA1c < 5.7%, n = 252) or hyperglycemic (HbA1c ≥ 5.7%, n = 219). Clinical characteristics, metabolic parameters, inflammatory biomarkers, and immunological measurements were collected during follow-up. Genotyping was performed using the Axiom Human Genotyping SARS-CoV-2 Research Array, focusing on candidate polymorphisms in innate immune-related genes. Associations between genetic variants and hyperglycemia were evaluated using multivariable logistic regression adjusted for age, body mass index, and underlying comorbidities. Participants with hyperglycemia were significantly older and had higher body mass index, greater prevalence of cardiometabolic comorbidities, elevated C-reactive protein levels, and higher LDL cholesterol compared with normoglycemic individuals. Significant associations were identified in NOS2 and CCL2. The NOS2 rs4795067 variant was associated with increased odds of hyperglycemia (adjusted OR = 1.770, 95% CI: 1.137-2.756, p = 0.011), whereas rs35051118 showed a protective effect (adjusted OR = 0.613, 95% CI: 0.386-0.975, p = 0.039). In CCL2, rs28730833 was strongly associated with hyperglycemia (adjusted OR = 2.977, 95% CI: 1.349-6.572, p = 0.007). These findings suggest that innate immune genetic variation may contribute to hyperglycemia in post-COVID-19 patients, although independent validation is required.Copyright © 2026 Ganyalak Chaimaha et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To enable non-destructive, repeatable, and quantitative monitoring of macrophage polarization direction and intensity under live-cell conditions, we constructed and optimized two reporter systems centered on the Arg1 (M2-associated) and Nos2 (M1-associated) promoters, respectively. Using a secreted NanoLuc (secNluc) reporter system as the detection tool, we applied combined stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and conditioned medium from irradiated tumor cells as M1-like and tumor-associated macrophage-like (M2-skewed) inducers, respectively. In RAW264.7 cells, systematic screening was performed for truncated Arg1 promoter fragments (PArg1-0/-1/-2/-3) and Nos2 promoter fragments (PNos2-0/-1/-2/-3/-4). The relative positions of enhancers and promoters were compared, followed by the establishment and validation of stable cell lines. The results showed that PArg1-2 and PNos2-1 achieved the best balance between basal activity and inducible responsiveness. The positional effect of enhancers was gene-dependent: in the Arg1 system, downstream enhancer placement was more effective than upstream placement (7.8-fold vs. 2.0-fold), whereas in the Nos2 system, upstream enhancer placement was more effective than downstream placement (20.7-fold vs. 2.4-fold). Upon conditioned-medium or LPS/IFN-γ stimulation, Nluc activity in the stable cell lines increased by approximately 10.0-fold and 8.5-fold, respectively. Monoclonal RAW264.7-PNos2 and RAW264.7-PArg1 cell lines were further obtained by limiting dilution, and the system was then used to verify the differential regulation of Nos2 and Arg1 expression by transforming growth factor-β1 and its time-dependent pattern. In summary, the established reporter systems enable continuous, quantitative monitoring of macrophage polarization in live cells under in vitro conditions. They are suitable for evaluating polarization trends in tumor-mimicking in vitro microenvironments and hold promise for plate-based multi-condition comparison, dose-response evaluation, and high-throughput screening, thereby providing a practical tool for mechanistic studies of macrophage polarization and for screening modulatory factors.
Inflammation is essential for host defense, but, when dysregulated, it contributes to tissue damage and chronic disease. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is a well-recognized negative regulator of inflammatory signaling, primarily through suppression of the NF-κB pathway; however, its broader proteomic impact under inflammatory conditions remains incompletely defined. In this study, we overexpressed an miR-146a mimic in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages and applied quantitative mass spectrometry to characterize global protein abundance changes. Functional overexpression was supported by reduced mRNA abundance of the established miR-146a targets TRAF6 and IRAK1 under LPS-stimulated conditions. Proteomic analysis identified 1232 proteins showing differential abundance under the predefined exploratory criteria, including proteins related to NF-κB activity, inflammasome components, nitric oxide synthesis, and IL-6-associated pathways. Proteins linked to interferon-related signaling were also altered. Targeted validation by quantitative RT-PCR and parallel reaction monitoring supported changes in selected inflammatory mediators, including PTGS2, NOS2, MAPKAPK2, and IRF3. Functionally, miR-146a overexpression was associated with reduced LPS-induced nitric oxide and IL-6 production. Together, these findings provide an exploratory proteomic overview of pathways associated with miR-146a overexpression in activated macrophages and suggest that miR-146a is associated with modulation of multiple inflammatory signaling networks under inflammatory conditions.
TNF has a dual effect in Plasmodium infection, bolstering the host's immune defense while also inducing sickness behavior. Here, we confirm that TNF signaling hampers physical activity, food intake, and energy expenditure while enhancing glucose uptake by the liver and spleen, as well as controlling parasitemia in Plasmodium chabaudi (Pc)-infected mice. We also report that TNF is required for expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), stabilization of hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α), expression of glucose transporter GLUT1, and enhanced glycolysis in monocytic cells from Pc-infected mice. Importantly, Pc-infected Nos2-/-, TNFR1 cKO, and HIF-1a cKO mice show impaired release of TNF and glycolysis in monocytes, along with increased parasitemia and disease tolerance. Altogether, our results indicate that TNF-iNOS-HIF-1α-induced glycolysis in monocytes plays a critical role in host defense and sickness behavior in Pc-infected mice.© 2024, Matteucci et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504956 is a review article
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is a second messenger, regulating critical physiological processes. We report the enzymatic synthesis, unique photophysical features, and biological activity of novel emissive cAMP analogs (cthAMP and ctzAMP), comprised of thiopheno- and isothiazolo-based families of isomorphic ribonucleotides. The unexpectedly high brightness of cthAMP compared to thATP and thAMP, its precursor and hydrolysis products, respectively, driven by an anti-to-syn conformational shift upon cyclization, is employed for real-time monitoring of the adenylyl cyclase (AC) mediated synthesis and phosphodiesterase (PDE) mediated hydrolysis. Importantly, these emissive analogs effectively activate protein kinase A (PKA). This study provides critical insights into the biomolecular recognition and catalytic mechanism of cAMP-regulating enzymes, establishing these isomorphic analogs as potential tools for investigating cAMP-dependent protein-ligand interaction through fluorescence spectroscopy.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Predicting early progression of diabetic kidney disease (DKD) remains challenging. The neutrophil-derived peptide LL37 is implicated in kidney inflammation, yet its role and prognostic value in DKD remain unclear.RNA sequencing dataset was analyzed to examine the expression of CAMP (encoding LL37) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) in peripheral blood from diabetic mellitus patients. A clinical cohort of 94 biopsy-proven DKD patients and 63 healthy controls (HCs) was established. Serum LL37 and MPO-DNA complexes were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The correlation between serum LL37 and MPO-DNA complex levels and kidney function was assessed and assessed their association with DKD progression using restricted cubic spline analysis and Cox proportional hazards regression models.Bioinformatics analysis revealed significantly elevated CAMP expression in DM patients, with strong neutrophil infiltration. In the clinical cohort, serum LL37 levels were significantly higher in DKD patients than in HC, showing discriminatory power for DKD diagnosis (AUC = 0.90, 95% CI: 0.85-0.96). Serum LL37 and MPO-DNA complex levels correlate with elevated serum creatinine and reduced eGFR. After a median follow-up of 39 months, 60 patients (63.83%) experienced renal progression events. After adjusting for confounding factors, elevated serum LL37 and MPO-DNA complex levels were independent risk factors for DKD progression (per Ln-transformed HRs: 2.290 [95% CI: 1.491-3.518] and 1.833 [95% CI: 1.261-2.664], respectively).Elevated serum LL37 and MPO-DNA complex levels are independently associated with kidney disease progression in patients with DKD, and increased circulating LL37 may be closely linked to neutrophil activation.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Increased total hemoglobin (Hb) mass is a physiological adaptation to altitude training; however, considerable individual differences have been observed in this response. This study aimed to determine the relationship between changes in total Hb mass (Hbmass) and conditioning indices during altitude training at an elevation of 1700 m.Sixteen male long-distance runners participated in an altitude training camp at 1700 m for 9 to 23 days. The Hbmass was determined using a carbon monoxide rebreathing method. Daily conditioning indices, including arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2), heart rate (HR), SpO2/HR ratio, subjective ratings of fatigue, sleep depth, training intensity, sleep duration, and daily running distance, were measured or recorded each morning.Hbmass increased by 1.4% (1.9%) on average, with individual changes ranging from -2.1% to 4.6% (-18 to 35 g). A significant positive correlation was observed between ΔHbmass and duration of stay at altitude (r = .695, P = .003). In the multiple regression analysis, duration of stay (B = .235, P = .001) and the SpO2/HR ratio (B = -4.462, P = .001) were identified as significant predictors of Hbmass change (R2 = .819).These findings suggest that increases in Hbmass may occur even at an altitude of 1700 m when sufficient exposure duration is ensured. Furthermore, the SpO2/HR ratio may serve as a practical indicator reflecting individual physiological responses during altitude training.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) are central mediators of vascular inflammation through NF-κB-dependent transcriptional responses, but the role of the cAMP effector exchange protein directly activated by cAMP 1 (EPAC1) remains unresolved. Here, we combined pharmacological modulation, EPAC1 knockdown, Rap1 activation assays, macrophage-containing vascular tri-culture RNA sequencing, cytokine profiling, and molecular docking to define the contribution of EPAC1 to inflammatory signalling in human vascular cells. In primary VSMCs, forskolin suppressed IL-1β- and TNF-α-induced NF-κB p65 phosphorylation and reduced EPAC1 abundance, confirming a strong anti-inflammatory effect of global cAMP elevation. The non-selective EPAC inhibitor ESI-09 also reduced cytokine-induced p65 Ser536 and Ser529 phosphorylation, whereas the EPAC1-selective inhibitor CE3F4 produced only modest effects on NF-κB signalling despite inhibiting Rap1 activation, confirming functional engagement of EPAC-dependent Rap1 signalling. Conversely, acute activation of EPAC1 using D-007, PWO577 or SY007 increased Rap1-GTP but failed to suppress p65 phosphorylation, and EPAC1 siRNA knockdown did not phenocopy forskolin or ESI-09. In a macrophage-driven tri-culture model, RNA sequencing revealed cell-type- and compound-specific transcriptional responses. ESI-09 produced the largest endothelial DEG burden and a prominent down-regulated VSMC signature, whereas CE3F4 exerted a comparatively modest endothelial effect but increased the VSMC up-regulated DEG pool. Molecular docking supported distinct EPAC ligand-binding modes. Collectively, these findings indicate that cAMP suppresses vascular NF-κB signalling predominantly through EPAC1-independent mechanisms and that ESI-09-associated anti-inflammatory effects should not be interpreted as selective EPAC1 biology alone.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561966
Genetic variation in the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP1R) has been implicated in type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk and treatment response. We investigated whether GLP1R R131Q, which was previously reported as a T2D-protective variant in genome-wide association studies, alters receptor signaling, β-cell function, and response to glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs).Trajectory of β-cell function was evaluated in a 20-year community-based prospective cohort in Korea (n = 6,373), where participants underwent biennial 2-h 75-g oral glucose tolerance tests, and disposition index was used as surrogate marker. Pharmacogenetic response to GLP-1RAs was assessed in a hospital-based T2D cohort in Korea (n = 177). Hyperglycemic clamp studies (n = 17), human islet experiments (n = 21), and in vitro assays were conducted to characterize GLP1R R131Q effects on receptor signaling and islet function.GLP1R R131Q was associated with slower decline in disposition index in individuals without T2D, with reductions from baseline of 30% in homozygous carriers, 35% in heterozygotes, and 37% in wild-type individuals. In people with T2D, each allele conferred an additional 0.53% or 5.8 mmol/mol reduction in HbA1c after 6 months of GLP-1RA treatment (P = 5.8 × 10-4). Hyperglycemic clamp and human islet experiments demonstrated allele-dependent enhancement of GLP-1RA-stimulated insulin secretion (P = 0.050 and P = 0.037, respectively). In vitro, GLP1R R131Q increased GLP-1RA-stimulated cAMP production with directional observations consistent with pathway bias.GLP1R R131Q is a gain-of-function variant associated with preservation of β-cell function and enhanced glycemic response to GLP-1RA treatment, supporting further investigation as a candidate pharmacogenetic marker for precision diabetes care.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Heart failure (HF) resulting from chronic systolic overload is associated with increased burden on proteostasis and impaired proteasome function. Phosphorylation of proteasome subunit RPN6/PSMD11 at Ser14 (pS14-RPN6) mediates the activation of 26S proteasomes by PKA, but its significance in common forms of heart disease remains obscure. Hence, we investigated the impact of genetic blockade of pS14-RPN6 on cardiac remodeling and HF during systolic overload, a common condition occurring in hypertension and aortic stenosis. We detected marked increases in ubiquitin conjugates, along with elevated levels of RPN6 and pS14-RPN6 proteins in myocardial tissues from human patients with nonischemic HF. Similarly, myocardial pS14-Rpn6 was increased in wild-type mice 2 and 4 weeks after transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Compared with wild-type littermates, mice with genetic blockade of pS14-Rpn6 resulting from germline knock-in of Rpn6S14A (S14A mice) developed greater cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, left ventricular dysfunction, and lung congestion after TAC. Mechanistically, TAC induced comparable increases in 26S and 30S proteasomes at 2-week in both genotypes but, at 4-week post-TAC, the increases were remarkably attenuated in S14A mice. Meanwhile, TAC-induced increases in proteasome peptidase activities were significantly attenuated (2-week) or abolished (4-week) in S14A mice, accompanied by greater increases in total and K48-linked ubiquitin conjugates. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pS14-RPN6 plays an essential role in upregulating myocardial proteasome activities and sustained upregulation of proteasome assembly, thereby assisting in maintaining proteostasis and protecting against maladaptive cardiac remodeling and HF during systolic overload.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Determining protein oligomerization states in living cells is essential for understanding cell signaling and disease pathology, but it remains technically challenging. Here, we present a protocol for quantifying the oligomeric states of HaloTag-labeled proteins in living mammalian cells using fluorescence fluctuation spectroscopy (FFS) and photon counting histogram (PCH) analysis. Using the photoactivatable protein cryptochrome 2 as a representative model, we describe steps for cell culture, chemical transfection, cell staining, and FFS data acquisition. We then detail procedures for PCH analysis. For complete information on the generation and use of this protocol, please refer to Camp et al.1.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Non-combat musculoskeletal injuries (MSKIs) are the leading cause of medical disability across the military, with poor exercise form-including misalignment and mistiming-being key contributors. Rehabilitation and conditioning can build resilience and reduce risk. Our recent work resulted in a prototype Optical Screening and Conditioning for Injury Resilience (OSCIR) system offering real-time, non-contact, biofeedback through field-deployable motion capture equipped with three-dimensional (3D) camera-based technology and an augmented reality (AR) viewer for tracking exercise form while detecting and alerting the users of high injury risk movement patterns. Developments were shaped by military end-users across the U.S. This study assessed the usability of our field-deployed system and validated real-time biomechanical metrics against those computed from a marker-based system.OSCIR includes a laptop computer, two red-green-blue-depth (RGB-D) camera arrays, and a software package including nine exercise modules that display in real-time, the user's point cloud, a skeleton with graphical biofeedback, and range of motion tracking with exercise-specific MSKI risk indicators. Biomechanical accuracy validation was conducted among n = 13 nonmilitary controls in compliance with Western-Copernicus Group. Usability was assessed among n = 33 healthy active duty servicemembers at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton and Explosive Ordinance Disposal Group One training facilities using the system usability survey (SUS) and structured interviews in compliance with Naval Medical Center San Diego Institutional Review Board protocol.Compared to the marker-based system, OSCIR's metrics resulted in Intraclass Correlation Coefficient estimates between 0.80 and 0.98 ("good" to "excellent" agreement) for each metric. End-user feedback was notably positive, earning "excellent" SUS scores (Mean ± SD = 80.77 ± 12.93).OSCIR achieves high agreement with the gold-standard system for biomechanical metrics, and its user-friendly features score highly among military stakeholders. OSCIR will help military stakeholders manage MSKIs in warfighters by automating training and rehabilitation batteries, making quantitative form-correction readily accessible and accurate for operational training environments.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Between 1953 and 1987, the ground water at Marine Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina was contaminated. Service members and their families living at the camp were exposed to volatile organic compounds which have been linked to several health conditions. Legislation offers reimbursement to families of service members who lived at the camp and were diagnosed with conditions related to the toxicants.A sample of service members based at Camp Lejeune between 1975 and 1985 were surveyed and interviewed to characterize their family members' experiences with exposure-related health conditions. The survey was online, voluntary, and cross-sectional; semistructured interviews were conducted by telephone.A total of 1,073 surveys and 22 semistructured interviews were completed. Of the 12% who reported having a spouse on base and provided a response, 33% reported that their spouse developed an exposure-related health condition. Of the 14% who reported having a child on base, 28% reported that their child(ren) developed an exposure-related condition. The most frequently reported conditions for spouses and dependents included miscarriage and neurobehavioral effects (20.4%, 9.9%, 7.1%, and 13.0%), respectively). Qualitative data revealed that the grief of losing loved ones and coping with illnesses compounded with the financial burden of these conditions were stressors for family members.Service members reported that the Camp Lejeune contamination negatively impacted their family members as some developed exposure-related conditions leading to experiencing psychological and financial distress. Further research directly with family members is needed to determine the extent to which they were affected by these exposures.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Gold closely resembles halogens in its comparable electronegativity, its closed-shell electronic configuration upon gaining one electron, and its ability to form superhalogen species. This work explores gold's halogen-like bonding behavior, particularly in the formation of halogen bond (XB) analogues, termed pseudo-XB. We conduct density functional theory (DFT) calculations to systematically compare homonuclear dimers X2···X2 (X = F/Cl/Br/I) and M2···M2 (M = Cu/Ag/Au), heteronuclear dimers FX'···X'F (X' = Cl/Br/I) and FAu···AuF, as well as trimers and tetramers of (F-X') and (F-Au). Au2···Au2 and FAu···AuF adopt zigzag configurations analogous to their halogen counterparts. The Lewis structures of these configurations are proposed to explain the bonding mode between monomers, which is further confirmed by the direction of charge transfer upon the formation of dimers. In the studied systems, gold can form pseudo-XBs similar to halogens (especially iodine), and such pseudo-XBs exhibit greater interaction strength than conventional XBs within the investigated systems. Quantum theory of atoms in molecules (QTAIM) and energy decomposition analysis (EDA) reveal that the nature of gold's pseudo-XBs is similar to that of XBs; both are closed-shell interactions and dominated by orbital interactions and electronic correlation energies. These findings support viewing gold as a halogen-like center in the particular families of clusters examined.
To evaluate the physiological and clinical effects of sivelestat, a selective neutrophil elastase inhibitor, in patients with aortic dissection-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and to explore its potential mechanisms using transcriptomic analysis.This single-center, randomized, placebo-controlled pilot trial enrolled adult patients who developed ARDS with systemic inflammatory response syndrome after aortic dissection surgery. Participants were randomized 1:1 to receive continuous intravenous sivelestat (0.2 mg/kg/h) or placebo for 5 days. The primary outcome was the PaO2/FiO2 ratio on Day 5. Secondary outcomes included Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, requirement and duration of invasive mechanical ventilation, and ICU length of stay. Inflammatory biomarkers were measured on Days 1, 3, and 5. Peripheral blood RNA sequencing was performed on Day 5.Ten patients were enrolled (sivelestat n=5; placebo n=5). By Day 5, the sivelestat group showed significantly higher PaO2/FiO2 (317.2 ± 115.8 vs 168.6 ± 79.4 mmHg; p=0.046), lower SOFA scores (5.8 ± 1.3 vs 9.0 ± 1.9; p=0.014), lower CRP levels on Days 3 and 5 (both p=0.005), and shorter ICU stay (6.0 ± 2.5 vs 13.0 ± 3.6 days; p=0.009). RNA sequencing identified 518 differentially expressed genes, with six hub genes (BPI, ELANE, CEBPE, MPO, CTSG, and DEFA3) enriched in neutrophil protease-related inflammatory pathways.In this hypothesis-generating pilot study, early sivelestat was associated with preliminary signals of improved oxygenation, reduced systemic inflammation, and shorter ICU stay. Exploratory transcriptomics identified six hub genes (BPI, ELANE, CEBPE, MPO, CTSG, DEFA3) implicating neutrophil protease-centered pathways. These findings support the need for larger, biomarker-integrated multicenter trials to confirm efficacy and define responsive subgroups.© 2026 Wang et al.
Squamate pregnancy is an important topic in reproductive and evolutionary biology, as it provides insight to amniote live-bearing that is not mammalian. Gene regulation in squamates is poorly characterised and the extent of molecular convergence in the developmental mechanisms of pregnancy across amniotes is strongly debated. To test the role of gene expression and alternative splicing in viviparous pregnancy in a lizard, we sequenced the uterine transcriptome of viviparous female Eurasian common lizards (Lacertidae: Zootoca vivipara) using long reads and examined whole-gene and transcript-level expression before, during, and after pregnancy. We found that 874 genes were differentially expressed between pregnant and non-pregnant uterine tissue, including several involved in pregnancy in other animals, such as NOS1, MALL, and CLCN2. Upregulated genes were enriched for functional terms relevant to pregnancy in other amniotes, such as cardiovascular, tissue remodelling, and muscle-related processes; downregulated terms were dominated by ribosomal activity. We found differential transcript usage between reproductive stages for 114 genes, of which most (78 genes) were not differentially expressed, suggesting alternative splicing and expression play different functional roles. Genes showing differential transcript usage included several with isoform variants involved in pregnancy in mammals and/or squamates, such as SRSF2, FAU, and LPP. These candidates involved alternative promoters and complex patterns of regulation varying by isoform across reproductive stages. Our study provides high-resolution information about gene regulation during viviparous lizard reproduction, indicating a functional role of differential expression and alternative splicing involving new candidates and others known to be involved in amniote pregnancy.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
IntroductionThis study aimed to develop a prognostic model based on pain-related PANoptosis genes to enhance therapeutic decision-making for oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients.MethodsRNA sequencing data from 323 OSCC patients and 43 controls in the TCGA cohort were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Correlation analysis revealed pain-related PANoptosis genes, and a prognostic model was developed using Cox and LASSO regression and validated in the GSE42743 cohort. Immune microenvironment differences were assessed, and drug sensitivity was predicted. qRT-PCR was employed to validate gene expression alterations in OSCC tissues.ResultsAmong 2,253 DEGs, 38 overlapped with PANoptosis-related genes, leading to the identification of 37 pain-related PANoptosis genes that characterized two OSCC subtypes. A Pain-Related PANoptosis-gene model (including CA9, DEFB1, DES, IGLL5, LCE3D, LYNX1, SPINK7) achieved AUCs of 0.626 and 0.690 in the TCGA and validation cohorts, respectively. Significant immune microenvironment differences were noted, with high-risk patients showing immune characteristics associated with a more immunosuppressive environment. GSEA identified activated pathways like autophagy and chemokine signaling in high-risk patients.ConclusionsThe pain-related PANoptosis-gene model effectively stratifies OSCC patients by risk. Sepantronium bromide may represent a potential therapeutic candidate for high-risk patients; however, further experimental validation is required.
Neoadjuvant therapy (NAT) followed by radical surgery is the standard treatment for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (LA-ESCC), yet many patients fail to achieve pathologic complete response (pCR). Predictive biomarkers and biological mechanisms underlying NAT resistance remain elusive. We aimed to address this challenge through longitudinal multi-omics profiling of patient plasma during NAT.We performed longitudinal plasma proteomic and metabolomic analyses in a discovery cohort of patients with LA-ESCC (n = 40) receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nCT) or neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy (nICT) to reveal molecular features relevant to treatment response. Predictive biomarkers for pCR were assessed in plasma samples from an independent validation cohort (n = 93) by ELISA. Mechanistic studies were conducted through in vitro cell co-culture, in vivo mouse experiments, and analysis of ESCC tissue samples from another validation cohort (n = 33).Multi-omics analysis revealed distinct molecular profiles between treatment responders and non-responders. Metabolomic profiling revealed dynamic treatment-associated changes in amino acid and lipid metabolism during NAT, and proteomic profiling highlighted baseline differences related to neutrophil activity and inflammatory responses. DEFA1 was validated as an unfavorable predictive biomarker for achieving pCR after nICT. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that DEFA1 fosters an immunosuppressive microenvironment by promoting myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC) differentiation and impairing CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity.This study delineates the longitudinal plasma multi-omic landscape associated with NAT response in LA-ESCC and identifies DEFA1 as a predictive biomarker and potential therapeutic target for overcoming immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Zeolite catalysts often face a fundamental trade-off between molecular accessibility and shape-selective confinement. Here, we show that this trade-off can be mitigated by accessing kinetically stabilized crystalline FAU-CHA intermediates during partial interzeolite transformation. Pair distribution function analysis reveals the coexistence of FAU- and CHA-derived structural motifs within the materials, consistent with the partial structural reorganization of the FAU framework during interzeolite transformation. In situ FT-IR spectroscopy demonstrates that these intermediates retain the Brønsted acid sites characteristic of both frameworks, whereas transient extra-framework aluminum species emerge and are progressively reincorporated into the zeolite lattice. Quantitative acidity measurements using ammonia and pyridine further show that the intermediates preserve a high density of Brønsted acid sites with markedly enhanced accessibility compared to the fully transformed CHA. Together, these results establish kinetically controlled interzeolite transformation as a route to crystalline zeolitic materials, in which accessibility and confinement are jointly encoded through intimate phase contact, with direct implications for catalytic reactions involving bulky substrates.
Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate strong general reasoning and language understanding, yet their performance degrades in domains governed by strict formal rules, precise terminology, and legally binding structure. Tax law exemplifies these challenges, as correct answers require exact statutory citation, structured legal argumentation, and numerical accuracy under rigid grading schemes. We curate SteuerEx, the first open benchmark derived from authentic German university tax-law examinations, processed through a structured statement-level decomposition pipeline. SteuerEx comprises 115 expert-validated examination questions spanning six core tax law domains and multiple academic levels, and employs a statement-level, partial-credit evaluation framework that closely mirrors real examination practice. We further present SteuerLLM, a domain-adapted LLM for German tax law trained on a large-scale synthetic dataset generated from authentic examination material using a controlled retrieval-augmented pipeline. SteuerLLM (28B parameters) consistently outperforms general-purpose instruction-tuned models of comparable size and, in several cases, substantially larger systems, demonstrating that domain-specific data and architectural adaptation are more decisive than parameter count for performance on realistic legal reasoning tasks. All benchmark data, training datasets, model weights, and evaluation code are released openly to support reproducible research in domain-specific legal artificial intelligence. A web-based demo of SteuerLLM is available at https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de .© 2026. The Author(s).
The global threat of viral infections highlights the urgent need for the development of effective antiviral solid materials. Proton-form zeolites have been recently reported to inactivate viruses such as influenza and M13 bacteriophage without relying on metal ion exchange, suggesting a promising approach for low-cost and nondiscoloring antiviral applications. However, these findings have so far been confined primarily to FAU-type zeolites, leaving the relationship between antiviral activity and the physicochemical properties of zeolites─such as framework topology and chemical composition─largely unexplored. Here, we conducted antiviral assays using both synthetic and natural zeolites against M13 bacteriophage as a model virus, aiming to establish design principles for metal-free antiviral zeolites. Natural mordenite (MOR-type) zeolites exhibited significantly higher antiviral activity than commercially available synthetic zeolites, underscoring their potential as environmentally benign and cost-effective antiviral materials. Among the synthetic H-form zeolites investigated in this study, MOR with a Si/Al ratio of 9.0 showed outstanding antiviral activity. Comprehensive characterization revealed a strong correlation between surface acid strength and antiviral performance, suggesting that the superior activity of MOR-type zeolites arises from their high intrinsic acidity associated with their framework structures.
To investigate the effects of phosphorus doping on the thermal stability and air separation of the low-silica X (LSX) zeolite, different amounts of phosphorus were loaded into the channels of a commercial Li+-exchanged LSX (Li-LSX) zeolite via wet impregnation. The pristine Li-LSX zeolite exhibited an exothermic peak above 500 °C, attributed to framework collapse, and its characteristic peaks of the FAU structure almost disappeared and transformed to the nepheline phase upon calcination at 600 °C. Meanwhile, due to the weaker electric field of Li+ by phosphorus, the weight loss of chemisorbed water in the phosphorus-modified zeolites exhibited a significant decrease with phosphorus addition, and the FAU structures were well preserved even after calcination at 600 °C. Notably, the Li-LSX zeolite modified with a low phosphorus loading (0.12 wt%) not only well preserved most elemental compositions and framework structure but also weakened the interactions of Li+ cations with water molecules, greatly improved thermal stability and exhibited a relatively higher N2 adsorption capacity and no significant differences in the O2 adsorption capacity with an N2/O2 selectivity coefficient of 8.39, which can fully meet the industrial requirements.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Developing highly efficient, stable, and wide-temperature NH3-SCR catalysts is one of the major challenges in industrial NOx emission control. Herein, we present an oxide-zeolite (OXZEO) hybrid design strategy for overcoming the challenge by spatially separating the NH3 storage and redox functions via isolated zeolitic Brønsted (B) acid sites, in contrast to conventional regulation strategies that rely on Lewis acid sites. Through a combination of in situ spectroscopy, in situ mass spectrometry, ab initio molecular dynamics, and density functional theory, we identify a previously unrecognized denitrification (deNOx) mechanism unique to the OXZEO system. Zeolitic B acid sites act as highly regulated NH3 storage, and the stored NH3 desorbs and migrates to oxide active sites as NH3 and NH4+, the latter effectively suppressing high-temperature NH3 over-oxidation. Using CeSnOx/Beta as the main model system for mechanistic investigation, we further demonstrate that this strategy can be generally extended to diverse zeolite topologies (BEA, CHA, MFI, FAU) and Ce-/Mn-based oxides, affording catalysts that achieve >80% NOx conversion and ~100% N2 selectivity over a temperature window exceeding 300 °C. This work highlights zeolite-mediated NH3 storage in deNOx, providing mechanistic insight into OXZEO structure-property relationships and guiding the development of next-generation NH3-SCR catalysts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is a common respiratory infectious disease worldwide, posing a significant threat to human health. In recent years, the crucial role of inflammasomes in the occurrence and development of pneumonia has gradually been recognized. This study aims to systematically explore potential diagnostic biomarkers related to inflammasomes in CAP. CAP transcriptome datasets GSE103119 and GSE196399 were obtained from the GEO database. First, we conducted differential expression analysis and combined it with weighted gene co-expression network analysis to screen inflammasome-related differentially expressed genes (DEIRGs). Subsequently, we carried out Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology enrichment analysis. Then, based on multiple machine learning algorithms [least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), recursive feature elimination (RFE), Boruta, and random forest], we performed feature gene selection and combined a support vector machine (SVM) to construct a classification model. The diagnostic performance was evaluated in the training set and validation set through the receiver operating characteristic curve and precision-recall curve. Finally, we collected peripheral blood samples from 5 patients with CAP and 5 healthy controls and used quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to verify the expression differences of candidate genes. A total of 414 DEIRGs were identified, mainly enriched in immune response regulation, Th17 cell differentiation, and autophagy pathways. Combined with machine learning and SVM analysis, the LASSO and RFE models showed the best performance in CAP diagnosis. Based on the intersection of these two algorithms, RPL39, INSL3, and vimentin (VIM) were ultimately determined as the core candidate genes. The qRT-PCR results further confirmed that in CAP peripheral blood samples, INSL3 and VIM showed significantly increased expression, while RPL39 showed decreased expression, which was consistent with the bioinformatics prediction. This study identifies RPL39, INSL3, and VIM as potential diagnostic markers for CAP, which may provide new evidence for early diagnosis and stratified management.
Metaplastic breast cancer (MpBC) is a rare and aggressive breast cancer subtype characterised by marked histological heterogeneity, therapeutic resistance and poor clinical outcomes. Despite increasing molecular research, existing evidence remains fragmented, heterogeneous and poorly integrated, limiting clinical translation and biomarker validation.We developed an integrative analytical framework combining systematic review, quantitative meta-analysis, transcriptomic profiling and interpretable machine learning to identify and prioritise molecular markers in MpBC. A Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta Analyses-guided systematic review was conducted across PubMed, arXiv and Semantic Scholar. Effect sizes were standardised to Cohen's d and synthesised using a random-effects model. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the GSE165407 dataset using DESeq2 in R (RStudio version 1.1.463), with differentially expressed genes cross-referenced against literature-derived biomarkers. Supervised models including a multi-layer perceptron and boosted random forest were applied, with performance evaluated using receiver operating characteristic analysis. Model interpretability was assessed using SHapley Additive exPlanations.Eleven studies met inclusion criteria. Meta-analysis demonstrated low heterogeneity and a pooled effect size of d = 0.74 (95% CI 0.59-0.88), indicating a consistent moderate-to-large biomarker signal across studies. Pathway enrichment revealed convergence on PI3K/AKT/mTOR signalling, immune modulation and epithelial -mesenchymal transition. Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated concordance with literature-derived markers. The random forest model achieved strong classification performance (AUC = 0.91), with high specificity and minimal misclassification. SHapley Additive exPlanations analysis identified both canonical (PI3KCA, RPL39, EXO1) and non-canonical (CD55, LARGE2) contributors to model prediction.This study provides an integrated synthesis linking systematic evidence, transcriptomic validation and interpretable machine learning in MpBC. By reconciling fragmented literature with data-driven modelling, we identify a biologically coherent and clinically tractable molecular signature, offering a foundation for biomarker-driven stratification and translational validation.© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.
The development of vaccines against Mycoplasma ovipneumoniae (MO) and the screening of novel therapeutic agents are hindered by the lack of a stable animal model for evaluation. Hu sheep, as a predominant breed in intensive farming systems, are highly susceptible to MO infection. Therefore, we established a MO infection model in Hu sheep to investigate the reasons for their susceptibility to MO. We collected tissue samples from the lung junction at the interface between diseased and healthy areas for pathological examination and transcriptomic analysis. Differentially expressed genes were screened and subjected to functional enrichment analysis, enabling an in-depth discussion of the mechanisms by which MO damages the lungs of Hu sheep. The study found that following infection with MO, Hu sheep exhibit a gradual rise in body temperature during the initial phase of infection. After several days of persistent fever, the temperature gradually returns to normal, while body weight shows a downward trend. Twenty-one days after infection with MO, hepatization of lung tissue was observed in the right apical lobe of the lung in Hu sheep. Histopathological sections from the lesion-control interface revealed thickened alveolar septa with extensive infiltration of red blood cells and inflammatory cells. Transcriptome sequencing identified 899 differentially expressed genes (|log2(Fold Change)| ≥ 1, padj≤ 0.05), comprising 535 upregulated genes and 364 downregulated genes. GO enrichment analysis indicates that the core functions of differentially expressed genes are concentrated in two biological processes: immune system processes and immune responses. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched across 28 distinct signaling pathways, identifying multiple key metabolic pathways associated with MO infection. These primarily encompassed the IL-17 signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, NF-κB signaling pathway, TNF-α signaling pathway, and natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity pathways. We have additionally identified multiple genes associated with MO infection, including CCL19, CCL20, TNFSF11, CXCL8, CXCL11, CCR10, CSF3, IL2RA, CXCL1, CD40, BBOX1, and BPIFB1. These discoveries lay the groundwork for establishing MO infection models and investigating the mechanisms underlying sheep susceptibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The vaginal microbiome significantly influences gynecological and obstetric health, yet the interrelationship between host vaginal gene expression and the microbiota during pregnancy is understudied-particularly in racioethnically diverse cohorts. Here, we leveraged metatranscriptomic data from 123 participants from the Multi-Omic Microbiome Study-Pregnancy Initiative (MOMS-PI) cohort to perform a novel integrated analysis of human host gene expression and vaginal microbiota composition during pregnancy. We hypothesized that host gene expression at the vaginal-mucosal interface would exhibit distinct transcriptional profiles when colonized by bacteria commonly present in bacterial vaginosis (BV), termed BV-associated vagitypes, compared to Lactobacillus-dominated microbiomes. Such distinct host response would provide evidence linking vaginal inflammation to microbiome composition during pregnancy in a majority Black cohort. By profiling host expression with different BV-associated vagitypes, these host-microbiome signatures could inform clinically actionable biomarkers for microbiome-focused interventions during pregnancy in historically underrepresented populations.Host transcriptomic profiles differed significantly between BV-associated and Lactobacillus-dominated vagitypes, with this association remaining significant when analyses were restricted to Black participants. We identified 13 consistently differentially expressed genes in women with BV-associated vagitypes-vaginal microbiomes comprised of high relative abundance of either Gardnerella spp., Candidatus Lachnocurva vaginae, or a mixture of multiple anaerobic taxa-compared to women with Lactobacillus crispatus vagitypes. These differentially expressed genes are involved in host immune response (DKK1, H2BC21, ILRUN, S100A9), oxidative stress response and inflammasome activation (CSTB), transcription modulation (CLK1, PAX9), vesicle trafficking (EXPH5), ubiquitination (FBXO32), membrane integrity (PIEZO1), and ion transport (S100A16, SCNN1A, SLCO4A1).BV-associated vagitypes are correlated with distinct host immunomodulatory gene expression profiles during pregnancy, independent of self-reported racioethnicity. We demonstrated novel molecular insights into microbiome-host interaction during pregnancy within the context of adverse cervicovaginal health.
Neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy (nICT) has emerged as a promising strategy for locally advanced gastric cancer (LAGC), yet clinical responses remain heterogeneous and reliable predictive biomarkers are lacking. A comprehensive dissection of the tumor microenvironment (TME) is essential to uncover determinants of therapeutic efficacy and enable precision immunotherapy.We performed digital spatial profiling (DSP) using the NanoString GeoMx platform on pretreatment endoscopic biopsies from 19 LAGC patients treated with tislelizumab plus SOX chemotherapy. Multiplex fluorescence staining (PanCK, CD45, CD68) enabled compartment-specific transcriptomic analysis of tumor center regions, immune cell infiltration area, and other stromal regions. Findings were integrated with TCGA-STAD data and validated in an independent cohort (n = 20) by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for NOTUM, SERPINA3, CD8, and FOXP3.Spatial profiling revealed distinct transcriptional programs across tumor-center regions (TC), immune cell infiltration area (MA), and other stromal regions (OTHER) compartments. High tumor-intrinsic expression of NOTUM, NKD1, and SERPINA3, together with elevated CD8+ T cell infiltration and a reduced Treg/CD3+ ratio within the TME, robustly associated with major pathological response (MPR). These spatial biomarkers were orthogonally validated by IHC in an independent cohort. In TCGA-STAD, a six-gene signature (NOTUM, APOA2, SERPINA3, NKD1, GGH, BPIFB1) correlated with prolonged survival and favorable immune infiltration, with conserved immune-modulatory patterns across multiple cancer types.This study identifies NOTUM, SERPINA3, and CD8+ T cell density as spatially resolved, clinically actionable predictors of nICT response in LAGC. Our findings underscore the power of spatial TME interrogation to uncover novel biomarkers and guide personalized immunotherapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Fan, Peng, Xiang, Luo, Ma, Huang, Nie and Dong.
Aquaculture disease management requires effective alternatives to conventional antibiotics, which contribute to antimicrobial resistance and environmental contamination through residual accumulation. Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are becoming the potential candidates due to their broad-spectrum activity, rapid bactericidal effects, and low resistance potential, offering sustainable solutions for aquatic disease control. To develop novel antimicrobial agents against bacterial infections in fish, this study first designed the AMP KRK12N by truncating a 12-amino acid fragment from the ribosomal protein L39 (RPL39) of large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea) and modifying its C-terminus with amidation. Further structural optimization through amino acid substitutions yielded derivative peptides KRK12N-1 and KRK12N-2. Structural analysis revealed that KRK12N and its derivatives primarily adopt random coil conformations in aqueous environments (PBS) but transition to α-helical structures in membrane-mimetic conditions (SDS and TFE). All peptides demonstrated broad-spectrum activity, with KRK12N-2's perfect amphipathic α-helix showing superior potency. Additionally, all three AMPs can improve the survival rate of zebrafish infected with Pseudomonas plecoglossicida. The peptides also displayed excellent biosafety, with low hemolytic activity and cytotoxicity, and maintained stable antimicrobial activity under different physicochemical conditions, such as high temperature, extreme pH, and high ionic strength. Mechanistic studies indicated that all of KRK12N, KRK12N-1, and KRK12N-2 bind lipopolysaccharide (LPS), induce membrane depolarization, and increase permeability, ultimately disrupting bacterial membrane integrity to exert their bactericidal effects. The present findings elucidate the direct bactericidal activity of the C-terminal α-helical domain of large yellow croaker RPL39, while providing a foundational basis for the development of new antimicrobial agents in aquaculture.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Synovial sarcoma (SS) is a rare malignancy, accounting for 5%-10% of all soft tissue sarcomas, and characterized by the SS18::SSX translocation. SS predominantly affects young individuals, with a peak incidence in the fourth decade of life. Children (<15 years), and adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 15-29 years) with SS tend to have better survival rates than older adults; however, the biological basis for these age-related differences remains poorly understood.In this study, high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was used to investigate biological differences in SS across age groups. Transcriptomic profiles of primary tumor tissues from 14 patients younger than 29 years were compared with those from 8 adult patients (>29 years), with the aim of identifying age-related molecular features of SS. In addition, enrichment of recently described transcriptional signatures associated with SS tumor components and infiltrating cell populations was evaluated in our dataset.RNA-seq analysis identified differential expression of RPL39 and GATA3 between children/AYA and adult patients. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed increased GATA3 expression in adult tumors. Comparative analyses based on SS-related transcriptional signatures further demonstrated enrichment of actively cycling tumor cells in adult samples, as well as a trend toward increased M2 macrophage infiltration in approximately half of the children/AYA samples.This study reveals age-related molecular and tumor microenvironment differences in SS that may contribute to disparities in clinical outcomes. These findings underscore the need for further studies to validate these results and to support the development of age-tailored therapeutic strategies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Studies have shown that Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection can induce chronic inflammation and immune responses in the gastric mucosa, potentially contributing to the development of lymphoma. To explore the association between H. pylori and Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was employed. Additionally, the CIBERSORT algorithm was utilized to investigate the immune microenvironment in DLBCL associated with H. pylori for novel biomarkers identification. A two-sample MR analysis confirmed a bidirectional causal relationship between H. pylori UREA antibody and DLBCL incidence. The primary method used (IVW: OR=1.323, 95 % CI 1.046-1.675, P-value=0.02<0.05) indicated a significant positive causal association without evidence of heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy. A total of 881 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified when comparing DLBCL patients resistant versus sensitive to H. pylori eradication treatment from GSE182362. The hub genes EDNRB, ACTG2, SST, CCL2, COL11A1, SELE, ALB, DUOX2, BPIFB1, and CXCL6 exhibited enrichment within the immune microenvironment context. CCL2 exhibited significant correlations with M1 macrophages, M2 macrophages, Neutrophils, T cells CD4 memory resting and Plasma cells. These findings elucidate the causal association between H. pylori UREA antibody levels and DLBCL, while underscoring the potential for targeted therapy in H. pylori-positive patients diagnosed with DLBCL.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the early transcriptomic and pathologic changes of Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD) using the Col8a2Q455K/Q455K mutant mouse model.The Col8a2Q455K/Q455K mutant mice were divided into the early-stage (≤2-month-old) group and the late-stage (≥8-month-old) group, based on corneal endothelial changes evaluated by slit-lamp microscopy, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and confocal microscopy. The corneal endothelial cells from early-stage mutant and age-matched wild-type (WT) mice were collected for transcriptomic analysis and validated by quantitative PCR and immunofluorescence staining.The Col8a2Q455K/Q455K mutant mice showed no observable corneal abnormality before 2 months of age. Morphological changes of the corneal endothelium appeared at 4 months and aggravated continuously with apparent corneal edema. However, when analyzing transcriptomic changes of the corneal endothelium, we found that the early-stage mutant mice exhibited 221 upregulated and 55 downregulated genes compared with age-matched WT mice; these differences were even more pronounced in the late-stage mutant mice. The upregulated genes predominantly enriched three signaling processes, including extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling (e.g. Lgals3, Timp1, and Mmp3), endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress (e.g. Hspa5, Dnajb9, and Atf3), and early activation of immune-related pathways (e.g. Icam1, Bpifb1, and C1q). Moreover, the qPCR and immunofluorescence staining further validated changes in gene and protein expressions prior to the morphological abnormalities in the mutant mice.The Col8a2Q455K/Q455K mutant mice exhibit aberrant activation of ECM remodeling, ER stress. and immune responses in the corneal endothelium prior to observable pathogenic changes, providing the first in vivo evidence of potential early biomarkers and therapeutic treatments for FECD.
Vitamin C (VC) is an essential micronutrient known to significantly promote growth and enhance immunity in aquatic organisms. For crustaceans, dietary VC is a critical requirement for proper development. To assess the effects of VC supplementation on juvenile Chinese horseshoe crabs (Tachypleus tridentatus), first instar juveniles were subjected to various concentrations of VC in the aquatic environment. The objectives of this study were to determine the optimal VC concentration for the growth and survival of juvenile horseshoe crabs based on experimental records; to investigate the effects of VC on their gene expression through transcriptomic analysis; and to examine the impacts of various VC concentrations by measuring enzyme activities. The experimental results showed that the optimal VC concentration for molting was 30 mg/L (medium concentration), while 90 mg/L (high concentration) was optimal for survival. The effects of VC were specifically manifested by up-regulation of cytochrome c-like and down-regulation of ATP synthase F0 subunit 6 and increased alkaline phosphatase levels, which accelerated energy absorption and promoted rational energy allocation. At moderate-to-high concentrations, VC up-regulated the expression of papain family cysteine protease and partially up-regulated β-actin, while down-regulating ribosomal protein L29 (RPL29) and rho-related proteins. This expression profile ensured the precise execution of apoptosis and cell division/differentiation. Additionally, downregulation of RPL39 by VC enhanced translation efficiency. Concurrently, up-regulation of RPLP2, protein component of the small (40 S) ribosomal subunit, and RPL35, along with elevated alkaline phosphatase levels, collectively improved cellular immunity and repair capacity. Overall, these results confirm that VC promotes the growth and development of T. tridentatus.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Serrated adenocarcinoma (SAC) represents a molecularly heterogeneous subtype of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) linked to the serrated pathway. It is aimed to clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying SAC development. Digital slides from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) colorectal adenocarcinoma Firehose Legacy dataset (632 cases) were reviewed, and cases were classified as SAC, partial-SAC, or classical CRC. Genomic alterations, mRNA expression, and DNA hypermethylation were compared using cBioPortal. Enrichment analyses were performed via WebGestalt, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks with hub genes were identified using STRING and Cytoscape. Statistical significance was defined as p < 0.05 and q < 0.05. The results revealed that the groups showed significant differences in the expression of 327 genomic alterations, 20 mRNAs, and 21 methylated genes (p < 0.0001, q < 0.0001). Hub genes were PSMC1, FLT3LG, SNW1, H3C2, H1-2, H2BC14, H1-5, RPS16, SUPT5H, and MYOD1. The pathways associated with differently expressed genes were the following: cell structure and morphology (phagocytic vesicle, microvillus, endocytosis, and immobile cilium), protein kinase activity (particularly MAPK), and immunological mechanisms. The hub genes act as molecular bridges connecting the observed genomic and epigenetic variations, particularly driving chromatin-related regulation and MAPK signaling pathways. In particular, PSMC1, SNW1, H3C2, H1-2, and H2BC14 genes offer promising molecular targets for future therapeutic approaches in SACs.
Lactate, traditionally regarded as a metabolic waste product of glycolysis, has recently emerged as a critical signaling molecule and epigenetic modifier via protein lactylation. However, the functional consequences of histone lactylation in cancer progression remain poorly understood.We integrated transcriptomic data from TCGA and GEO (GSE188900) with bulk and single-cell RNA-seq analyses to identify lactylation-associated histone variants involved in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Functional assays, immunoprecipitation (IP), western blotting (WB), chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR, and luciferase reporter assays were employed to investigate the role of H2BC9 and its lactylation in ESCC. A xenograft tumor model was used to validate in vivo relevance.We identified H2BC9, a histone H2B variant, as a lactylation-associated oncogene that is overexpressed in ESCC and correlates with poor prognosis. Lactate stimulation induced H2BC9 lactylation, particularly at lysine 44 (K44), as confirmed by mass spectrometry and IP-WB assays. Mechanistically, K44 lactylation of H2BC9 enhanced the transcriptional activity of Wnt7b, leading to activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Mutation of K44 (K44R) abolished H2BC9 lactylation and significantly impaired its ability to promote ESCC cell proliferation and Wnt7b transcription, as demonstrated by ChIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase assays. In vivo, H2BC9 K44R-expressing cells exhibited reduced tumor growth in xenograft models. Furthermore, H2BC9 expression was associated with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and chemoresistance.Our study reveals a novel regulatory axis in which H2BC9 K44 lactylation activates Wnt7b transcription and downstream Wnt/β-catenin signaling, driving ESCC progression. Targeting H2BC9 lactylation may offer a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome tumor growth and immune evasion in ESCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
The human immunoreceptor NKp65 is specifically expressed by a subset of human innate lymphocytes, i.e., innate lymphoid cells group 3 (ILC3) and activates cellular cytotoxicity upon interaction with its genetically linked ligand KACL. In the context of the present study, the relevance of a common polymorphism in the NKp65-coding KLRF2 gene was addressed.Using biophysical methods such as flow cytometry and surface resonance spectroscopy, as well as immunological methods such as ELISA and immunoblots and cytotoxicity assays, the influence of polymorphism rs576601 on surface expression, binding kinetics to the ligand KACL, proteolytic cleavage, intracellular retention, and functional responsiveness of NKp65 was investigated.Polymorphism rs576601 entails the exchange of cytosine for adenine, resulting in a substitution of proline by threonine at amino acid position 131 within the C-type lectin-like ectodomain of NKp65. Here, we show that the NKp65-Thr131 variant is only weakly expressed on the cell surface as compared to the NKp65-Pro131 variant. This is due to an enhanced intracellular retention of NKp65-Thr131 but not due to proteolytic cleavage. In addition, the polymorphism rs576601 has a significant impact on the binding kinetics and affinity to the ligand KACL. On a functional level, the combination of reduced surface expression and affinity resulted in a drastically reduced cellular cytotoxicity of NKp65-Thr131+ effector cells towards KACL+ target cells.The polymorphism rs576601 affects ligand interaction, cell surface expression and function of NKp65. Since the NKp65 ligand KACL is primarily expressed on keratinocytes, polymorphism rs576601 may impact on skin immunosurveillance by NKp65-expressing ILC3.Copyright: © 2025 Heller et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Monoclonal immunoglobulins are commonly found in multiple myeloma (MM), a prevalent hematologic malignancy that is currently incurable. In recent years, the association between systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease, and MM has garnered increasing attention. However, there remains a lack of in-depth research regarding the interactions between these two conditions and their potential pathogenic mechanisms. Therefore, in order to improve the identification of MM associated with SLE, this work attempts to clarify the pathogenic pathways that are shared by MM and SLE and to develop corresponding diagnostic models.This study employs a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis combined with machine learning techniques to extract relevant data from public databases. We used GO and KEGG pathway analyses to investigate the functionalities and pathway enrichments of the DEGs that we found in MM and SLE populations. Furthermore, we used the STRING database to build a PPI network for the intersecting genes and the cytoHubba plugin in Cytoscape software to identify important genes with biological significance. To establish a diagnostic model for SLE-related MM, we compared 113 combinations of 12 machine learning algorithms, ultimately determining the optimal model.Our analysis identified 63 intersecting genes, with 31 exhibiting upregulated expression and 32 showing downregulated expression. The selection of key genes indicated that nine genes met the criteria of having both Degree and MCC values exceeding 3, among which seven (CDH1, IL4, AURKB, HGF, H2BC9, AREG, TJP1) have previously been confirmed to have direct associations with MM. Notably, H2BC5 was identified as a specific gene associated with SLE-related MM. Our findings revealed that elevated expression of H2BC5 is significantly correlated with an increased risk of MM, suggesting its potential critical role in the diagnosis and identification of this malignancy.A new molecular framework for the early diagnosis of MM, especially in SLE patients, is established by this study. Our findings highlight H2BC5 as a possible biomarker that merits more research into how it contributes to the development of MM. By identifying the shared pathogenic mechanisms between SLE and MM, our research offers new perspectives for future clinical interventions and personalized therapies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Histone H2B is highly expressed in many types of cancers and is involved in cancer development. H2B clustered histone 9 (H2BC9), a member of the H2B family, plays critical roles in gene expression regulation, chromosome structure, DNA repair stability, and cell cycle regulation. However, the diagnostic and prognostic value of H2BC9 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the potential diagnostic and prognostic value of H2BC9 in HNSCC and investigate its biological role using bioinformatics.The expression pattern and diagnostic value of H2BC9 in HNSCC were explored using UCSC Xena and GEO database. H2BC9 expression was validated using the Human Protein Atlas database, qRT-PCR, and western blotting. Prognostic value was assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves, Cox regression analysis, and a nomogram. Drug sensitivity was predicted using the R package pRRophetic, and molecular interactions were analyzed using the DepMap database. The impact of H2BC9 on HNSCC cells was further investigated through in vitro experiments.H2BC9 was markedly upregulated in HNSCC cell lines and tissues. High expression of H2BC9 was correlated with advanced-stage disease and poor prognosis. KEGG analysis linked H2BC9 to cell cycle regulation and DNA replication. H2BC9 expression influenced the drug sensitivity of paclitaxel, docetaxel, cisplatin, and 5-fluorouracil. Key molecules, such as TONSL, PITX2, NOTCH1, and H2BC10, were positively correlated with H2BC9 expression. Silencing H2BC9 suppressed cell proliferation, induced G2/M cell cycle arrest, and enhanced apoptosis and DNA damage in HNSCC cells.We demonstrated that H2BC9 expression may be associated with HNSCC development and prognosis. These findings may provide a potential therapeutic target for HNSCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
To investigate the impact that TTN mutation had on the gene heterogeneity expression and prognosis in patients with lung adenocarcinoma.In this study, the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset was used to analyze the TTN mutations in lung adenocarcinoma. Lung adenocarcinoma data was collected from the TCGA database, clinical information of patients was analyzed, and bioinformatics statistical methods were applied for mutation analysis and prognosis survival analysis. The results were verified using the GEO dataset.The incidence of TTN mutations in lung adenocarcinoma was found to be 73%, and it was related to the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma. Ten genes were screened with significant contributions to prognosis. A prognosis model was constructed and verified by LASSO COX analysis in the TCGA and GEO datasets based on these ten beneficial factors. The independent prognostic factor H2BC9 for TTN mutation-driven gene heterogeneity expression was screened through multi-factor COX regression analysis.Our data showed that the gene heterogeneity expression, which was driven by TTN mutations, prolonged the survival of lung adenocarcinoma patients and provided valuable clues for the prognosis of TTN gene mutations in lung adenocarcinoma.Copyright © 2023 Liu, Zhao, Wang, Tang, Zhao, Zhong, Peng and Zhang.
Colon cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the gastrointestinal tract, and approximately 80%-90% of colon cancers are colon adenocarcinomas (COADs). This study aimed to screen key microRNAs (miRNAs) associated with COAD. Differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs were screened between COAD and adjacent cancer samples based on the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas obtained from datasets. The miRNAs of interest were validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Moreover, the effects of hsa-miR-135b-5p on the biological behavior of COAD cells were observed. To obtain the target genes of hsa-miR-135b-5p, transcriptome sequencing of the SW480 cells was performed, followed by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and hsa-miR-135b-5p-target gene regulatory network construction and prognostic analysis. Downregulation of hsa-miR-135b-5p significantly inhibited SW480 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and significantly facilitated apoptosis (P < 0.05). A total of 3384 DEmRNAs were screened, and enrichment analysis showed that the upregulated mRNAs were enriched in 25 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways and 326 Gene Ontology Biological Processes (GO-BPs) while the downregulated mRNAs were enriched in 20 KEGG pathways and 276 GO-BPs. A PPI network was then constructed, and H2BC14, H2BC3, and H4C11 had a higher degree. In addition, a total of 352 hsa-miR-135b-5p-gene regulatory relationships were identified. Prognostic analysis showed that FOXN2, NSA2, MYCBP, DIRAS2, DESI1, and RAB33B had prognostic significance (P < 0.05). In addition, the validation analysis results showed that FOXN2, NSA2, and DESI1 were significantly expressed between the miR-135b-5p-inhibitor and negative control groups (P < 0.05). Therefore, downregulation of hsa-miR-135b-5p inhibits cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in COAD, and carcinogenesis may function by targeting FOXN2, NSA2, MYCBP, DIRAS2, DESI1, and RAB33B.Copyright © 2022 Yunxin Zhang et al.
The current prognosis of glioma is unfavorable and effective treatments remain limited. However, bioinformatics has created new opportunities for improving glioma treatment. Research indicates that H2B is involved in the pathological process of cancer. Thus, this study conducted bioinformatic analyses of the H2B gene family to evaluate whether these genes can play a role in predicting prognosis and are associated with immune infiltration. High expression of H2B genes was observed in cholangiocarcinoma, esophageal carcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, and other cancers. In addition, a rise in H2B gene expression was correlated with an increase in glioma grade. In the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) database and multiple datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), high expression of H2B gene family members predicted poor prognosis of a variety of tumors including glioma. In particular, high H2BC5, H2BC9, H2BC11, and H2BC21 expression was associated with poor glioma prognosis. H2BC9, H2BC11, and H2BC12 expression were also positively correlated with both immune and stromal scores. Enrichment analysis indicated that H2B family genes may be involved in the pathological process of glioma using various pathways including the cell cycle and immune response. H2B-specific siRNAs were used to verify the role of H2BC5, H2BC9, H2BC11, and H2BC21 expression on cell cycle distribution. In summary, H2BC5, H2BC9, H2BC11, and H2BC21 were independent prognostic indicators of glioma, and H2BC9 and H2BC11 may correlate with tumor immunity.Copyright © 2022 Jia, Han, Wang, Zheng, Wang and Cui.
Osteoporosis is increasingly becoming a serious problem affecting the quality of life of the older population. Several experimental studies have shown that Chinese medicine has a definite effect on improving osteoporosis. Based on transcriptome sequencing, we analyzed the differential gene expression and mechanism of the related signaling pathways. Fifteen rats were randomly divided into an experimental group, a model group, and a sham surgery group. The rat model for menopausal osteoporosis was established using an ovariectomy method. One week after modeling, the experimental group was administered(intragastric administration)8.1 g/kg of Rhizoma drynariae, whereas the model and sham groups received 0.9% saline solution twice daily for 12 weeks. Subsequently, the rats were sacrificed, and the left femur of each group was removed for computerized tomography testing, while right femurs were used for hematoxylin and eosin staining. High-throughput RNA sequencing and functional and pathway enrichment analyses were performed. Comparing the gene expression between the experimental and model groups, 149 differential genes were identified, of which 44 were downregulated and 105 were upregulated. The criteria for statistical significance were |log2 Fold Change| > 1 and P < 0.05. Gene ontology analysis showed that the differentially expressed genes were enriched in cell component terms such as cell part and outer cell membrane part, and the genes were associated with cell process, biological regulation, metabolic processes, DNA transcription, and catalytic activity. Enrichment analysis of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways showed significantly enriched pathways associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, herpes simplex infection, circadian rhythm, vascular smooth muscle contraction, the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications, and the TNF, Apelin, and Ras signaling pathways. Our results revealed that the Npas2, Dbp, Rt1, Arntl, Grem2, H2bc9, LOC501233, Pla2g2c, Hpgd, Pde6c, and Dner genes, and the circadian rhythm, lipid metabolism, inflammatory signaling pathway, and immune pathways may be the key targets and pathways for traditional Chinese medicine therapy of Rhizoma Drynariae in osteoporosis.Copyright © 2022 Su, Xue, Gao, Yan, Wang, Tan, Xu and Zeng.
Endurance running training can lead to gradual accumulation of inflammation and soreness ultimately resulting in overuse injuries. Management of soreness and inflammation with pharmaceuticals (i.e. non-prescription pain relievers) during long-term training is not a suitable solution due to known side effects (e.g. gastrointestinal complications, etc.). Dietary polyphenols (i.e. curcumin, pomegranate, etc.) have been purported to reduce inflammation and muscle soreness, without these negative side effects making them ideal for use in an exercise model. The purpose of the present feasibility study was to explore the combined effect of optimized curcumin and pomegranate extract supplementation prior to (PRE) and after (4H and 24H) an organized half-marathon race on blood inflammatory proteins and inflammation-associated RNA. Daily supplementation (1000 mg/d) started 26 days before a half-marathon which doubled on days 27-31. Data were analyzed with R software and Welch t-test, significance set at p < 0.05. At both 4H and 24H, supplementation was associated with alterations in protein (IL-10, IL-13, IL-4, ITAC, MIP-1alpha, MIP-3alpha, BDNF, sIL-2Ralpha, and TNF-alpha; p < 0.05) and RNA (CCL22, GUSB, IL-6, LINC00305, NKILA, PTGES, THRIL, TRAF6, ARG2, CD1A, CD55, CFI, CSF2, CXC3CL1, CX3CR1, EDNRB, GATA3, LILRB5, THY1, CD3D, MRC1, GPR183, HAMP, MBL2, CASP3, B2M, KLRF2, PDCD1LG2, IL-10, PTGS2, TLR2, IL-6R, IL-8, IL-7R, MASP1, MYD88, TNFRSF1B, TNFRSF1A, and TIRAP; p < 0.05) biomarkers compared to control. Pathway classification of these biomarkers indicated supplementation may be associated with a more favorable muscle recovery profile. Our findings support the notion that combined curcumin and pomegranate supplementation may represent a useful addition to a comprehensive exercise training plan.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a highly prevalent and lethal digestive system malignancy worldwide, which mostly develops through a multi-step progression from normal mucosa to adenoma and finally invasive carcinoma. Lack of specific biomarkers for precancerous lesions limits early screening and intervention efficacy. This study aimed to investigate the differential expression of Dickkopf-related protein 4 (DKK4) in CRC and its correlation with clinicopathological features, and to construct a DKK4-based risk prediction model for CRC.Bioinformatics analysis was performed to predict the biological functions and immunoregulatory roles of DKK4. A risk prediction model was established using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression. The correlation between DKK4 expression and pathological features in colorectal adenomas (CRAs) and carcinomas was analyzed through hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and immunohistochemistry (IHC).DKK4 was lowly expressed in normal colorectal mucosal tissues, significantly upregulated in CRAs with low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (LGIN) and high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (HGIN) with the peak expression in HGIN tissues, and notably downregulated in invasive CRC tissues compared with adenomas (P<0.05). Its expression correlated with tumor mutation burden (P=0.008) and was functionally enriched in the Wnt signaling pathway. DKK4 showed differential expression in CD4+ T cells, macrophages (P<0.05) and modulated immune-related genes, including: Immunostimulatory genes (CD80, ENTPD1, IFNA2, IFNG, PRF1), Immunosuppressive genes (ARG1, CD274, EDNRB, VEGFB) (P<0.05). The LASSO-derived risk model (λ=0.00413) demonstrated predictive performance with areas under the curve (AUCs) in Training set: 0.676 (1-year), 0.695 (3-year), 0.657 (5-year) and Validation set: 0.634 (1-year), 0.596 (3-year), 0.561 (5-year). IHC revealed higher DKK4 was predominantly localized in colorectal glandular cells, and its stage-specific expression pattern was closely associated with glandular structural atypia and adenoma-carcinoma transition.The DKK4-based risk prediction model shows moderate predictive value for 1-3-year short-term survival in CRC patients. DKK4 exhibits a stage-specific expression pattern during colorectal tumorigenesis and primarily acts in the precancerous stage of adenoma-carcinoma transition, which makes it a potential specific biomarker for CRC precancerous lesion screening, providing a new molecular target for early CRC screening and intervention.© AME Publishing Company.
Inflammatory response-related signaling pathways are associated with Atherosclerosis (AS), yet the particular inflammation-related genes underpinning this process are still not fully characterized.In this study, we integrated two independent transcriptomic datasets with a manually curated inflammation-related gene collection. To identify inflammation-related genes with altered expression, we intersected inflammation-related genes (IRGs), differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between atherosclerosis (AS） and controls, and inflammation score-associated genes (ISRGs) obtained from weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) for downstream analyses. The shared genes among these sets were designated as differentially expressed inflammation-related genes (DEIRGs). We then used the DEIRGs to assemble a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and screen for potential hub genes. Univariate logistic regression, together with least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, was used to screen candidate inflammation-related biomarkers. Their expression was then validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). On the basis of the validated biomarkers, we constructed a diagnostic model. As a final analysis, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) was used to clarify the major signaling pathways and regulatory networks associated with these biomarkers.Nineteen DEIRGs were obtained as the intersection of the IRG, DEG, and ISRG gene sets. Then, 16 critical genes were identified following PPI analysis. Next, 13 feature genes were filtered using logistic analysis, of which 11 were protective elements, and 2 were risk elements. Four biomarkers (PIK3R5, ADM, RGS16, and B7RP1) were screened by LASSO analysis and RT-qPCR. IPA showed that these inflammation-related biomarkers are mainly enriched in humoral immunity and pathogen-related signaling pathways. Meanwhile, analysis of the regulatory network indicated that STAT3 and KLF6 activated ADM expression and IFNA2 activated IFNAR1 expression.In this study, we identified four inflammation-related biomarkers of AS (ADM, PIK3R5, B7RP1 and RGS16) that may serve as novel indicators for the diagnosis of patients with atherosclerosis.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Allergic asthma and allergic rhinitis (AR) are among the most frequent chronic conditions in the pediatric age. They frequently coexist in children and are sustained by type 2- driven airway inflammation and impaired epithelial-immune interactions. Immunonutritional and postbiotic strategies have been proposed as adjunctive therapeutic approaches for these diseases.To explore the clinical and immunomodulatory potential of a multicomponent immunonutritional supplement containing postbiotics in children with concomitant allergic asthma and AR.The ImmuneNutrition Against Pediatric Respiratory Allergies (INAPRA) study was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled exploratory pilot trial. Forty children aged 5-12 years with asthma and AR sensitized to Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus were randomized (1:1) to receive a daily multicomponent supplement (sodium butyrate, heat-inactivated L. rhamnosus GG, fructooligosaccharides, vitamin D3, docosahexaenoic acid, quercetin, and Perilla frutescens extract) or placebo for 6 months. Co-primary outcomes were changes in respiratory symptom control assessed by Childhood Asthma Control Test (c-ACT), CARATkids, and Total Nasal Symptom Score (TNSS). Secondary outcomes included cytokine production, regulatory T-cell rate and tolerogenic gene expression (gfb1, Ptgs2, Csf2, and Ifna2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Immunological assays were performed in vitro on PBMCs collected before intervention.Baseline clinical characteristics were comparable between groups. In baseline-adjusted analyses, children receiving the study product showed more favorable 6-month outcomes than those receiving placebo across all three prespecified symptom-control measures. The adjusted between-group difference was 4.625 points (95% CI 3.705 to 5.545; p < 0.001) for c-ACT and - 3.960 points (95% CI -4.890 to -3.030; p < 0.001) for TNSS. For CARATkids, a significant treatment-by-baseline interaction was detected; at the mean baseline score, the adjusted conditional between-group difference was -7.019 points (95% CI -8.143 to -5.895; p < 0.001). The use of rescue medications was higher in the placebo group. No adverse events related or unrelated to the study product were reported, and adherence exceeded 90%. In in vitro experiments, co-incubation with the study product attenuated allergen-induced Th2 cytokine secretion (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13), increased IL-10 production, enhanced CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T-cell rate, and upregulated Tgfb1, Ptgs2, Csf2, and Ifna2 expression.In this exploratory pilot RCT, six-month supplementation with a multicomponent immunonutritional formulation was associated with improvement of allergic asthma and rhinitis control in children. The clinical improvement paralleled with beneficial modulatory actions in immune cells.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT07308288.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cow's milk allergy (CMA) is one of the most common food allergies in childhood frequently associated with body growth impairment and micronutrient deficiencies. Immunonutrition approach with selected bioactive compounds may have beneficial effects on nutritional status and immune tolerance mechanisms. We evaluated the effects of an immunonutrition approach, based on the use of a novel multicomponent food supplement containing prebiotics, postbiotics, vitamin D3, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), Perilla frutescens extracts, and Quercetin in children with CMA.Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot trial, involving 30 pediatric CMA patients (both sexes, age 36-60 months) randomly assigned to receive the study product or placebo (maltodextrins) for 6 months. The active study product and placebo were provided as powder sachets with identical features. Primary outcomes were changes in body growth. Co-primary exploratory outcomes were serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) and DHA levels. Secondary endpoints included the evaluation of Th2 interleukins (ILs) and IL-10, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and growth factors and cytokines modulating ILs production (Tgfb1, Ifna2, Ptgs2, Csf2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) collected from CMA pediatric patients.All participants completed the study without adverse events and with >90% adherence to the allocated treatment. At 6-month follow-up, children in the study product group showed greater improvement in body weight, and height, compared with the patients in the placebo group. Serum 25(OH)D and DHA concentrations significantly improved only in the active study group. In PBMCs collected from the patients, the active study product, but not the placebo exposure, resulted in an inhibition of Th2 cytokines (IL- 4, IL-5, IL-13) response to the stimulation with antigenic peptide β-lactoglobulin and in an increase in IL-10 production and Treg activation rate. The expression of Tgfb1, Ifna2, Ptgs2, Csf2 resulted also upregulated, suggesting an overall modulation toward immune tolerance in these patients.This novel multicomponent food supplement improved growth parameters and nutritional status while modulating immune tolerance mechanisms in children with CMA. These findings support the potential of an immunonutrition-based approach using this innovative supplement in managing pediatric food allergy.clinicaltrial.gov, identifier NCT06751810.© 2026 Carucci, Caldaria, Oglio, Iorio, Mauriello, Masino and Coppola.
Prediabetes is accompanied by early β-cell stress and oxidative imbalance before overt hyperglycemia. Circulating extracellular vesicle (EV) microRNAs (miRNAs) may capture early metabolic disturbances, but their mechanistic relevance remains unclear. Plasma EV miRNA profiles were analyzed across normoglycemia, prediabetes, and newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, with validation in an independent cohort (n = 150). Functional studies were performed in pancreatic β-cells exposed to glucolipotoxic stress to examine miRNA regulation, IFN-α signaling, mitochondrial redox status, and insulin secretion. Six EV miRNAs, including miR-186-5p, were consistently reduced in prediabetes and correlated with glycemic and insulin resistance indices. In β-cells, glucolipotoxic stress selectively suppressed miR-186-5p, leading to derepression of IFNA2, activation of IFN-α-JAK/STAT signaling, increased mitochondrial ROS, impaired ATP/ADP dynamics, and reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Restoration of miR-186-5p or pharmacologic JAK inhibition mitigated these defects, and luciferase assays confirmed IFNA2 as a direct target of miR-186-5p. EV-associated miR-186-5p represents an early marker of metabolic stress in prediabetes and provides mechanistic insight into IFN-α-driven oxidative and secretory dysfunction in β-cells.
The profound molecular heterogeneity of SLE remains a fundamental barrier to therapeutic progress.We integrated clinical and multi-omic profiling, including transcriptomics, autoantigen microarrays, proteomics, and flow cytometry, across three randomised trials (BEAT-Lupus, CALIBRATE, ACCESS) and two observational cohorts to identify distinct lupus endotypes.Using multivariate distance-based matching of autoantibody profiles to integrate molecular heterogeneity, we identified anti-RNP/anti-Sm co-positivity (RNP+Sm+) as a distinct myeloid-dominant inflammatory endotype.Enriched in patients of Black ancestry (approx. 50%), RNP+Sm+ SLE is characterised by expanded intermediate monocytes showing enhanced TLR4-driven inflammation during flares, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-12, IFN-gamma, CCL2), IFNA10-biased interferon signalling, and systemic metabolic activation. IgG autoantibody profiling confirmed epitope spreading to spliceosomes and novel autoreactivity against circadian-metabolic regulators (SIRT1, NCOA1, SREBF1).Clinically, this endotype manifests as high-grade disease activity (2.5-fold flare risk), nephritis, vasculitis, and enteritis. Hyperferritinaemia correlates with flares exclusively in RNP+Sm+ SLE (r=0.81), reflecting underlying macrophage activation. RNP+Sm+ patients exhibit profound therapeutic resistance: 44% failed first-line immunosuppression (rising to 61% in Black patients), while also showing substantially reduced efficacy (60% lower response) with second-line B-cell-depleting therapies (rituximab, obinutuzumab). Resistance to rituximab therapy was driven by rapid B-cell repopulation, rising BAFF levels, and sustained cytokines despite peripheral depletion. Consequently, they remain heavily steroid-dependent and accrued greater organ damage.The RNP+Sm+ signature defines a high-risk, refractory, myeloid-driven lupus endotype characterised by activity linked hyperferritinemia that likely requires therapies directed at the underlying interferon and myeloid-centred pathways.BEAT-Lupus: Arthritis UK and GSK. ACCESS and CALIBRATE: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases of the NIH.Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is immunologically heterogeneous, yet conventional classifications fail to predict therapeutic outcomes. While autoantibodies are central to diagnosis, whether specific combinations define mechanistically distinct subsets remains unresolved. Here, we demonstrate that anti-RNP/anti-Sm co-positivity (RNP⁺Sm⁺) identifies a clinically aggressive, myeloid-dominant endotype disproportionately affecting Black patients. Multi-omics integration revealed expansion of intermediate monocytes with enhanced TLR4 expression, IFNA10-biased interferon signalling, and metabolic reprogramming. Clinically, RNP⁺Sm⁺ patients exhibit nephritis, vasculitis, higher flare rates, and profound first-line therapeutic resistance. Subsequently, this endotype shows poor response to B-cell-depleting therapies, necessitating prolonged glucocorticoid dependence and accelerated organ damage. Establishing RNP⁺Sm⁺ as a lupus endotype and ferritin as a companion disease activity biomarker enables precision stratification and highlights an underserved, high-risk population requiring urgent development of alternative strategies like myeloid-targeted and interferon-directed therapies.Anti-RNP/Sm co-positivity defines a high-risk, flare-prone, myeloid-dominant SLE endotypeRNP⁺Sm⁺ patients, especially Black patients, show profound refractoriness to first-line and B-cell depletion therapiesExpanded intermediate monocytes with TLR4 upregulation and IFNA10-biased interferon signallingHyperferritinaemia correlates with disease activity exclusively in RNP⁺Sm⁺ patients.
Screening soluble protein ligands is essential for understanding signaling interactions and enabling drug discovery. Currently, screens require arrayed formats because ligand diffusibility causes non-cell-autonomous effects. To enable multiplexed pooled assaying, we developed Obligate Autocrine Signaling In situ Screening (OASIS). Using lentiviral delivery of genetically barcoded ligands fused to a tethering domain, we anchor proteins to the expressing cell's outer membrane, exclusively enforcing autocrine signaling. Validation using IFNA2 and EGF demonstrated uncompromised autocrine signaling with significantly reduced paracrine activity. We leveraged OASIS to perform a pan-ligandome fitness screen of all 770 validated human ligands in KOLF2.1J hiPSCs, identifying potent self-renewal factors, including FGF family ligands, which we experimentally validated in soluble form. Finally, we performed single-cell Perturb-Seq to map the transcriptional remodeling induced by the pan-ligandome library. OASIS provides a generalizable framework to accelerate functional interrogation of the human ligandome and novel peptide binders within live cells and diverse lineages.
The yak, a livestock breed native to Qinghai Province in China. However, the low intramuscular fat (IMF) content of yak meat negatively impacts its taste and flavor, reducing its relative economic value. The experiment was conducted by inhibiting the expression of miR-127 and miR-375 in yak precursor adipocytes. To explore its effect on the proliferation and differentiation of yak adipocyte precursors, and then analyze the molecular regulatory mechanisms of miR-127 and miR-375 on IMF deposition in yak. Furthermore, using RNA-Seq analysis, this study identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and functional pathways regulated by miR-127 and miR-375 that influence IMF deposition. Cellular functional validation experiments showed that inhibiting miR-127 can suppress the proliferation of yak intramuscular preadipocytes and promote their differentiation. Meanwhile, the inhibition of miR-375 had the opposite effect, promoting proliferation and inhibiting differentiation. RNA-Seq analysis revealed that miR-127 inhibition altered the expression of several DEGs, including IFNB1, IFNA2, FABP4, CCL5, ITPKA, and IP6K3. Similarly, the inhibition of miR-375 affected the expression of genes such as IFNB1, IFNA2, FABP4, CCL5, FOS, and IL6. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that many of these DEGs were involved in key signaling pathways, such as the Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase-Protein Kinase B (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway, the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, and the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway. Of these, the TLR signaling pathway showed the most significant enrichment of DEGs. Notably, IFNB1, IFNA2, and IL6 appeared to regulate the proliferation and differentiation of intramuscular preadipocytes in yaks by activating the TLR signaling pathway, thereby influencing IMF deposition.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous genetic loci associated with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity. However, it remains unclear which variants specifically contribute to the progression from hospitalization to critical illness. To address this, we identified 394 symptom-differentiating SNPs (sdSNPs) by directly comparing GWAS summary statistics between critical and hospitalized COVID-19 cases. Among these, 13 were missense variants that may trigger phenotype conversion. To investigate their functional consequences, we performed structural modeling to evaluate the impact of these variants on protein stability. Eight proteins were predicted to be affected, including FUT2, ICAM5, IFNA10, PLSCR1, IZUMO1, ICAM1, RASIP1, and MICB, suggesting potential disruptions in immune signaling and host response pathways. Furthermore, Mendelian randomization analyses provided direct causal evidence: SMR analysis based on lung eQTL data demonstrated that higher FUT2 expression was significantly associated with increased risk of critical COVID-19 (β = 0.227, p = 2.69 × 10-3), compared to a weaker effect in hospitalized COVID-19 (β = 0.096, p = 3.97 × 10-2). In contrast, MR analysis using cis-pQTLs revealed that higher plasma levels of soluble ICAM5 (sICAM5) exerted protective effects, with stronger estimates in critical COVID-19 (β = -0.186, p = 5.54 × 10-7) than in hospitalized COVID-19 (β = -0.095, p = 1.69 × 10-4). These findings identify a distinct set of severity-specific genetic variants and offer mechanistic insights into how missense mutations may influence disease progression through structural and regulatory pathways.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Altering inflammation can impact the recovering heart's structure and function following myocardial infarction (MI). MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 2 (MK2) regulates the stability of several pro-inflammatory cytokines. Hence, this study was to determine if MK2 deficiency impaired the inflammatory phase of post-MI wound repair. Myocardial infarctions were induced by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery in 12-week-old male MK2+/+ and MK2-/- mice. Five days post-MI, survival was 100% in MI-MK2-/- (n = 20) and 79% in MI-MK2+/+ mice (n = 29; Mandel-Cox test: p < 0.05). Systolic and diastolic LV diameters were greater in MI-MK2+/+ than MI-MK2-/- mice. Infiltration of neutrophils or monocytes did not differ significantly. Cytokine and chemokine transcripts were quantified in infarcted and non-infarcted LV tissue using qPCR arrays. Three days post-MI, Ifna2 was increased and Il16 was decreased in infarcted tissue from MK2-/- hearts, compared with infarcted MK2+/+ tissue, whereas in the non-infarcted MK2-/- myocardium Il27 increased and Tnfsf11, Ccl3, and Il1rn were decreased. Five days post-MI, Ctf16 and Il10 increased in infarcted MK2-/- tissue whereas in the non-infarcted MK2-/- myocardium Ccl9, Nodal, and Xcl2 increased and Il15 decreased. These findings suggest MK2 deficiency is an advantage during the inflammatory phase of cardiac wound repair post-MI.© 2025 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563962 is a review article
Type-I interferons (IFN-I) and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) are central to antiviral defense, while dysregulation can drive autoimmunity. IFNB1 expression is controlled by a highly ordered multiprotein complex composed of IRF3/7, NFκB, and ATF2/c-Jun (AP-1) that recruit coactivators and chromatin-remodeling proteins to expose the IFNB1 promoter for the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) transcriptional machinery. Here, we identified the paraspeckle protein non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) as a critical facilitator of innate immune activation. Loss of NONO enhanced replication of multiple orthoflaviviruses including West Nile virus due to impaired induction of IFN-I and ISGs. NONO did not affect upstream signaling but instead promoted chromatin accessibility and promoter access for RNA Pol II to drive expression of IFNB1, ISGs, and proinflammatory cytokines. These findings position NONO as a key regulator of antiviral gene expression and reveal chromatin-levels of control that determine effective antiviral immunity.
The pathogenesis of Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been fully elucidated at present. While METTL14 is crucial in innate immunity, its specific role in HBV-related liver disease progression is unclear. We analyzed METTL14 expression in patient tissues and bioinformatics datasets. Mouse models of HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC were established to evaluate liver injury, fibrosis, and tumorigenesis. Mechanistic studies utilized MeRIPqPCR, RIP, and Actinomycin D assays, and hepatocyte-stellate cell co-cultures to investigate METTL14's impact on cGAS mRNA stability, the cGAS-STING pathway, and IFNB1 secretion. METTL14 was downregulated in HBV infection, cirrhosis, and HCC. METTL14 knockdown aggravated liver injury, fibrosis, and tumor formation in mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that METTL14 overexpression in HBV-infected hepatocytes promoted the degradation of cGAS mRNA by increasing its m6A modification, thereby suppressing the cGAS-STING pathway activation and IFNB1 release. Consequently, METTL14 overexpression inhibited stellate cell activation, which was reversed by cGAS-STING agonists. Downregulation of METTL14 reduces the degradation of cGAS mRNA through m6A modification, facilitates the cGAS-STING pathway activation and IFNB1 release, thereby accelerating HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC progressions.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a clinical challenge characterized by an alarmingly low survival rate. Despite surgical advances and new chemotherapy combinations, currently available treatment fails to improve the overall survival of PDAC patients largely due to an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Radiation can induce cell death and reprogramme the tumor microenvironment by promoting anti-tumor immune response. The cGAS-STING and RIG-I-MAVS pathways are central components of the innate immune system that detect cytosolic nucleic acids and initiate type I interferon production. This study aims to leverage radiation-induced DNA damage together with inhibition of DNA repair and cell cycle checkpoints to potentiate type I interferon response and thereby enhance anti-tumor immunogenicity in PDAC.Two different PDAC cell lines (KRAS wild-type BxPC-3 and KRAS-mutated PANC-1) were used to test two different radiation modalities (X-rays and carbon ions) and regimens (single and hypofractionated dose) in combination with ATR and CHK1 inhibitors as well as the STING agonist diABZI. Cell survival, immunogenic cell death, accumulation of cytosolic dsDNA and micronuclei, gene expression profiles, and STING- and NF-κB-dependent immune signaling were assessed. Immune activation was evaluated by incubating immune cells with supernatants from PDAC cells, followed by analysis of activation markers using spectral flow cytometry.Here we demonstrate that ATR inhibition sensitizes BxPC-3 cells to the cytotoxic effects of radiation and potentiates the immunogenic effects of carbon ions and hypofractionated X-rays (3x8 Gy). Increased accumulation of cytosolic dsDNA and micronuclei was coupled with STING-dependent IFNB1 secretion and genome-wide induction of inflammatory gene expression programs, ultimately resulting in the activation of monocytes. This was not the case for PANC-1 cells, where radiation alone exerted immunosuppressive effects on monocytes.Our results support further evaluation of ATR inhibition in combination with radiotherapy in KRAS wild-type pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) is one of the most common fungal infections, affecting most women during their reproductive years. A core characteristic of VVC is the interplay between Candida albicans pathogenicity and dysregulated innate immune responses. While these inflammatory responses generally underlie VVC severity, epithelial type I interferon (IFN) responses have been associated with improved epithelial resistance to infection and dampened downstream neutrophil activation. Yet, the role of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in epithelial resistance to C. albicans infection remains unclear. Here, we investigated the threshold for mounting type I IFN responses in A-431 vulvovaginal epithelial cells (VECs), and the role of interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) in epithelial resistance and inflammation. We found that increasing C. albicans burdens corresponded to increasing epithelial cytotoxicity and the release of neutrophil chemoattractant IL-8. Further, expression of IFNB1 and ISGs, specifically ISG15 and MX2, was induced at fungal burdens, before the induction of significant cytotoxicity at later time points. We observed intracellular ISG15 accumulation following C. albicans infection, yet detected reduced unconjugated intracellular ISG15, suggesting its conjugation to other proteins. Mechanistically, we show that ISG15 silencing reduced epithelial cytotoxicity and IL-8 responses to C. albicans infection. Concurrently, a C. albicans infection-specific downregulation of the gene encoding the cell death regulator Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1) was observed. Accordingly, ZBP1 silencing, similar to ISG15, exhibited reduced tissue damage and IL-8 responses. Collectively, our data suggest that ISG15, expressed by VECs upon C. albicans infection, may exert negative feedback on epithelial resistance to infection induced by type I IFNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and its product nitric oxide (NO) were historically linked to poor melanoma outcomes, yet recent evidence shows NO supports anti-tumor immunity. This study examines how iNOS shapes anti-PD-1 efficacy, particularly through interferon signaling.B16-D5 melanoma tumors were implanted in wild-type (WT) and iNOS knockout (KO) mice to compare tumor growth and response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Flow cytometry, apoptosis assays, and RNA sequencing assessed NO production, PD-L1 expression, and interferon-related gene activation. In vitro, melanoma cells were treated with NO donors (DETA NONOate, SNAP) to assess proliferation and apoptosis. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 27 melanoma patients receiving anti-PD-1 therapy were analyzed with multiparameter flow cytometry to correlate NO-associated immune subsets with progression-free survival (PFS).Tumors grew significantly faster in iNOS KO mice, and anti-PD-1 therapy had no effect, demonstrating that iNOS-derived NO contributes to treatment efficacy. NO donors inhibited melanoma proliferation and induced apoptosis in vitro. Transcriptomic analysis showed anti-PD-1 upregulated interferon pathway genes (STAT1, IRF1, IFNB1) in WT but not iNOS KO mice. In patients, a NO-producing dendritic-cell subset (DAF-FM+CD11c+) was associated with improved PFS (hazard ratio 0.453; 95% CI = 0.270-0.992; p=0.048), indicating a NO-dependent enhancement of interferon-driven immune activity.iNOS-derived NO is necessary for effective anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in melanoma, promoting interferon signaling and immune activation. Loss of iNOS impairs tumor control and immune responsiveness, supporting NO as a potential biomarker and therapeutic adjunct to be explored while challenging assumptions about its deleterious role in melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Nguyen, Kim, Le, Garg, Balkaran, Bhathivi, Chamizo, Dukes, Ward, Brohl, Karapetyan, Khushalani, Eroglu, Tarhini, Mulé and Markowitz.
Maternal exposure to deoxynivalenol (DON) disrupts gut homeostasis and impairs offspring health, but the mechanism linking DON to lactation dysfunction remains unclear. Here we show that DON impairs lactation performance in mice, as evidenced by reduced offspring growth, decreased milk fat and milk protein contents, and defective mammary gland function. DON also disrupts intestinal barrier integrity and reshapes the maternal gut microbiota, including enrichment of Brachyspira hyodysenteriae (B. hyodysenteriae), whose abundance is negatively associated with milk quality. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from DON-exposed dams reproduced the lactation phenotype in recipient mice. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from DON-associated microbiota similarly transferred this defect. Among DON-enriched candidate bacteria, B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs accumulated in mammary tissue, induced mammary inflammation and were sufficient to impair lactation performance in vivo. Mechanistically, B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs acted through macrophages to suppress lactation-related programs in mammary epithelial cells. Pharmacological inhibition and genetic ablation experiments showed that NLRP3 and STING signaling contributed to this response, with EV-associated protein and DNA fractions preferentially linked to the NLRP3-IL-1β and STING-IFNB1 pathways, respectively. Together, these findings identify B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs as microbial mediators of DON-induced gut-mammary communication and reveal a vesicle-dependent mechanism linking mycotoxin-induced dysbiosis to lactation dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Steatohepatitis integrates metabolic stress and mitochondrial damage, but single-node interventions often incompletely quell inflammation and fibrosis. We tested a dual-node strategy that reduces the trigger and blocks the adaptor of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING pathway in a high-fat diet plus streptozotocin mouse model. Male C57BL/6 J mice with steatohepatitis (SH) received urolithin A (UA; mitophagy enhancer), C176 (murine STING inhibitor), or their combination. Endpoints included liver injury (ALT/AST), lipids (serum and hepatic triglycerides, cholesterol), glycemia/insulin resistance (fasting glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR), cGAS-STING/type-I interferon signaling (Ifnb1, Cxcl10, IFN-β, CXCL10; p-STING, p-TBK1, p-IRF3), mitochondrial damage signals (cytosolic mtDNA, mtTFA), autophagy/mitophagy (LC3-II/I, cleaved-PINK1, p-PARKIN, p62), inflammasome/cytokines (NLRP3, IL-1β, TNF-α), and fibrosis (hydroxyproline, Col1a1, Tgfb1/TGF-β1). Compared with SH, UA or C176 monotherapy improved injury, lipid, interferon, and fibrotic readouts, with UA preferentially lowering mtDNA/mtTFA and C176 more strongly suppressing p-STING-TBK1-IRF3 and IFN-β/CXCL10. The combination produced the largest, pathway-concordant effects across domains, frequently approaching CTRL. Formal combination analysis on fractional inhibition showed predominant synergistic activity (ΔBliss and ΔHSA > 0 for most endpoints). A precision-weighted correlation map linked insulin resistance, mitochondrial stress, cGAS-STING activation, and fibrosis, while mitophagy restoration markers correlated inversely. By pairing a mitophagy enhancer with a STING inhibitor, we provide first evidence in this model that coordinated upstream and downstream targeting of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING axis yields superior, multi-domain control of disease biology and is immediately translatable via IFN-β/CXCL10, cell-free mtDNA, and imaging readouts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) produce robust type I interferons (IFN-I) within hours of viral sensing, while epithelial cells at mucosal surfaces mount a delayed response dominated by type III interferons (IFN-III). Both cell types express pattern recognition receptors that activate similar downstream transcription factors, yet they produce distinct subsets of IFNs. The mechanisms underlying these differences have remained unclear. Here, using Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) in primary human pDCs and intestinal epithelial cells, we show that IFN-I and IFN-III gene loci carry opposing, constitutively established chromatin accessibility landscapes that determine cell-type-specific interferon induction. The IFN-I locus is broadly open in pDCs and constitutively closed in epithelial cells, while the IFN-III locus displays the reciprocal pattern. Motif enrichment analysis of accessible regions at the IFN-I locus in pDCs revealed unexpected and significant enrichment of ETS family binding motifs alongside IRF motifs, which determines the cell-type-specific locus accessibility. The ETS factor PU.1 and IRF8 bind IFN-I promoters, at composite ETS-IRF elements positioned at the Positive Regulatory Domain IV (PRDIV) site of IFNB1 promoter and adjacent to the TATA-proximal IRF motif of IFNA promoters. IFNL gene promoters lack ETS recognition sequences. PU.1-IRF8 composite factor binding extends across intergenic regions of the IFN-I locus, where candidate enhancer elements marked by H3K4me1, H3K27ac, and RNA Pol II occupancy were identified. We propose that this network of ETS-IRF composite-element-anchored enhancers maintains the IFN-I locus in a constitutively poised state in pDCs, licensing the rapid and robust IFN-I response that defines pDCs. In epithelial cells, the absence of PU.1 and IRF8 renders the IFN-I locus epigenetically silent, while the IFN-III locus is constitutively open. Despite this, the delayed IFN-III gene expression in epithelial cells is due to intrinsically weaker promoter activity relative to IFN-I. These findings reveal that the divergent IFN induction of pDCs and epithelial cells is determined by the chromatin architecture prior to infection. Overall, these observations show that lineage-specific ETS-IRF regulatory factors and promoter strength determine the cell-type-specific IFN activation.
The gut microbiota plays a critical role in shaping host antiviral immunity, particularly through the regulation of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling. Infants are highly vulnerable to viral infections, largely due to their adaptive immune immaturity. Identifying specific commensal bacteria capable of enhancing IFN-I responses represents a promising strategy to boost antiviral defense in this vulnerable population.Forty-five bacterial strains were isolated from fecal samples of infants aged 0-3 years. Their ability to modulate virus-induced IFN-I expression was evaluated using qPCR-based assays in cell lines infected with Sendai virus (SeV). One strain, Escherichia coli JNL-EC1, was selected for further genomic analysis, virulence gene profiling, and hemolysis testing. We assessed IFN-I and ISGs expression, as well as the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3, under conditions of cGAS-STING activation, TBK1 or IRF3-5D overexpression, and HSV-1 or SeV infection. The active components of its metabolites were fractionated using ethanol and chloroform extraction. Antiviral effects were evaluated in HEK293T, INT407, and THP-1 cells, as well as in a SeV-infected mouse model.Among the 45 isolates, metabolites of E. coli JNL-EC1 significantly enhanced SeV- and HSV-1(herpes simplex virus 1)-induced IFN-I signaling activation. Genomic analysis confirmed that E. coli JNL-EC1 resembles a commensal strain, lacking typical pathogenic determinants and exhibiting a non-hemolytic phenotype. The metabolites potentiated cGAS/STING- and TBK1-mediated IFN-I signaling but did not further enhance IRF3-5D-induced gene expression. Moreover, the metabolites increased the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3 following HSV-1 or SeV infection. Active components were present in both water-soluble (0-60% ethanol) and chloroform-extracted fractions and were heat-stable, suggesting the involvement of multiple non-proteinaceous metabolites. Functionally, metabolite pretreatment reduced the replication of GFP-tagged HSV-1 and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) in vitro. E. coli JNL-EC1 significantly upregulated Ifnb1 expression in the spleen and modulated both the composition and activation status of immune cell populations.These findings identify E. coli JNL-EC1 as a gut commensal with broad antiviral-enhancing properties and reveal a microbiota-mediated mechanism that primes antiviral immunity through the IFN-I pathway.Copyright © 2026 Li, Pan, Wang, Zhang, Geng, Yu, Shi, Liu, Jin, Shang, Wu and Wu.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent whose antitumor benefits are limited by a well-recognized, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. While previous studies have implicated inflammatory pathways in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC), the role of CCR2 in this process remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether CCR2 deficiency confers cardioprotection against DIC and to uncover the molecular mechanisms involved.CCR2 knockout (CCR2⁻/⁻ ) mouse was subjected to both acute and chronic DIC models. Bone marrow transplantation was used to establish the functional contribution of CCR2-deficient macrophages. Autophagic flux was evaluated using complementary approaches, including a tandem mRFP-GFP-LC3 reporter, western blotting, immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopy. The mediator linking CCR2-deficient macrophages to cardiomyocytes was identified by proteomics and validated using recombinant IL12B protein and a neutralizing antibody.CCR2 deficiency substantially improved cardiac function, as evidenced by preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening and reduced serum cardiac injury markers. Mechanistic studies revealed that CCR2⁻/⁻ hearts exhibited enhanced autophagic flux, with increased LC3B lipidation, autophagosome formation, and clearance of damaged cellular components. Proteomic profiling of cardiac macrophages identified interleukin-12B (IL12B) significantly upregulated in CCR2⁻/⁻ mouse. Recombinant IL12B protein administration activated cardiomyocyte autophagy through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and reproduced the cardioprotective effects in WT mouse. Conversely, IL12B neutralization completely abolished CCR2 deficiency-mediated protection.Our findings identify a novel CCR2-IL12B-autophagy axis that critically regulates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. CCR2 deficiency promotes IL12B secretion from cardiac macrophages, which directly activates protective autophagy in cardiomyocytes. These results establish CCR2 inhibition and IL12B supplementation as two promising therapeutic strategies to prevent chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy, providing a transformative approach to cardio-oncology.© The author(s).
Severe asthma affects 3%-5% of children and may remain uncontrolled despite high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and other controller therapies. Omalizumab, an anti-IgE monoclonal antibody, is approved for children ≥6 years with severe asthma, however treatment response shows substantial interindividual variability.This study aimed to investigate whether selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes involved in IgE signaling and immune regulation are associated with clinical response to omalizumab in pediatric severe asthma.In this retrospective cohort study, 30 children with severe asthma treated with omalizumab for 12 months were genotyped for selected SNPs in FCER1B, FCGR2A, FCGR3A, C3, and GATA2 genes. Clinical response was defined as: (i) ≥10% improvement in FEV1%, (ii) ≥50% reduction or absence of asthma exacerbations, and (iii) ≥50% reduction or discontinuation of oral corticosteroids (OCS). A combined response was defined as meeting at least two of these outcomes. Changes in GINA step were also assessed separately.FEV1% improvement showed a nominal association with the variant allele of GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.044). Reduction in exacerbation was nominally associated to variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.003), and GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.032). OCS reduction was nominally associated with variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.037) and FCGR3A rs396991 (p = 0.014). A combined response was nominally associated with FCER1B rs573790 and GATA2 rs4857855 variant alleles (p = 0.012). No SNP was associated with all three outcomes or GINA step reduction.Genetic variability in IgE- and Fc receptor-related pathways may contribute to differential response to omalizumab in children with severe asthma. These findings are exploratory and require validation in larger prospective studies.Copyright © 2026 Rottura, Pirrotta, Cullotta, Marino, Sacco, Gianguzzo, Irrera, Arcoraci, Alibrandi, Galletta, Corso, Leonardi, Manti and Pallio.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key components of the tumor immune-suppressive microenvironment. However, studies focusing on the modulation of TAM-specific gene signatures to improve neuroblastoma (NB) prognosis are limited. MYCN amplification (MNA) is known to influence the immune landscape in neuroblastoma.Single-cell sequencing of 19 NB samples and transcriptome data from 498 NB samples were analyzed to identify macrophage-specific genes associated with poor NB prognosis. A risk signature was constructed by integrating differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to TAMs and MYCN using univariate Cox regression, LASSO regression, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Single-factor and multi-factor Cox regression analyses were conducted to explore the relationship between clinical characteristics and prognosis, and a nomogram was constructed. The impact of downregulating TAM target genes in macrophages was explored using CCK8, EdU incorporation, and Transwell assays.A signature based on five macrophage-related genes associated with NB prognosis (FCGR3A, ATF5, MTHFD2, HMGA1, and LY6E) was successfully established and validated for its strong prognostic predictive performance (AUC: 0.829). A clinically applicable Nomogram incorporating these genes was also developed. CCK-8 assays revealed a time-dependent inhibitory effect on neuroblastoma cell proliferation upon co-culture with MTHFD2-knockdown macrophages. EdU and Transwell assays showed that downregulation of MTHFD2 in macrophages significantly reduced the invasive and migratory capabilities of NB cells, particularly in MYCN-amplified cells.We developed and validated a five-gene signature based on TAM and MYCN-related genes with strong prognostic performance. Downregulation of MTHFD2 in macrophages reduced neuroblastoma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, particularly in MYCN-amplified cells, highlighting MTHFD2 as a potential therapeutic target in high-risk patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Postmenopausal atrophic vaginitis (PAV) is a prevalent and undertreated condition driven primarily by estrogen deficiency. Whether circulating inflammatory proteins causally contribute to PAV pathogenesis remains unknown.Genetic instruments for 91 inflammatory proteins were derived from large-scale proteogenomic GWAS of European ancestry individuals. PAV outcome data were obtained from the FinnGen Consortium Release 12. Primary causal estimates were obtained using the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, complemented by MR-Egger, weighted median, and weighted mode analyses. Candidate proteins were defined by IVW p < 0.05 and directional consistency across all four methods. Sensitivity analyses included the MR-Egger intercept test, Cochran's Q test, leave-one-out analysis, funnel plot assessment, and reverse MR. Transcriptomic validation was performed using the publicly available vaginal tissue dataset GSE26761.Six inflammatory proteins met the candidate criteria: CCL19 (OR: 1.063, 95% CI: 1.003-1.126) and IL12B (OR: 1.050, 95% CI: 1.002-1.100) were associated with increased PAV risk, while CXCL5 (OR: 0.935, 95% CI: 0.874-0.999), TNFRSF9 (OR: 0.930, 95% CI: 0.869-0.996), IL10RA (OR: 0.906, 95% CI: 0.831-0.988), and TGFA (OR: 0.880, 95% CI: 0.790-0.981) were inversely associated with PAV risk. Sensitivity analyses revealed no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity. Transcriptomic analysis confirmed significantly lower TGFA expression in atrophic compared to control vaginal tissue (P = 0.039), consistent with its MR-derived protective effect.This study provides genetic evidence that circulating inflammatory proteins causally influence PAV risk through distinct immune pathways. TGFA emerges as the most robustly supported candidate, with convergent MR and transcriptomic evidence suggesting a role in vaginal epithelial maintenance. These findings highlight inflammation as a potential contributor to PAV pathogenesis and nominate candidate targets for future mechanistic and therapeutic investigation. Given that multiple inflammatory proteins were tested, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and warrant further validation in independent cohorts.© 2026 Hu et al.
Vγ9Vδ2 T cells are blood-circulating, innate-like lymphocytes that contribute to tumor immunosurveillance and constitute over 95% of Vδ2+ γδ T cells, but how they perform antitumor or protumor functions remains unclear. Here, we comprehensively characterized Vδ2+ γδ T cells in paired peripheral blood and tumor samples from patients with renal cell carcinoma using flow cytometry and single-cell transcriptomic analysis. We identified two major Vδ2+ γδ T cell subsets distinguished by expression of CD16, which were present at variable proportions in both circulation and tumors. Notably, the proportion of CD16+Vδ2+ γδ T cells in blood closely reflected those in matched tumor tissues. Functionally, CD16+Vδ2+ γδ T cells exhibited potent cytotoxic capacity, characterized by high granzyme B expression and enhanced degranulation upon activation. In contrast, CD16-Vδ2+ γδ T cells displayed central and effector memory features, expressed higher levels of CCR5, CXCR3, and granzyme K, and showed superior migratory capacity but limited cytotoxic activity. Single-cell RNA sequencing of tumor-infiltrating Vδ2+ γδ T cells identified four transcriptional clusters, including FCGR3A + cytotoxic and GZMK + inflammatory clusters corresponding to CD16+ and CD16- subsets, respectively. A TOX + cluster exhibited progenitor-like features, giving rise to two divergent effector states along a differentiation trajectory. Within tumors, both CD16+ and CD16- γδ T cells were broadly distributed and CD16+ γδ T cells were more preferentially co-localized with tumor cells than CD16- γδ T cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that blood and intratumoral Vδ2+ γδ T cells are functionally heterogeneous and segregate into cytotoxic and inflammatory effector programs.Copyright © 2026 Oh, Park, Dahanayake, Yeom, Ryu, Il Seo and Kim.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Emerging evidence implicates intestinal barrier dysfunction and translocation of microbial factors as key drivers of post-myocardial infarction inflammation and cardiac remodeling, yet therapeutic strategies targeting the gut-heart axis remain underdeveloped. Here we demonstrate that ALY688, an adiponectin receptor agonist peptide, confers robust cardioprotection in rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury through coordinated immunoregulatory programs in cardiac and intestinal tissues. ALY688 administration during ischemia or at reperfusion and subsequently daily for 28 days significantly preserved cardiac function with improved ejection fraction and fractional shortening, reduced infarct size, and decreased cardiac troponin-I levels. Mechanistic investigation revealed tissue-specific immune reprogramming: in the myocardium, ALY688 directly activated macrophages to secrete TGFβ1, which promoted regulatory T cell (Treg) differentiation from naïve CD4 + T cells as validated in macrophage-T cell co-culture systems. This macrophage-to-Treg axis suppressed inflammasome activation and IL-1β/IL-23/IL-6 signaling while enhancing anti-inflammatory macrophage polarization. Simultaneously, ALY688 strengthened intestinal barrier integrity through activation of the RORγt/IL-17 pathway, upregulating tight junction proteins (Claudin-1, ZO-1) and mucins (MUC19, MUC22), thereby limiting systemic spillover of bacterial endotoxin (LPS) and other microbial metabolites. Multi-omics profiling supported this dual-compartment mechanism: proteomics revealed modulation of immune regulatory (CAPG, CORO1A, MCAM) and cardioprotective (clusterin, NPPA) proteins, while metabolomics demonstrated attenuation by ALY688 of post-IR elevations in pathogenic gut-derived metabolites (anthranilic acid, imidazole propionate, linoleic acid derivatives). This study establishes adiponectin receptor activation as a multi-organ immunometabolic intervention that simultaneously resolves cardiac inflammation while protecting intestinal barrier function. These findings provide mechanistic insight for therapeutic strategies that target the gut-heart axis to address a major remaining unmet clinical need in ischemic heart disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a hereditary condition that almost invariably leads to colorectal cancer. While TP53 inactivation is well established as a late event in the adenoma-to-carcinoma sequence, its functional role during the early stage of colorectal polyp development remains unclear.Three lines of FAP pigs were generated: APC1311/+ , APC1311/+ /TP53+/- , and APC1311/+ /TP53-/- . Colonic polyp development was evaluated by colonoscopy at 3 and 9 months of age. Mucosal goblet cell and mucin content were assessed using periodic acid-Schiff/Alcian blue (PAS-AB) staining. Immunohistochemistry for Ki67 and IBA1 was performed to assess epithelial proliferation and macrophage/monocyte-like cell infiltration, respectively. Quantitative PCR was used to measure mRNA expression of macrophage/monocyte - and complement-related genes, including CCL2, FCGR3A, ITGAM, and members of the C1q family.Macroscopic adenomatous polyp burden and growth dynamics were comparable across genotypes. However, APC1311/+ /TP53-/- pigs exhibited significantly reduced epithelial proliferation within polyp crypts, as indicated by decreased Ki67+ expression. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry revealed a significant reduction of stromal IBA1+ macrophage/monocyte-like cells in polyps from APC1311/+ /TP53-/- animals. Consistently, expression levels of CCL2, ITGAM, FCGR3A, and complement components C1QB and C1QC were significantly downregulated.Loss of TP53 did not accelerate early-stage adenomatous polyp progression in the FAP pig model. However, TP53 deficiency was associated with significant alterations in the polyp microenvironment, particularly characterized by reduced C1q-associated macrophage remodeling and diminished expression of macrophage/monocyte- and complement-related genes. These findings suggest a role for TP53 in modulating the inflammatory tumor microenvironment during colorectal tumorigenesis.Copyright © 2026 Chan, Liang, Flisikowska, Ebner and Flisikowski.
Background/Objectives: Liver fibrosis, a wound-healing response to chronic liver injury characterized by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation, represents a major global health burden with no approved anti-fibrotic therapies. Pien Tze Huang (PZH), an officially approved traditional Chinese medicine (NMPA Drug Approval No. Z35020243), has demonstrated hepatoprotective effects, yet its epigenetic mechanisms in fibrosis treatment remain unexplored. Methods: We performed the first integrated methylome-transcriptome-proteome analysis to investigate PZH's anti-fibrotic mechanisms in a CCl4-induced mouse model using reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS), RNA-seq, and TMT-labeled LC-MS/MS. Results: We identified 10,974 differentially methylated loci (DMLs) and 773 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) modulated by PZH treatment. Integration analysis revealed ANXA3 and CORO1A as candidate therapeutic targets exhibiting significant inverse methylation-expression correlations validated at both transcriptomic and proteomic levels. Notably, PZH treatment modulated the CRLF-CLCF1 cytokine complex and the EGR-3 transcription factor network (42/44 genes enriched), suggesting broad transcriptional reprogramming in fibrotic liver. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis highlighted key gene pairs such as Dnmt1-Uhrf1, Cbfb-Runx1, and Col4a1-Col4a2, implicating PZH in epigenetic maintenance, transcription factor regulation, and ECM remodeling. Conclusions: These findings suggest mechanistic insights into PZH's multi-target anti-fibrotic effects and offer a rationale for developing potential therapeutic targets for liver fibrosis.
Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae are major Gram-negative pathogens causing bloodstream infection (BSI) and sepsis, but their plasma host-response patterns remain incompletely characterized. This study aimed to explore shared and pathogen-associated proteomic and metabolomic features in E. coli BSI and K. pneumoniae BSI.We performed plasma proteomic and metabolomic profiling in 100 participants, including patients with E. coli BSI (n = 26), K. pneumoniae BSI (n = 15), blood culture-negative sepsis (NegBC, n = 29), and healthy controls (HC, n = 30). Differential molecular analyses were performed with additional adjustment for baseline clinical covariates where applicable. Downstream GO, KEGG, PPI, and protein-metabolite network analyses were based on molecules that remained significant after covariate adjustment. A leakage-free internal validation framework was used to construct an exploratory plasma proteome-based model for distinguishing E. coli BSI from non-E. coli sepsis.Both E. coli BSI and K. pneumoniae BSI showed prominent coagulation-immune alterations involving complement/coagulation-related pathways. E. coli BSI showed a more evident platelet-centered immunometabolic pattern, particularly relative to NegBC, whereas K. pneumoniae BSI showed coagulation-immune activation coupled with lipid and broader metabolic remodeling. In the direct comparison between E. coli BSI and K. pneumoniae BSI, no proteins remained significantly different after covariate adjustment, whereas metabolomic differences persisted, involving glycine, serine and threonine metabolism, terpenoid backbone biosynthesis, apoptosis, and folate biosynthesis. An exploratory E. coli BSI model based on FCGR3A, COPS3, NT5C3A, and ADO showed preliminary discrimination between E. coli BSI and non-E. coli sepsis in leakage-free internal validation (AUC = 0.806, 95% CI: 0.706-0.906).Plasma multi-omics suggested shared thromboinflammatory features and partially distinct platelet-associated and metabolic patterns in E. coli BSI and K. pneumoniae BSI. However, findings involving direct pathogen comparison and the K. pneumoniae BSI cohort should be interpreted cautiously because of baseline clinical heterogeneity and limited sample size. The candidate diagnostic model remains exploratory and requires external validation.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Yang, Xian, Yang, Su, Chen, Feng, Mao, Kang and Dong.
CD4+ T cells that produce IFN-γ (T helper 1 [Th1] cells) chiefly mediate vaccine acquired resistance to fungal infections. However, the key regulators of the development of Th1 cells and acquired resistance to fungi are incompletely understood. Here, we report that Natural Killer Cell Granule Protein (NKG7) acts as an unappreciated regulator inducing anti-fungal Th1 cells to produce IFN-γ and converting plastic Th17 cells into polyfunctional memory Th1 cells.Copyright: © 2026 Wüthrich et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To evaluate the causal effects of circulating inflammatory proteins on the development of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and to discover potential therapeutic targets for the disease.Two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis was used to evaluate causal relationships between levels of 91 inflammatory proteins in serum and the risk of MS. For each circulating protein, genetic variation data were from a genome-wide association study of 14,736 individuals of European ancestry. The MS dataset included 47,429 cases and 68,374 controls. Additional sensitivity, colocalization, functional enrichment, and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed to assess the robustness and biological relevance of the findings. Soluble proteins causally associated with MS were assessed for their therapeutic target potentials using the Drug-Gene Interaction Database.The analysis identified 9 circulating inflammatory proteins with nominal evidence of association with MS risk. Among them, CD40 (Odds Ratio [OR]: 0.907) and VEGFA (OR: 0.971) appear protective, while IL1A (OR: 1.139), CD6 (OR: 1.047), TNF (OR: 1.058), LIF-R (OR: 1.052), CCL25 (OR: 1.032), CD244 (OR: 1.057) and CXCL10 (OR: 1.061) were associated with higher risks of MS. After correcting for multiple testing, associations with MS risks remained significant only for CD40. Supportive analyses highlighted immune- and inflammationrelated pathways, particularly cytokine signaling, as mediators of the risks of MS. Six circulating proteins were identified as candidates in an exploratory assessment of druggability.These results offered new insight into the inflammatory landscape of MS, reinforcing the pathogenic relevance of immune signaling pathways. The robust statistical significance of CD40 highlighted it as a primary candidate for further investigation, while the additional eight proteins provided a foundation for future hypothesis-generating studies. While the findings strengthened the biological plausibility of inflammation-driven disease mechanisms, the presence of nominal significance and potential pleiotropy for certain markers necessitated a cautious interpretation.Genetic evidence linking inflammatory proteins to MS pathogenesis was uncovered, offering clues for novel therapeutic targets for this condition.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is an established treatment for obstructive hydrocephalus. Nevertheless, life-threatening late failure may occur. MRI-based assessment of stoma patency, particularly via flow void visualization, is widely used during the follow-up period. However, the clinical and practical significance of an absent flow void in asymptomatic patients remains unclear.An international survey was developed by the International Society of Pediatric Neurosurgery (ISPN) and International Federation of NeuroEndoscopy (IFNE) and distributed to neurosurgeons between May and December 2025. The survey addressed diagnostic interpretation and management of flow void findings following ETV, including scenarios of absent or disappearing flow voids. Responses were descriptive and analyzed accordingly.A total of 83 respondents participated. Most (78%) routinely perform postoperative MRI, predominantly using sagittal T2-weighted sequences. Fifty-nine percent considered the presence of a flow void indicative of ETV function. 74.6% regarded absent flow void as the imaging finding most associated with failure. Thirty-six percent interpreted absence of flow void on initial imaging as failure, increasing to 53% when a previously present flow void disappeared. Despite this, the majority favored continued clinical and radiological follow-up rather than intervention for asymptomatic patients. Notably, many respondents reported asymptomatic patients without flow void who later developed clinical failure.Management of absent flow void after ETV is heterogeneous. While flow void was perceived as an important marker, its absence alone did not mandate intervention according to most respondents. There is a need for standardized guidelines and further studies to identify reliable predictors of late ETV failure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500566 is a review article
Although disrupted mitochondrial dynamics in neurons are closely linked to neurodegenerative diseases, far less is known about how mitochondrial dynamics are regulated in glia or whether glial mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to neurodegeneration. Here, we show that the R-SNARE protein VAMP7 regulates the untethering of mitochondria-lysosome contacts (MLCs) in adult fly glia. Glial-specific knockdown of VAMP7 leads to prolonged MLCs and mitochondrial elongation associated with altered fission/fusion dynamics. These VAMP7-deficient mitochondria exhibit hyperpolarized membrane potential, leading to increased reactive oxygen species production, lipid droplet accumulation, and dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Mechanistically, VAMP7 interacts with the GTPase-activating protein TBC1D15-17 to promote Rab7 GTP hydrolysis. Without VAMP7, TBC1D15-17 remains bound to Rab7 but fails to activate its hydrolysis, resulting in elevated GTP-bound Rab7 and impaired MLCs untethering. Consistently, expression of GTP-locked Rab7Q67L or GTPase-activating protein-dead TBC1D15-17ΔGAP phenocopies the mitochondrial defects, while GDP-bound Rab7T22N or wild-type TBC1D15-17 restores the MLC dynamics. Considering that SNARE proteins mediate membrane fusion, our results demonstrate a role for VAMP7 in glial mitochondrial dynamics via organelle contacts, impacting neuron survival in a non-cell-autonomous manner.
To systematically evaluate the impact of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) on the immune microenvironment of prostate cancer at the levels of systemic immunity, animal model transcriptomics, and single-cell omics, and to elucidate the characteristics of ADT-mediated tumor immune remodeling.Twelve prostate cancer patients who received ADT at Peking University People' s Hospital were enrolled. Dynamic monitoring of serum prostate specific antigen (PSA), testosterone levels, peripheral blood immune cell proportions, and cytokine expression changes was performed. Transcriptomic data from patient-derived tumor xenograft (PDX) models before and after castration (GSE41193, 5 cases in total) were downloaded from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database for relevant bioinformatics analyses. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on 4 prostate cancer tissue samples (2 received neoadjuvant ADT, 2 untreated) to analyze tumor microenvironment cell composition and T-cell functional states.ADT significantly reduced serum PSA and testosterone levels in the patients, but had no significant effect on peripheral blood immune cell proportions or most cytokines. PDX model analysis showed that differentially expressed genes after castration were enriched in neural-related and immune regulation pathways, with trending changes observed in the infiltration characteristics of various immune cells. scRNA-seq results indicated a decreased proportion of intratumoral effector CD8+ T cells after ADT treatment, with downregulated expression of cytotoxicity-related genes, such as GZMA, GZMB, GNLY, and NKG7, while regulatory T cells (Tregs) were relatively enriched. Hallmark pathway analysis revealed suppression of interferon signaling pathways.The preliminary results of this study suggest that ADT can induce a trend of change in the tumor immune microenvironment of prostate cancer, characterized by weakened T-cell killing function and enrichment of immunosuppressive cells. This suggests that ADT may promote the formation of an immunosuppressive tumor immune microenvironment (TIME), providing a theoretical basis for ADT combined with immune-modulating therapeutic strategies.
CD244, expressed in the tumor microenvironment (TME), is associated with impaired function of natural killer (NK) and T cells; however, its role in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the immunological significance and regulatory mechanisms of CD244 in DLBCL.Using single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing, we analyzed CD244 expression patterns, its major intracellular adaptor molecules, and correlations with immune checkpoints, metabolic alterations, and immune activity. The clinical and biological implications of CD244 expression, including associations with clinicopathological characteristics, TME composition, prognosis, and response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy, were investigated by integrating single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing, immunohistochemistry, and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Intercellular communication networks, key transcription factors, and somatic mutations were further evaluated to uncover regulatory mechanisms.NK cells were the primary CD244-expressing population in DLBCL, co-overexpressing PDCD1, CTLA4, LAG3, TIGIT, PTGER4, and CD160. EAT2 was identified as CD244's predominant intracellular adaptor, suggesting that CD244-associated inhibitory signaling may contribute to metabolic dysregulation and immune dysfunction in NK cells. Elevated CD244 expression correlated with an immunosuppressive TME, worse clinicopathological features, poorer outcomes, and increased potential responsiveness to ICB. Furthermore, CD244 expression may be regulated by STAT3 activation in NK cells and ASXL3 mutations in tumor cells via the BTLA-TNFRSF14 pathway.This study highlights the critical role of CD244 in NK cell dysfunction and DLBCL progression, providing a promising target for optimizing immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Zeng, Yang, Liu, Li, Mai, Jian and Zhu.
Objective To investigate the effects of Cinobufotalin (Cino) on the tumor microenvironment (TME) of colorectal cancer (CRC) and the chemosensitivity to Oxaliplatin (OX). Methods We explored the clinical expression differences of CD244 in the TCGA-COAD cohort. Through UMAP dimensionality reduction analysis of single-cell sequencing data, we clarified the cellular localization of CD244 and analyzed its interaction characteristics with immune cells. In vivo experiments, a CRC tumor-bearing mouse model was established and randomly divided into 4 groups: Tu group, Cino group, OX group, and Cino combined with OX group. Intraperitoneal injection was performed every other day for treatment. Experimental techniques such as tumor volume measurement, fluorescence signal/mass changes and tissue morphology changes, real-time quantitative PCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence staining were used to detect tumor proliferation, metastasis, expression distribution of CD244+ macrophages and T cell activity. In vitro experiments, RAW264.7 cells were stimulated with interleukin 4 (IL-4) to construct a M2-type macrophage model. The effects of Cino, OX or Cino combined with OX on the expression of CD244+ macrophages were observed, and the conditioned medium (CM) of the corresponding treated macrophages was used to culture T cells. The expression of T cell exhaustion and activation markers was detected, and the killing function of T cells was tested. Results In vivo experiments, Cino treatment had no significant effect on tumor growth, proliferation and metastasis in mice. OX treatment and its combination with Cino inhibited tumor proliferation and metastasis, with the Cino-OX combination exhibiting an enhanced inhibitory effect. Both Cino and OX inhibited the expression of CD244+ macrophages in tumor tissues, and their combination showed a synergistic inhibitory effect. Neither Cino nor OX alone had significant effect on T cell activity, their combination could inhibit T cell exhaustion and increase CD8+ T cell infiltration. In vitro experiments, Cino and OX treatments inhibited the expression of CD244+ macrophages, with their combination exhibiting an enhanced inhibitory effect; after IL-4 treatment, the supernatant was collected to culture T cells, and the tumor-killing ability of T cells decreased. The CM treated with Cino or OX could enhance the killing ability of T cells, and the combination showed a stronger killing ability. Conclusion Cino enhances the tumor-killing capacity of T cells and reshapes the tumor microenvironment by specifically targeting and inhibiting CD244+ macrophages, thereby increasing the chemosensitivity of CRC to OX.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized cancer therapy, and their side effects, such as cardiotoxicity, have become critical complications. Herein, we explored the potential mechanism of ICIs-related cardiotoxicity. Healthy male C57BL/6 J mice were intraperitoneally injected with a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor (BMS-1) at a total dose of 60 mg/kg. BMS-1 treatment led to cardiac injury, with elevated cardiac enzyme levels, numbers of apoptotic cells, cardiomyocyte cross-sectional areas, and α-SMA expression. BMS-1-induced H9c2 cardiomyocyte injury was immune cell dependent. Compared with the control treatment, BMS-1 treatment did not significantly alter the T-cell composition in the peripheral blood or spleen. However, fluorescence imaging revealed increased numbers of CD3+ T cells, F4/80+ macrophages, and Ly6G+ neutrophils in the hearts of BMS-1-treated mice. In addition, BMS-1 treatment also increased PD-L1 expression and activated inflammatory pathways, including AKT, p38 MAPK, mTOR, and STAT3. Interestingly, the expression of the inflammatory genes Il1b, Il17a, and Ifng; the T-cell activation genes Nkg7 and Cst7; the exhaustion genes Klrg1 and Tigit; and the transcription factors Tbx21 and Rora were markedly elevated in the thymus, but their expression was unchanged in the peripheral blood and spleen. Furthermore, electron microscopy revealed mitochondrial swelling and lipid droplets in the hearts of BMS-1-treated mice. Compared with those in control hearts, the levels of the lipid metabolism proteins p-ACC, p-ACLY, FASN, and Lipin 1 were consistently upregulated in the hearts of BMS-1-treated mice. Taken together, these findings suggested that the PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor BMS-1 induced inflammation in the heart. Alterations in cardiac lipid metabolism might be correlated with ICIs-related cardiotoxicity.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Plumage colour in domestic geese is an important economic trait and a selection target since the early days of domestication. In European domestic geese of greylag goose (Anser anser) origin, white plumage is known to be determined by two independent loci, one causing white spotting and another sex-linked dilution, together producing white plumage. Strong candidate genetic variants have been identified upstream of the EDNRB2, that is, LOC106047519 gene (endothelin receptor B-like) and within the sex-linked MLANA gene (melan-A). To confirm these candidate variants, we genotyped differently coloured European domestic goose breeds, wild greylag geese, Chinese domestic geese (derived from swan goose A. cygnoid) and European and Chinese domestic geese crossbreeds. One base pair deletion in the MLANA gene (NW_013185876.1: g.950868 C>-) was confirmed to cause sex-linked dilution, and thus autosexing (almost white gander and diluted grey goose). However, a genetic variant upstream of EDNRB2 (NW_013185915.1: g.775151 G>T) was not causative of saddleback pattern but strongly linked to it in European domestic geese. We sequenced the EDNRB2 gene and coding sequence of a neighbouring VAMP7 gene (vesicle-associated membrane protein 7) but found no genetic variation linked to colour. Additionally, we sequenced the coding sequence of TYRP1 (tyrosinase related protein 1), a candidate gene for buff colouration, but no variation linked to colour was found. Further, we genotyped a 14-bp insertion in exon 3 of the EDNRB2 gene, known to be causative of the white phenotype in the Chinese domestic goose, and identified it in one European domestic goose.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567423 is a review article
Criteria for arrhythmia classification in horses are insufficient, particularly when differentiating atrial premature complexes (APCs) from sinus arrhythmia (SA). This study investigated RR and PP interval changes between SA, APCs, and ventricular premature complexes (VPCs).30 resting ECGs were reviewed: 10 each containing SA, APC, and VPC. Sequences of 10 RR and PP intervals were recorded for each arrhythmia (20 events/ECG). Percent RR and PP deviations were calculated (1) between sequential intervals (%ΔSEQPP and %ΔSEQRR, respectively) and (2) compared to averaged baseline intervals 1 to 3 (%ΔAVGPP and %ΔAVGRR, respectively). Percent RR and PP deviations were compared between arrhythmias with 2-way ANOVA and receiver operator characteristic curve analysis.Cycle length variation differentiated SA from APCs and VPCs in the degree of prematurity and return cycle length by use of both RR and PP intervals. The %ΔAVGRR, %ΔSEQPP, and %ΔAVGPP performed better than %ΔSEQRR for differentiating SA from APCs in degree of prematurity, while return cycle length was differentiated clearly with all 4 methods. Using %ΔSEQPP, the degree of prematurity and return cycle length of APCs differed from both SA and VPCs. Using %ΔAVGRR and %ΔAVGPP removed the influence of the degree of prematurity on the return cycle length variation. Variability of the sinus cycle lengths (PP7 to 10) following VPCs and SA was noted.The addition of PP intervals to cycle length variation analyses provided additional discriminatory capacity, particularly between APCs and SA. Classification bias was a limitation.Evaluation of cycle length variation was a useful adjunct tool for resting ECG classification of SA, APCs, and VPCs.
Characterized as an idiopathic primary myocardial disorder, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) predominantly affects children and elderly adults. However, a lack of specific clinical symptoms and reliable biomarkers impedes timely diagnosis and rational clinical management of DCM.Whole-genome expression profiles (GSE120895, GSE9800) were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the GEOquery R package. A series of bioinformatic methods were employed, including DEG, GSVA, WGCNA, GO/KEGG enrichment, PPI, and immune infiltration analysis. Key biomarkers were validated by qRT-PCR in a Doxorubicin (DOX)-induced DCM model.In total, 629 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened out between DCM and control groups. Combined analysis of DEGs and WGCNA outputs identified 13 hub genes overlapping with oxidative stress-associated gene modules. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analyses confirmed that these hub genes exhibit favorable diagnostic efficiency for DCM. Functional enrichment results showed that these genes are mainly enriched in transmembrane transport and nucleotide metabolism pathways. Immune infiltration analysis indicated significantly elevated infiltration levels of five immune cell subsets in DCM myocardial tissues. In vivo experiments verified the significant upregulation of five core hub genes in DOX-induced DCM mice. By screening hub genes with diagnostic potency based on public transcriptome datasets and validating their expression alterations in a DOX-induced DCM animal model, this study provides partial experimental evidence to support the above bioinformatic outcomes.Through integrative analysis of multiple datasets and molecular biology validation, this study provides robust evidence supporting the involvement of these hub genes in DCM pathogenesis. Although validation was limited to a single murine model, the findings lay the groundwork for future mechanistic studies and clinical exploration of these candidate genes.Hub genes including MVP, WISP1, FCN1, AMPD3, RARRES1, FTL, and KRT14 possess promising auxiliary diagnostic potential, which provides novel clues for subsequent clinical evaluation research on DCM.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Do particular pairs of individuals modeling sexual pairs exhibit differences in the induction of semen-mediated long-lasting tolerance in support of pregnancy?Yes, factors from both sexes contribute to the variability in the induction of long-lived regulatory T cells (Tregs) in response to semen, with factors related to the recipient seeming to slightly outweigh the factors related to the semen donor.Semen contains multiple immunomodulatory factors that can influence reproductive tract immunity in the recipient, promote tolerance to antigens from the semen donor (designated henceforth as 'paternal'), and ultimately support successful pregnancy. These factors include the soluble fraction containing prostaglandins and cytokines, as well as a very high concentration of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Both soluble and vesicular fractions of semen have been shown to promote tolerogenic phenotypes and migration in antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and to induce Tregs. This study was undertaken to understand the variation in tolerance induction between pairs of individuals modeling sexually active couples.We designed an in vitro pairing study using random semen donors (N = 11) and peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from random self-identified female recipients (N = 3). Semen was fractionated into vesicle-enriched (semen extracellular vesicles; SEVs) and soluble (vesicle-depleted semen plasma; VDSP) fractions. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) from each of the recipients were exposed to semen fractions from each donor, then cocultured with autologous naïve T cells to assess tolerogenic responses, specifically, generation of Tregs (FOXP3+ CD25Hi CD127Lo CD4+ T cells) and their phenotypic differences (TIGIT+, PD-1+ CTLA-4+, or AREG+ Tregs). These cells were then screened for T cell receptor-dependent activation by activation-induced marker (AIM) expression assay. These responses were compared across all pairs of semen donors and recipient cells. In addition, semen fractions were screened for candidate mediators of tolerance, such as human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) and adenosine-generating enzymes.This study used an in vitro human cell culture approach in which primary blood-derived immune cells were exposed to semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions. Blood samples were obtained from healthy self-identified female donors, and semen samples were obtained from healthy participants who provided initial screening specimens for a contraceptive study. Semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions were characterized by western-blot analysis for markers associated with immune tolerance. Primary immune cells were exposed to these semen fractions, and the major endpoints included changes in Treg phenotypes and subset frequencies, as well as AIM expression. These outcomes were assessed by flow cytometry. No animal models were used.HLA-G content in semen (SEV and VDSP) varied markedly across donors, ranging from undetectable to high concentrations. Similarly, semen's capacity to generate adenosine from ATP differed by ∼4-fold among donors. Induction of Tregs by SEV and VDSP from 11 semen donors was highly variable, from 2.8% to 63.4% of CD4+ T cell population. Semen fractions from a few donors consistently elicited lower tolerogenic responses across all recipients. However, when we considered the combined effects of both semen fractions, none of the semen donors failed to elicit a measurable tolerogenic response. On the other hand, one recipient was a consistently low responder to tolerance induction. Thus, both recipient immune cells' features and semen-intrinsic properties are significant determinants of tolerogenic responsiveness. Semen re-exposure enhanced Treg AIM expression. The strongest effect was observed when Tregs were exposed to VDSP-loaded MoDCs. In contrast, SEV-loaded MoDCs caused a much weaker response.N/A.One limitation of our study is that we used semen and circulating recipient cells from random donors not selected for any clinical characteristics, such as history of infertility. In addition, we did not correlate HLA-G content and adenosine-generating enzyme expression levels with the Treg and AIM readouts. We show, via Treg activation, that semen induces tolerance to its antigens, but we do not demonstrate which specific antigens are recognized. We posit that the variation in semen-induced tolerance observed between couples plays a role in reproductive outcomes; however, larger studies in clinically characterized cohorts and using cells from the tissue microenvironment will be required to establish this link.Our findings demonstrate that semen-induced tolerance is highly variable and may be more strongly shaped by recipient factors than by semen donor factors. In addition, the generation of Tregs with enhanced activation to previously encountered semen supports the concepts of trained immunity and antigen-specific tolerance that arise cumulatively following exposure to semen from the partner. These Tregs are poised to expand and support pregnancies with fetuses expressing paternal alloantigens.This work was supported by the following grants: National Institutes of Health/Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (R01AI153342) to L.V., National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Drug Abuse (R01DA040386) to F.H., National Institutes of Health/National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (KL2TR002317) to G.G.G.The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562242 is a review article
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The immune checkpoint receptor T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) can signal via cytoplasmic motifs to regulate T cell function. The signaling molecules that mediate inhibitory TIGIT signaling and its regulation in T cells remain poorly defined. Here, proximity proteomics is employed to define TIGIT-proximal proteins upon CD155 engagement, identifying several that are ligation-specific, including those involved in signaling (Grb2 and SOS1), cytoskeletal regulation (CD2AP and SdcBP), and endocytosis (IST1 and SNX3). Through crosslinking followed by immunoprecipitation, we show that TIGIT and CD2AP directly interact, representing a novel association. A TIGIT mutant (Y225A/Y231A) incapable of inhibitory signaling prevents recruitment of these proteins. Strikingly, T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation is essential for TIGIT to engage with these pathways. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of TIGIT requires both CD155 ligation and TCR activation, resulting in its signaling and internalization. TCR activation-dependent TIGIT signaling establishes a regulatory mechanism that limits checkpoint control to when functionally required.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Laryngeal cancer (LC) represents one-third of all head and neck cancers, with global deaths rising by 36.7% between 1990 and 2021. Although mortality has declined over the past two decades, recent data indicate a potential slowdown in this progress. This study evaluated temporal trends in laryngeal cancer mortality in the United States.LC mortality data from 1999 to 2024 were obtained from the CDC WONDER database. Age-adjusted mortality rates (AAMRs) per 100,000 population and annual percentage changes (APCs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using Joinpoint regression analysis to assess temporal trends.Between 1999 and 2024, 129,275 LC-related deaths were recorded in the United States. The overall age-adjusted mortality rate (AAMR) declined from 3.76 to 2.25 per 100,000, with a significant decrease from 1999-2016 (APC: -2.75%; 95% CI, -2.92 to -2.58; p < 0.001), followed by a non-significant change from 2016-2024 (APC: -0.38%; 95% CI, -0.87 to 0.11; p = 0.12). Mortality was consistently higher in males than females, declining from 7.00 to 3.94 and 1.40 to 0.85 per 100,000, respectively. In 1999-2020 analyses, NH-Black individuals had the highest mortality, followed by NH-American Indian or Alaska Native and NH-White populations, with significant declines across all racial/ethnic groups (p < 0.001). Highest state-level AAMRs were observed in Kentucky, West Virginia, Louisiana, Tennessee, Ohio, and the District of Columbia (reported separately as a federal district). Mortality declined across all age groups and was consistently higher in non-metropolitan than metropolitan areas (all trend tests p < 0.05).LC mortality in the United States has declined since 1999, but the rate of decline has slowed in recent years. Marked disparities persist by sex, race/ethnicity, age, and geographic region, with higher mortality in males, NH-Black individuals, older adults, and non-metropolitan areas. These findings underscore the need for continued surveillance and targeted interventions.© 2026 The Author(s). Asia‐Pacific Journal of Clinical Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
Point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS) can expedite patient diagnoses and improve procedural safety in emergency department (ED) patients. Nevertheless, clinical POCUS use lags in many ED sites nationwide, with only 40% of community physicians using POCUS according to a study from 2019-2021. We studied the impact of a multifaceted clinical POCUS intervention to address barriers and increase clinical POCUS use.We conducted a prospective cohort study at a single academic hospital that included ED attendings, residents, and advance practice clinicians (APC). A multifaceted four-week intervention for emergency clinicians from December 2023-January 2024 addressed barriers to POCUS use identified on a pre- and post-intervention survey. The intervention included POCUS education during clinical shifts by ultrasound faculty, clinical POCUS workflow demonstration during resident conference/faculty meetings, and QR code reference files on machines for a total of two hours of additional training per clinician. The primary outcome was the number of clinical ED POCUS performed during the 18 months pre-intervention and 12 months post-intervention. Secondary outcomes were POCUS workflow knowledge exam scores and POCUS revenue. We analyzed clinical POCUS numbers from July 2022-December 2024 using an interrupted time series model.Forty-two of 99 emergency clinicians (42.4%) responded to surveys pre-intervention and 28 post-intervention (28.3%). Fifty-six physicians/APCs (56.6%) participated in the in-person POCUS intervention (17 attendings, 34 residents, 5 APCs). The unadjusted number of POCUS exams performed increased from 6,708 pre-intervention (18 months) to 11,600 post-intervention (12 months). After controlling for the underlying secular trend, we saw no effect of the intervention with no significant increase in overall number of POCUS exams performed per 100 ED patients after the intervention (mean level change = -0.81, 95% CI, -2.43 to 0.82; P = .33). Neither was there an increase in the slope of the secular trend post-intervention (difference in slope, β = 0.00, 95% CI, -0.10 to 0.10; P = .98 for post-intervention, β = 0.02, 95% CI, -0.08 to 0.12 for sustainability period). Monthly POCUS revenue increased ~$55,000 in total billed and $10,000 reimbursed (~16% reimbursement). This was the professional component only that was billed by the physician and not the technical component covering equipment and maintenance. Post-intervention mean knowledge scores were 88% correct (standard deviation 12.0) with 16/22 participants (72.7%) passing the assessment (score > 90%).A multifaceted intervention was not shown to improve clinical point-of-care ultrasound use and revenue when accounting for an underlying sustained secular upward trend in number of POCUS exams performed per 100 emergency department patients throughout the study period. Future interventions directed toward low POCUS users and identification of clinical POCUS champions may improve clinical POCUS use.
Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is a standard treatment for rectal cancer, yet patients show marked variability in response. Identifying reliable biomarkers that predict CRT response remains an unmet clinical need.Pretreatment biopsy samples from patients who received neoadjuvant CRT were analyzed using RNA sequencing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between responders and nonresponders, followed by functional enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases. To complement DEG-based results, gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to assess pathway activity across the ranked transcriptome and to prioritize biologically relevant pathways. Pathway-derived gene signatures were evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves and validated in three independent data sets.A total of 1,477 DEGs were detected, including 729 upregulated and 748 downregulated genes in responders. Functional enrichment analysis indicated immune activation and epithelial polarity in responders, whereas nonresponders showed enrichment of extracellular matrix organization, focal adhesion, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B signaling. GSEA further identified four pathways associated with CRT response: antigen presentation, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, and drug metabolism. Among these, the antigen presentation pathway consistently predicted treatment response across data sets. Elastic net regression defined a six-gene signature (KLRC1, CTSS, HLA-DMA, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DQB2, and CIITA) with strong predictive performance, with area under the curve values ranging from 0.76 to 0.81.These genes participate in major histocompatibility complex class II antigen-processing and immune-regulatory pathways that enhance CD4 T-cell activation. Overall, the findings indicate that an immune-active, antigen presentation phenotype underlies radiosensitivity in rectal cancer and that the six-gene signature may serve as a biomarker to guide personalized treatment strategies.
In this multicentric study, we found no association regarding incidence or outcome between common single nucleotide polymorphisms in PTX3 and CLEC7A and invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients with severe viral pneumonia. The distinct pathophysiology of virus-associated pulmonary aspergillosis warrants exploration of genetic variation in novel candidates.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) responds rapidly to inflammatory signals. This study investigated the functional involvement of PTX3 in angiotensin II (Ang II)-mediated cardiac hypertrophy pathogenesis, with particular focus on its potential regulation through inflammatory pathways and oxidative stress mechanisms. In vivo, chronic Ang II infusion over 4 weeks was used to induce hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in mice. In parallel, an in vitro model of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was established by treating neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) with Ang II for 24 h. Ang II treatment significantly increased PTX3 expression, an effect observed in both mouse heart tissue and NRCMs. The cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis in mice treated with Ang II were alleviated by PTX3 knockout. Genetic ablation of PTX3 attenuated Ang II-induced upregulation of cardiac hypertrophy markers in mice hearts, including atrial natriuretic peptide, brain natriuretic peptide, and beta-myosin heavy chain. Additionally, PTX3 knockout suppressed the elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta, following Ang II stimulation. Genetic deficiency of PTX3 significantly ameliorated cardiac oxidative stress potentiated by Ang II infusion. These outcomes showed that targeting of PTX3 could ameliorate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy via attenuation of inflammatory response and oxidative stress. PTX3 may be a target for therapy of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the future.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Previous studies show that combined treatment with stem cell factor (SCF) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) enhances brain repair and functional recovery during the chronic phase of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we investigated whether SCF + G-CSF modulates brain immune cell states during chronic TBI. In a controlled cortical impact mouse model, SCF + G-CSF was administered subcutaneously for 5 consecutive days beginning 8 months post-injury. CD11b⁺ brain immune cells, including microglia and monocytes/macrophages (Mo/Mac), were isolated one day after the final injection and analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing. Integrated analyses revealed more extensive transcriptomic changes in Mo/Mac than in microglia following SCF + G-CSF treatment. Flow cytometry confirmed a significant increase in the CD11b+/CD45high Mo/Mac population following treatment. In microglia, SCF + G-CSF modestly upregulated genes such as S100a8, S100a9, Mir682, and Rpl37rt. In contrast, Mo/Mac showed robust upregulation of genes including Wfdc17, Ifitm1/2/3, Tspo, Lrg1, and Igfbp6, consistent with transcriptomic signatures associated with antiviral defense, anti-inflammatory regulation, and acquisition of reparative phenotypes. Volcano plot analysis demonstrated more extensive transcriptomic remodeling in infiltrating peripheral immune cells than in resident microglia. Pathway analysis identified interleukin-17 signaling as a candidate pathway associated with SCF + G-CSF treatment, along with enrichment of programs related to protein synthesis, detoxification, and glial development. Together, these findings demonstrate that the transcriptomic response to SCF + G-CSF treatment is more pronounced in cerebral monocyte/macrophage populations than in microglia, providing insight into candidate immunomodulatory mechanisms associated with brain repair in chronic TBI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive blood cancer with a 5-year overall survival rate of ~30%. Although immunotherapies engaging T cells demonstrate remarkable success in treating many solid tumors and blood cancers, they show little to no efficacy in treating AML. Therefore, immunotherapies are traditionally underappreciated and underdeveloped in AML. Through a drug re-purpose screen, we identified and validated that combined MEK and HDAC inhibitions via trametinib and quisinostat (TQ) potently inhibited the growth of mouse and human NRAS;ASXL1-AML (NA-AML), MLLr, and NPM1 mutated AML cells in vitro. In NA-AML mice, TQ drastically slowed down AML progression and prolonged their survival. The survival benefits of TQ largely relied on T cell functions. We show that TQ synergized to downregulate immune checkpoint ligands and upregulate STAT1- and CIITA-mediated expression of MHC-I and MHC-II in NA-AML cells. In addition, TQ treatment significantly reprogrammed transcriptome and epigenetic landscape of T cells, activated STAT1 signaling, and upregulated genes and pathways promoting activation, survival, and cytotoxicity of CD4 and CD8 T cells. A cytotoxic cluster was thus expanded in central memory and effector memory T cells in TQ-treated NA-AML mice. More importantly, TQ directly acted on AML-associated mouse and human T cells, reverting them from a dysfunctional state to an active state. In leukemia:T cell co-cultures, TQ-treated T cells demonstrated greatly improved MHC-dependent leukemia killing. Our findings suggest that the dual actions of TQ on NA-AML and T cells enhance leukemia recognition and anti-leukemia killing of endogenous T cells, leading to effective AML clearance.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Pentraxin-3 (PTX-3) is a humoral pattern recognition receptor involved in innate immunity and inflammation regulation, but its relationship with lung function remains unclear.This study investigated the association between serum PTX-3 levels and respiratory function in preschool wheezy children (CW), considering wheezing phenotypes and atopy.In this cohort study, 165 preschoolers were divided into 84 wheezy children (CW) and 81 healthy controls (HC). Serum PTX-3 levels, eosinophil counts, and pulmonary function using impulse oscillometry (IOS) were assessed. IOS parameters included zR5, zR20, R5-20, zX5, zX20, Fres, and AX. Comparisons were made according to wheezing phenotype (multi-trigger vs episodic) and atopy status. Correlation analysis between PTX-3 and IOS parameters was performed.The CW group had higher PTX-3 levels (p = 0.010), increased IOS parameters (zR5, zR20, R5-20, Fres, AX; p < 0.05), and reduced zX5 (p < 0.001). PTX-3 positively correlated with zR5, zR20, and AX (r:0.220-0.226, p < 0.05). Multi-trigger wheezing and atopy were associated with higher R5-20 and PTX-3 (p < 0.05). Children with parental atopy also showed higher PTX-3 and airway resistance.Elevated PTX-3 is associated with impaired lung function in preschool wheezy children and may serve as a biomarker for respiratory function, phenotype differentiation, and atopy.
The Daniel K. Inouye Graduate School of Nursing (GSN) at the Uniformed Services University (USU) is dedicated to preparing advanced practice nurses (APRNs) and nurse scientists for the federal health system, with a distinct focus on military readiness. As a joint-service program, the GSN educates a diverse student body from all military branches to serve those in harm's way, offering Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) and PhD degrees across specialties like Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP), Women's Health Nurse Practitioner (WHNP), Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP), Registered Nurse Anesthetist (RNA), and Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS). For Army nurses, this education is uniquely tailored to operational demands. The rigorous curriculum requires 1,800-3,000 clinical hours, specialized training in battlefield medicine and advanced trauma care, and interprofessional field exercises simulating large-scale combat operations. Strategic partnerships with entities such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) provide unique clinical experiences in diverse and resource-limited settings. Consistently ranked in the nation's top 5%, the GSN leverages a strong partnership with Army Nurse Corps leadership to generate a ready medical force, ensuring its graduates are prepared to lead and provide expert care from stateside hospitals to austere operational environments. Through its dedication to excellence, leadership, and operational relevance, the GSN produces highly skilled Army Nurse clinicians and scientists, prepared to lead and transform military healthcare for the nation.
Intrinsic innate immune barriers have evolved to suppress viral infection and can reduce effective gene delivery in gene therapy. We have developed BG147, a novel cyclosporine A (CsA) analogue optimised via structure-guided design to specifically inhibit interferon-induced transmembrane proteins (IFITM1-3) but not inhibit CsA target, and HIV cofactor, cyclophilin A. BG147 enhances VSV-G pseudotyped lentiviral vector transduction ex vivo in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and in in vivo ocular gene therapy of photoreceptor cells in mice. Upon BG147 treatment, IFITM3 protein is mislocalised and degraded through lysosomal acidification-dependent pathways but returns 96 h after BG147 washout. Critically, HSPC transduced in the presence of BG147 showed successful engraftment in NGS mice. BG147 promises to transform ex vivo and in vivo gene therapies by transiently inhibiting intrinsic immune barriers mediated by IFITM3 to enhance a wide range of protocols.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myelofibrosis (MF) splenomegaly reflects not only extramedullary hematopoiesis (EMH) but a compartmental organization of the splenic microenvironment into spatially distinct niches. Using Spatial whole transcriptome profiling on FFPE spleen tissue from three MF patients, we interrogated three anatomically defined compartments: Intravascular (IV), Perivascular (PV) and Red Pulp (RP). Differential expression was estimated through pairwise compartment contrasts with Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate correction (FDR < 0.05, |log2FC|≥1), and compartment "core signatures" were defined by directional concordance across the two contrasts relevant to each compartment. IV regions of interest (ROIs) showed an endothelial/adhesion and vascular stress program (e.g., PECAM1, VCAM1; antioxidant enzymes). PV ROIs were characterized by fibro-remodeling and immune-structured signals (COL1A1/COL3A1, LOXL1, MMP2/TIMP1; HLA‑DRA/CD74) including CXCL12, consistent with a PV niche coupling extracellular matrix remodeling to hematopoietic retention cues. RP ROIs captured an EMH-associated erythroid/heme program (ALAS2, FECH, BLVRB) with stress and inflammatory alarmins (S100A8/S100A9). Together, these findings support a compartmental "division of labor" in MF spleen, vascular interface activation, PV remodeling/chemokine niches, and RP EMH/redox stress, providing a spatial framework to interpret splenomegaly as structured niche dependencies and to prioritize candidate microenvironmental dependencies for follow‑up validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is an inflammatory mediator involved in tumorigenesis; however, its role in tumor immune evasion remains elusive. Herein, we demonstrate that PTX3 promotes immune evasion in breast cancer by upregulating PD-L1.RT-qPCR and Western blot were performed to assess PD-L1 expression in human and murine breast cancer cells. Cell surface PD-L1 was assayed by flow cytometry. Small interfering RNA and CRISPR-Cas9 were used to inhibit PTX3 expression. Co-culture experiments were conducted to evaluate the suppressive effects of tumor cells on CD8 + T cell activation. An immunocompetent BALB/c mouse allograft model was utilized, and tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry.PTX3 enhanced PD-L1 protein levels through the inhibition of autophagy. PTX3 increased the expression of the E3 ligase RNF216 and caused Beclin-1 degradation, which suppressed autophagy, thereby preventing autophagy-mediated PD-L1 degradation. Co-culture experiments demonstrate that PTX3-overexpressing breast cancer cells suppressed CD8 + T cell function, as evidenced by reduced production of IFN-γ and Granzyme B, whereas PTX3-depleted cells had the opposite effects. In vivo allograft studies revealed that depletion of PTX3 reduced PD-L1 expression, enhanced CD8 + T cell infiltration, and inhibited tumor growth in immunocompetent mice.PTX3 promotes PD-L1 expression and immune evasion in breast cancer. Therefore, targeting PTX3 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to counteract this immune escape.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal energy metabolism are important pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates how mitochondrial protease YME1L1 affects mitochondrial function and its upstream regulation in the pathogenesis of AD. The AD model was established by using APP/PS1 transgenic mice, primary neurons treated with Aβ1-42, and HT22 cells. The silencing of YME1L1 was achieved to evaluate its effects on mitochondrial function and OPA1 protein hydrolysis. RIP-qPCR and RNA pull-down test were used to evaluate the interaction between HNRNPC and YME1L1 mRNA. The protein succinylation level was detected by proteomic analysis of succinylation, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to verify the succinylation of HNRNPC. Cognitive ability was tested by behavioral tests, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, object recognition test, and olfactory test. Finally, the therapeutic potential of SIRT5 was studied by an overexpression experiment in an AD model. YME1L1 was significantly upregulated in the AD model, which promoted mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage through OPA1 hydrolysis. HNRNPC enhances the stability of YME1L1 mRNA through an m6A-dependent mechanism, while its own K50 succinylation enhances the stability of HNRNPC by competitively inhibiting TRIM25-mediated ubiquitination, further amplifying the expression of YME1L1. SIRT5 downregulation in AD elevated HNRNPC succinylation levels. SIRT5 overexpression promoted HNRNPC desuccinylation, reduced YME1L1 expression, restored mitochondrial function, and ameliorated Aβ deposition and cognitive deficits in AD mice. The SIRT5-HNRNPC-YME1L1 axis contributes to AD pathogenesis by disrupting OPA1 proteolysis and mitochondrial dynamics. Targeting HNRNPC succinylation represents a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Immunotherapeutic strategies for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have yielded only modest response rates, severely limiting patients' clinical outcomes. Clarifying the underlying mechanisms to reverse immunotherapy resistance therefore represents a critical unmet need. In this study, we employed the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of human TNBC tissues to identify inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) as a central regulator governing cytotoxic T lymphocyte trafficking into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Ectopic expression of ITPKB robustly enhanced the secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), a critical chemokine required for effective anti-tumor immune responses. Mechanistically, elevated ITPKB activity accelerated the conversion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) to inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), thereby dampening IP3-driven endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release. Attenuated intracellular calcium ions (Ca2 +) flux, in turn, promoted the recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) to CXCL9 promoter, driving robust CXCL9 transcription. In addition, utilizing a stepwise virtual screening strategy of 3677 compounds, we identified amentoflavone (AMF) as a novel ITPKB agonist-like compound. AMF treatment could stabilize ITPKB by preventing Trim25-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, in 4T1 and EMT6 syngeneic TNBC murine models, ITPKB-overexpressing or AMF administration exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (αPD-1) immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these results position ITPKB as a therapeutically tractable molecular switch that remodels the tumor immune landscape via Ca2+-dependent transcriptional rewiring. Targeting ITPKB thus represents a promising strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance and expand the pool of TNBC patients who may benefit from αPD-1-based immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
M2 macrophage-derived exosomes (M2-Exo) have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for bone regeneration; however, the mechanisms underlying their protective effects against periodontitis-associated bone loss remain poorly understood. In this study, a rat model of periodontitis was established through silk ligation combined with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection. Animals received local administration of M2-Exo with or without the glycolysis inhibitor 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). Alveolar bone regeneration was evaluated using micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), whereas histological alterations were assessed by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Masson's trichrome, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), and Goldner's trichrome staining. Expression of TRIM26, RUNX2, and pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) was analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Micro-CT analysis demonstrated that M2-Exo markedly improved alveolar bone integrity, as evidenced by an increased bone volume fraction (BV/TV) and a reduced distance between the alveolar bone crest and cementoenamel junction (ABC-CEJ). Histological examination further confirmed these regenerative effects, revealing more organized trabecular architecture, reduced inflammatory cell infiltration, and attenuated collagen deposition and fibrosis. Consistently, Goldner's trichrome staining indicated enhanced bone mineralization, whereas TRAP staining demonstrated decreased osteoclast activity. At the molecular level, M2-Exo treatment significantly increased the expression of RUNX2 and PKM2 while suppressing TRIM26 expression. Notably, co-administration of 2-DG partially abrogated these beneficial effects, indicating a critical role for glycolytic metabolism in M2-Exo-mediated bone regeneration. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that M2-Exo promotes alveolar bone regeneration in periodontitis, at least in part, by enhancing glycolysis through the TRIM26/PKM2/RUNX2 signaling axis. This study provides mechanistic insight into exosome-mediated metabolic regulation and highlights its therapeutic potential for the treatment of periodontitis-associated bone loss.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Avian influenza A virus (IAV) is a major global health threat. Not only does it cause significant economic losses to the agricultural industry, but it also presents a risk of spillover into the human population. However, several obstacles must be overcome for a successful cross-species transmission event to occur. One of these obstacles is the innate immunity of the host. While the innate immune response to IAV in humans has been well-studied, the innate immune response to IAV in birds is not as well understood. Here, we explore the interferon-induced immune response by identifying interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in chicken, quail, and duck cells, and find that they are largely species-specific. Using this data, we performed a CRISPR knockout ISG screen against two strains of IAV, the mouse-adapted PR8, and the low pathogenicity avian IAV isolate WF10. We find that for PR8, IFITM3 is the dominant restrictor of viral replication with several additional hits with modest effects, consistent with previous work in mammals. For avian WF10, IFITM3 was also a hit however there were two additional hits absent for PR8, the HSP70 co-chaperone protein BAG5 and deubiquitinase OTUD4. Overall, these findings confirm the divergence of interferon-mediated immunity between species and establish a screening system that can be used to identify ISGs important for viral restriction in avian species.Wild birds, especially waterfowl and shore birds, are the primary natural reservoir for influenza A viruses. These birds can transmit IAV to domestic poultry, where the spillover risk to humans increases. Chickens are the most common species of domestic poultry world-wide and are frequently infected with avian influenza viruses. Despite this, relatively little is known about how their immune system responds to influenza infection. This lack of knowledge creates a barrier to finding ways of preventing or mitigating IAV infection in chicken flocks. In this study, we characterized the interferon-induced immune response to IAV in chickens and found that only a small subset of ISGs were responsible for restricting IAV in chicken cells.
Whether pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)-targeted therapies, particularly endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs), are associated with disproportionate sepsis reporting in real-world pharmacovigilance data remains insufficiently explored. The monocyte transcriptional states that characterize sepsis-related immune dysregulation and may provide biological context for such reporting signals are also incompletely defined.We constructed an integrated, hypothesis-generating analytical framework incorporating: (i) FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) disproportionality analysis coupled with XGBoost-based modeling for pharmacovigilance signal detection; (ii) single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells with intercellular communication inference; (iii) weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and cytoHubba-based topological prioritization, combined with an ensemble machine learning framework for diagnostic signature construction; and (iv) molecular docking and 100-nanosecond all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulation.FAERS analysis identified Maitentan and ambrisentan as PAH-targeted therapies with positive reporting signals for the MedDRA Preferred Term "Sepsis," with adjusted reporting associations persisting after adjustment for available demographic variables. Sex-stratified analysis showed marked heterogeneity in reporting signals, although these findings may be influenced by the sex distribution of PAH populations and other unmeasured confounders. ScRNA-seq resolved seven monocyte subpopulations, among which the interferon-responsive Mono_IFN subset-marked by IFIT1, ISG15, and IFITM3 expression-occupied a signaling hub position within the IFN-γ communication network and expanded in sepsis-associated states. Systematic comparison of 112 integrated machine learning algorithm combinations based on cytoHubba-prioritized genes yielded a 29-gene diagnostic model with cross-cohort discrimination for sepsis. Transcriptional co-expression analysis nominated IFITM3, a marker of the interferon-responsive monocyte state, as a candidate node connecting the diagnostic signature with interferon-related immune dysregulation. Molecular docking and 100-nanosecond MD simulation suggested a structurally stable riociguat-IFITM3 interaction in silico. This finding remains exploratory and requires biochemical and functional validation.This integrated pharmacovigilance and transcriptomic study identifies sepsis-reporting signals associated with selected endothelin receptor antagonists and characterizes an IFITM3-associated interferon-responsive monocyte state in sepsis datasets. These findings should be interpreted as reporting associations and transcriptomic hypotheses rather than evidence of causal drug-induced sepsis. The predicted riociguat-IFITM3 interaction provides a computational hypothesis for future experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Cheng, Li and Liu.
Mammalian embryonic stem cells (ESCs), despite lacking functional interferon (IFN) signaling, are remarkably resistant to viral infection. However, the mechanistic basis of their antiviral defenses remains incompletely characterized. In this study, we investigated the antiviral functional role and molecular mechanism of tripartite motif-containing protein 25 (TRIM25), a well-known key driver of IFN-dependent innate immunity, in IFN-deficient mouse ESCs (mESCs). TRIM25 exhibited a broad spectrum of antiviral activity in mESCs. RNAi depletion or CRISPR-mediated knockout of TRIM25 markedly enhanced the replication and propagation of both encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) viruses. Mechanistically, the antiviral activity of TRIM25 in mESCs is independent of both IFN production and constitutive ISG expression. In virus-infected mESCs, TRIM25 translocated from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and directly bound viral RNA, where it formed cytoplasmic condensates with GTPase-activating protein-binding protein 1 (G3BP1) that colocalized with dsRNA foci. Genetic perturbation of G3BP1 similarly compromised the antiviral defenses of mESCs, revealing an essential synergism between TRIM25 and stress granule components in restricting viral replication. Our study identifies TRIM25 as a pivotal RNA-sensing effector in ESCs, delineating a previously unrecognized IFN-independent axis of intrinsic immunity that bridges viral RNA surveillance with stress granule-mediated suppression, thereby expanding the paradigm of pluripotent cell-autonomous antiviral strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy, and current treatments often suffer from toxicity, limited selectivity, and high cost. This study aimed to integrate transcriptome-level data, multi-layered network analysis, and drug repositioning strategies to identify candidate diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for BC and propose potential repositioned drug candidates.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from the GSE42568 dataset (|log2FC| > 1 and p < 0.05). Functional enrichment analyses were conducted using GO and KEGG. Three biological interaction layers - protein-protein interactions, transcription factors, and miRNA-mRNA interactions were constructed, and hub nodes were identified using topological metrics. Kaplan-Meier analyses assessed survival associations. PCA evaluated sample separation across datasets in GSE42568, GSE113865, and GSE22820. Drug repositioning was performed using L1000CDS2, and in vitro validation of a top drug candidate (niclosamide) and an exploratory comparative compound (amitriptyline) was performed using MCF-7 cells, including viability and combination assays.A total of 4266 DEGs were identified. Network analyses revealed 37 hub signatures, 11 of which-ESR1, RECQL4, FOS, BCL2, CXCL8, TRIM25, EGR1, CDH1, KRAS, PTGS2, and IL6 were associated with survival outcomes. PCA demonstrated clear separation between healthy and BC samples. Drug repositioning identified eight candidates, with niclosamide as the top hit. In vitro assays showed marked reduction in cell viability at 5 µM niclosamide and 25 µM amitriptyline after 24 h treatment. No significant additive effect was observed in the combination treatment.This integrative approach revealed candidate BC-specific biomarkers and identified niclosamide as a potential repositioned therapeutic. These findings remain exploratory and do not provide definitive clinical evidence. Further validation across additional models and clinical settings is required.© 2026 Aydin et al.
BackgroundDifferential expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in brain, serum, and blood show strong potential to distinguish Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy controls.ObjectiveTo explore whether lncRNA signatures delineate AD pathology and map to distinct, multidimensional cognitive domains, enhancing specificity in assessing AD severity and progression.MethodsWe profiled 29,603 lncRNAs transcripts in blood samples from 15 AD patients and 15 healthy controls, alongside comprehensive neuropsychological assessments. Generalized Linear Models and Predictive Power Score analyses, with statistical prioritization, identified lncRNAs associated to AD neuropsychological architecture.ResultsSeveral lncRNAs share strongly associated with cognitive performance and AD severity, mapping to genes involved in key AD-related molecular processes, including synaptic and neurotransmitter regulation (e.g., EPHB1, CHRNA4, TEAD1), protein homeostasis and Aβ pathology (e.g., FBXL2, FAM221A, APP), mitochondrial function and cellular stress (e.g., VDAC3, PPT2-EGFL8), neuroinflammation and immune regulation (e.g., TEAD1, EMX2OS, LY6E-DT), epigenetic and transcriptional control (e.g., PRDM2, DLEU1, FIRRE), neuronal excitability (e.g., KCNJ14), and neuroprotection and synaptic plasticity (e.g., SIL1). Novel associations included ferroptosis, DNA stability, microtubule dynamics, and dendritic orientation (e.g., BTB3, DICER1, GNG7, IBA57, NEAT1, POT1, SRD5A3).ConclusionsWe identify candidate lncRNA signatures that may serve as potential biomarkers and enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of the cognitive architecture in AD, opening new avenues for biomarker identification and targeted therapeutic strategies development. Validation in larger, diverse cohorts is essential to confirm their mechanistic contributions to AD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567332 is a review article
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) frequently coexist, complicating diagnosis and treatment. The extracellular matrix (ECM) serves as a critical modulator of disease progression, coordinating multilayered matrix degradation and inflammatory cascades in both conditions. This study aims to identify ECM-driven molecular signatures to stratify the risk of RA and OA.We integrated bulk transcriptomics data from 113 samples across four datasets, as well as scRNA-seq data from 101 samples comprising 449,907 cells. Differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and machine learning were employed to identify ECM-related hub genes. A risk score (RS) model based on ridge regression was established and validated. The model was correlated with immune cell profiles, and a regulatory network involving miRNAs, mRNAs, transcription factors, and drugs was constructed.We identified eight ECM hub genes (SPARC, COL1A1, ANGPTL2, THY1, COL5A1, LRRC15, NID2, THBS3) that were significantly upregulated in RA and OA. The RS model stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups. The diagnostic performance of the model, as measured by AUC values, exceeded 0.8 across all cohorts. scRNA-seq and immune cell infiltration analyses revealed the involvement of these genes in ECM dysregulation. We predicted the relationship between genes and multiple factors, in which the drug Metoprolol was associated with LRRC15.We established an ECM-derived risk signature with robust diagnostic power, elucidating the shared mechanisms of ECM immune dysregulation. Metoprolol was associated with LRRC15 in the disease cohort. This study provides a framework for precise diagnosis and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
The tumor microenvironment, particularly the tumor stroma, plays a critical role in tumor progression, immune evasion, and therapeutic resistance. However, its interaction with the immune landscape in rectal cancer (RC) remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to comprehensively characterize the stromal-immune ecosystem associated with the tumor stroma ratio (TSR) in RC and to evaluate its clinical and therapeutic relevance.We analyzed a multicenter cohort of 498 patients with treatment-naïve RC in whom TSR was assessed on H&E-stained sections. Integrative multi-omics analyses were performed, including bulk RNA sequencing (n=118) and single-cell RNA/T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing (n=10). Key findings were validated by immunohistochemistry (n=114) and multiplex immunofluorescence (n=20). Survival analyses and statistical comparisons were conducted to evaluate clinical associations and treatment responses.High TSR was an independent predictor of unfavorable disease-free survival and cancer-specific survival and was associated with aggressive clinicopathological features. Single-cell analyses revealed that TSR-high tumors exhibited a profoundly immunosuppressive microenvironment, characterized by clonally expanded terminally exhausted CD8+ T cells (CD8+ Tex-CXCL13) and activated CD4+ regulatory T cells (CD4+ Treg-TNFRSF4). Two LRRC15+ cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subsets (mCAF-CTHRC1 and mCAF-FAP) were enriched in TSR-high tumors. Among them, mCAF-CTHRC1 was associated with increased Treg abundance and activation features, with predicted interactions with CD4+ Treg-TNFRSF4 cells through the LGALS9-CD44 signaling axis. In addition, SPP1-expressing monocytes (Mon-SPP1) and malignant epithelial cells were prominent in TSR-high tumors and showed a predicted SPP1-CD44 interaction with T-cell subsets, suggesting potential involvement in immunosuppressive stromal-immune interactions. In patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy, pretreatment TSR-low tumors showed improved pathological response and survival outcomes compared with TSR-high tumors. In the neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy plus immunotherapy cohort, TSR-low tumors were associated with a significantly higher major pathological response rate, whereas pathological complete response showed a non-significant trend in the same direction.High TSR identifies a clinically aggressive subtype of RC characterized by a profoundly immunosuppressive stromal-immune ecosystem enriched for exhausted T cells, immunosuppressive CAF programs, and SPP1-associated stromal-myeloid interactions. These findings highlight LGALS9-, LRRC15-, and SPP1-related stromal-immune pathways as candidate stromal-immune therapeutic vulnerabilities that warrant further mechanistic and preclinical validation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Background: The glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1 exhibits antiepileptic properties, but the mechanisms governing its stability during epileptogenesis remain elusive. This study investigated whether the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM8 regulates neuronal hyperexcitability and epileptic activity by modulating NR3C1. Methods: We established an in vivo epilepsy model via intrahippocampal kainic acid (KA) injection and an in vitro epileptiform model using Mg2+-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid in primary hippocampal neurons. The roles of TRIM8 and NR3C1 were assessed using in vivo and in vitro gain- and loss-of-function approaches, alongside co-immunoprecipitation, Western blotting, immunofluorescence and whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Results: TRIM8 is significantly upregulated in hippocampal and temporal lobe neurons in epileptic mice. TRIM8 was markedly upregulated in the hippocampal neurons of epileptic mice, inversely correlating with NR3C1 levels. Mechanistically, TRIM8 interacted with NR3C1, promoting its polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. This TRIM8-mediated NR3C1 reduction enhanced the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunits GluR1 (Ser831) and GluR2 (Ser880) without affecting total receptor expression. In vitro, TRIM8 overexpression exacerbated calcium dysregulation, neuronal injury, and AMPAR phosphorylation; crucially, concurrent NR3C1 overexpression rescued these effects. In vivo, knockdown of TRIM8 significantly reduced seizure frequency, prolonged the latency to the first Stage III seizure, shortened average seizure duration, and decreased total seizure burden in KA-induced epileptic mice. Electrophysiologically, TRIM8 overexpression significantly increased the frequency of spontaneous action potentials and amplitudes of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents under Mg2+-free conditions. Furthermore, in vivo knockdown of TRIM8 attenuated KA-induced seizure severity, restored NR3C1 protein stability, and suppressed aberrant AMPAR phosphorylation in the hippocampus. Triple immunofluorescence staining showed that KA-induced epilepsy increased TRIM8 but decreased NR3C1 immunoreactivity in NeuN+ hippocampal neurons, and TRIM8 knockdown reversed these changes. Conclusions: TRIM8 acts as a critical driver of epileptiform activity by targeting NR3C1 for degradation, thereby disinhibiting AMPAR phosphorylation and enhancing network hyperexcitability. The TRIM8-NR3C1-AMPAR axis emerges as a previously unrecognized molecular pathway in epileptogenesis, highlighting its potential as a promising therapeutic target for epilepsy.
DNA methylation is an established biomarker of human ageing and is used by a variety of tools to identify meaningful epigenetic signals. We investigated whether analysing CpGs grouped by transcript as functional units could generate a ranked list of transcripts most correlated with age that might otherwise be overlooked in genome-wide CpG-based studies. Here we present Epitage ( https://github.com/a00s/epitage ), a continuously updated ranked list of transcripts built from the GSE87571 dataset (714 whole-blood samples, ages 14-94 years) through intensive testing with machine-learning models. To support reproducible analyses, we developed ugPlot ( https://github.com/a00s/ugplot ), an open-source R/Shiny tool with a graphical user interface that automates model training, testing, and comparison. Initially, we identified 48 transcripts across 13 genes, with some transcripts from the genes OBSCN, PRRT1, and SPTBN4 showing better predictive performance when multiple associated CpGs were analysed together rather than individually. In contrast, for the majority of transcripts, a dominant individual CpG still showed a higher Spearman correlation with age, as seen in established ageing genes such as ELOVL2, FHL2, and TRIM59. Epitage is a transcript-ranking list based on the methylation patterns observed in the analysed dataset. It provides a reproducible framework for prioritising transcripts associated with human ageing and for guiding future epigenetic studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Leucine-rich repeat-containing 15 (LRRC15) is a membrane protein whose overexpression has been linked to poorer survival outcomes in various malignant neoplasms. However, its role in distal extrahepatic bile duct carcinoma (DBDC) remains unclear. LRRC15 protein expression in tumor cells and stroma was evaluated with 196 surgically resected DBDCs, and compared with clinicopathological variables, including patients' overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS). LRRC15 protein expression was identified in stroma of 21 DBDCs (11%) and tumor cells in 67 cases (34%). On the basis of the combined expression patterns of LRRC15, DBDCs were classified into 4 groups: LRRC15 cancer+/stroma- (25%), cancer-/stroma+ (2%), cancer+/stroma+ (9%), and cancer-/stroma- (64%). The stromal LRRC15+ group exhibited more frequent pancreatic invasion compared with the stromal LRRC15- group ( P =0.004*). The LRRC15 cancer+/stroma+ group showed the most frequent pancreas invasion ( P =0.016*). The patients with stromal LRRC15+ group had significantly worse OS (5-year survival rate, 15.4% vs. 31.6%; P =0.013*) and RFS (19.1% vs. 38.9%; P =0.005*) compared with those in the stromal LRRC15- DBDCs. Stromal LRRC15 expression was significantly associated with poor prognosis and showed a strong trend toward being an independent prognostic factor for both OS ( P =0.051) and RFS ( P =0.061). Patients with DBDCs in the LRRC15 cancer+/stroma+ group had the worst RFS ( P =0.010*) and OS ( P =0.008*) by univariate analysis. LRRC15 overexpression was observed in a subset of DBDCs and was associated with pancreatic invasion and worse OS and RFS. Consequently, LRRC15 expression can be used as an indicator of poor survival in patients with DBDCs, particularly when both cancer cells and stromal expression are present.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417164 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42381820
Neutrophilic asthma is defined as an inflammatory disease typified by airway neutrophil infiltration. Tripartite motif-containing protein 31 (TRIM31), an E3 ligase, is implicated in various processes, including inflammation, tumorigenesis, and immune responses. However, the function of TRIM31 in neutrophilic asthma remains to be elucidated. In the study, we identified that TRIM31 expression was markedly upregulated and interleukin 17 (IL-17) pathway had an enrichment in bronchial biopsy tissues from neutrophilic asthma patients through bioinformatics analysis. TRIM31 was also elevated in lung tissues from mice with neutrophilic asthma. Further studies revealed that TRIM31 overexpression inhibited IL-17 mediated signaling cascade. TRIM31 bonded to TRAF6 and the interaction was strengthened in a dose-dependent manner. TRIM31 overexpression reduced the total and M1-linked ubiquitin chains of TRAF6. In the presence of IL-17 A, TRIM31-TRAF6 interaction was enhanced, and TRAF6 ubiquitination further decreased. Whereas TRIM31 knockdown increased TRAF6 ubiquitination and promoted IL-17-mediated signaling activation. In addition, TRIM31 failed to regulate IL-17 signaling in the TRAF6 deficiency cells. Overall, these findings demonstrated that TRIM31 regulated inflammation in neutrophilic asthma through suppression of TRAF6-mediated IL-17 pathway. These results provided new insights into the intricate pathophysiological mechanisms of neutrophilic asthma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Myo1g, a short-tail class I myosin, has been extensively studied for its roles in cellular adhesion, migration, cytokine secretion and receptor recycling in T and B lymphocytes. However, its involvement in other immune cell populations, particularly natural killer (NK) cells, remains an open question in immunology. NKR-P1C is a type II integral membrane glycoprotein with a C-type lectin domain; it also plays roles in NK cell activation and differentiation, IFN-γ production, cytotoxic granule release. The expression of Myo1f and Myo1g mRNA in NK cells was previously found in the RIKEN database (https://gexc.riken.jp/). Thus, the present study began by confirming the presence of Myo1g protein in lysates from splenic NK cells of wild-type (WT) mice. Subsequently, it was found that mice deficient in Myo1g (Myo1g-/-) exhibited decreased frequency and absolute numbers of NK cells (defined as CD3-, CD19- and NKR-P1C+ lymphocytes) in the bone marrow, blood and spleen. Then, NK cell development was evaluated (CD122, CD49b and NKp46), demonstrating that the absence of Myo1g does not affect overall NK cell generation but does influence NKR-P1C expression. A functional analysis revealed reduced degranulation in NK cells from Myo1g-/- mice compared to WT controls. These findings were corroborated using purified NK cells, which demonstrated that NK cells from Myo1g-/- deficient mice exhibit reduced cytotoxicity. Collectively, these results suggest that Myo1g may serve as a potential target for modulating NK cell function and immune responses. To hypothesize potential mechanisms linking Myo1g to NKR-P1C expression and cytotoxicity, it is possible that Myo1g influences the stability or surface trafficking of NKR-P1C, given its known role in receptor recycling. Additionally, the absence of Myo1g could impair the cytoskeletal reorganisation required for NK cell function, affecting the formation of immunological synapses and the subsequent degranulation process.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cancer stem cells are pivotal in cancer progression, yet the mechanisms underlying the stemness properties of neuroblastoma cells remain largely unclear. By analyzing data from the TARGET-NBL and GEO databases, WDR72 is identified as a cancer stem cell marker that significantly correlates with high-risk of neuroblastoma and poor prognosis in neuroblastoma patients. It is found that knocking down WDR72 in neuroblastoma cells suppresses cell proliferation and migration, while inducing apoptosis. An increased expression of WDR72 is detected in neuroblastoma cells with enhanced stemness properties, while silencing WDR72 reduces the stemness of these cells. Mechanistically, we find that the upregulation of WDR72 is mediated by m6A modifications in its 3' UTR induced by the METTL14-IGF2BP1 axis. Further investigation into the downstream regulatory mechanisms of WDR72 demonstrates that WDR72 interacts with TRIM31, blocking the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of the CBX8 protein. This interaction stabilizes CBX8, contributing to the maintenance of neuroblastoma cell stemness. This study reveals that the upregulation of WDR72 via the METTL14-IGF2BP1 axis enhances the stemness properties of neuroblastoma cells by stabilizing CBX8 through interaction with TRIM31. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms driving neuroblastoma malignancy and offer potential therapeutic targets for patients with neuroblastoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a type of cancer with a high incidence rate and a high mortality rate and is a major cause of cancer-related death. The resistance of liver cancer cells to lenvatinib has become a crucial limitation that restricts the clinical therapeutic efficacy of HCC treatment. In the present study, we successfully establish lenvatinib-resistant liver cancer cell lines and perform transcriptome sequencing analysis, through which we identify the key gene tripartite motif containing protein 31 (TRIM31). As an E3 ubiquitin ligase harboring a RING domain, TRIM31 is capable of regulating the stability and biological functions of its substrate proteins through ubiquitination. Nevertheless, the specific role and underlying molecular mechanisms of TRIM31 in liver cancer cell stemness and lenvatinib resistance remain largely unclear. In this study, clinical sample analysis confirms its high expression in HCC tissues, which correlates with poor patient prognosis. The results of functional experiments demonstrate that TRIM31 knockdown inhibits HCC stemness and lenvatinib resistance, whereas TRIM31 overexpression significantly enhances these properties. Mechanistically, TRIM31 interacts with glycine decarboxylase (GLDC) and mediates K48- and K63-linked polyubiquitination through its RING domain, leading to GLDC protein degradation. GLDC degradation enhances HCC stemness and chemoresistance by relieving its suppression of PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling. This study is the first to highlight the critical role of TRIM31 in HCC stemness and drug resistance, offering a potential new strategy for targeted therapy in HCC.
Tumor heterogeneity, driven by metabolic reprogramming, challenges colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment. Methionine metabolism is crucial for tumor progression, but its role in CRC heterogeneity and the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) requires systematic investigation.A systematic evaluation of 101 combinations of machine learning and statistical algorithms was conducted within a 10-fold cross-validation framework to develop and validate the optimal model, termed the methionine metabolism-related risk score (MMRS). The Cancer Genome Atlas-Colon Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-COAD) dataset served as the training cohort, while two independent Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) cohorts (GSE39582 and GSE17536) were employed for external validation. Immune infiltration was assessed using the microenvironment cell populations-counter (MCP-counter) algorithm. Model discrimination was evaluated using time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, with the area under the curve (AUC) calculated at 1, 3, and 5 years across all cohorts.Methionine metabolism-high (MMH) and metabolism-low (MML) subtypes were defined via unsupervised clustering. The MMH subtype exhibited significantly poorer overall survival and an immunosuppressive TIME. From subtype-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 41 prognostic genes were identified. The optimal model (StepCox[both] + plsRcox) formed the MMRS, which effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different survival across all cohorts (all p < 0.05). Core signature genes (MID2, KIF7, GSR) were consistently selected. The high-risk group showed depleted antitumor immunity (e.g., fewer CD8+ T and NK cells) and a stroma-rich phenotype with enrichment of cancer-associated fibroblasts, underpinned by oxidative stress and alterations in energy metabolism pathways. Time-dependent ROC analysis confirmed the discriminative capacity of the MMRS, with 5-year AUCs of 0.803 (TCGA-COAD), 0.632 (GSE39582), and 0.608 (GSE17536), respectively, further supporting its prognostic accuracy across independent patient populations.Methionine metabolism heterogeneity is a key determinant of prognosis and immune contexture in CRC. The MMRS is a prognostic signature that effectively stratifies CRC patients by risk, though its clinical utility as a predictive biomarker for treatment selection requires prospective validation.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Exome sequencing (ES) has become a primary tool for diagnosing neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), yet the interpretation of genetic variants in large, heterogeneous cohorts presents significant challenges that automated pipelines often fail to resolve. This study showcases the complexities and novel findings derived from a decade-long analysis of 419 Italian NDD patient-parent trios. While ES established a molecular diagnosis in 36.5% of cases (53.8% in syndromic presentations), our investigation moves beyond diagnostic yield to highlight the critical value of manual curation integrated with deep phenotyping. We demonstrate how this rigorous approach uncovers complex disease mechanisms, revealing that variants initially misclassified as missense or stop-gain are, in fact, pathogenic splicing defects confirmed by functional analysis. Furthermore, we resolve the paradox of pathogenic truncating PPM1D variants in control databases by demonstrating their somatic mosaic nature, a crucial insight for population data interpretation. Our work also refines gene-disease correlations by challenging the established role of MID2 in NDDs, providing further evidence for DSCAM as a high-confidence risk gene, and expanding the known phenotypic spectrum of disorders, such as a novel GNAI2-related syndrome lacking expected immune dysfunction. This study underscores that navigating the complexities of large NDD cohorts requires a detailed, expert-driven approach to not only enhance diagnostic yield but also to advance our fundamental understanding of rare disease genetics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) infection induces severe intestinal inflammation and acute diarrhea in piglets, resulting substantial economic losses. The NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, a key component of the innate immune system, drives interleukin (IL)-1β maturation, and its excessive activation is closely linked to viral pathogenesis. However, its role in PDCoV infection remains unclear. Here, we report that PDCoV infection induces IL-1β maturation through NLRP3 inflammasome activation both in vivo and in vitro, and the M protein promotes NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation. Mechanistically, M protein directly bound the LRR domain of the NLRP3 protein. Seven residues (M116, H201, T205, K207, R212, Y214, and M217) in the β-sheet core of the M protein formed hydrogen bonds with eight residues (Y861, R920, E949, E1007, Y1009, K1015, N1011, and E1033) in the α-helix groove of the LRR domain, serving as critical determinants of binding. Moreover, the M protein protects NLRP3 from proteasomal degradation by removing tripartite motif-containing 31-mediated K48-linked polyubiquitin chains on NLRP3, thereby stabilizing NLRP3 protein. Collectively, these findings reveal a novel mechanism of NLRP3 inflammasome activation during PDCoV infection, offering valuable insights into PDCoV pathogenesis that may facilitate the design of antiviral agents against PDCoV.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease with diverse manifestations, including rash, arthritis, and nephritis. Although autoantibodies are a key feature of SLE, their levels often poorly reflect disease severity, suggesting the involvement of additional contributing factors. The tripartite motif-containing protein (TRIM) family, which regulates immunity, may play a role in SLE. Although TRIM21 is a known autoantigen, the roles of other TRIM family members remain unclear. The present study examined TRIM expression in SLE and evaluated the potential of TRIM proteins as biomarkers. TRIM expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was measured using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and compared between patients with SLE (n = 33) and healthy controls (n = 20). Associations of TRIM expression with disease activity (active/inactive), renal involvement (nephritis/nonnephritis), clinical manifestations, and laboratory parameters were analyzed. The expression levels of several TRIM genes, specifically TRIM5, TRIM11, TRIM21, and TRIM72, were higher in patients with inactive SLE, nonnephritic disease, or low disease activity than in patients with active disease, nephritic disease, or relapsed SLE and healthy controls. The expression levels of these genes were considerably and negatively associated with clinical symptoms but not laboratory parameters. Hydroxychloroquine users exhibited higher levels of TRIM21 expression than did nonusers. Overall, specific TRIM proteins are inversely correlated with SLE disease activity and clinical phenotypes, which indicates their potential as biomarkers. Hydroxychloroquine may regulate TRIM21 expression. Further investigation into underlying mechanisms and continued TRIM monitoring are necessary to develop new SLE treatments and better assess disease progression.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most prevalent and heritable of neurodevelopmental disorders. To characterize the genetic variants contributing to this heritability, we studied families with members affected by ADHD. Genome-wide array data were obtained on two cohorts: NHGRI Family Cohort (359 nuclear families,1538 individuals) and NCR Family Cohort (25 multigenerational and 132 nuclear families, 631 members). A meta-analysis of family-based association tests (FBAT) of the two cohorts identified three genome-wide significant associations, one upstream from TFRC, and two that were intronic to GSDME and to TRIM31, with the last gene previously implicated in ADHD. Genes associated with ADHD (MAGMA, gene-based association P < 0.05) overlapped with genes implicated in ADHD by prior case/control genome-wide association studies. Meta-analyses of the linkage signals identified one significant linkage region (LOD > 3) on 19p13.2-13.11 that encompassed a genome-wide significant variant in the FBAT of the NHGRI Family Cohort (rs55741253, P = 2.68 × 10- 8). Additionally, two of the five linkage regions that reached a LOD > 2 in our meta-analysis replicated significant linkages from prior studies (prior studies reporting 13 linkages with LOD > 3.0; hypergeometric test of overlapping linkage signals, P < 0.01). Using neuroimaging data from the NCR cohort, we found genes associated with ADHD overlapped with genes associated with the brain's total surface area and a feature of functional connectivity, reflecting the interaction between the brain's default mode and task positive networks. Such work begins to delineate the neural substrates of the discovered genetic associations with familial ADHD.© 2026. The Author(s).
The DSM-5(-TR) expanded the definition of Mild Intellectual Disability (MID) to include adaptive functioning (AF) alongside intelligence quotient (IQ). In this population-based study, we examined behavioural and emotional problems in children with MID and matched controls from early childhood to adolescence. We evaluated how three operationalizations of MID, varying by IQ and AF, influence outcomes. Cognitive assessments and parent-reported problems from 4,643 children from 1.5 to 15 years (T1 to T5) in the Generation R Study were used. MID was defined as: (1) IQ ≤ 75; (2) IQ ≤ 75 with impairments in AF; (3) IQ ≤ 85 with impairments in AF. Propensity score matching ensured comparable MID and non-MID groups. Linear mixed-effects models were employed to assess multiple domains of psychopathology over time. Across all MID definitions, children with MID exhibited elevated behavioural and emotional problems compared to matched controls. Children meeting the criteria for MID3, the broadest definition, showed the highest problem levels, with elevated ADHD (β = 0.37, pFDR < 0.001), affective (β = 0.25, pFDR < 0.001), and autistic problem scores (β = 0.25, pFDR < 0.001) at baseline, with differences widening over time. Children with MID1 and MID2 also displayed unfavourable ADHD trajectories, although no baseline differences were observed. The findings suggest the extent of mental health problems depends on how MID is operationalized and suggest that psychopathology may be particularly present in children with borderline intellectual disability, 75 ≤ IQ ≤ 85.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
T. Tang, L. Yang, Y. Cao, M. Wang, S. Zhang, Z. Gong, F. Xiong, Y. He, Y. Zhou, Q. Liao, B. Xiang, M. Zhou, C. Guo, X. Li, Y. Li, W. Xiong, G. Li, and Z. Zeng, "LncRNA AATBC Regulates Pinin to Promote Metastasis in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma," Molecular Oncology 14, no. 9 (2020): 2251-2270, https://doi.org/10.1002/1878-0261.12703. The above article, published online on 4 May 2020 in Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/), has been retracted by agreement between the journal Editor-in-Chief, Kevin M. Ryan; the Federation of European Biochemical Societies; and John Wiley & Sons Ltd. The retraction has been agreed due to concerns raised by third parties. Specifically, image elements in Figures 2D and 2G were found to have been previously published by the author group in different scientific contexts. Furthermore, the GAPDH blots derived from the CNE2 cells for the "NC" and "siPNN" groups in Figure 4B, and for the "NC" and "1237-3p" groups in Figure 5C were found duplicated. In addition, overlapping regions were identified between the panels depicting the "NC" and "siAATBC + PNN" groups within the CNE2 lane. While the authors acknowledged the errors and supplied raw data in support of their response, the editors deemed the clarification insufficient to address their concerns. The authors attributed the mistakes to similarities between the affected images, raising concerns over the accuracy of the data presented in the remaining body of the article. Furthermore, further review determined that the vast majority of the cited references were self-citations, many of which were found to be irrelevant or only marginally relevant to the context at hand, resulting in several statements lacking adequate support from the literature. Accordingly, the article has been retracted, as the editors have lost confidence in the reliability of the results and conclusions presented. The authors have been informed of the retraction decision, but were not available for final confirmation.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Macauba kernel protein isolate (MKPI) is nutrient-rich and ideal for plant-based diets, with potential for generating bioactive peptides upon hydrolysis. This study evaluated the effects of MKPI-derived hydrolysates (HD) on intestinal development, antioxidant defenses, and hepatic glucose metabolism using an in ovo (Gallus gallus) model, combined with peptide characterization and in silico bioactive prediction. Fertile broiler eggs (n = 9/group) were assigned to four groups: (1) non-injected (NI), (2) H₂O, (3) MKPI (IS), and (4) hydrolysates (HD). Intra-amniotic administration was performed on day 17, and tissues were collected at hacth (day 21). HD sequencies were identified by nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS and analyzed using the BIOPEP-UWM database. Hydrolysis reduced protein sizes (<15 kDa) and increased antioxidant capacity for the fractions. Both IS and HD groups induced changes in intestinal morphology, including increased villus height, surface area, and crypt depth compared to NI; however, villus-related improvements were also observed in the H₂O group, indicating a contribution of the injection procedure. In contrast, IS and HD specifically increased crypt depth and goblet cell diameter. Antioxidant-related genes (SOD, GSH-Px, CAT) were upregulated in IS and HD groups. HD further modulated hepatic gene expression (PCK1, G6PD, GAPDH, GLUT2), as well as intestinal SGLT1 expression, while MUC2 and DPP4 were unchanged. A total of 45 peptides were identified in HD, with predicted antioxidant and metabolic regulatory activities. Overall, HD modulated intestinal morphology, enhanced antioxidant responses, and influenced hepatic gene expression in an in ovo model.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The low response rate to immunotherapy in patients with lung adenocarcinoma is primarily due to tumor immune evasion. The tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment orchestrates this evasion, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we identify non-specific cytotoxic cell receptor protein 1 (NCCRP1) as a critical and previously uncharacterized regulator of this process.We first analyzed publicly accessible patient-derived single-cell RNA sequencing and RNA sequencing data to investigate the expression of NCCRP1 in lung adenocarcinoma and its impact on the tumor immune microenvironment. Subsequently, the Nccrp1 gene was knocked out in mouse lung adenocarcinoma cells using CRISPR-Cas9. The effect of NCCRP1 deletion on tumor growth was then evaluated using subcutaneous transplantation models in both NSG and C57BL/6 mice. Single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry and multiple targeted in vivo interventions were employed to assess the influence of NCCRP1 on the tumor immune microenvironment. To explore the underlying mechanisms by which NCCRP1 regulates the tumor immune microenvironment, we conducted co-immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down, ubiquitination assay, mass spectrometry, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation proteomics, dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, and ELISA.Loss of NCCRP1 inhibits lung tumor growth and prolongs survival in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mouse models. NCCRP1 deficiency upregulates CX3CL1 to recruit CX3CR1+ antitumoral macrophages. These macrophages subsequently secrete CXCL9 and CXCL10, enhancing the infiltration of CD8+ T cells and NK cells into the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, NCCRP1 and STAU1 competitively bind to NEDD4. NCCRP1 deficiency enhances the STAU1-NEDD4 interaction, promoting ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of STAU1, thereby increasing CX3CL1 messenger RNA stability. Remarkably, ablating NCCRP1 synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 or interferon-γ therapy, leading to complete tumor eradication.Our findings highlight NCCRP1 targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy to reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment and overcome the "cold tumor" phenotype in lung adenocarcinoma.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) encompasses several conditions that cause compression of the cervical spinal cord. While the pathobiology underlying compression-induced neural degeneration remains incompletely understood, microglial synaptic pruning, driven by CX3CR1, is thought to be a main contributor. The current study builds on previous work demonstrating that Cx3cr1-/- mice exhibit improved gait following DCM and seeks to determine if CX3CR1-mediated synaptic pruning underlies this improvement. We compared C57BL/6 (WT, wild-type) and Cx3cr1-/- mice across 12-weeks of DCM. Locomotor and pain function were assessed using CatWalk and Von Frey outcome measures, respectively. Synaptic and electrophysiological changes were characterized at baseline and after 4-weeks of DCM using pre- and post-synaptic markers, motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Cx3cr1-/- and WT mice showed differences in locomotion at baseline. Normalization of all groups revealed that Cx3cr1-/- mice exhibited improved locomotion across 12-weeks and greater mechanical sensitivity on Von Frey. 4-weeks post-DCM induction, the microglia of Cx3cr1-/- mice displayed reduced engulfment of excitatory and inhibitory synapses in the dorsal and ventral horns. This was accompanied by a disruption to the dorsal horn excitation-to-inhibition (E/I) balance, driven primarily by a loss of inhibitory transmission as confirmed by whole-cell patch clamp recording, and altered corticospinal-neuromuscular excitability, as confirmed by motor evoked potentials. Together, our findings reveal CX3CR1-mediated microglial synaptic pruning as a potential novel contributor to early DCM pathobiology. Specifically, our results suggest that an absence of pruning shifts the synaptic E/I balance in the dorsal horn, which may underlie the gait benefits observed in Cx3cr1-/- mice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1755657.].Copyright © 2026 Li, Tamai, Shinzawa, Fujisawa, Tanabe, Utsunomiya, Nakagawa, Kurachi, Koura, Mizukoshi and Kurachi.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is rapidly induced after ischemic stroke, but its proposed cell-specific and sex-dependent functions during post-stroke inflammation remain insufficiently understood. Here, we investigated the role of microglia-derived TNF in the acute and subacute response to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Tnf expression was transiently upregulated after stroke, becoming significant at 4 h, peaking at 12-24 h, and returning to baseline by 5 days. In situ hybridization confirmed strong Tnf expression in the infarct and peri-infarct regions. Whole-brain transcriptomic profiling showed that global TNF deficiency reshaped the early post-ischemic response, shifting it from microglia-associated phagocytic and wound-healing pathways toward an interferon-related inflammatory signature. To define the specific contribution of microglial TNF, we used inducible Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice. Microglial TNF deletion had no effect on infarct volume in males at 24 h or 5 days after pMCAO, but significantly increased infarct size in females at both time points. In both sexes, brain TNF levels peaked at 24 h and were significantly reduced in Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice, confirming microglia as a major source of early post-ischemic TNF. However, downstream consequences diverged by sex. At 5 days, male Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice showed reduced microglial reactivity and 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) signal, with no change in T-cell infiltration, and exhibited increased density of mature oligodendrocytes. In contrast, female Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice displayed enhanced microglial reactivity, increased TSPO binding, higher peri-infarct T-cell infiltration, and reduced oligodendrocyte density and myelin integrity. Together, these findings identify microglial TNF as a sex-dependent regulator of post-stroke inflammation and myelin injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pain is a common neurological manifestation of COVID-19, yet the mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 spike protein fragments contribute to nociceptive processing remain poorly understood. We investigated whether spike-derived peptides directly activate spinal neuroimmune pathways involved in pain signalling.Male C57BL/6 mice received intrathecal administration of three synthetic SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides (PSPD2001, PSPD2002 or PSPD2003) or saline. Mechanical nociception was assessed using the von Frey test. The involvement of spinal Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), microglia and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling was investigated using pharmacological antagonists, TLR4 knockout mice, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, CX3CR1GFP/+ mice, human C20 microglial cells and molecular dynamics simulations.All spike-derived peptides induced mechanical nociception, with PSPD2003 producing the most pronounced response. PSPD2003 increased spinal TLR4 expression, elevated TNF-α and IL-6 levels and promoted activation of dorsal horn microglia, demonstrated by increased TMEM119- and CX3CR1-positive cells. These nociceptive and neuroinflammatory effects were abolished by pharmacological inhibition of TLR4, microglia, p38 MAPK and NF-κB signalling, as well as in TLR4-/- mice, demonstrating that TLR4 signalling is essential for PSPD2003-induced pain. PSPD2003 also induced a hypertrophic phenotype in human microglial cells, while molecular dynamics simulations supported a stable interaction with the TLR4/MD-2 complex.These findings identify a previously unrecognized neuroimmune mechanism whereby a SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptide triggers spinal nociception through TLR4-dependent microglial activation and downstream p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling, highlighting the spinal TLR4-microglia axis as a potential therapeutic target for COVID-19-associated and post-viral pain.This study provides the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides directly activate a spinal TLR4-dependent neuroimmune pathway to induce nociception. By integrating behavioural, pharmacological, genetic, cellular and computational approaches, it identifies microglial activation and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling as key mechanisms linking viral peptides to pain, providing a mechanistic framework for COVID-19- and post-viral pain and supporting TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Pain published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Pain Federation ‐ EFIC ®.
Drug resistance to the androgen receptor (AR) antagonist is a critical obstacle in the clinic for advanced prostate cancers. Especially, AR antagonist treatment-induced neuroendocrine progression represents a lethal and therapy-resistant subtype. Although transcriptional and epigenetic lineage plasticity have been extensively implicated in treatment-induced neuroendocrine progression, the contribution of metabolic adaptation remains incompletely understood. Here, we identified a previously unrecognized metabolic reprogramming mechanism induced by AR antagonists in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) models. AR antagonist treatment markedly enhanced glycolytic activity and induced glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) expression. Genetic depletion of GAPDH suppressed AR antagonist-induced glycolytic activation, altered transcriptomic and metabolic programs, reduced neuroendocrine-associated marker expression, and inhibited xenograft tumor growth. Mechanistically, GAPDH promoter pulldown coupled with mass spectrometry, siRNA screening, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays identified myeloid zinc finger-1 (MZF1) as a key transcription factor for Enzalutamide-induced GAPDH gene expression. Pharmacological inhibition of GAPDH using koningic acid (KA) or penta-O-galloyl-β-D-glucopyranose (PGG) significantly suppressed tumor growth and attenuated neuroendocrine-associated molecular programs in CRPC cell-derived xenograft and patient-derived t-NEPC xenograft models. Collectively, our findings identify an AR antagonist-induced MZF1-GAPDH signaling axis that promotes glycolytic activation and neuroendocrine-associated metabolic adaptation during treatment resistance. These results support targeting GAPDH-dependent metabolic reprogramming as a potential therapeutic strategy for treatment-resistant prostate cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Y. Xu, K. Wang, W. Gao, C. Zhang, F. Huang, S. Wen and B. Wang, "MicroRNA-106b Regulates the Tumor Suppressor RUNX3 in Laryngeal Carcinoma Cells," FEBS Letters 587, no. 19 (2013): 3166-3174, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.febslet.2013.05.069. The above article, published online on 01 August 2013 in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com), has been retracted by agreement between the journal Editor-in-Chief, Michael Brunner; the Federation of European Biochemical Societies; and John Wiley & Sons Ltd. The retraction has been agreed following concerns raised by a third party. An investigation identified a duplication between the Hep2, miR-106b ASO band and the Hep2, Mimics-NC band in Figure 2D. A further duplication was identified between the TU-212 GAPDH bands in Figure 2D and ASO/Control GAPDH bands in Figure 3E. In addition, the ASO/Control TU-212 panel in Figure 3D is duplicated with the pCMV6/Control TU-212 panel in Figure 4D. Finally, the real-time PCR results in Figure 6A are duplicated with those shown in Figure 6B. The authors did not respond to requests from the integrity team to comment on the concerns or provide original data. The editors therefore consider the results and conclusions to be compromised. The authors did not respond to our notice of retraction.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Aqueous ammonia can release high nitrogen inorganic substances of ammonia and has been used as soil fumigant. However, the information about how fumigation with ammonia affects the soil microbial community is still limited. In this study, a laboratory microcosm experiment was conducted to evaluated the effectiveness of ammonia fumigation in controlling root-knot nematodes (RKNs), its influence on soil microbial diversity, and its impact on nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions. The results indicated that Ammonia treatment increased N2O emissions and decreased the RKNs population by 75.73%. Adding the inhibitors N-(N-butyl) thiophosphoric triamide (NBPT) and Dicyandiamide (DCD) to aqueous ammonia can mitigate N2O emissions. Compared with CK treatment, Soil enzyme activities, including those of urease, nitrate reductase, and nitrite reductase, were enhanced in each treatment. The fungal Sobs index was significantly higher in CK treatment than in the other treatments, whereas bacterial alpha diversity remained unaffected. This study also indicates that soil fumigation with aqueous ammonia has the potential to regulate fungal communities and important key reactions involved in nitrogen cycling.Copyright © 2026 Shi, Fu, Li, Li, Liu and Zhu.
Normothermic regional perfusion (NRP) is a novel organ procurement strategy used for donation after circulatory death (DCD) involving in situ organ perfusion. This cross-sectional survey study assesses US public attitudes toward organ donation and willingness to donate organs after DCD-NRP, standard DCD and after brain death, comparing registered donors (registrants) and non-registered participants (non-registrants). More registrants agreed with having trust in the medical system and registrants were more likely to agree with donation in every scenario. Almost half of respondents agreed that a person must be dead to donate their vital organs. This study found that willingness to donate was associated with donor registration and trust in the medical system. A secondary finding was that there is not universal understanding of the dead donor rule and implications of first-person authorization. Overall, our findings suggest that public support for donation remains strong, and that NRP utilization does not diminish that support.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556004 is a review article
Accurate identification of protein binding sites is essential for understanding biological mechanisms and advancing drug design. However, many structure-based predictors rely on spatial graphs whose topology remains fixed throughout message passing, making them sensitive to structural noise and difficult to transfer across ligand modalities. To address this issue, we propose DiConSite, a topology-adaptive and reusable architecture for residue-level binding site prediction across ligand-specific tasks. DiConSite is centered on a Latent Topological Evolution (LTE) module that augments the initial Euclidean graph with a latent functional topology. A Hierarchical Topological Distillation (HTD) objective and a Dynamic Curriculum Distillation (DCD) schedule are further introduced as LTE-dependent optimization stabilizers: they align relational structure across network depths only after the underlying topology has been refined. Extensive experiments across nine benchmarks show that DiConSite achieves consistently strong and often best-performing results, while improving robustness to structural uncertainty and cross-modal variation. By combining protein language model embeddings with topology-adaptive geometric reasoning, DiConSite offers a reusable framework for residue-level protein interaction analysis.
Several strategies have been used to mitigate ischemic injury and optimize graft quality in pancreas and islet transplantation, particularly in the context of donation after circulatory death (DCD) donors. These include conventional rapid recovery with static cold storage, optimized DCD retrieval protocols designed to reduce warm ischemia and, more recently, the use of machine perfusion techniques. Normothermic regional perfusion (NRP) represents a distinct approach within this landscape, enabling the restoration of oxygenated blood flow in situ, partial metabolic recovery, and the potential for functional evaluation before organ retrieval. Available clinical experience with NRP in DCD pancreas and islet transplantation indicates that the technique is feasible and safe, with graft and islet isolation results comparable with those achieved with conventional DCD procurement strategies. Nevertheless, overall experience remains limited and important aspects of NRP frameworks require further refinement. This review provides a comprehensive synthesis of the current evidence on DCD beta-cell replacement, with a particular focus on NRP as an emerging strategy to mitigate ischemic injury. We summarize available clinical and registry-based data, discuss the physiological rationale supporting NRP, and outline key gaps in donor selection, perfusion protocols, and outcome assessment. Finally, we identify priorities for future research aimed at optimizing NRP practice and expanding the pancreas donor pool while improving posttransplant graft and patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
As normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) maintains liver grafts in a near-physiologic state, uncoupling ischemia-reperfusion injury from the recipient, the validity of early graft dysfunction scores from the static cold storage (SCS) era are uncertain.All liver grafts that were transplanted following NMP at our center between 08/19/2022 and 05/31/2024 were analyzed. We assessed associations between the early graft dysfunction scores and graft survival in the NMP era and identified factors linked to pronounced dysfunction.Of 126 NMP-perfused liver grafts, seven (5.5%) were discarded after viability assessment. Among the 107 transplanted livers (41%-DBD, 59%-DCD), neither the liver graft assessment following transplantation (L-GrAFT7) nor the model for early allograft function (MEAF) scores correlated with early graft loss. Early allograft dysfunction (EAD) occurred in 40% of cases and was associated with lower 6‑month graft survival compared with non-EAD cases (89% vs 100%, p = 0.04). Higher donor BMI, longer agonal and anastomosis times, post-reperfusion syndrome, and suboptimal pump parameters (impaired glucose metabolism, delayed lactate clearance, increased bicarbonate use, elevated perfusate transaminases) correlated with EAD. Grafts exceeding conventional viability thresholds (increased bicarbonate use to maintain pH >7.2, lactate rise >2 mmol/L within 6 h post-clearance, and perfusate ALT >6000 U/L) were successfully utilized without compromising short-term outcomes.In the NMP era, EAD identifies a high-risk subgroup with inferior short-term graft survival. Trajectory-based scores did not correlate with early graft loss. Pump variables may help guide decision-making when considering the use of liver grafts with an increased likelihood of EAD in select recipients.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Transplantation published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To investigate the impact of topical antiglaucoma treatment on the development of ocular surface disease (OSD) in glaucomatous eyes using in vivo confocal microscopy (IVCM).Retrospective clinical cohort study. Data were collected from October 2021 to January 2024.39 eyes receiving monotherapy of either a prostaglandin analog (28) or beta-blocker (11), 28 eyes receiving polytherapy of three or more unique pharmacologic classes, and 11 healthy eyes without glaucoma or OSD. Exclusion criteria included a prior history of corneal disease, corneal surgery or laser procedure, use of topical anti-inflammatory medication, or intraocular surgery or medication changes within the last six months.Central corneal images were obtained using IVCM. Image grading was performed by two independent, masked observers. Ocular surface disease index (OSDI) surveys were collected from each patient.Dendritic cell density (DCD), epithelial wing cell (WCD) and basal cell density (BCD), nerve fiber density (ND), nerve tortuosity and reflectivity, and OSDI scores were compared among the treatment and control groups. Linear regression tests were performed to analyze the effect of type and quantity of pharmacologic classes prescribed, duration of antiglaucoma medication use, and glaucoma severity on the corneal parameters.Patients on chronic antiglaucoma medications had significantly higher mean OSDI scores as compared to control, indicating worsening OSD. Treated eyes demonstrated significantly increased mean DCD and significantly decreased mean WCD and BCD as compared to control. Beta-blockers induce significantly greater cytotoxic effect on the corneal epithelium and nerve plexus as compared to prostaglandin analogs. Alpha-agonists were significantly associated with higher ND compared to other pharmacologic classes. Rho-associated protein kinase inhibitors demonstrate a significant, positive relationship with OSDI scores. The number of pharmacologic classes prescribed significantly predicts increases in DCD.Chronic use of topical antiglaucoma medications greatly contributes to the severity of OSD amongst glaucoma patients in a dose-dependent manner. Patients treated with antiglaucoma medications not only have severe OSD symptoms but also microstructural anatomic changes to the central cornea, characterized by inflammation and corneal nerve attenuation. Clinicians should recognize the unintended effects of antiglaucoma medications on the ocular surface.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Poor motor competence can lead to developmental challenges. Some children will benefit from school-based interventions, but those with persistent difficulties, such as Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD), often require targeted support. Although some variability supports adaptability, excessive variability may indicate motor impairment. This study examined coordination variability in children with different motor competence trajectories in response to a school-based intervention.As part of the Moves-UP project, motor competence was assessed in 100 children at baseline, 3-month, and 7-month follow-up assessments using the Short Form Dragon Challenge. Children with movement difficulties received a school-based motor skills intervention. Forty-five children (17 with suspected DCD, 28 typically developing) completed kinematic walking assessments at 0 and 7 months. Latent class mixed models identified MC trajectory groups. Functional principal component analysis (FPCA) was applied to foot-shank and shank-thigh coordination variability.Three trajectories were identified: typically developing (class 1), improvers (class 2), and non-improvers (class 3). Class 3 showed greater coordination variability than class 1. FPCA indicated greater deviation patterns in class 3, particularly during early stance, stance-to-swing transition, and terminal swing. A class-by-time interaction in foot-shank fPC3 showed that scores increased in class 1 but decreased in class 3. Shank-thigh fPC3 scores also decreased over time, reflecting altered variability distribution.Children with persistently low motor competence showed elevated and phase-specific coordination variability, consistent with DCD-related motor deficits. These findings support the use of FPCA and coordination variability for early identification and monitoring of persistent motor difficulties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Donation after circulatory death (DCD) is increasingly implemented worldwide and represents a growing source of transplantable organs. Abdominal normothermic regional perfusion (A-NRP), typically performed using a modified venoarterial extracorporeal perfusion circuit, improves outcomes in liver and kidney transplantation but requires reliable exclusion of thoracic, coronary, and cerebral reperfusion. This is commonly achieved by supraceliac aortic occlusion. In donors with severe iliofemoral or aortoiliac disease, femoral access for balloon placement may not be feasible, limiting the applicability of A-NRP. We describe a novel percutaneous subclavian approach for aortic occlusion balloon placement and report limited initial institutional experience in two controlled DCD donors using aggregated procedural feasibility data. This planned alternative route may be considered in selected anatomically challenging cases when standard femoral balloon placement is not feasible.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the ASAIO.
The recently published Society of Critical Care Medicine Guidelines on Adult End-of-Life Care in the ICU provide a detailed and well-thought-out approach to a vital component of critical care, although they explicitly refrain from discussing how they may apply to organ donation. As representatives of the Donor Care Unit Network for Optimizing Recovery (DONOR), a group of intensivists experienced in managing donation after circulatory death (DCD), we wish to endorse equal delivery of high-quality end-of-life (EOL) care for organ donors. Although some logistical differences must be addressed, the EOL recommendations outlined in the Guidelines are still applicable to patients being evaluated for or undergoing DCD. Recent accounts of unacceptable patient care in the setting of DCD highlight a critical threat to patient welfare and public trust. Our mandate is clear: implement and audit protocols that guarantee dignity and symptom control while demonstrating that DCD remains wholly consistent with a compassionate, honorable, and fulfilling EOL.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the Society of Critical Care Medicine.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (RARRES2) on osteoclast differentiation in postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.A rat model of PMOP was induced by bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) method, and an in vitro osteoclast differentiation model was induced by treating RAW264.7 cells with nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL) and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Femoral bone structure, biomechanical properties, histology, osteoclast activity, co‑localization of RARRES2/CMKLR1 with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes, gene expression, Fe2+ levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS) level, and lipid peroxidation level were detected.OVX model rats exhibited significant trabecular bone loss, compromised bone biomechanical properties, increased osteoclast numbers, elevated osteoclast differentiation markers, and upregulated RARRES2 expression compared with Sham controls. Co‑localization immunofluorescence revealed that RARRES2 was predominantly co‑localized with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes. In vitro, RARRES2 knockdown markedly suppressed osteoclast differentiation, as evidenced by decreased osteoclast-related markers (NFATc1, CTSK, c-Fos, and F-actin) and reduced TRAP activity. Mechanistically, RARRES2 knockdown increased ferroptosis in osteoclasts, manifesting by decreased Nrf2, GPX4, HO-1, NQO1, and FTH1, along with increased ACSL4, Fe2+ accumulation , ROS production, and lipid peroxidation. These findings were also confirmed in vivo. Activation of Nrf2 with DMF partially reversed the ferroptotic alterations and osteoclast‑inhibiting effects induced by RARRES2 knockdown both in vitro and in vivo.RARRES2 knockdown inhibits osteoclast differentiation and alleviates PMOP progression by suppressing the activation of Nrf2/GPX4 and promoting osteoclast ferroptosis.
To investigate the role of obesity-associated upregulation of chemerin in orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) and the underlying mechanisms.Chemerin expression in obesity-accelerated OTM was evaluated using both in vivo (obese mice subjected to OTM) and in vitro (human periodontal ligament [hPDL] fibroblasts exposed to compression and palmitic acid treatment) models. Single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were reanalysed to identify the primary cellular sources of Rarres2 (encoding chemerin) in the periodontium. Rarres2 was overexpressed or silenced in mice and hPDL fibroblasts to assess the role of chemerin in obesity-accelerated OTM. Potential mechanisms were further investigated through integrated bioinformatic analysis and experimental validation.Chemerin expression was upregulated during OTM and further elevated under obese conditions. Chemerin was predominantly localised in the mouse periodontium and highly expressed in fibroblast subpopulations. Rarres2 overexpression aggravated periodontal inflammation and promoted OTM in obese mice. Furthermore, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress was activated in the compressed PDL under mechanical compression and chemerin was associated with elevated ER stress. Rarres2 overexpression enhanced the IRE1α-mediated ER stress in both hPDL fibroblasts and the mouse periodontium during obesity-related OTM, while Rarres2 knockdown reduced the IRE1α-mediated ER stress. Moreover, silencing of Ire1α reversed the promotive effects of Rarres2 overexpression on ER stress.Chemerin aggravates periodontal inflammation and accelerates obesity-related OTM by promoting IRE1α-mediated ER stress, highlighting a potential pathway for future therapeutic exploration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Coccidioidomycosis, also known as Valley Fever, is a fungal disease endemic to the Americas that kills hundreds annually, yet the host factors that lead to increased risk of life-threatening dissemination of coccidioidomycosis remain poorly understood. We assembled the largest comprehensively sequenced coccidioidomycosis cohort to date, comprising 795 individuals with laboratory confirmed coccidioidomycosis and clinical disease severity phenotyping, many with paired whole blood genomic and transcriptomic data. Individuals with greater than 50% African genetic ancestry have increased risk for disseminated coccidioidomycosis (DCM) cases (OR=13.37, p=1.08×10-18), reflecting ancestry-associated differences in allele frequencies at immune loci. Transcriptomic profiling (n=267) revealed upregulation of interferon-inducible genes IFI44 and IFI44L, the fungal recognition receptor CLEC4D, and pro-inflammatory protein S100A12, with sex-specific expression differences in immune cell composition. Gene-burden testing identified NOD-like receptor NLRX1 as the only gene carrying significantly more damaging rare variants than expected by chance (p=5.85×10-4). We identified a rare missense variant, NLRX1 p.Arg252Trp (rs145644388), in five patients with DCM that represents a founder variant: all carriers share African local genetic ancestry and carry 0.6-1.1 centimorgans of identical-by-descent sequence, indicating origin from a common ancestor. In gnomAD, NLRX1 p.Arg252Trp shows has higher allele frequency in African (AF=0.00615) compared to European (AF= 2.25×10-5) populations, directly linking this rare variant to population-level African genetic ancestry enrichment in DCM. NLRX1 disruption impairs LC3-associated phagocytosis, an antifungal mechanism in macrophages. Together, these findings reveal both immune gene expression dysregulation and rare-variant architectures associated with African genetic ancestry underlying severe coccidioidomycosis and identify new targets for risk stratification and treatment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415929 is a review article
ObjectiveVisceral adipose tissue (VAT) produces several adipokines; however, VAT adipocytes' gene expression has not been related with cardio-metabolic components. The present study aimed to explore associations between gene expression in human primary VAT adipocytes' and cardio-metabolic components in subjects who live with Metabolically Unhealthy Obesity (MUO) compared with subjects who live with Metabolically Healthy Obesity (MHO).MethodsCross-sectional study of patients who live with obesity, who underwent bariatric/metabolic surgery.ResultsForty-five patients (18 MHO and 27 MUO) aged 44 years, main co-morbidities Diabetes and Hypertension, were analyzed. MUO showed younger age and higher cardio-metabolic risk, as well as larger adipocyte´s sizes. Primary cultured adipocytes were isolated from trans-surgical VAT sample, then cDNA was analyzed for the expression of 92 genes, further distributed as MUO vs. MHO and clustered according to their linkage with cardio-metabolic components. Higher expression of genes like EDN1, IL-6, ADIPOQ, GSTA2, TGFβ, WNT3A, KDR, MAPK3, vWF (p<0.04); as well as reduced NOS2, PDGFA, HAMP and RARRES2 (p<0.01) were observed across clusters of hyperglycemia, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and central obesity, broadly implicating pathways related to inflammation, oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, insulin resistance, and vascular regulation.ConclusionFindings from the present exploratory analysis show that cardio-metabolic risk is associated to VAT adipocytes' gene expression; particularly those genes related to oxidative stress, insulin resistance, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, athero-thrombosis, and lower vasodilation. Further longitudinal and mechanistic studies are required to clarify the directionality and clinical significance of these associations.
Glioma, characterized by its highly invasive nature, presents significant challenges in prognosis and treatment resistance. The advent of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has facilitated a more nuanced understanding of the cellular and molecular landscapes of glioma cells. In this study, conducting a comprehensive analysis of scRNA-seq and bulk RNA-seq data, employing Cox regression and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) methods, we identified three malignant prognostic signatures: IGFBP2, MDK, and RARRES2. The predictive accuracy of this model was validated across both The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) cohorts. Additionally, we explored the correlation of these signatures with drug responsiveness and immune cell infiltration. Differential expression validation and functional analyses of RARRES2 were performed using external Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and in-house samples. In both glioma and pan-cancer contexts, RARRES2 expression is significantly positively correlated with the infiltration of M2-like macrophages, NK cells, and CD8+ T cells. Given that RARRES2 receptors are predominantly found in myeloid and glioma cells, we hypothesize that RARRES2 may regulate tumor progression through autocrine pathways and influence macrophage recruitment and differentiation via paracrine pathways. Collectively, our findings provide valuable insights into potential novel prognostic markers for glioma, potentially enhancing the accuracy of prognostic predictions and serving as promising therapeutic targets.Copyright: © 2026 Gong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The adipokine chemerin contributes to vascular function, blood pressure regulation, and adiposity-associated hypertension. Mechanistic chemerin research has used three key tools: an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) against chemerin, the Chemerin1 receptor inhibitor CCX832, and a Rarres2 knockout (KO) in Dahl SS rats. We administered the ASO to the KO rat to test that the ASO against chemerin reduced blood pressure by preventing chemerin production only. However, the ASO against chemerin lowered blood pressure both in wild-type (WT) and KO rats, indicating the ASO has off-target effects. This finding necessitated the use of CCX832 and the chemerin KO rat to understand chemerin's role in cardiovascular health and disease. Here, we test the hypothesis that CCX832 administration or genetic chemerin loss will reveal chemerin's role in driving adiposity-associated hypertension and vascular stiffness. CCX832 reduced blood pressure in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced, but not high-salt diet (HSD)-induced hypertensive males, supporting that chemerin's effects on blood pressure are obesity-related and at least in part Chemerin1-mediated. In addition, genetic chemerin loss blunted development of HFD-induced hypertension in males but, interestingly, exacerbated it in females. Aortic arch stiffening was prevented in the KO male rat on HFD, but no differences were observed in females. KO males on HFD had significantly lower collagen deposition in thoracic aorta than control diet (CD) or HFD-fed male WTs, whereas there were no significant differences among females. Our findings support chemerin as a sex-dependent driver of adiposity-associated hypertension and vascular stiffness and prompt broader investigation into chemerin's role in other vascular or sex-specific diseases.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Chemerin contributes to obesity-associated hypertension through the Chemerin1 receptor. Chemerin drives adiposity-associated hypertension in males and protects against it in females. Chemerin plays a potential role in collagen deposition and vascular stiffening in males.
Psoriasis is a chronic, immune-mediated disorder with an unmet need for effective treatments. To systematically prioritize therapeutic targets, we integrated proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) with expression validation in blood/skin, genetic susceptibility analysis, differential gene expression (DGE) from bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), colocalization, pathway enrichment, and protein-protein interaction analyses.Proteome-wide MR identified 29 candidate protein targets (Bonferroni-corrected), all replicated in independent datasets. Fifteen targets showed significant expression associations in blood or skin. Eleven proteins-UBLCP1, IL23A, ASF1A, RARRES2, ICAM1, PRSS53, ICAM5, GCA, IL2RA, DBI, and NFKB1-exhibited consistent directional effects with their genes. Genetic susceptibility analysis confirmed 20 target-specific polygenic scores for psoriasis and five for psoriatic arthritis. DGE analysis identified 13 targets in bulk and 13 in scRNA-seq-primarily in keratinocytes and immune cells-with IL2RA, COMP, and A2ML1 dysregulated across both. Colocalization analysis implicated shared causal variants for psoriasis in ASF1A, CD8A, CTF1, IL7R, MMP12, RARRES2, XCL2, DBI, IL23A, IL2RA, SGSH, and TIMD4. Enrichment analyses highlighted involvement in cytotoxicity, immune regulation, and JAK-STAT signaling. Eighteen targets interacted with approved anti-psoriasis drugs. Notably, drugs targeting IL2RA, IL7R, CTF1, ICAM1, MMP12, NFKB1, CD8A, DDX58, IL12A, SGSH, and FAP are approved or in trials for other diseases, suggesting repurposing potential. Our integrative multi-omics approach prioritized 29 high-confidence targets, including 13 novel candidates (RARRES2, ASF1A, CTF1, DBI, B3GNT2, CD8A, TIMD4, CRTAM, SGSH, XCL2, DAPK2, A2ML1, and FAP). Several high-priority targets-such as IL2RA, IL23, MMP12, RARRES2, IL7R, and ICAM1-were supported across analytical layers. These findings provide a robust foundation for psoriasis drug development.The code used for the analyses in this manuscript has been archived in Zenodo at [DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.19692128].© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading global cause of mortality. Its molecular pathogenesis, especially systemic immune dysregulation, remains unclear. Public transcriptomic datasets underwent machine learning to identify biomarkers, which were validated in external cohorts and single-cell RNA-seq. In vitro and ex vivo validations included: qRT-PCR and ELISA in CSE/LPS-stimulated macrophages to assess drug efficacy (Celecoxib/Lovastatin); RORC overexpression; Western blotting in patient-derived primary T cells and TCF7-deficient Jurkat cells with genetic rescue; and immunofluorescence of human lungs. A three-gene signature (RORC, TCF7, and CLEC4D) consistently discriminated COPD. CLEC4D localized to myeloid cells, while RORC/TCF7 mapped to lymphoid lineages. Celecoxib and Lovastatin attenuated macrophage inflammation, partially via RORC preservation. Crucially, the TCF7 protein was depleted in COPD primary T cells. TCF7 knockdown downregulated pro-caspase-8, which was fully reversed by TCF7 re-expression. Immunofluorescence confirmed disrupted TCF7/caspase-8 spatial patterns in COPD lungs. This signature highlights innate hyperactivation and adaptive T-cell alterations in COPD, providing novel mechanistic insights into immune dysregulation and potential pharmacological targets.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease that can lead to multiple complications. Sjögren's syndrome (SS) is another autoimmune condition that may occur as a primary disorder or in conjunction with other autoimmune diseases, including RA. This study aimed to investigate the shared gene signatures between RA and SS. Gene expression datasets for RA (GSE15573, GSE93776) and SS (GSE48378, GSE94510, GSE93683) were obtained and analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and T cells. Gene ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis were performed on the DEGs identified. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to validate the expression levels of DEGs in PBMCs from patients with RA and SS. A total of 244 DEGs were identified from the RA PBMC dataset, comprising 142 upregulated genes and 102 downregulated genes. These DEGs were significantly enriched in biological processes related to immune responses, including cellular response to lipopolysaccharide, defense response against fungi, inflammatory responses, and antibacterial humoral responses. In contrast, 335 DEGs were identified from the SS PBMC dataset; among these, 320 genes were upregulated, while 15 were downregulated. The DEGs associated with SS showed strong involvement in defense responses against viruses, innate immune responses, viral responses, as well as cellular reactions to lipopolysaccharide. Moreover, we identified 12 shared DEGs between RA and SS PBMCs: RNASE2, NDUFB3, LY96, ANKRD22, EIF2AK2, RNASE3, CLEC4D, TNFAIP6, DYNLT1, RPS27L, LILRA5, and F5. Validation through qRT-PCR confirmed increased expression levels of RNASE2, RNASE3, NDUFB3, and EIF2AK2 in PBMCs. This study successfully delineated key DEGs along with their associated biological processes within the context of RA and SS PBMCs. Through bioinformatics analyses combined with qRT-PCR validation, we have identified four critical genes that may serve as potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets for further investigation.AJCEI Copyright © 2026.
Apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) renal risk variants (RRVs) contribute to the increased risk of kidney disease among Black Americans, but use of genetic testing may be limited by patient concerns regarding clinical implications and effects on family.Black adults were prospectively enrolled for APOL1 genotyping, surveys, and clinical record review beginning in January 2019 at a Midwestern U.S. medical center (NCT05656261). Patient-reported concerns about kidney conditions and potential worry related to having an APOL1 high-risk genotype were analyzed at baseline and 3-months.Among 200 participants enrolled with completed 3-month follow-up as of January 2025, 17.5% (35/200) carried an APOL1 high-risk genotype (2 RRVs). At baseline, concern about kidney conditions was common: 39% reported being extremely concerned, 34% very concerned, 12% somewhat concerned, 10% a little concerned, and 6% not concerned at all. Higher baseline concern was observed among women and those with a family history of both kidney disease and hypertension. At 3 months, concern levels were unchanged in 45% of participants, decreased in 36%, and increased in 19%. APOL1 high-risk genotypes were more common in those with an increase, compared to a decrease, in kidney concern at follow-up (29% vs 11%; P = 0.02). Worry related to having an APOL1 high-risk genotype declined over time, from 14% at baseline to 8% at 3 months.In this prospective cohort, patient-reported concerns about kidney conditions were common and generally stable, with higher levels observed in certain subgroups. Although APOL1 high-risk genotypes were more common among participants whose kidney concerns increased than among those whose concerns decreased, overall patient-reported worry about genetic risk declined. These findings may help inform patient education and counseling surrounding APOL1 testing.Copyright © 2026 Elsurer Afsar, Clair, Memon, Edwards, Miyata, Afsar, Schnitzler, Xiao, Carriker, Abu Al Rub, Hsu, Muiru, Freedman, Philipneri, Caliskan, Lentine and St. Louis APOL1 Study Collaborators.
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
Innate immune signaling plays a key role in host response to infection, yet the pattern recognition receptors that detect non-model gut-associated yeasts remain poorly defined. Here, we investigated macrophage sensing of Debaryomyces hansenii, a food-derived yeast that we found to be enriched within intestinal ulcers of Crohn disease (CD) patients. Using a cell surface receptor antibody screen of bone marrow-derived macrophages infected with a CD patient isolate of D. hansenii, we showed that D. hansenii-induced macrophage activation characterized by increased expression of co-stimulatory molecules, MHC-II, and pattern recognition receptors, including the C-type lectin receptor Dectin-1. Antibody blockade experiments showed both Dectin-1 and complement receptor 3 subunit CD11b were required for phagocytosis of D. hansenii, while Dectin-1 was uniquely required for production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor (Tnf). CRISPR-Cas9-mediated deletion of Dectin-1 phenocopied antibody neutralization effects on phagocytosis. Furthermore, deletion of Dectin-1 or its downstream signaling adaptor molecule Card9 resulted in reduced Tnf secretion in response to D. hansenii. Dectin-1-mediated uptake of D. hansenii was observed in primary bone marrow-derived macrophage and dendritic cells, as well as across the spectrum of macrophage polarization states. Together, these findings define the role of Dectin-1-Card9 signaling axis in innate immune cell sensing of D. hansenii. These findings support the emerging relevance of innate immune recognition of a yeast in Crohn disease pathogenesis.
Clinical decision-making for patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) at risk of organ dysfunction and death is currently guided by clinical evaluation and scores. Every fifth patient with CAP requires admission to the ICU, with a subsequent high mortality; delayed admission to the ICU increases this risk.Can a transcriptomic signature improve identification of at-risk patients compared with conventional scores and metrics?Time-course transcriptomic data were obtained from blood samples taken from 455 participants in 41 centers enrolled in the Progression of Community-Acquired Pneumonia in the Hospital (PROGRESS) trial, a prospective observational cohort study of hospitalized patients with CAP who did not initially require organ support. Discovery (n = 240) and validation (n = 215) cohorts were randomly assigned. Transcriptome data were analyzed for association with a severe CAP course, defined as a composite of requirement for ICU admission or 28-day mortality. Predictive performance of the gene expression profiles was compared against clinical scores and serum markers, and validated in publicly available transcriptomic data sets.A 5-gene signature consisting of SIGLEC14, TNFSF14, YOD1, CLEC4A, and KLRB1 (STYCK) was identified and validated to predict clinical deterioration with subsequent ICU admission or 28-day mortality (AUCdiscovery, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.71-0.90; P = 0.00000065; AUCvalidation, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.70-0.90; P = 0.0000013). The signature outperformed clinical scores in predicting severe CAP and improved prediction when added to the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score (AUCSOFA, 0.70 vs AUCSOFA+STYCK, 0.83; P = .0002). Prognostic value was confirmed in 6 of 17 publicly available sepsis cohorts, particularly those with low case fatality.We identified a 5-gene transcriptomic signature that, taken soon after hospital admission, was shown to predict disease course of hospitalized patients with CAP. STYCK was superior to conventional, currently used scores and clinical metrics in predicting this deterioration and improved, if added to the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment, its performance.ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT02782013; URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov.© 2026 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42545739
Gastric precancerous lesions (GPLs) are a pivotal stage in the gastritis-gastric cancer sequence, and the absence of effective treatments presents a clinical challenge. Veratramine is a natural anti-inflammatory and analgesic steroid alkaloid; however, its effects on GPLs and the mechanisms have remained unexplored. This study investigated the effects of veratramine on GPLs using 1-Methyl-3-nitro-1-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced GES-1 cells and rat models, utilizing RNA-seq to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. In vitro, veratramine inhibited malignant cells (MC) proliferation, induced apoptosis, and triggered G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. It also suppressed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), migration, and invasion by upregulating E‑cadherin and downregulating Slug and vimentin. Transcriptomic and molecular docking analyses highlighted the Wnt/β-catenin pathway as a key target, regulated via DDX60, MUC1, APOL1, and MSH5. Veratramine reduced Wnt10B, β-catenin, and cyclin D1 expression and blocked β‑catenin nuclear translocation; these effects were reversed by the Wnt activator BML-284. In vivo, treatment with veratramine ameliorated the GPLs-induced pathological changes in rats. It restored body weight and preserved gastric mucosal integrity, as evidenced by intact glandular and cellular morphology, reduced hyperplasia, and attenuated intestinal metaplasia. These improvements were associated with a modulation of key molecular markers, specifically a decrease in the expression of N-cadherin, Wnt10B, and β-catenin, alongside an increase in E-cadherin expression in gastric tissues. These results collectively indicate that veratramine exerts its therapeutic effects against GPLs primarily by suppressing the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Taken together, our findings suggest that veratramine is a promising candidate small-molecule drug for the treatment of GPLs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525818 is a review article
Subchondral bone remodeling in the early stages of osteoarthritis (OA) is characterized by elevated bone turnover and is closely associated with osteocyte function within the subchondral bone. However, beyond the canonical role of gasdermin D (GSDMD) in mediating pyroptosis in immune cells, its function in osteocytes remains poorly understood. Accordingly, this study aimed to determine whether osteocyte-derived GSDMD regulates subchondral bone homeostasis or contributes to pathological remodeling during osteoarthritis progression. GSDMD expression was evident in osteocytes within the subchondral bone in both clinical and experimental models of OA, as well as in osteocytes co-cultured with stimulated chondrocytes, suggesting a potential role for osteocyte-derived GSDMD in the bone microenvironment. Remarkably, specific deletion of Gsdmd in osteocytes led to increased bone remodeling, which was accompanied by cartilage degeneration in an OA model, as well as bone loss in an osteoporosis model. Mechanistically, Gsdmd-deficient osteocytes displayed enhanced activation of CARD9/NF-κB signaling under inflammatory stimulation, leading to increased production of inflammatory mediators and osteoclastogenic factors that disrupted osteoblast-osteoclast coupling. These changes induced high-turnover subchondral bone remodeling, altered joint mechanical properties, and accelerated cartilage degeneration. Collectively, our findings identify osteocyte-derived GSDMD as an important regulator of subchondral bone remodeling and suggest that loss of this regulatory mechanism exacerbates OA progression. These results further indicate that therapeutic strategies targeting GSDMD should be approached with caution due to potential effects on bone remodeling and inflammatory signaling.© 2026. The Author(s).
Thalamic hemorrhage is a severe subtype of intracerebral hemorrhage in which secondary neuroinflammation contributes to tissue injury and neurological deterioration. N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10), an RNA N4-acetylcytidine writer, has been implicated in inflammatory regulation and neurological disorders. However, inflammation-related transcriptomic changes associated with Remodelin treatment after thalamic hemorrhage remain unclear.mRNA transcriptome sequencing was performed on perilesional thalamic tissues from control, thalamic hemorrhage model, and Remodelin-treated mice. Differentially expressed genes were identified for the Model versus Control and Remodelin Intervention versus Model comparisons. Genes showing opposite directions of regulation across the two comparisons were defined as Remodelin-reversed differentially expressed genes. GeneCards-derived inflammation-related genes were converted to mouse orthologs and intersected with Remodelin-reversed genes. Protein-protein interaction analysis, Gene Ontology and KEGG enrichment analyses, gene set enrichment analysis, immune-cell signature estimation, and transcription factor/miRNA regulatory network prediction were performed. Key candidates were validated by quantitative RT-PCR.RNA-seq identified 499 differentially expressed genes in the Model versus Control comparison and 664 in the Remodelin Intervention versus Model comparison. Among 46 shared differentially expressed genes, 42 showed opposite-direction regulation. Ortholog-corrected screening identified 9 Remodelin-reversed inflammation-related candidates: Cxcl1, Ccl2, Ncf4, Ptx3, Pomc, Masp2, Tnfrsf8, Card9, and Gpr84. Enrichment analyses linked these genes mainly to leukocyte- and neutrophil-mediated immunity, tumor necrosis factor production, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, IL-17 signaling, TNF signaling, chemokine signaling, and NOD-like receptor signaling. Protein-protein interaction analysis highlighted Ccl2, Cxcl1, and Pomc as prominent candidate nodes. qRT-PCR using independent biological samples provided preliminary transcript-level support for Remodelin-associated changes in Cxcl1 and Pomc expression, whereas Ccl2 was increased after hemorrhage but was not significantly reduced by Remodelin.This study identifies Remodelin-reversed inflammation-related transcriptomic signatures in experimental thalamic hemorrhage. Cxcl1 and Pomc represent the most consistently supported Remodelin-responsive transcriptomic candidates, whereas Ccl2 appears to be a hemorrhage-associated inflammatory hub without robust reversal at the examined time point. These findings provide an exploratory neurogenomic framework for investigating inflammation-related transcriptional remodeling associated with Remodelin treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Li, Xiao, Gao and Huang.
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cytokine interleukin-33 (IL-33) signaling in primary sensory neurons plays a crucial role in pain. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, we investigated whether IL-33 signaling affects ion channels in nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Herein, we reported that the application of IL-33 enhanced the electrophysiological activity of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). IL-33 dose-dependently increased acid-evoked ASIC currents in mouse DRG neurons. IL-33 enhanced the maximum responses of ASICs, whereas the sensitivity to acidic stimuli remained unaffected. This IL-33-induced enhancement of ASIC currents was dependent on suppression of the tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) receptors. The enhancing effect of IL-33 on ASIC currents was prevented by the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB202190, but not by the ERK inhibitor U0126 or the JNK inhibitor SP600125, indicating the effect was p38-dependent. Moreover, IL-33 potentiated the action potentials triggered by acidic stimuli. Finally, ASIC3-deficient mice displayed attenuated mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intraplantar or intramuscular injection of IL-33. Our findings revealed that IL-33 enhanced ASIC function via ST2 and the intracellular p38 signaling pathway, which might provide a promising therapeutic approach for pain treatment by targeting IL-33/ST2 signaling.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is heterogeneous, and hepatocyte plasticity is linked to poorer patient outcomes. A subset of human HCC harboring Tuberous Sclerosis Complex 1 (TSC1) mutations exhibits more aggressive behavior. TFEB is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and cell fate. We analyzed human normal and HCC tissue arrays for TFEB and CK19 expression, as well as bulk and single-cell RNA-seq datasets from mouse and human HCC, to define TFEB-associated transcriptional programs. We performed biochemical, histological, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analyses in liver-specific Tsc1 knockout (L-Tsc1 KO) and L-Tsc1,Tfeb double KO (DKO) mice. Loss of hepatic Tsc1 led to increased phosphorylation of S6 and 4EBP1, with paradoxical increases in TFEB nuclear translocation and activation. L-Tsc1 KO mice showed increased hepatocyte plasticity, decreased HFN4α, increased YAP1 activation, and spontaneous HCC with increased SOX9 and CK19-positive biliary epithelial cell (BEC)-like cells at 8-12 months. Deletion of Tfeb dampened hepatic metabolic reprogramming and hepatocyte fate changes and inhibited tumor progression in L-Tsc1 KO mice. Increased TFEB activity was associated with increased YAP and SOX9 gene expression and high-grade malignant HCC in humans. These findings indicate that loss of hepatic TSC1 leads to non-canonical TFEB activation, promoting hepatocyte plasticity and tumor heterogeneity associated with high-grade malignancy in both mouse and human HCC. .
Adenoid hypertrophy (AH) is a common paediatric disorder that may be worsened by allergic rhinitis (AR), contributing to persistent symptoms and postoperative recurrence. The immunologic mechanisms underlying allergic AH remain incompletely understood. This study assessed IL-5, IL-33, and ST2 expression in adenoid tissues of children with AH and evaluated the influence of concomitant AR on tissue and systemic inflammatory responses.This study included 120 children undergoing adenoidectomy: 60 with AH alone and 60 with AH plus AR. Immunohistochemical staining was performed to assess tissue IL-5, IL-33, and ST2 expression using integrated optical density. Serum IL-4, IL-33, and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA, and total IgE and blood eosinophil fractions were also evaluated. Correlations between tissue and systemic inflammatory markers were analysed.Compared with the AH-only group, children with AH plus AR showed significantly higher tissue expression of IL-5, IL-33, and ST2. Serum IL-4, serum IL-33, total IgE, and eosinophil fractions were also significantly increased, whereas IFN-γ levels were reduced. Tissue IL-5 expression correlated positively with serum total IgE, eosinophils, IL-4, and IL-33, and negatively with IFN-γ.Children with AH and AR showed higher tissue expression of IL-5, IL-33, and ST2, together with differences in systemic allergic inflammatory markers. These findings support an association between AR and increased IL-5, IL-33, and ST2 expression in adenoid tissue. Further cellular, functional, and longitudinal studies are needed.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Royal Academy of Medicine in Ireland.
Uromodulin (UMOD) regulates tubular sodium handling and modulates NKCC2, the molecular target of loop diuretics (LD). Although UMOD variants have been associated with blood pressure and hypertension, their pharmacogenetic relevance in heart failure (HF) remains unknown. We assessed whether the UMOD rs13333226 genotype is associated with clinical outcomes among patients with HF who initiated LD. We assembled a cohort of UK biobank (UKB) participants diagnosed with HF who initiated LD. Patients were followed in an intention-to-treat fashion for up to 12 months. Cox models estimated confounder-adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) comparing rs13333226-AA versus rs13333226-AG/GG genotypes. The primary effectiveness outcome was worsening HF, defined as hospitalization for HF or death with HF as the primary cause. Additional effectiveness and safety outcomes were major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), acute kidney injury (AKI), and all-cause mortality. Secondary analyses stratified by age and sex. Sensitivity analyses restricted follow-up to 3 and 6 months. Among 1,426 HF patients initiating LD (92% furosemide, mean age 68 years, 34% female), the rs13333226-AA genotype was not associated with worsening HF (HR, 0.95; 95% CI, 0.76-1.20), MACE (HR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.62-1.52), AKI (HR, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.68-1.64), or all-cause mortality (HR, 1.17; 95% CI, 0.76-1.78). There was no effect modification by demographics. Shorter follow-up periods did not affect the results. In HF patients initiating LD, UMOD rs13333226 was not associated with effectiveness or safety outcomes. These findings do not support a clinically meaningful pharmacogenetic role for this variant.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disorder in humans that affects memory, thinking and behavior. Impairment in synaptic plasticity is one of the hallmarks in AD, with most of the impairment occurring in the hippocampal region, a key part of the brain for memory and learning. Therefore, the upregulation of hippocampal plasticity is critical to remediate the progression of AD and preserve memory formation and cognitive functions. Recent studies have described β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB), a body building supplement commonly used by athletes, as a candidate molecule for improving hippocampal plasticity. Clinically, AD is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of beta amyloid (Aβ) plaques, coupled with intracellular aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. In addition to enhancing hippocampal plasticity, HMB has been also demonstrated to lower amyloid plaques in a mouse model of AD. Although liver is rich in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), recent findings have established the presence of PPARα in hippocampus and other parts of the brain. Interestingly, HMB has been shown to utilize PPARα for lowering plaques and increasing hippocampal plasticity. Here, we discuss these newly described features of HMB with possible implications for the use of HMB supplement in patients with dementia and AD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558438 is a review article
Mycoplasma genitalium has emerged as a clinically significant etiology of sexually transmitted infections that often establishes persistent infections within the female reproductive tract. Although the recruitment of neutrophils is a characteristic feature of the cervicitis associated with M. genitalium, the molecular mechanisms that govern this response at the mucosal interface remain incompletely defined. In this study, the infection of endocervical epithelial cells with M. genitalium was observed to induce a robust increase in IL-33 protein that localized within the nucleus. The transcriptional induction of the gene encoding IL-33 was mediated by a signaling axis involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), which led to the nuclear translocation and promoter binding of Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1) and 7 (IRF7). Within the nucleus, IL-33 physically complexed with the p65 subunit of NF-κB. This interaction facilitated the recruitment and occupancy of p65 at the promoters of the genes encoding CXCL1 and IL-8, thereby specifically amplifying the secretion of these chemokines. Functional assays demonstrated that the secretion of chemokines dependent on nuclear IL-33 was required for the adhesion, chemotaxis, and oxidative activation of neutrophils. These findings identify a pathogenic mechanism whereby M. genitalium exploits the nuclear function of IL-33 to drive chronic neutrophilic inflammation and contribute to the immunopathology of the reproductive tract.Copyright © 2026 Tian, Li, Xie, Zhang, Hu, Huang, Du, Li and Xie.
Using single-cell transcriptomics of bronchoalveolar lavage cells from Mtb/SIV co-infected rhesus macaques on cART, we reveal profound immune dysregulation during early SIV co-infection of latent tuberculosis. SIV induces a sharp decline in CD4+ T cells, NK, and NKT cells, with incomplete recovery of Mtb-specific TH1 effector responses despite viral suppression. Instead, a persistent TH17-skewed environment emerges, alongside sustained myeloid inflammation driven by Type I interferon signaling and pro-inflammatory regulators such as KLF6 and NFKB1. Ligand-receptor network analyses demonstrate expanded CD4+ T cell-macrophage crosstalk and loss of immune homeostasis that cART fails to fully restore. These findings expose how SIV remodels the pulmonary immune landscape to impair protective immunity against Mtb, providing a transcriptomic framework to explain TB reactivation in HIV infection. Our work highlights the urgent need for adjunctive immunotherapies to complement cART, aiming to rebalance immune responses and improve TB control in co-infected individuals.© 2026 The Author(s).
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Hantavirus infection triggers life-threatening hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) and hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS), driven by severe endothelial barrier breakdown and systemic capillary leakage. Clinical severity varies widely with undefined host regulators, and no targeted endothelial-protective treatments exist. Recent data link hantaviruses to gut microbiome remodeling, while bile acid (BA) receptors FXR and TGR5 potently inhibit NF-κB-mediated endothelial inflammation. We synthesize four core lines of evidence. First, metagenomic reports confirm hantavirus reshapes gut/lung microbiota in rodent reservoirs. Second, we re-analyzed three public GEO datasets via standardized RNA-seq/microarray pipelines: (i) GSE245916: SEOV-infected human/rat lung ECs show conserved VCAM1/ICAM1 upregulation (human VCAM1 log2FC=+1.17, P = 0.023; rat Icam1 log2FC=+0.32, padj=0.016) with unaltered FXR; (ii) GSE7271: SEOV-infected rat lung displays sustained Nfkb1 suppression (all timepoints, P<0.05) and day-15 Slc10a2 downregulation (P = 0.028); (iii) GSE270172: PUUV 3D vessel chips feature robust IL6 elevation (log2FC=+1.22, P = 3.1×10-8) and disrupted BA transporters (ABCC3 log2FC=-1.44, P = 7.4×10-¹²). TGR5 (GPBAR1) was undetectable in endothelial cells across all datasets. Third, FXR/TGR5 agonists repress NF-κB inflammation and mitigate lung vascular injury. Fourth, HTNV upregulates CH25H to block HMGCR-dependent cholesterol synthesis, depleting BA precursor substrates. We propose a unified pathogenic model: hantavirus-triggered gut dysbiosis plus virus-impaired cholesterol metabolism deplete circulating FXR/TGR5 agonistic BAs, relieving constitutive inhibition of endothelial NF-κB and monocyte NLRP3 inflammasomes to exacerbate capillary leakage. We define tiered testable predictions covering clinical multi-omics cohorts, in vitro receptor modulation assays and in vivo pharmacological interventions. This gut microbiota-BA-FXR/TGR5 axis represents a repurposable therapeutic target for hantavirus diseases, though direct causal evidence connecting BA signaling to viral vascular damage remains absent; our framework offers a rigorous testable roadmap for subsequent validation.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Lin, Sang, Lai, Huang, Zhong, Liu and Chen.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Transcription Factor EB (TFEB) is widely recognized as a key transcription factor regulating lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy. Although the TFEB gene is highly expressed in the testes, the mechanism by which it affects male fertility remains unclear. Here, we report that spermatogonia-specific deletion of TFEB in mice results in a multifaceted reproductive phenotype, including impaired fertility, compromised sperm motility, and attenuated androgen production. Immunofluorescence results showed a significant decrease in the expression levels of TNP1, a marker for spermiogenesis. Under electron microscopy, we observed abnormalities in the mitochondria of the testes and sperm. Integrated transcriptomic and biochemical analyses identified a cluster of mitochondrial-associated genes, including Star, Slc25a48, Gss, and ROMO1, with functional enrichment pinpointing disruptions in steroidogenic flux and calcium homeostasis. In summary, our study identifies TFEB as a pivotal regulator of mitochondrial integrity in the testes, the loss of which drives male subfertility through metabolic and hormonal dysregulation.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a complex metabolic disorder requiring multi-target therapeutic strategies. Traditional Chinese medicine offers potential multi-component interventions, yet the material basis and molecular mechanisms of novel formulations often remain incompletely defined. This study developed an integrated formula (FSV) combining a modified Baihu Jia Renshen Decoction with Sanghuangporus vaninii extract and explored its anti-hyperglycemic potential using chemical profiling, network pharmacology, in vitro α-glucosidase inhibition, and an STZ/HSHFD-induced hyperglycemic mouse model. A total of 2,413 database-matched features were annotated, most of which should be regarded as putative rather than standard-confirmed identifications. Mangiferin and several flavonoids were retained as plant/fungus-compatible candidate constituents, whereas implausible xenobiotic matches were excluded from biological interpretation. Network pharmacology predicted the involvement of inflammation- and insulin-resistance-related targets, including TNF, AKT1, IL6, NFKB1, and MAPK3 (also known as ERK1), whereas ALB was treated as a high-connectivity carrier protein rather than a direct druggable mediator. FSV inhibited α-glucosidase in vitro and was associated with improvements in hyperglycemia, insulin-sensitivity indices, dyslipidemia, and tissue morphology in the mouse model. These phenotypic findings are presented as experimental support accompanying the pathway predictions, while direct pathway validation is left for future mechanistic studies. Overall, the results provide a preliminary basis for further chemical validation and mechanistic investigation of FSV in diabetes-related metabolic dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Neonatal sepsis (NS) is one of the leading causes of neonatal mortality. The nonspecific clinical manifestations and the limited timeliness of existing biomarkers (such as C-reactive protein) highlight the urgent need for highly accurate diagnostic tools. Neutrophils, as key effector cells of innate immunity, are closely involved in the progression of NS. This study integrated training (GSE69686) and validation (GSE25504) datasets from the GEO database. Neutrophil infiltration characteristics were analyzed utilizing CIBERSORT, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was introduced to determine neutrophil-related co-expression modules. Three machine learning algorithms-LASSO, SVM-RFE, and RF-were implemented to cross-screen core diagnostic genes. A combined diagnostic model was distributed based on these genes. NetworkAnalyst was utilized to predict miRNA-TF regulatory networks, and GSVA was conducted to interpret biological functions. Three algorithms identified IL1R2 and METTL7B as core diagnostic genes; the model showed strong reliability. IL1R2 high expression correlated with reduced CD8+ T cells, regulatory T cells, and neutrophils (p<0.05). METTL7B high expression linked positively to B cells and negatively to NK cells/neutrophils. The two genes synergistically cause immune cell dysfunction. Six miRNAs and 15 transcription factors (e.g., NFKB1/RELA, STAT3) regulating these genes were found, involved in inflammation and metabolic reprogramming. Integrating neutrophil infiltration and triple-machine-learning, this study first proposed an IL1R2/METTL7B two-gene panel. The model had high accuracy and generalizability, potentially contributing to NS pathogenesis via immune dysfunction and metabolic reprogramming, supporting rapid diagnostics and targeted interventions.Copyright © 2026 JCBN.
BackgroundShort-chain organic acids (SCOAs) may have paradoxical effects on neurocognition, acting as either neuroprotective bioenergetic substrates or potential neurotoxicants. However, the joint effects of SCOA mixtures on cognitive impairment and the mechanisms underlying their divergent associations remain unclear.ObjectiveTo investigate the joint effects of serum SCOAs mixtures on cognitive impairment and elucidate underlying mechanisms.MethodsSerum levels of 11 SCOAs were quantified in 4192 older adults. Logistic regression and Bayesian kernel machine regression (BKMR) were used to assess individual and mixture associations with cognitive impairment. Potential targets were screened from public databases, intersected with cognitive impairment-related genes, and mapped to protein-protein interaction networks. Core targets were validated using four machine learning algorithms. Functional enrichment and molecular docking analyses were performed to explore potential mechanisms.ResultsIn adjusted models, β-hydroxybutyric, butyric, and propionic acids were inversely associated with cognitive impairment, whereas isobutyric and crotonic acids were positively associated. BKMR revealed a non-linear joint effect, with the overall association shifting from positive to negative when the mixture quantile exceeded 0.5; butyric acid showed an inverted U-shaped relationship. Network analysis identified two functional groups: the inverse group centered on GAPDH, AKT1, CASP3, NFKB1, and STAT3 and was enriched in PI3K-Akt and insulin signaling, whereas the positive group centered on ribosomal proteins and HSP90AA1, implicating ribosomal stress and NOD-like receptor signaling.ConclusionsSerum SCOAs showed divergent associations with cognitive impairment. Bioenergetic metabolites were linked to putative neuroprotective signaling, whereas risk-associated metabolites were linked to ribosomal stress signatures.
The daily use of plastic products leads to exposure of populations via ingestion, which may affect intestinal health. While a wealth of studies has documented the impact of micro- and nanoplastics (MNPLs) on models representing healthy human intestine, less is known about their impact on sensitive populations, particularly those at risk of developing inflammatory bowel diseases. This study explored the intestinal response to carboxylated and aminated polystyrene particles (50-500 nm PS-COOH and 50 nm PS-NH2) in vivo and in vitro in models of genetic susceptibility to Crohn's disease. These models included nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-2 wild-type and knock-out mice (Nod2 WT and Nod2 KO , respectively) and co-cultures of Caco-2 and HT29-MTX cells, with Caco2 cells stably expressing either wild-type NOD2 or the NOD2 1007fs variant, which is strongly associated with Crohn's disease. In vitro, the co-cultures were used either in a non-differentiated state (i.e., 24 h post-seeding) or after differentiation into a tight, mucus-secreting epithelium. Results showed that in vivo, single oral administration of PS-COOH particles impaired the paracellular permeability of the ileum of Nod2 WT mice. Both PS-COOH and PS-NH2 reduced the number of goblet cells in Nod2 WT and Nod2 KO mice as well as Muc4 secretion in Nod2 WT mice, and PS-COOH reduced Muc4 secretion in Nod2 KO mice. Single oral administration of PS-COOH or PS-NH2 altered mRNA expression of genes involved in the production of antimicrobial peptide, inflammation, mucin secretion and endoplasmic reticulum stress pathways, in both Nod2 WT and Nod2 KO mice. In vitro, PS-COOH showed no impact in Caco2-NOD2 1007fs /HT29-MTX and in Caco2-NOD2 WT /HT29-MTX, whereas PS-NH2 induced a similar toxic response in both cell systems. The intensity of this response depended on the cells' differentiation status and on the mode of exposure, i.e., acute versus repeated. Overall, this study explored, for the first time, the response of models of genetic susceptibility to Crohn's disease to exposure to PS-COOH and PS-NH2 nanoplastics (NPLs). The obtained data provide new insight into how populations at risk of developing CD respond to PS-COOH and PS-NH2 NPLs, i.e., new knowledge related to the impact of NPLs on this vulnerable population.Copyright © 2026 Dussol, Ménard, Papin, Boulée, Bard, Airaud, Fenel, Moriscot, Barreau and Carriere.
N-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-N-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q), a quinone derivative of the tire antioxidant 6-PPD, has exhibited toxic effects across a wide range of organisms. However, its nephrotoxicity and underlying mechanisms in mammals remain largely unknown. Herein, we demonstrated the renal toxicity of 6PPD-Q using in vivo and in vitro models. Further analysis revealed that 6PPD-Q exposure triggered ferroptosis in podocytes, as characterized by elevated intracellular ROS and Fe2 + levels, downregulation of GPX4, and accumulation of lipid peroxidation. A genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screen identified EXOC7 as a critical mediator of 6PPD-Q-induced podocyte injury. Mechanistically, 6PPD-Q disrupted the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of MARCHF2, leading to reduced ubiquitination of EXOC7, subsequent attenuation of its proteasomal degradation, and consequent accumulation of EXOC7 protein, which ultimately promoted ferroptosis. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry (LIP-MS) further revealed that 6PPD-Q directly bound to EXOC7, interfering with its recognition and ubiquitination by MARCHF. Importantly, inhibition of EXOC7 or ferroptosis alleviated chronic 6PPD-Q-induced oxidative stress and podocyte injury in vivo. Together, these findings identify a previously unknown molecular mechanism for 6PPD-Q-induced nephrotoxicity and establish EXOC7-mediated ferroptosis as a sensitive mechanistic endpoint for assessing environmental 6PPD-Q exposure.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539675 is a review article
The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)/STING pathway, a central DNA-sensing mechanism, is known to activate anti-tumor immune response but may also promote tumor progression when chronically activated. Given the role of asbestos-induced chronic inflammation in pleural mesothelioma (PM), we investigated cGAS/STING expression and its association with treatment outcomes.We analyzed tissue microarrays from 190 PM patients using multiparameter immunofluorescence single-cell imaging. cGAS and STING expression were quantified in Calretinin+ tumor cells, Calretinin-CD8-DC-LAMP- cells, and CD8+ cells before and after chemotherapy. Associations with treatment response and survival were assessed.In matched pre- and post-treatment samples, total cGAS+ cell frequency increased after chemotherapy, as did cGAS+ frequencies in Calretinin+ tumor cells, Calretinin-CD8-DC-LAMP- cells, and CD8+ cells after FDR correction, whereas STING+ cell frequency did not differ. Within the progressive-disease subgroup, significant paired increases were retained for total cGAS+ cells and Calretinin-CD8-DC-LAMP- cells. However, the magnitude of change did not differ significantly among patients with partial response, stable disease, or progressive disease. Low baseline total cGAS+ frequency and cGAS+ frequency in Calretinin-CD8-DC-LAMP- cells were associated with longer progression-free survival. In an exploratory analysis of the TCGA PM cohort, higher CGAS/MB21D1 transcript expression was associated with shorter overall survival in continuous Cox regression, whereas STING1 transcript expression was not significantly associated with overall survival when analyzed as a continuous variable.Low baseline cGAS+ frequency, particularly in the Calretinin-CD8-DC-LAMP- compartment, was associated with longer progression-free survival in PM. These findings support further evaluation of cGAS as a candidate prognostic biomarker but do not establish cGAS as a predictor of chemotherapy response or as a causal driver of treatment resistance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recent research has identified pyroptosis as a distinct form of programmed cell death that is strongly correlated with tumor outcomes. However, its value as a prognostic biomarker in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is not yet fully established.Differential expression of pyroptosis-related genes between ccRCC and normal tissues was identified using the DESeq2 R package. Next, univariate and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression analyses using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas cohort were applied to develop a prognostic model. Univariate and multivariate prognostic analyses were conducted to determine whether the risk score could independently predicted patient prognosis after adjustment for clinicopathological characteristics. A nomogram was then constructed to estimate patient survival probability, supporting clinical decision-making. Expression of pyroptosis-related proteins was assessed using tissue proteomic data from the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) database. Additionally, the Tumor-Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) database was used to analyze immune cell infiltration, whereas gasdermin B (GSDMB) expression in ccRCC cell lines was assessed by Western blot (WB) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) experiments, with immunohistochemistry applied to measure the levels of GSDMB and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1).A prognostic risk model was developed using nine genes related to pyroptosis (AIM2, CASP5, GSDMB, GSDMD, NLRP7, NOD2, PYCARD, SCAF11, and NLRP6), employing both univariate Cox and LASSO regression analyses. Based on the median risk score, ccRCC samples were divided into high- and low-risk categories, with Kaplan-Meier analysis revealing poorer survival rates for the high-risk group. Time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve analysis confirmed the predictive performance of the model for ccRCC prognosis. Furthermore, a nomogram with calibration plots was developed to predict 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival probabilities for patients with ccRCC. Notably, these pyroptosis-related genes were strongly correlated with immune cell infiltration, including cytotoxic cells, CD56bright natural killer cells, and T helper cells. Subsequently, qPCR and WB analyses confirmed elevated GSDMB expression in ccRCC cells, and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a strong correlation between GSDMB and PD-1 expression.Pyroptosis-associated genes, namely AIM2, CASP5, GSDMB, GSDMD, NLRP7, NOD2, PYCARD, SCAF11, and NLRP6, are promising prognostic biomarkers for ccRCC, and may serve as prognostic biomarkers for predicting patient survival and informing immunotherapy strategies.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42524993 is a review article
Endometriosis (EMS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are both chronic inflammatory disorders with overlapping clinical features, suggesting a potentially shared etiology. Although epidemiological studies have reported an association between the two conditions, the genetic basis of this relationship remains poorly understood. This study is aimed at characterizing the shared genetic architecture of EMS and IBD, identify pleiotropic loci implicated in both conditions, and explore the potential causal relationships and underlying biological mechanisms.We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary statistics to investigate the genetic relationship between EMS and IBD. Linkage-disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlation. The PLACO method was applied to identify pleiotropic loci, which were further evaluated by Bayesian colocalization. Functional implications were assessed using MAGMA gene-set analysis, tissue enrichment analysis, and functional annotation. Bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to examine causal inference, accompanied by leave-one-out sensitivity analyses and statistical power calculations.A statistically significant but modest positive genetic correlation was observed between EMS and IBD (rg = 0.0957, p = 0.0042). Twenty-four genomic loci showed evidence of pleiotropic effects, and six of these carried strong evidence of a shared causal variant (posterior probability: PP.H4 > 0.7), including loci at 2p23.3 (ADCY3/DNAJC27), 4q12, 5q23.3, 7p15.2, 11q13.1 (CCDC88B), and 1q22. Functional analyses consistently implicated eight pleiotropic genes across multiple platforms: ADCY3, CCDC88B, GREB1, NOD2, RSPO3, SYNE1, THADA, and TRAIP. Pathway enrichment highlighted "positive regulation of gene expression" as a key shared mechanism (p < 0.05). Tissue-specific analyses revealed strong signals in whole blood, spleen, and colon, consistent with the immunoinflammatory etiology of both diseases. Bidirectional MR did not support a causal relationship in either direction (IBD on EMS: OR = 1.007, 95% CI: 0.986-1.028, p = 0.543; EMS on IBD: OR = 1.054, 95% CI: 0.991-1.122, p = 0.092). Leave-one-out analyses confirmed that no single variant drove these estimates, and power analysis indicated adequate power to detect moderate causal effects.The findings provide evidence for a shared, albeit modest, and genetic basis between EMS and IBD that is likely mediated through immune regulation, hormonal signaling, and tissue repair. The absence of significant causal effects in MR suggests that the observed comorbidity reflects common genetic susceptibility rather than a direct causal link. These results offer new insight into the mechanisms underlying the co-occurrence of the two conditions and may inform future investigation of shared therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Xinyue Cui et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Influenza, an acute respiratory infectious disease caused by the influenza virus, remains a significant challenge for prevention and treatment due to rapid viral mutation and high pathogenicity. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), including Shuangyu Granule (SYKL), has demonstrated efficacy in managing influenza. This study aimed to systematically identify the chemical components of SYKL in vitro and its absorbed constituents in vivo, and to preliminarily explore its potential mechanism in regulating influenza-related immune inflammation. UPLC-Orbitrap-MS/MS and GC-MS were used to characterize SYKL's chemical profile, identifying 148 in vitro components and 21 prototype absorbed blood components. Network target analysis, integrated with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from influenza patients, predicted that the absorbed components may target multiple immune-inflammatory regulatory genes across various immune cell types. Molecular docking suggested favorable predicted binding potential between these components and target proteins. Experimental validation using poly(I:C)-induced inflammatory models in both RAW264.7 macrophages and mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) showed that the absorbed components-loganic acid, 8-epiloganic acid, calycosin, atractylodin, eucalyptol, secoxyloganin, and paeoniflorin-significantly reduced mRNA expression of immune-inflammatory genes (DUSP6, MAPKAPK2, NOD2) and inhibited secretion of TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8, and NO. These findings suggest that SYKL may alleviate influenza-associated inflammation through multi-component, multi-cell, and multi-target pathways, highlighting its potential in modulating excessive immune responses in influenza.Copyright: © 2026 Sun et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Global elimination of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection requires not only direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) but also the development of a highly effective prophylactic and/or therapeutic vaccine. Background/Objectives: Our aim was to optimize the composition of the candidate vaccine against HCV by combining recombinant non-structural proteins and a DNA construct with a complex adjuvant. Methods: C57BL/6 and DBA/2J mice were immunized three times at 2-week intervals using different schemes. The viral antigens consisted of a mixture of NS3, NS5A, and NS5B proteins and/or recombinant DNA expressing NS3-NS5B polyprotein. As adjuvants, a complex adjuvant, a mixture of Polymuramil® and Pyrogenalum® (NOD1/NOD2 and TLR-4 agonists), or a CpG ODN adjuvant (TLR-9 agonist) were used. Results: The most efficient regimen was three subcutaneous administrations of the combined DNA, recombinant protein components, and a new complex adjuvant. This scheme elicited a robust immune response, characterized by high antibody titers, enhanced antigen-specific lymphocyte proliferation, and significant interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) secretion in both mouse lines. Furthermore, the complex adjuvant outperformed CpG ODN in stimulating both humoral and cellular immunity against the HCV antigens. The vaccine composition stimulated the formation of CD4+ memory T cells and decreased the relative frequences of suppressive Treg and MDSCs. Conclusions: The presented candidate vaccine induces a strong immune response to HCV proteins. The next step would be to validate the protective effect in cell culture and animal models. This would one the path to preclinical studies of this vaccine composition.
Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a severe perinatal brain injury that often leads to neurological impairments in survivors. Currently, effective therapeutic strategies for HIE remain limited and require further exploration. Emerging evidence indicates that microglia-mediated neuroinflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of HIE. Nevertheless, clinically effective anti-inflammatory agents specifically targeting HIE are still lacking. Glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P) is a biologically significant metabolite involved in various cellular metabolic pathways. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of G3P against hypoxic-ischemic (HI)-induced brain injury by modulating microglial activation. In LPS-treated microglia, G3P suppressed the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α, reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, restored mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and promoted a shift toward an anti-inflammatory microglial phenotype. In addition, G3P treatment in zebrafish showed no toxicity and significantly mitigated HI-induced oxidative stress, while suppressing both the recruitment and pro-inflammatory activation of mpeg1⁺ macrophages and lyzc⁺ neutrophils. Moreover, administration of G3P dramatically reduced infarct volume and alleviated neuronal loss in rats with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD). Y-maze and Morris water maze tests demonstrated that G3P treatment significantly enhanced spatial learning and memory in HIBD rats. Furthermore, G3P markedly reduced the hyperactivation of microglia and astrocytes in both cortical and hippocampal regions. Mechanistically, Immunofluorescence and Western blot analyses revealed that G3P exerted anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting cyclic GMP-AMP synthase -stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) signalling pathway and its downstream TBK1/the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway. These findings highlight G3P as a promising therapeutic candidate for HIE.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Neuromuscular oculoauditory syndrome (NMOAS; OMIM# 618733) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous variants in DHX16, a gene in the DExD/H-box RNA helicase family. Despite increasing reports of DHX16-related NMOAS, the functional impact of specific variants on RNA splicing remains poorly understood. In this study, whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo DHX16 variant (c.1360C>G, p.Arg454Gly) in a 2-year-old boy with NMOAS. In vitro assays revealed aberrant intron retention in HSPH1 and FOS transcripts in cells expressing the mutant DHX16-1360G, suggesting impaired splicing efficiency. Longitudinal clinical follow-up uncovered progressive multisystem involvement, including delayed gonadal development and autism spectrum disorder phenotypes not previously linked to DHX16. These findings expand the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of NMOAS, confirm the pathogenic role of this variant in splicing dysregulation, and emphasize the need for long-term monitoring of emerging comorbidities in affected patients.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42542193 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) infection induces complex antiviral immune responses, yet how innate sensing, host genetic susceptibility, and adaptive immune dysfunction converge remains incompletely understood. This study investigated peripheral immune remodeling during IAV infection, focusing on LAG-3-expressing CD8+ T cells and their transcriptional and genetic signatures.Single-cell and bulk transcriptomics, genetic analyses, Mendelian randomization, network modeling, and machine learning were integrated. Flow cytometry was used to validate LAG-3 expression and CD8+ T-cell dysfunction in healthy controls and children with IAV infection.IAV infection caused marked immune remodeling and expansion of LAG-3+ exhaustion-like CD8+ T cells spanning naïve, effector, and exhaustion-associated states. Interferon-stimulated genes dominated differential expression, co-expression modules, and pathway enrichment. Ten influenza-exhaustion signature genes were identified, with Mendelian randomization prioritizing IFI44, IFIT3, MX2, ZBP1, IFIT1, and HES4 as genetically associated with IAV susceptibility. Gene-based classifiers achieved AUCs up to 0.886 across three independent cohorts. Flow cytometry confirmed increased LAG-3 expression and reduced CD107a activity in pediatric IAV infection.IAV infection is characterized by an interferon-dominated program and expansion of dysfunctional LAG-3+ CD8+ T cells, highlighting candidate biomarkers for immune remodeling.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) has multiple phenotypes, one of which is lupus nephritis (LN), a very serious complication with a high mortality rate. Patients with LN may require different treatment regimens than patients with SLE, as there are significant differences between SLE and LN pathogenesis; however, to date, no biomarkers specific for LN have been characterized. Identification of immunological markers of LN could therefore facilitate more individualized treatment strategies.Using public datasets (GSE121239), we screened patients based on SELENA-SLEDAI scores into mild (SLELA), moderate-to-severe (SLEHA), and healthy control (HC) groups. Bioinformatics analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were analyzed for functional pathway enrichment and immune cell infiltration. We validated these findings in an independent clinical cohort of 40 SLE patients (20 with LN and 20 without LN) and 20 HC individuals. LN diagnosis was confirmed by renal biopsy or clinical criteria. We assessed disease activity using clinical indicators and measured the expression of MX2, IRF7, and TRIM69 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) via real-time quantitative PCR (n = 40). Serum interferon-α (IFN-α) levels were measured by ELISA, and protein expression in kidney tissue was detected by immunofluorescence (IF).We observed differential expression of 32 disease activity-related genes in SLE. Univariate logistic regression and ROC curve analysis indicated that MX2 (AUC = 0.95, 95% CI: 0.92-0.98), TRIM69 (AUC = 0.93, 95% CI: 0.89-0.96), and IRF7 (AUC = 0.91, 95% CI: 0.87-0.95) were associated with SLE diagnosis. Gene ontology functional enrichment analysis suggested that the type I IFN pathway is aberrantly activated in SLE. Disease activity-related genes such as MX2, IRF7, and IFIT3 are functionally enriched in the type I IFN pathway, and abnormal infiltration of neutrophils is involved in SLE pathogenesis. Disease activity-related genes such as MX2 and IRF7 were positively correlated with immune cell infiltration, including neutrophils and memory B cells. RT-qPCR and ELISA showed significantly higher expression of IFN-α, MX2, and IRF7 in LN patients than in SLE patients. IF assays showed that IFN-α, MX2, and IRF7 were expressed at significantly higher levels in the kidneys of LN patients than in SLE patients.Our study identifies MX2 and IRF7 as candidate biomarkers associated with high systemic disease activity in SLE. In our validation cohort, their expression was significantly elevated in patients with LN, suggesting they may serve as potential noninvasive indicators warranting further longitudinal investigation for LN risk assessment.Copyright © 2026 FengQi Zhang et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Psoriasis (PSO) and atherosclerosis (AS) are chronic inflammatory diseases that frequently coexist, with each condition exacerbating the other. However, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood, partly due to the lack of a suitable animal model that recapitulates this bidirectional comorbidity.PSO-AS mouse models were constructed by combining high-fat diet (HFD)-induced AS with imiquimod (IMQ)-triggered psoriatic inflammation in ApoE-/- mice. PSO severity was assessed via skin manifestation, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, PSO area and severity index (PASI) score, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), and serum ELISA, while AS was assessed by en face Oil red O (ORO) staining of aorta, H&E staining, ORO staining, Sirius Red (SR) staining, and immunofluorescence (IF) staining of the aortic root section. Mechanistic insights were obtained via proteomics, machine learning (ML), and validation of macrophage polarization in both skin and plaques.Chronic PSO model more closely resembles real-world conditions than acute PSO model. Combining the IMQ application with a HFD, both the PSO-AS group and the PSO group developed obvious psoriatic skin lesion, but the PSO-AS group showed the highest epidermal thickness, PASI scores, and expression levels of psoriatic biomarkers (Interleukin-17A [IL-17A] and Interleukin-23 [IL-23]) and inflammatory factors (e.g., tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-α] and Interleukin-6 [IL-6]), implying that AS may exacerbate PSO. Similarly, the PSO-AS and AS groups both developed obvious plaque in the aorta, while the PSO-AS group has the largest plaque area, necrotic core (NC) area, lipid content with the least fibrous cap (FC) thickness, and collagen content, illustrating that PSO conspicuously aggravated AS progression and led to an unstable plaque shift. Statistical analysis also confirms that PSO and AS mutually exacerbate each other, forming a vicious cycle that may be strongly associated with IL-17. Proteomics and ML revealed marked M1 macrophage polarization in PSO-AS mice. Validation by Western blot and IF showed upregulated M1 markers (CD86) and downregulated M2 markers (CD163) in both skin lesions and aortic roots, indicating that M1-skewed macrophages fuel the vicious cycle. Besides, we explore that IFIT3 may serve as a promising biomarker for M1 macrophages in PSO-AS skin.This novel PSO-AS mouse model faithfully recapitulates the bidirectional exacerbation seen clinically and uncovers M1 macrophage polarization as a key driver of this comorbidity. The model provides a robust platform for mechanistic and therapeutic studies of PSO-associated cardiovascular disease (CVD).Copyright © 2026 Fangshun Tan et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study investigated immune cell distributions, cell-specific immune markers, and selected biomarker targets in pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) and extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB) using multiparametric flow cytometry (MFC). Whole blood was collected from 45 individuals, including healthy controls (HC), EPTB, and PTB patients (n = 15/group). Peripheral blood leukocytes were analysed by MFC to characterize CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, natural killer (NK), invariant NKT (iNKT) and NKT cells, classical (CM), intermediate (IM) and non-classical monocytes (NCM), and activated monocytes (AM). Expression of GBP1, CALCOCO2, IFIT3, SNX10, ARG1, PD-1, and PD-L1 was assessed across these immune subsets. Increased frequencies of NK, NKT, and monocytes were observed in PTB and EPTB compared with HC, while CD4+, CD8+, iNKT, and AM were reduced. Monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratios were incrementally elevated in EPTB and PTB compared with HC. Despite variability of expression within groups, median biomarker fold-change expression changes were found between HC, EPTB and PTB groups; (i) (>2.0FC) for ARG1 in CD4, CD8, CM and AM, for CALCOCO2 in AM, GBP1 in CD8 and NCM, PD-1 in CD4, CD8, NK, IM and AM, PD-L1 in CD4, CD8, iNKT and NKT, NK, IM and AM and SNX10 in CD4, CD8, NCM, IM and AM (ii) (<2.0FC) in TB vs HC for CALCOCO2 in iNKT and NKT, IFIT3 in NCM, PD-1 in NK and NCM, PD-L1 in NCM, IM and AM and SNX10 in AM. Statistical significance was achieved for ARG1 (P = 0.017) in CD4 cells. Our findings highlight distinct immune cell and biomarker signatures in PTB and EPTB.Copyright © 2026 UK Health Security Agency. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The roles of mitochondrial genes in the development of thyroid cancer (TC) and the associated tumor microenvironment remain to be elucidated. Based on 64 dysregulated mitochondrial genes, unsupervised consensus clustering analysis was performed using TC datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas and integrated gene expression databases. A dysregulated mitochondrial-based prognostic model was constructed using machine learning. Fourteen prognostic genes were identified, and the correlation between semaphorin 7A (SEMA7A) and immune cell infiltration was validated. The functions of SEMA7A were investigated through plate cloning, scratch wound healing, and Transwell invasion assays. This study constructed a prognostic model for predicting overall survival by identifying 14 mitochondrial dysregulated-based prognostic genes (APOD, ATP2C2, FAM111B, GJB4, GZMA, HHIPL2, IFIT3, IL18, MCEMP1, PRRT4, RGS16, SEMA7A, SLC2A3, and TDRD9). Its effectiveness was validated in an independent cohort. The model accurately predicted OS across cancer stages. SEMA7A expression was significantly upregulated in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) tissues and PTC cell lines. Functional experiments showed that SEMA7A promoted TC progression, including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Compared with the SEMA7A low-expression group, the high-expression group showed a larger FOXP3+ regulatory T cell (Treg) population. Although a higher ratio of SEMA7A + CD8-positive cells/SEMA7A + FOXP3-positive cells was observed, increased Treg abundance is known to shift the immune context toward a less cytotoxic and more exhausted state. Thus, oncogenic SEMA7A in TC promotes malignant functions in TC cells and may play an important role in shaping the immunosuppressive microenvironment. Consequently, our mitochondrial dysregulation-based prognostic risk model for TC may offer good clinical application value.© the author(s).
African swine fever virus (ASFV) is a lethal pathogen that triggers uncontrolled cytokine storms and severe immunopathology. However, the viral factors responsible for systemic inflammation remain unclear. Here, we show that the ASFV-encoded proteins MGF_110-3L and MGF_110-4L are secreted via the conventional ER-Golgi pathway. Single-cell RNA sequencing of porcine PBMCs revealed that MGF_110-3L preferentially activates inflammatory responses in monocytic cells. Mechanistically, both proteins bind Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and signal through TLR2/TLR1 and TLR2/TLR6 heterocomplexes, with the co-receptor CD14 enhancing ligand recognition and signal amplification. These interactions activate MyD88-dependent NF-κB signaling, leading to robust induction of proinflammatory cytokines. ASFV strains lacking either MGF_110-3L or MGF_110-4L cause attenuated cytokine responses in vitro and impaired inflammatory pathology in pigs. Together, these findings establish MGF_110-3L and MGF_110-4L as secreted virulence factors that subvert innate immune recognition and drive lethal inflammation, highlighting their potential as targets for antiviral and vaccine development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Lung cancer (LC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related death globally. The methyltransferase METTL3, a core writer of RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, is a key regulator in cancer. However, its systematic regulatory network, particularly in contexts where it exerts tumor-suppressive functions, remains to be fully elucidated. In this study, we aimed to systematically investigate the transcriptomic and epitranscriptomic remodeling induced by METTL3 overexpression in A549 lung cancer cells to uncover its potential tumor-suppressive mechanisms.Bioinformatics analysis of public databases was performed to evaluate METTL3 expression and prognostic significance in LC. Cell biology assays were conducted to assess phenotypic changes (proliferation, migration/invasion apoptosis) induced by METTL3 overexpression (METTL3-OE). RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed for METTL3-OE and negative control (NC) A549 cells. Publicly available methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) datasets of LC cell line and tissues (GSE117299, GSE76367) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify m6A-modified targets and infer their potential function. Key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and alternative splicing events (ASEs) were validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Analysis of public databases indicated that METTL3 was downregulated in LC tissues and its higher expression correlated with better patient prognosis. Functionally, METTL3 overexpression in A549 cells inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion, while promoting apoptosis (P<0.05). RNA-seq identified 240 DEGs (227 up-/13 down-regulated). Upregulated DEGs were significantly enriched in antiviral response and antigen presentation pathways. METTL3-OE also altered 1,305 ASEs, with affected genes enriched in cell migration and apoptosis. Integrated analysis identified 22 genes (e.g., HLA-A/B/C, MYD88) that were upregulated by METTL3 overexpression and have been reported to harbor m6A modifications reported in LC tissues and A549 cells. Furthermore, analysis revealed an overlap of 222 genes between those undergoing METTL3-regulated splicing changes and genes documented as m6A-modified in the same LC datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the upregulation of the immune-related genes (MYD88, HLA-A/B/C, IFIT1, IFIT3, OAS1, ISG20) and the altered splicing of NCOR2 and SIRT7 and AURKB (P<0.05).Our study demonstrates that METTL3 overexpression exerts tumor-suppressive effects in A549 cells and suggests that METTL3 may be involved in a multi-layered transcriptional and post-transcriptional response. This response includes the upregulation of immune-related genes-many of which are known m6A targets in LC-and the modulation of splicing in genes controlling cell fate, collectively contributing to the suppression of malignant phenotypes.© AME Publishing Company.
The AML1-ETO (AE) fusion gene, resulting from t(8;21)(q22;q22), represents a prevalent subtype of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Retention of exon 9a between exon 8 and 9 of the ETO (RUNX1 Partner Transcriptional Co-Repressor 1, also name RUNX1T1) gene generates the oncogenic AML1-ETO9a (AE9a) splice variant. Here, we uncover the potential involvement of RNA (ribonucleic acid) helicase DHX15 (DEAH-box helicase 15) in AE9a splicing and AML progression. Clinically, higher expressed DHX15 is associated with increased AE9a/AE abundance and poor outcomes in AE-positive (AE+) AML patients. DHX15 knockdown impaired cell proliferation, induced S/G2 cell-cycle arrest in vitro and prolonged overall survival in AE+ leukaemia-bearing mice in vivo. In addition, DHX15 knockdown reduced AE and AE9a expression, and RNA immunoprecipitation revealed DHX15 bound to AE and AE9a transcripts and RNA pull-down assay showed a selective interaction of HNRNPL and RBM33 with AE9a transcripts. Three-dimensional structure prediction suggests a sophisticated regulatory complex formation involving DHX15, HNRNPL (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L) and RBM33 (RNA binding motif protein 33). Further, HNRNPL and RBM33 gene expression positively correlated with AE9a levels in AE+ AML samples. Downregulation of HNRNPL and RBM33 reduced AE9a expression in Kasumi-1 cells. Collectively, our findings support an association between DHX15, HNRNPL, RBM33 and AE9a splicing and suggest their contribution to leukemogenic progression in AE+ AML.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) medical therapy is a major advancement for Crohn's disease (CD) management, yet many patients fail to respond. This study aims to develop and evaluate a multi-modal ensemble model to predict anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric patients with CD using pre-treatment magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) and non-imaging clinical data.This retrospective study included 92 pediatric CD patients (median [IQR] age, 14.6 [12.7, 16.6] years; 65.2% male; 37 responders and 55 non-responders) who underwent MRE within 3 months before initiating anti-TNF therapy between 2009 and 2021. Responders achieved mucosal healing within 36 months; non-responders did not, underwent surgery, or changed therapy. Four pre-treatment feature sets were used: (1) radiologist MRE assessment, (2) radiomic features from bowel regions, (3) deep learning features from representative bowel images, and (4) non-imaging clinical features. A 2-stage stacking ensemble model was trained and evaluated. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was the primary performance metric.The multi-modal ensemble model integrating all MRE-based features achieved an AUROC of 0.771 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.745, 0.797], outperforming models using individual feature types (radiologist assessment: 0.706 [0.691, 0.721]; radiomic: 0.710 [0.691, 0.729]; deep learning: 0.724 [0.700, 0.749]). Combining MRE and clinical features (0.739 [0.696, 0.781]) achieved the highest AUROC of 0.817 [0.793, 0.842], though not significantly (P = .10). Radiomic features reflecting intensity distribution and texture heterogeneity were most predictive of treatment response.A multi-modal ensemble model combining MRE-based radiologist assessment, radiomic, deep learning, and clinical features accurately predicted anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric CD patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Current chemotherapeutic agents, such as doxorubicin (DOX), in transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) encounter resistance and limited effects, attenuating TACE efficacy in patients with unresectable and residual HCC. To address these issues, we developed a 5' triphosphorylated oligonucleotide (imm-miR223) with dual function as miR-223 analogue and RIG-I activation, and delivered this RNA molecule to HCC cells efficiently using normal hepatic cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs). These imm-miR223-EVs reversed DOX resistance, suppressed HCC cell proliferation and migration via targeting FOXO3a, and induced immune responses by activating RIG-I cascade, thereby significantly inhibiting the growth of HCC in vitro and in vivo, especially when combined with DOX. The use of homologous EVs delivering a dual-functional stem-loop RNA, which concurrently reverses chemoresistance and activates innate immune receptor signaling, may offer a more effective therapeutic strategy for HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Corneal neovascularization (CoNV) treatment via ocular drug delivery remains challenging because rapid ocular clearance and limited tissue penetration result in low bioavailability, reduced therapeutic efficacy, and the need for frequent administration. Although polymer-based delivery systems can provide sustained release, their clinical translation may be limited by low drug loading, suboptimal release kinetics, and potential toxicity associated with polymer degradation products. Here, we developed a carrier-free subconjunctival depot platform composed of pure regorafenib crystals, including microcrystals (∼5 µm) and nanocrystals (∼260 nm), to achieve sustained release through a dissolution/diffusion-controlled mechanism without the need for a polymer matrix. Both formulations maintained crystallinity and their initial particle size during 12 months of storage at 4 °C. Nanocrystals exhibited faster dissolution and clearance, whereas microcrystals provided prolonged local retention, maintaining detectable regorafenib levels through eight months after a single administration. In vivo imaging and histological analyses demonstrated the formation of dense monolithic depots within the subconjunctival space, supporting sustained release and local retention. In prophylactic CoNV models, nanocrystals enhanced tissue penetration and produced greater early inhibition of angiogenic sprouting than microcrystals (p < 0.05). In therapeutic models of established neovascularization, a single 2 mg subconjunctival injection of either formulation induced comparable and sustained regression of neovessels for up to eight months, with efficacy significantly greater than that of 0.5 mg bevacizumab administered at 2-month intervals (p < 0.01). In addition, the 1 mg microcrystal formulation reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, and VEGF expression relative to saline-treated controls and were associated with improved corneal epithelial healing compared with bevacizumab. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that carrier-free pure drug crystal depots can provide sustained ocular delivery for at least eight months following a single administration, while crystal size governs the balance between initial tissue exposure and long-term retention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune checkpoint blockade targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis has improved the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet its therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient antitumor immune activation. Herein, we developed a biomimetic manganese-amplified STING nanoagonist to potentiate PD-L1 blockade immunotherapy. Hollow mesoporous manganese silicate nanoparticles were engineered as Mn2⁺-releasing nanocarriers for loading a STING agonist (Sa) diABZI, followed by coating with anti-PD-L1 antibody-functionalized NSCLC tumor cell membranes. The resulting Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited pH-responsive Sa release, preserved PD-L1 blocking activity, and enhanced tumor-cell-selective uptake. Mechanistically, Mn2⁺ released from HMMSN promoted cGAMP production, while Sa further enhanced STING phosphorylation, leading to robust STING activation. Sa@HMMSN@PM showed enhanced tumor accumulation, superior tumor growth inhibition and prolonged survival in both subcutaneous and orthotopic NSCLC mouse models. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated increased IFN-β, CXCL10, TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ levels, together with enhanced CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Importantly, Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited favorable biosafety without obvious systemic toxicity. Overall, this biomimetic Mn2⁺-amplified STING nanoagonist provides a promising strategy for integrating innate immune activation with immune checkpoint blockade for enhanced NSCLC immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
There is limited evidence evaluating the cost-effectiveness of adding subacromial decompression (SAD) to rotator cuff repair (RCR) in the treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.The purpose of this study was to perform (1) a systematic review and (2) cost-utility analysis comparing isolated RCR versus RCR with SAD in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.This was an economic and decision-analysis study; Level II.A systematic review was conducted per Preferred Reporting Items for Systemactic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines to identify Level I-II studies comparing RCR and RCR with SAD at ≥5-year follow-up. A decision tree model evaluated cost-effectiveness over a 5-year time horizon. Costs, revision rates, and utility values (EQ-5D-based) were derived from the literature. Health utility was expressed in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Cost-effectiveness was assessed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and net monetary benefit (NMB), with a $50,000/QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. Monte Carlo and one-way sensitivity analyses were done to account for parameter uncertainty.Over 5 years, RCR with SAD had a lower mean cost ($33,448) compared with isolated RCR ($34,593) and yielded slightly higher QALYs (1.465 vs 1.454). RCR + SAD demonstrated a positive incremental NMB ($1,695) and a negative incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, emerging as the dominant strategy. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis favored RCR + SAD in 99.28% of 1,000 simulations. On one-way analysis, RCR + SAD remained cost-effective with burr costs up to $1,721, additional surgical time up to 43.6 minutes, and revision probabilities up to 10%.Despite higher upfront costs, SAD during RCR remains cost-effective at mid-term follow-up. By reducing revision rates, SAD provides greater QALYs at a lower overall cost compared with isolated RCR.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the loss of insulin-producing beta cells and has no cure. The role of cell-cell interactions in T1D disease progression remains poorly understood. Beta cells develop adjacent to ductal cells and both cell types undergo changes during T1D progression, suggesting a potential intercellular communication. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are established mediators of intercellular communication, but whether human ductal cells secrete EVs that influence beta cells remains unknown. We hypothesize that exposure of human ductal cells to T1D-associated cytokines alters their EV cargo and that EVs produced by cytokine-exposed human ductal cells modulate gene and protein expression in beta cells.Human exocrine tissues from non-diabetic cadaveric donors were cultured in a 3D suspension to support ductal cell survival. Cells were treated with TNF-α, IL-1β, and IFN-γ or vehicle control for 48 hours and analyzed for proinflammatory-related gene expression and viability by qRT-PCR and Trypan blue exclusion, respectively. EVs from cytokine- and vehicle-treated ductal cells were isolated using size exclusion chromatography and characterized by dot blot, transmission electron microscopy, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The effects of EVs on EndoC-βH1 human beta cells were assessed with qRT-PCR, RNA-sequencing, and flow cytometry; the effects of EVs on primary human beta cells were assessed with immunofluorescence microscopy. EV cargo was analyzed by proteomics and transcriptomics.EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells were internalized by EndoC-βH1 beta cells, and compared to control ductal EVs, increased HLA Class I gene and protein expression in EndoC-βH1 cells. In primary human beta cells, EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells, compared to control ductal EVs, also increased expression of HLA Class I. EV cargo from cytokine-treated versus control ductal cells was enriched for transcripts associated with inflammatory and antigen-presentation-related pathways, including CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, and GBP4.Exposure of T1D-associated cytokines to primary human ductal cells altered cargo of secreted EVs. EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells upregulated HLA Class I expression in EndoC-βH1 and primary human beta cells. Our results suggest a previously unknown ductal cell communication pathway with a potential implication for modulating beta cells during T1D progression.Copyright © 2026 Erdem, Zook, Quijano, Hansen, Palade, Oh, Mares, Donohue, Ortiz, Jou, Talley, Guthalu Kondegowda, Arribas-Layton, Vasavada, Montero, Reijonen, Thurmond, Pirrotte, Jovanovic-Talisman and Ku.
Immunotherapy combined with anti-angiogenic agents and chemotherapy has emerged as a novel therapeutic option for non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (non-sqNSCLC) after resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). This study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of these regimens in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC in China.A network meta-analysis was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of ivonescimab plus chemotherapy (Ivon-Chem), sintilimab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Sint-Beva-Chem), and atezolizumab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Atez-Beva-Chem). A Markov model was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, Atez-Beva-Chem, and chemotherapy until the survival probability fell below 1% in any regimen. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and net monetary benefit (NMB) were estimated using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $41,859. Sensitivity analyses and scenario simulations were also performed.Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem improved efficacy but were associated with poorer safety profiles than chemotherapy. Compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective, with ICERs of $61,882.3/QALY, $68,657.0/QALY, and $188,820.5/QALY, respectively. Moreover, the NMBs of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem were all negative, indicating that none of these regimens was economically acceptable. Scenario analyses indicated that, compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem would become cost-effective if the price of ivonescimab were reduced by at least 47.2%. Similarly, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem would achieve cost-effectiveness following price reductions of 59.3% for both sintilimab and bevacizumab, and 84.4% for both atezolizumab and bevacizumab, respectively.These immunotherapy-based regimens provided significant survival benefits in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC. However, from the perspective of the Chinese healthcare system, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective. Substantial price reductions would be required to improve their economic viability.Copyright © 2026 Teng, Yang, Zhang, Qin and Ji.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an independent risk factor for acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but the mechanisms underlying their comorbidity remain unclear. As a newly described inflammatory form of programmed cell death, PANoptosis may play a key role. This study aimed to identify shared pathogenic mechanisms and key targets linking the two diseases.Mendelian randomization analysis was performed to assess the causal relationship between CKD and coronary artery disease (CAD). Shared genes among AMI, CKD, and PANoptosis were identified, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Diagnostic performance of key genes was evaluated using independent cohorts. Single cell sequencing was applied to localize gene expression at the cellular level. In vivo animal experiments were conducted to validate the functional role of the candidate gene SOCS3 in post MI PANoptosis and cardiac function.Mendelian randomization confirmed that CKD is a significant risk factor for CAD. We identified 12 genes shared by AMI, CKD, and PANoptosis, and determined SOCS3 and HSPA1A as key diagnostic genes. Both genes displayed strong diagnostic performance (e.g., AUCs > 0.85 for AMI) in independent cohorts. Functional analysis showed enrichment in pathways including JAK STAT signaling and apoptosis. Single-cell sequencing localized high expression of these genes to monocytes and endothelial cells. Animal experiments demonstrated that knockdown of SOCS3 significantly inhibited expression of key PANoptosis molecules such as CASP1, CXCL10, and ZBP1 after MI, reduced inflammation, and improved cardiac function.PANoptosis was the central pathological link connecting CKD and AMI. As shared biomarkers and intervention targets, SOCS3 and HSPA1A provided new directions for precise diagnosis and treatment of cardiorenal comorbidities.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Xian, Xu, Ma, Huang and Ye.
Neuroinflammation plays a central role in the progression of tauopathy via the glial activation and T cell accumulation in the brain parenchyma. However, the key molecular mediators that link these processes to tau pathology remain poorly understood.Here, we identify C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) as a critical inflammatory mediator that is markedly upregulated in the brains of P301S-mutant tau transgenic mice and associated with regions of severe tau pathology. Spatial transcriptomics revealed that CXCL10 is mainly expressed by disease-associated astrocytes, defining an astrocytic CXCL10-rich inflammatory niche within the tauopathy brain.Genetic ablation of Cxcl10 significantly attenuated soluble and insoluble tau accumulation selectively in 9-month-old female mice, whereas no attenuation of tau accumulation was observed at 11-12 months of age. In addition, Cxcl10 deficiency significantly prolonged survival specifically in female tauopathy mice. Although Cxcl10 deficiency reduced the number of parenchymal T cells in both sexes, this reduction did not explain the female-specific effects. Furthermore, Cxcl10 deficiency did not alter neurodegeneration and motor dysfunction, suggesting that downstream sex-dependent regulatory mechanisms govern tauopathy progression. Moreover, CXCL10-dependent inflammatory activation within the local microenvironments was observed in both sexes. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the sex-dependent effects of CXCL10 remain unclear, these findings suggest that CXCL10 contributes to tau pathology through multiple inflammatory pathways.In summary, our findings identify CXCL10 as a key inflammatory mediator of sex specific tau-associated pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557463 is a review article
The oncoprotein MDM2 is widely recognized as the principal negative regulator of p53, thereby controlling the expression of numerous RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-dependent genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Beyond this canonical role, MDM2 also engages in transcriptional regulation independently of p53, for instance through interactions with polycomb repressor complexes. Here, we identify RNA polymerase III (Pol III) as an additional target of MDM2 function. Using two complementary chemical tools-a small-molecule MDM2 antagonist (MI-1061) that releases p53 and augments MDM2 expression, and a PROTAC degrader (MD-224) that simultaneously activates p53 and promotes MDM2 ubiquitination and proteasomal destruction-we dissected the role of MDM2 in cells with amplified MDM2. Elevated MDM2 suppressed the transcription of Pol III-dependent genes encoding tRNA or 5S ribosomal RNA. Mechanistically, we found the aminoterminal domain of MDM2 associated with the catalytic subunit of Pol III, revealing a molecular link between MDM2 and the Pol III machinery. Because Pol III also acts as a cytosolic DNA sensor that converts DNA into double-stranded RNA to trigger RIG-I-TBK1-IRF3-dependent signaling, we asked whether MDM2 modulates this pathway. Indeed, enhanced MDM2 expression markedly attenuated the induction of innate immunity genes such as CXCL10, OAS1, and MX1 following transfection with poly(dA:dT). Similarly, DNA damage induced by a radiomimetic agent activated Pol III-dependent innate signaling, and this was again blunted by high MDM2 levels, resulting in enhanced cell survival. Taken together, our findings establish MDM2 as a previously unrecognized suppressor of Pol III-dependent transcription in response to cytosolic DNA. This expands the repertoire of MDM2 functions beyond repression of p53 and Pol II activity, positioning MDM2 as a broad regulator of transcription and innate immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acyl-CoA binding domain containing protein 3 (ACBD3) is a Golgi protein implicated in multiple cellular processes. However, its function in negative-strand RNA virus infection and innate immune responses remains poorly understood. Here, we identify ACBD3 as a novel positive regulator of host defense that potently inhibits vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) replication in HeLa cells with ACBD3 overexpression or knockdown. Mechanistically, our investigation unveils a previously unknown ACBD3-TRIM21-MAVS axis. Co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry analysis reveals that ACBD3 interacts with the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21, and this interaction is crucial for stabilizing the mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS). During VSV infection, ACBD3 enhances TRIM21 protein levels, thereby promoting MAVS accumulation and facilitating the activation of type I interferon signaling. Collectively, our findings elucidate a novel mechanism by which ACBD3 sustains innate immunity via TRIM21 to restrict VSV replication, providing a potential therapeutic target and strategy for combating negative-strand RNA viruses.
Tetrahymena thermophila is a ciliated protist that has played pivotal roles in biological discovery. Functional studies of Tetrahymena proteins have largely relied on gene knockouts. Because protein depletion upon knockout typically spans multiple cell cycles, compensatory mechanisms can confound phenotypic interpretation. To enable rapid and acute protein depletion, we modified and adapted the Trim-Away system for use in Tetrahymena (Tet Trim-Away). Trim-Away is based on the E3 ubiquitin ligase, TRIM21, that binds to antibody-bound proteins and targets them for proteasome mediated degradation. Here, Trim-Away was modified with a fusion of the N-terminal RBCC (RING, B-box, coiled-coil) domains of TRIM21 with an α-mCherry (mCh) nanobody sequence that recognizes endogenously tagged mCh proteins of interest (NbmCh). Expression of the RBCC:NbmCh degron, which is controlled by an inducible promotor, promotes rapid target protein depletion within 30 minutes and can be sustained for weeks. Tet Trim-Away is reversible, functions against targets in multiple cellular compartments, and produces loss-of-function phenotypes in Tetrahymena cells.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common gastrointestinal cancer in terms of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Reprogramming of glucose metabolism will directly affect the energy supply pattern of tumor cells and determine their malignant biological behavior. Mitofusin-2 (MFN2) has been shown to be associated with glycolysis. Therefore, targeting MFN2 may be a potential therapeutic approach for CRC.Firstly, GSE143939, GSE81558 dataset and GSE184093 dataset were used to screen differentially expressed mRNAs in CRC. The expression of MFN2 in colorectal cancer was detected by TCGA website, Immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis. The impacts of MFN2 on CRC malignant biological behavior were evaluated by a series of in vitro assays. The potential molecular mechanism of MFN2 was elucidated by co-immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence staining, western blotting and rescue experiment. The effect of MFN2 on tumor growth capacity was assessed in xenograft model.TCGA and GEO data analysis showed that MFN2 was differentially expressed in CRC, which was significantly lowly expressed in CRC cell lines and tissues. Aberrant expression of MFN2 could reduce glycolysis of CRC cells in vitro and subsequently activate apoptosis and hinder proliferation and migration in vitro. In vivo, MFN2 overexpression retarded tumor growth rate. Mechanistically, MFN2 interacted with PFKP and facilitated the binding of TRIM21 to PFKP to mediate its degradation, thereby hindering the malignant progression of CRC.Overexpression of MFN2 suppressed CRC cell glycolysis and tumor growth by enhancing TRIM21-mediated degradation of PFKP. Targeting the MFN2/TRIM21/PFKP axis may serve as a new direction for CRC treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent subtype of lung cancer and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Current targeted therapies are limited by acquired resistance, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic agents and targets. The aim of this study is to investigate the anti-tumor efficacy of oxypeucedanin (OPD) against LUAD and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.In vitro functional assays, bioinformatics prediction, molecular docking, and binding validation experiments were employed to identify the direct target of OPD. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, and proteomic analysis were used to delineate the downstream pathway. Genetic knockdown/ overexpression rescue experiments were performed, and in vivo efficacy was evaluated using patient-derived organoids and mouse xenograft models.OPD potently suppressed LUAD cell proliferation and induced apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, OPD directly bound to the motor protein KIF11 and promoted its ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation via the E3 ligase TRIM21. KIF11 degradation led to destabilization of its interacting partner, MCM2, consequently downregulating the CDK1/ Cyclin B1 complex and ultimately triggering G2/M phase cell cycle arrest.OPD functions as a novel molecular degrader of KIF11, exerting its anti-LUAD effects by promoting KIF11 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. These results highlight OPD as a promising therapeutic strategy for LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
To characterise the pharmacokinetics (PK) of ceftazidime-avibactam (CAZ-AVI) and explore the dynamics of a broad blood immune biomarker panel in critically ill patients with hospital-acquired (HAP) or ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) caused by Klebsiella pneumoniae.Population PK (PopPK) models were developed for CAZ and AVI individually and jointly, evaluating covariate effects and correlations at interindividual (IIV) and residual unexplained variability (RUV) levels. Biomarker turnover dynamics in blood were modelled, and exposure-biomarker relationships were assessed.The dataset included 266 drug plasma concentration measurements and 48-87 observations per biomarker, collected from ten critically ill patients. CAZ and AVI PK were well-described by two-compartment models, with estimated creatinine clearance (eCrCL) as a key covariate on clearance. Joint modelling revealed significant correlations between the two drugs at both IIV and RUV levels, supporting coherent patient-specific simulations. Turnover dynamics were characterised for 32 biomarkers. The most pronounced biomarker changes over the course of treatment were decreases in IL6, CRP, and AREG, and increases in DCBLD2, LAMP3, and TRIM21. A significant exposure-response relationship was identified between CAZ plasma concentrations and CRP turnover, with higher CAZ levels associated with inhibition of CRP production.The joint PopPK model confirmed eCrCL as a key covariate for clearance. Changes in 32 immune response biomarkers were quantified, with CRP showing a clear exposure-response relationship. These findings provide a foundation for prioritising biomarkers for future studies to guide therapeutic strategies in critically ill patients with HAP or VAP.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Inducing ferroptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells represents an important therapeutic strategy, but intrinsic resistance mechanisms often limit efficacy. Therefore, elucidating the mechanisms underlying ferroptosis resistance in HCC cells can facilitate the development of effective therapeutic strategies. Here, we performed genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 library screens to identify TRIM27 as a key determinant of ferroptosis resistance. TRIM27 knockdown markedly potentiated erastin-induced ferroptosis in HCC cells, whereas TRIM27 overexpression suppressed the expression of fatty-acid metabolic enzymes including ACSL4 and reduced oxidized lipid accumulation. Mechanistically, TRIM27 directly binds with ACSL4 and promotes its K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation, thereby attenuating ferroptosis in HCC cells. Furthermore, we developed TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs with robust editing efficiency. These engineered EVs were readily internalized by HCC cells and preferentially accumulated in the liver. Functionally, TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs inhibited HCC cell proliferation by enhancing ACSL4-mediated ferroptosis and significantly improved the anti-tumor efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in HCC. Collectively, our findings suggest that TRIM27 confers ferroptosis resistance via facilitating K48-linked ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of ACSL4. TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs restore cellular sensitivity to ferroptosis, inhibit HCC proliferation, and sensitize HCC lesions to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Interferons (IFNs) are potent antimicrobial cytokines. However, effector mechanisms mediating their function in humans are poorly understood, partly because IFNs can induce numerous effector molecules. While guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) are IFN-inducible, their role in cell-autonomous resistance to intracellular pathogens is incompletely understood. We demonstrate that human GBP1-5 significantly inhibits intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) survival, but only GBP4 mediates autophagy. GBP4 facilitates Mtb containment by promoting lysosomal acidification and autophagy via type Ⅰ IFN-dependent TFEB and FOXO3a activation. Mechanistically, GBP4 binds progranulin (GRN), reducing SORT1-mediated GRN lysosomal degradation. Moreover, GBP4 facilitates the GBP4-GRN-BIP-AKT complex assembly while inhibiting the GBP4-BIP-TRIM21 complex formation, thereby enhancing GRN-mediated BIP accumulation and AKT degradation. This leads to AKT inhibition, and concomitant TFEB and FOXO3a activation. GRN, BIP, AKT, and TRIM21 are essential for GBP4-mediated mycobactericidal activity. Our study uncovers a key role for GBP4 in regulating cell-autonomous resistance in human macrophages and may facilitate the development of host-directed therapies against tuberculosis (TB).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is hindered by a lack of reliable biomarkers. This study sought to identify and evaluate diagnostic plasma protein biomarkers for SLE. We analyzed plasma protein profiles, polygenic risk scores (PRS), and clinical data from 544 SLE cases and 48,036 controls in the UK Biobank. Using LASSO regression, we identified 35 high-confidence SLE-associated proteins and derived a protein risk score (ProtRS). The ProtRS model achieved exceptional diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91), significantly outperforming models based on PRS or clinical factors alone. Notably, a cost-optimized 5-protein panel (TRIM21, SOD2, KLK3, IL15, ADIPOQ) retained high accuracy (AUC = 0.82) while reducing costs by ~87%. ProtRS also demonstrated the highest population attributable fraction (96.34%), underscoring its dominant contribution to SLE burden. This study establishes a protein-driven framework for early SLE detection, offering tiered diagnostic solutions to balance accuracy and cost. The findings underscore the translational potential of protein biomarkers in bridging theoretical research and clinical practice.Copyright: © 2026 Lv et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480857 is a review article
Bladder cancer is a common and aggressive disease with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for new therapeutic strategies. Although mitochondrial proteins have been implicated in cancer progression, their role in bladder cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the function of the mitochondrial protease YME1L1 and its regulation by the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21. By analyzing patient tissue samples, single-cell RNA data and performing experiments manipulating YME1L1 and TRIM21 levels in bladder cancer cells, we found that YME1L1 promotes cancer cell proliferation, invasion and mitochondrial energy production. Mechanistically, TRIM21 interacts with YME1L1 through its SPRY domain, facilitating K63-linked polyubiquitination of YME1L1 and accelerating its degradation. Furthermore, the K237 residue of YME1L1 is critical for TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination. These findings suggest that targeting the TRIM21-YME1L1 pathway could offer a novel strategy to inhibit bladder cancer progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Capsid stabilization, induced by low-nanomolar concentrations of Lenacapavir (LEN)-a first-in-class capsid inhibitor-impedes HIV-1 replication in macrophages without disrupting reverse transcription or nuclear import. In LEN-treated cells, ultrastructural analyses reveal preserved conical capsids persisting within nuclear CPSF6-enriched puncta-HIV-1-induced membraneless organelles (HIV-1-MLOs)-which remain spatially segregated from canonical integration hubs near nuclear speckles (NSs). Rather than fusing with NSs, HIV-1-MLOs are rerouted to chromatin-associated promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies (PML-NBs), where molecular exchange occurs without condensate fusion. This nuclear redirection correlates with the sequestration of the viral genome within stabilized capsids, reducing the pool of viral DNA available for integration and redirecting the few accessible genomes to atypical integration sites near PML-NBs. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized mechanism of LEN action, whereby capsid stabilization reprograms the nuclear fate of the HIV-1 genome in macrophages, limiting integration and redirecting viral DNA toward more repressive nuclear environments, likely shaping the transcriptional potential of newly integrated viral DNA.
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) is often present on the cell surface of a wide variety human malignancies, including non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), glioblastoma (GBM), pancreatic ductal carcinoma (PDC), and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Efforts to optimize immunotherapies targeting EGFR are limited by murine intolerance of human EGFR. To overcome this obstacle, we developed C57BL/6 mice in which a truncated variant of human EGFR (hEGFRt), lacking the ligand binding domain and cytoplasmic domain, is expressed from the CAG regulatory elements comprised of the CMV enhancer, β-actin promoter, and β-globin poly-adenylation signals. Cetuximab, a high-affinity, clinically available anti-human EGFR antibody, retains affinity for hEGFRt. The hEGFRt cDNA in the CAG-hEGFRt transgene is flanked by loxP sites to enable its excision thereby reducing interaction of hEGFRt-directed immunotherapies with normal tissues. The CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) transgene is abundantly expressed in hematopoietic lymphoid and myeloid cells, with low-level expression evident also in non-hematopoietic liver, lung, kidney, and brain. Mx1-Cre-mediated transgene excision in adult mice reduces hEGFRt ~ 5-fold in blood mononuclear cells. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) adult mice are tolerant of syngeneic NSCLC, GBM, prostate, and PDC lines expressing hEGFRt. These mice retain hEGFRt tolerance after transgene deletion. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) mice provide a new and important tool for the development of immunotherapies targeting hEGFR.Copyright: © 2026 Barberi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561957 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561421
Attribute correlations in the training data will compromise the ability of a deep generative model (DGM) to synthesize images with under-represented attribute combinations (i.e., minority samples). Existing approaches mitigate this by data re-sampling to remove attribute correlations seen by the DGM, using a classifier to provide pseudo-supervision on generated counterfactual samples, or incorporating inductive bias to explicitly decompose the generation into independent submechanisms. We present ProReGen, a progressive residual generation approach inspired by the classical Robinson's transformation, to partial out from an image attribute x2 its component mx1 that is predictable by other image attributes x1 , and the residual γ=x2-mx1 that is not. This simplifies the problem of learning a DGM gx1,x2 conditioned on correlated inputs, to learning g~x1,γ conditioned on orthogonal inputs. It further allows us to progressively learn g~ by first shifting the burden to abundant majority samples to learn g~x1,γ=0 , and then expanding it with additional layers gres to resolve its difference to g~x1,γ using residual attribute γ on limited minority samples. On three benchmark datasets with varying strengths of attribute correlation and one dataset with natural attribute correlation, we demonstrate that ProReGen-with input orthogonalization and progressive residual learning-improved the correctness of minority generations compared to existing strategies.
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emerging enteric pathogen that poses significant economic threats to the swine industry and carries potential zoonotic risk. However, the interactions between PDCoV and host innate immunity, particularly those involving interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), remain poorly understood. Porcine myxovirus resistance protein 1 (pMx1), a well-characterized ISG with broad-spectrum antiviral activity, has not been investigated in the context of PDCoV infection. This study demonstrates that PDCoV infection upregulates endogenous pMx1 expression in porcine intestinal epithelial cells (IPEC-J2 and IPI-2I) through a type I interferon alpha-dependent pathway. Functional analyses further revealed that pMx1 exerts potent antiviral activity against PDCoV. Mechanistically, we identified a direct interaction between the pMx1 protein and the PDCoV nucleocapsid (N) protein and found the GTPase domain of pMx1 as the critical binding region. This finding was strongly supported by a predicted interaction complex structural model generated using AlphaFold 3, and the GTPase domain was shown to be indispensable for the antiviral function of pMx1. Furthermore, we identified a critical synergistic interaction between the PDCoV N protein and the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase - nonstructural protein 12, a core component of the replication-transcription complex. Co-immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that pMx1 effectively disrupts this interaction, suggesting that pMx1 may inhibit viral genome replication by impairing the formation or stability of the viral replication complex. Collectively, our study elucidates the mechanism by which the pMx1 protein, as a host antiviral factor, inhibits PDCoV infection. These findings provide novel insights into the innate immune defence against coronaviruses and highlight the pMx1 gene as a promising host-derived antiviral factor with potential applications in antiviral therapeutics and genetic improvement strategies for PDCoV control.
This discovery study investigated the impact of MODY-associated mutations in hepatocyte nuclear factors HNF1A and HNF1B on the cellular proteome, aiming to identify affected pathways and advance understanding of diabetes pathogenesis. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) carrying the HNF1A frameshift mutation (p.Pro291fsinsC) were differentiated into pancreatic progenitors, and renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTECs) were engineered to overexpress HNF1B with the S148L point mutation. Label-free quantitative proteomics was performed using data-dependent and data-independent acquisition on Orbitrap and timsTOF mass spectrometers. Pathway enrichment was analyzed using Qiagen IPA, Hallmark gene sets, and STRING networks. Comprehensive proteome coverage (over 7000 proteins) revealed consistent downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, and interferon signaling pathways. Both models exhibited suppression of innate immune responses, with overlapping downregulated proteins, including members of the OAS, IFIT, and MX1 families. Using label-free proteomics, we show that MODY-associated mutations in HNF1A and HNF1B suppress mitochondrial function and interferon signaling and are additionally associated with reduced abundance of predicted targets such as A1CF as well as diabetes-related proteins including SCGN, supporting their role in diabetes pathogenesis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Bispecific antibodies (BisAbs) have transformed the management of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (MM), achieving high response rates in heavily pretreated patients. However, these therapies induce profound immune perturbation, including plasma cell aplasia, hypogammaglobulinemia, and T-cell exhaustion, predisposing patients to serious infections. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) has rarely been reported in this setting.We report on 5 patients with MM who developed PML following BisAbs therapy. Clinical presentation, prior treatments, imaging, CSF studies, pathology, and outcomes were reviewed. In addition, T-cell immunophenotyping and antiviral T-cell responses were evaluated.Five patients (median age 63 years; range 60-77; 3 male) developed PML after treatment with elranatamab (1) or teclistamab (4), with (3) or without (1) talquetamab (1). All patients were under BCMA-directed BisAbs treatment at the time of PML diagnosis. Patients had received a median of 5 prior treatment lines (range 2-7) and 4 had undergone autologous stem cell transplantation. All demonstrated significant immune compromise. Median time from BisAbs initiation to PML diagnosis was 12 months (range 6-24; mean 15.4 months). One patient developed PML after only 2 prior therapies. Three of 5 patients had positive PCR for JC virus (JCV) in the CSF, while the other 2 were positive for JCV on brain biopsy. Clinical manifestations included dysarthria, ataxia, cognitive decline, and focal weakness. Although all patients demonstrated significant immune compromise (lymphopenia and hypogammaglobulinemia), 2 of 4 tested, showed specific anti-JCV/BKV T-cell response.PML represents a rare but serious, life-threatening complication of BisAbs therapy in MM. Although most patients were heavily pretreated, occurrence after limited prior therapies and the presence of specific anti-JCV T cells in 2 patients suggests BisAbs-related immune modulation may contribute independently to the risk. Duration of exposure may also be relevant. Given emerging therapeutic options such as immune check point inhibitors and anti-JCV-specific T-cell therapies, early recognition is critical. PML should be considered in patients receiving BisAbs therapy who develop new neurologic symptoms, and prompt evaluation is warranted.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia, typically presents with severe bleeding. However, the occurrence of APL with isolated myeloid sarcoma (MS) as the sole initial presentation is extremely rare, lacking typical clinical and laboratory features, which complicates diagnosis and management.A 45-year-old male was admitted for 2-month lower back pain. Spinal MRI showed T10 vertebral signal changes; histopathology confirmed the vertebral mass was myeloid origin, with PML::RARα fusion detected via PCR. Initial blood counts, coagulation tests, and bone marrow (BM) examinations were normal. However, 21 days postoperatively, the patient's platelet count and fibrinogen level declined. A subsequent BM examination revealed abundant abnormal promyelocytes, and FISH confirmed the presence of the PML::RARα fusion gene, diagnosing APL with MS and central nervous system (CNS) involvement. He achieved complete remission with all-trans retinoic acid-based chemotherapy.This is a rare case of isolated thoracic vertebra promyelocytic sarcoma as the initial symptom, which later progressed to APL with MS and CNS involvement. Additionally, we performed a comprehensive literature review of 13 other cases of APL with spinal MS at the time of diagnosis. In aggregate, APL presenting with spinal MS as the sole initial manifestation is extremely rare.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
The expansion and pathogenic differentiation of intermediate monocytes (IMs) are critical yet poorly understood events in psoriasis pathogenesis. Here, we identify the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) as a master regulator driving IM-mediated psoriasiform inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed expansion of IMs in psoriasis patients, with PU.1 uncovered as its specific regulator. Myeloid-specific ablation of Spi1 in mice ameliorated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis. Mechanistically, PU.1 promoted IMs differentiation into pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages by transcriptionally upregulating Dectin-1, thereby activating the SYK/NF-κB pathway. We further discovered that the clinical-stage bromodomain and extra-terminal domain inhibitor NHWD-870 effectively suppressed PU.1 expression. Oral administration of NHWD-870 demonstrated potent efficacy in murine psoriasis models by disrupting this PU.1-dependent IMs differentiation. Our findings establish PU.1 as a novel therapeutic target for psoriasis and propose that pharmacologic inhibition of PU.1 represents a promising treatment strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42560713
Microglia are key players in Alzheimer's disease, but the transcriptional control of their phagocytic function remains unclear. Kim et al. show that mouse microglial Spi1 deletion worsens amyloid pathology by impairing Aβ clearance through Syk, Lyn, and Fcgr1, providing new insight into PU.1-dependent regulatory networks and microglial functions in neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide analyses of transcription factor (TF) motif binding sites have largely emphasized individual high-affinity sites, while overlooking the regulatory importance of locally repetitive motif clusters. Such clusters, including combinations of weak and strong binding sites, can collectively enhance TF occupancy and regulatory activity. Here we present Motif-Cluster, an open-source framework for motif-driven prioritization and visualization of TF binding clusters using sequence information alone. Motif-Cluster integrates a density-based clustering strategy with flexible modeling of binding-site gaps and affinity signals, enabling the identification and ranking of candidate regulatory regions without requiring experimental binding data. Through simulations and multiple real-data analyses, we show that combining gap distributions with binding affinity effectively balances cluster size and signal strength while reducing noise from weak sites. Application to ZNF410 successfully recovers the previously characterized binding clusters in the CHD4 promoter, which are conserved between human and mouse. Additional case studies involving PHB1, TWIST1, and EGR1 further demonstrate the general applicability of the method across diverse transcription factors. Motif-Cluster also provides intuitive visualization and reproducible workflows to facilitate interpretation of spatially dense motif patterns. Overall, Motif-Cluster offers a robust and flexible approach for prioritizing transcription factor regulatory regions from genome-wide motif scans, enabling biological discovery and guiding experimental design, particularly in settings where direct genome-wide binding assays are unavailable.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou, Yao. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552179
Asthma has traditionally been characterized by persistent airway inflammation. Innovative therapeutic target and specific pharmacologic intervention remain essential for effectively managing inflammatory condition.This study aimed to investigate the preventive potential and mechanism of Apigenin-7-O-β-D-glucuronide (AOG) against asthma.OVA-induced allergic mice model and LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages model were established to assess the anti-inflammation effect of AOG. The role of transcription factor TCF4 on Syk-mediated asthma was explored via TCF4 gene silencing. Based on TCF4/Syk pathway, the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of AOG on asthma were elucidated.AOG treatment during the sensitization phase significantly mitigated airway inflammation in OVA-induced allergic mice by improving lung pathology, suppressing inflammatory cell infiltration, lowering inflammatory cytokines levels, restoring Th1/Th2 balance, and decreasing serum immunoglobulin concentrations, evidenced by suppressing inflammatory mediators (NO, iNOS, COX-2, TNF-α, IL-1β, ROS) in LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages. Mechanistically, AOG inhibited the Syk/PKC/NF-κB/cPLA2 pathway in allergic mice lung tissues and macrophages. Furthermore, TCF4 was identified as the upstream regulator of Syk, which drives asthma pathogenesis. TCF4 silencing led to Syk inhibition and significantly alleviated inflammation response both in allergic mice and RAW264.7 macrophages. By co-treating with si-TCF4 or Syk inhibitor, results revealed that AOG's anti-inflammatory effects might be associated with the inhibition of TCF4/Syk.This study demonstrates a novel therapeutic target TCF4 and related down-streaming Syk pathway potentially targeting by AOG for alleviating allergic airway inflammation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Under unitary evolution, chaotic quantum systems initialized in simple states rapidly develop high complexity, precluding any efficient classical description. The hardness of classical simulation within the stabilizer formalism, commonly referred to as magic resources, can be quantified by the stabilizer Rényi entropy, while quantum chaos can be characterized by spectral properties of the Hamiltonian, most notably through the spectral form factor. In this Letter, we propose a relation between the dynamics of the stabilizer Rényi entropy for thermofield double states and the spectral form factor, based on general arguments for chaotic systems with all-to-all interactions. This relation implies that the saturation of the stabilizer Rényi entropy is governed by a first-order dynamical transition. We then demonstrate this relation explicitly in the Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev model, using an auxiliary-spin representation of the stabilizer Rényi entropy that exhibits an emergent Z_{2} symmetry. We further find that, in the high-temperature regime of the SYK model, the transition occurs at a finite time, with the long-time phase marked by spontaneous Z_{2} symmetry breaking. By contrast, at low temperatures, the transition is pushed to times exponentially long in the system size. Our results reveal an intriguing interplay between quantum chaos and magic resources.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is the most common subtype of renal cell carcinoma, accounting for 75-80% of cases. Although Prohibitin 1 (PHB1) has been implicated in tumorigenesis, its role in KIRC remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression, function, and underlying mechanisms of PHB1 in KIRC.PHB1 expression and clinical relevance were analyzed using the Cancer Genome Atlas database (TCGA), Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO), and TIMER3.0 datasets. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 19 KIRC patients and normal kidney samples were used to assess cell-type-specific expression. Functional experiments, including CCK-8, EdU incorporation, colony formation, and Transwell assays, were performed to evaluate the effects of PHB1 on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. A xenograft model was used to evaluate the effects of PHB1 in vivo. Western blotting and correlation analyses were conducted to assess the potential regulatory interplay between VHL, SKP2, PHB1, and p53.PHB1 was significantly downregulated in KIRC tissues. Single-cell analysis showed reduced PHB1 expression in tumor-derived epithelial cells, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and immune cells. Lower PHB1 levels were associated with poorer overall survival. PHB1 overexpression inhibited proliferation and migration, whereas knockdown promoted these effects. In vivo, PHB1 overexpression reduced tumor growth. Moreover, VHL knockout altered the protein levels of SKP2 and PHB1. Cellular manipulation of PHB1 moderately altered endogenous p53 protein expression. Based on TCGA data analysis, PHB1 expression showed a positive correlation with VHL and a negative correlation with SKP2.Collectively, PHB1 acts as a potential tumor suppressor in KIRC. Its expression pattern is associated with the VHL-SKP2 signaling axis, and the tumor-suppressive effects of PHB1 may be partially associated with the modulation of p53 expression. These findings suggest that PHB1 has the potential to serve as a reliable biomarker and therapeutic candidate for KIRC treatment.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
We report a case of a uterine mesenchymal tumor with myogenic differentiation and SRF::RELA fusion occurring in a 23-year-old woman manifesting as an endometrial polyp. The tumor consisted of bland spindle cells with a predominantly fascicular growth pattern and entrapment of the endometrial glands and vessels. The tumor was positive for smooth muscle markers and CD10. NGS RNA analysis revealed SRF::RELA fusion. NGS DNA analysis revealed no pathogenic variants or copy-number alterations. On follow-up 12 months after curettage, the patient showed no signs of the disease. To the best of our knowledge, only 3 cases of uterine tumors with SRF::RELA fusion arising in the gynecologic tract have been described previously, and all show benign behavior so far. Differential diagnosis includes both benign and potentially aggressive entities, such as leiomyoma, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, uterine adenosarcoma, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and uterine sarcoma with KAT6B/A::KANSL1 fusion.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
BRD7 serves as a critical tumor suppressor, yet it is frequently inactivated via ubiquitination-mediated proteasomal degradation, facilitating tumor progression and metastasis. Although stabilizing or activating BRD7 represents a promising therapeutic strategy, pharmacological agents to achieve this remain limited. Here, we aimed to develop a peptide-based approach to enhance BRD7 protein stability. We first mapped the TRIM28-BRD7 interaction to the 299-349 aa region within the Coiled-coil domain of TRIM28. Based on this interface, we designed two α-helical peptides, TAB12 and TAB14, that mimic the key structural features. Mechanistically, TAB12 exhibits strong binding affinity toward BRD7 protein and competitively disrupts the TRIM28-BRD7 interaction, thereby blocking TRIM28-mediated BRD7 ubiquitination and stabilizing endogenous BRD7. In vitro functional assays demonstrated that TAB12 markedly inhibits tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, induces cell apoptosis, and presents low cytotoxicity toward normal cells. Subsequent rescue experiments confirmed that BRD7 knockdown substantially abrogates the anti-tumor effects of TAB12, verifying that TAB12's function depends on stabilizing BRD7. Furthermore, in vivo animal models validated that TAB12 significantly suppresses tumor growth with a favorable safety profile. Therefore, this study identifies a novel peptide agent that exerts broad anti-tumor effects by stabilizing BRD7, offering a feasible strategy for restoring tumor suppressor function.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acalabrutinib (ACP-196), a second-generation BTK inhibitor, is an FDA-approved drug for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Beyond targeting malignant B cells, BTK inhibitors can modulate the abundance and functional properties of certain myeloid cell subsets in patients with CLL or MCL. In this study, we investigated the effects of acalabrutinib on the frequency, number, and phenotype of myeloid cell subsets using a mouse model of chronic inflammation induced by repeated injections of heat-killed Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). We found that acalabrutinib did not inhibit the expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) or affect macrophage abundance in wild-type (WT) or myeloid cell-specific Traf3-deficient (M-Traf3-/-) mice, a mouse model that exhibits MDSC hyperexpansion during chronic inflammation. Interestingly, acalabrutinib significantly inhibited the expression of the immunoinhibitory ligand PD-L1 on monocytic MDSCs (M-MDSCs), macrophages, and dendritic cells (DCs) in vivo. Using cultured MDSCs and macrophages, we demonstrated that acalabrutinib suppressed Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-induced transcript expression of genes encoding PD-L1 and other immunosuppressive molecules, including IL-10, Cox2, and iNos. Mechanistically, acalabrutinib attenuated TLR4-induced activation of NF-κB and Akt signaling. In summary, acalabrutinib inhibits the expression of PD-L1 and other immunosuppressive mediators in MDSCs and macrophages during inflammatory responses by suppressing TLR-driven signaling pathways. Our findings provide novel mechanistic insights and support a potentially broader therapeutic use of acalabrutinib in infectious and inflammatory diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Guanosine tetraphosphate and pentaphosphate, collectively known as (p)ppGpp, are central alarmones that regulate the bacterial stringent response to nutrient limitation and environmental stress. In the plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) strain 8004, (p)ppGpp metabolism is primarily governed by RelA/SpoT homologue (RSH) enzymes, including the monofunctional synthetase RelA, the bifunctional synthetase-hydrolase SpoT, and a small alarmone hydrolase SAH. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing RelA activity in Xcc 8004 remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we leverage the utilization of nitrate-induced nitrogen limitation, stemming from the inherently limited nitrate assimilation capacity exhibited by Xcc 8004, to investigate the intricacies of physiological and molecular regulatory processes within the stringent response. The results show that under nitrogen-limited conditions, phosphorylated NtrC transcriptionally activates relA, resulting in increased (p)ppGpp accumulation. This activation induces the NasT antitermination system, and promoting the expression of the nitrite reductase subunit nirD. The NirD directly interacts with the TGS and hydrolase domains of RelA, attenuating its synthetase activity and thereby preventing excessive (p)ppGpp production. Collectively, these findings delineate an NtrC-dependent regulatory circuit that couples nitrogen sensing to post-translational control of RelA via NirD, thereby ensuring balanced (p)ppGpp homeostasis during nitrogen stress. This work reveals a hitherto unrecognized mechanism for fine-tuning the stringent response in an aerobic plant pathogen and highlights the integration of nitrogen metabolism with stress signaling to optimize bacterial adaptation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Diabetic foot ulcers are a major complication of diabetes characterized by persistent inflammation and impaired tissue repair, in part driven by aberrant activation of the cGAS-STING innate immune pathway. Precision immunomodulation in the protease-rich wound microenvironment remains challenging because therapeutic efficacy requires both localized retention and responsiveness to pathological cues. Here, we developed an integrated AI-to-biomaterial strategy for diabetic wound repair by coupling generative AI-guided peptide discovery with microenvironment-responsive local delivery. A structure-guided deep-learning pipeline integrating RFDiffusion, ProteinMPNN, and AlphaFold2-multimer identified SCP-1, a conformation-locking peptide designed to stabilize the inactive STING dimer. To enable therapeutic translation, SCP-1 was incorporated into a dual-responsive hydrogel (Gel-SCP-1) that provides in situ gelation and MMP-9-triggered release in the wound bed. Gel-SCP-1 suppressed STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling, reduced inflammatory and oxidative stress, promoted reparative macrophage polarization, and enhanced angiogenic activity. In a full-thickness excisional wound model in db/db diabetic mice, Gel-SCP-1 significantly accelerated wound closure and improved tissue regeneration, including enhanced re-epithelialization and collagen remodeling. These findings establish an AI-to-biomaterial therapeutic paradigm for precision immunoregenerative therapy in chronic diabetic wounds.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The extensive expression of STING in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is closely associated with overall survival and other factors. Activation of the STING pathway can suppress NSCLC. However, the clinical translation of STING agonists remains hindered by challenges such as off-target effects, metabolic instability, and suboptimal pharmacokinetics.In this study, we engineered two oncolytic adenoviruses (OAds), OAd-HcGAS and OAd-McGAS, expressing human or murine cGAS, respectively, using an Ad5/3 chimeric adenovirus platform under regulation by the hTERT promoter to evaluate whether OVs carrying the cGAS gene are capable of specifically activating the STING pathway within tumors and enhancing the anti-tumor efficacy of OVs both in vitro and in vivo.In vitro, OAd-HcGAS exhibited robust replication and potent cytolytic activity in tumor cells. It activated the STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling axis, triggering a strong type I interferon (IFN-I) and pro-inflammatory cytokine response without compromising viral replication. In a murine Lewis lung carcinoma allograft model, intratumoral (i.t.) administration of OAd-McGAS led to substantial cGAS expression and consequential activation of the STING pathway. Moreover, the combination with anti-PD-L1 therapy resulted in tumor regression in over half of the cases. Notably, this armed oncolytic virus strategy enhanced the activation and infiltration of multiple immune cell populations.Collectively, these findings establish cGAS-expressing oncolytic adenoviruses as a novel and effective therapeutic strategy for lung cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Xu, Shi, Zhang, Jun, Yue, Zhao, Huang, Peng, Yu, He, Zheng and Fu.
Mammalian antiviral signaling adaptors, such as MAVS, MITA, and TRIF, have been shown to possess a conserved pLxIS motif (p, hydrophilic residue; L, leucine; x, any residue; I, isoleucine; S, serine, phosphorylation site), which has been identified as the key site leading to the transduction of antiviral signaling. But, the antiviral activity of the potential pLxIS motif in these homologous adaptors remains to be fully elucidated in fish. In this study, teleost TRIF, MAVS and MITA were found to contain conserved motifs with respective consensus sequences p[I/L]E[I/V]S, xLxbS and p[I/L]xbS (E, glutamic acid; V, valine, b, hydrophobic residue). Furthermore, these three adaptor proteins share a universal x[I/L]xbS structural motif, wherein the internal serine residue serves as an indispensable and highly conserved functional site. Functional assays revealed that the x[I/L]xbS motif promotes antiviral immune responses mediated by fish MAVS, MITA and TRIF, by inducing the expression of type I IFNs and ISGs as well as the activation of IRF3. Thus, the present study may shed light on the functional evolution of antiviral immune signaling of the conserved motif of these adaptors in teleost.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Micropterus salmoides rhabdovirus (MSRV) poses a substantial challenge to the health and sustainability of largemouth bass aquaculture. It causes huge economic losses, particularly in juvenile fish. However, there are still no effective therapeutic strategies. Here, we evaluated the anti-MSRV activity of 6'-phospho macrolactin B (23 TH), a phosphorylated metabolite from Bacillus siamensis HU603 fermentation. In Epithelioma papulosum cyprini (EPC) cells, 23 TH exhibited low cytotoxicity and, at 40 mg/L, engendered a remarkable 98.11% inhibition of the MSRV nucleoprotein (N) expression. Further studies showed that 23 TH effectively suppressed virus-induced cytopathic effects and attenuated virus-induced apoptosis by preserving nuclear integrity and mitochondrial membrane potential. Mechanistically, 23 TH directly reduced viral infectivity following pre-incubation with MSRV, significantly inhibiting viral binding and internalization. Time-of-addition and removal assays showed that 23 TH acts mainly during the early stage of viral replication. In vivo, 23 TH treatment significantly improved survival rates of MSRV-infected fish (up to 76%), reduced viral load, and alleviated histopathological damage. Additionally, 23 TH markedly up-regulated antiviral-related genes level, including interferon-γ (IFN-γ), interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), and IRF7, by 5.38-, 7.37-, and 6.05-fold, respectively. In summary, these findings confirm the antiviral potential of 23 TH and highlight its application as a promising therapeutic agent for controlling MSRV infection in aquaculture.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The cGAS-STING pathway is an evolutionarily conserved DNA-sensing mechanism that triggers innate immune responses. cGAS and STING play dual roles in tumorigenesis, promoting antitumor immunity and cell death while fueling tumor growth and metastasis. However, the mechanisms fine-tuning this pathway remain elusive. Using complementary proteomic approaches, we report that Casein Kinase 1 alpha (CK1α) operates as a bimodal regulator of the cGAS-STING pathway. CK1α supports optimal DNA sensing by counteracting proteasome-dependent degradation of cGAS, which involves the Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase 3 (CRL3). Conversely, CK1α restrains signal propagation in response to STING agonists, tempering IRF3 activation. Exploiting these counterposing functions, we show that selective degradation of CK1α using molecular-glue degraders suppressed aberrant cGAS-STING-driven inflammation signaling in a chromosomally unstable triple-negative breast cancer cell line, while cooperating with a STING agonist to promote apoptosis in acute myeloid leukemia cells. Thus, CK1α's dual regulatory role in the cGAS-STING pathway presents a promising target for therapeutic development.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Yiqi Huoxue Jiedu Formula (YHJF) is a traditional Chinese medicine formula that has been used as an adjunctive therapy for sepsis for nearly two decades. Previous clinical studies showed that YHJF improves Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) scores and modulates gut microbiota in elderly patients with pneumonia-associated sepsis. However, the mechanism by which YHJF protects against sepsis-associated acute lung injury (SALI) remains unclear.A murine SALI model was established by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). Therapeutic effects were evaluated by histopathology, micro-CT, pulmonary function assessment, and ELISA. Mechanistic studies included proteomic analysis of lung tissues and LPS-stimulated MH-S macrophages, pharmacological modulation with Mdivi-1 and urolithin A (UA), macrophage-epithelial co-culture, HPLC fingerprinting, UPLC-HRMS, and molecular docking.YHJF significantly improved 7-day survival and ameliorated lung injury, pulmonary edema, respiratory dysfunction, and systemic inflammation in mice with CLP-induced SALI. Proteomic profiling and subsequent functional assays suggested that enhanced mitophagy in macrophages represents a central protective mechanism. In vivo, YHJF increased autophagosome formation and PINK1/Parkin co-localization in BALF-derived alveolar macrophages. In vitro, YHJF restored mitochondrial homeostasis by activating PINK1/Parkin-dependent mitophagy in macrophages. This was accompanied by reduced cytoplasmic mtDNA leakage, downregulated cGAS expression, and suppression of the STING-TBK1-IRF3 pathway and subsequent type I interferon responses. Pharmacological inhibition of mitophagy with Mdivi-1 abolished these protective effects of YHJF, whereas activation with UA augmented them, demonstrating that mitophagy is necessary for YHJF-mediated protection. In a macrophage-epithelial co-culture system, YHJF-treated macrophages alleviated LPS-induced apoptosis in MLE-12 alveolar epithelial cells. Furthermore, chemical analysis integrated with molecular docking identified aloe-emodin, rhein, and genistein as candidate bioactive constituents of YHJF that likely contribute to its regulation of macrophage mitophagy.YHJF protects against SALI by restoring macrophage mitophagy and suppressing mtDNA-STING-mediated inflammatory signalling. These findings support YHJF as a potential therapeutic strategy for sepsis-associated lung injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cells detect invading viruses and produce type I interferons (IFNs) to stimulate an innate antiviral effector response. However, IFN levels must be fine-tuned to achieve antiviral efficacy while limiting hyperinflammatory and tissue-damaging effects. Here, we report that NAT10, a histone and cytidine acetyltransferase, regulates the production of type I IFNs and RNA virus infections. Depletion of NAT10 increased the expression of IFN-β and IFN-stimulated genes, and correspondingly impaired viral replication. Mechanistically, NAT10 dynamically associated with the IFN-β promoter and also negatively regulated IRF3's chromatin associations through modulation of long noncoding RNAs that inhibit IRF3. Treatment of cells with Remodelin, a NAT10 inhibitor, similarly increased IFN-β expression and inhibited viral infections. Overall, our findings reveal NAT10 is a potential host-directed target for antiviral treatment via regulation of type I IFN.Type I interferons (IFNs) signaling pathway is critical to cellular defense and innate immunity against evading pathogens, including viruses. However, induction of type I IFNs is fine-tuned to achieve the antiviral consequence while maintaining host cellular homeostasis. This paper presents a novel mechanism for the NAT10 protein to silence IFN-β induction through modulation of IRF3 activity at the promoter of IFN-β, and further demonstrates the therapeutic potential of the NAT10 inhibitor Remodelin to restrict viral infection while inducing IFN-β.
Inflammatory activation is involved in the pathogenesis of heart failure (HF). ATPase H+-Transporting Accessory Protein 2 (ATP6AP2) is an auxiliary subunit of the V-ATPase, and its role in HF is not fully understood. To assess the role and regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic potential of ATP6AP2 in HF, we used a cardiac-specific ATP6AP2 conditional knockout (CKO) mouse model and observed spontaneous cardiac dysfunction, myocardial fibrosis and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in mice. Further studies showed that ATP6AP2 promoted stimulator of interferon genes (STING) degradation through the lysosome-dependent pathway. ATP6AP2 knockdown significantly upregulated STING protein levels, activated the STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling axis, and promoted pro-inflammatory factor expression and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. In mice with myocardial infarction (MI), myocardial overexpression of ATP6AP2 or treatment with H-151 inhibited the activation of the STING signaling pathway, ameliorated cardiomyocyte apoptosis and inflammatory responses, thereby improving cardiac function. In addition, in macrophages treated with conditioned medium from hypoxia-exposed cardiomyocytes, the levels of pyroptosis-related proteins were markedly increased, whereas ATP6AP2 overexpression or STING inhibition reduced pyroptosis. ATP6AP2 likewise attenuates inflammation and pyroptosis caused by hypoxia in cardiac organoids. In conclusion, activating ATP6AP2 could serve as a promising therapeutic option in HF.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a hematological malignancy characterized by proliferation of malignant plasma cells. UDP-N-acetylglucosamine pyrophosphorylase 1 (UAP1) has been shown to promote progression in various cancers. However, its specific role in MM remains unclear.We analyzed six datasets comprising 3,117 patients from the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. The reliability of UAP1 as a prognostic predictor was also systematically evaluated. To further elucidate the specific mechanisms underlying the role of UAP1 in promoting MM progression, we performed an in-depth analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data from 24 patients with MM. Additionally, we evaluated UAP1's therapeutic potential using two MM cell lines (RPMI-8226 and U266).Across all 3,117 patients with MM, high UAP1 expression correlated with significantly worse overall survival, event-free survival, and progression-free survival. Patients with high UAP1 expression consistently exhibited concurrent genetic abnormalities. Single-cell data suggest that UAP1 is predominantly expressed in tumor cells, is closely associated with tumor cell differentiation signatures, and shows a correlative link with the expression of immunosuppressive pathway components. In vitro experiments demonstrated that UAP1 knockdown significantly inhibited cell proliferation and cell cycle progression, enhanced apoptosis, and increased the dexamethasone sensitivity of RPMI-8226 and U266 cells. Genetic knockdown of UAP1 significantly increased the proportion of CD8+ T cells in in vitro co-culture system with MM cells.UAP1 expression is significantly correlated with tumor differentiation, proliferation, immunosuppression, and patient prognosis, establishing it as an prognostic biomarker Regulating Malignant Biological Functions in Multiple Myeloma Cells. Our findings may guide the development of novel treatment strategies and improve clinical management.Copyright © 2026 Li, Yan, Lu, Wei, Cai, Chen and Hu.
The H9N2 subtype avian influenza virus (AIV) is common in poultry and poses significant risks to both the poultry industry and public health. Current control strategies for H9N2 AIV predominantly rely on vaccination; however, these approaches are often undermined by the continuous antigenic drift of hemagglutinin under the pressure of antibodies. This study evaluated the antiviral efficacy of Siji Antiviral Mixture (SAM) against H9N2 infection in specific pathogen-free chickens. Compared with the infected control group, SAM significantly reduced viral loads in multiple tissues, including liver, spleen, lung, kidney, brain, and trachea, demonstrating its direct antiviral activity. Further analysis revealed that SAM modulated H9N2-induced inflammation by downregulating excessive innate immune responses. Specifically, SAM significantly enhanced the expression of antiviral effectors (OASL and MX-1) in the lungs during the early stages of viral infection, while attenuating the production of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-10) in the later stages. Additionally, SAM regulated the expression levels of pattern recognition receptors (MDA5, TLR3, and TLR7), thereby preventing excessive immune responses. These findings indicate that SAM possesses both antiviral and immunoregulatory effects, highlighting its potential as an effective anti-AIV agent for the management of H9N2 AIV infection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tonsil-derived mesenchymal stem cells (TMSCs) are widely used in regenerative medicine due to their high proliferative capacity and differentiation potential. However, their origin from immunological gateways exposes them to pathogens, raising concern about viral contamination during cell preparation. Understanding how these pathogens affect the biological and immunological properties of TMSCs is crucial for ensuring the safety and consistency of cell-based therapies. This study evaluated TMSC susceptibility and molecular responses to mammalian orthoreovirus (MRV).MRV infectivity in TMSCs and the innate immune responses were investigated using RNA-seq. Viral replication was confirmed by viral titration, L1 segment RT-PCR, and transcriptome mapping. Cellular impact was assessed using Live/Dead assays and protein-protein interaction network analysis.TMSCs were infected with MRV strains to evaluate their susceptibility. Although no significant cytopathic effects were observed, the cells exhibited high viral permissivity to MRV, with stable viral titers of 3.9-5.5 log TCID50/ml and positive L1 gene segment RT-PCR. RNA-seq confirmed active replication, with reads successfully mapped to the MRV genome. Transcriptomic profiling showed robust induction of antiviral and stress response genes, including HSPA6, PEG10, OASL, and IFIT2. Gene set enrichment and protein network analyses highlighted enrichment of viral defense pathways and identified IL1B, ISG15, and RSAD2 as key hub genes driving the host inflammatory immune response.MRV establishes a permissive but non-cytopathic infection in TMSCs, triggering innate immune activation through upregulation of IL1B, ISG15, and RSAD2. This virus-induced shift from a quiescent to an immunomodulatory phenotype may compromise therapeutic consistency. Because visual quality control fails to detect latent infections, rigorous viral monitoring during TMSC preparation is essential to ensure safety in clinical applications.© 2026. Korean Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine Society.
Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) imposes substantial economic losses on the global swine industry owing to its high pathogenicity and transmissibility. Although arginine (Arg) is known to support the integrity of intestinal barrier, it is not clear whether Arg can alleviate intestinal injury induced by PEDV. A total of 32 healthy 7-day-old piglets were randomly assigned to four groups (Control, Arg, PEDV, PEDV + Arg; eight replicates per group). From day 5, piglets in the Arg and PEDV + Arg groups were orally administered Arg at 400 mg/kg body weight until day 11; then, PEDV (1 × 105.5 TCID50) was given orally for two PEDV-infected groups. On day 14, all piglets were slaughtered to obtain blood and intestine samples for further analysis. The results showed that PEDV infection significantly reduced T-SOD and CAT activities in plasma and intestine while elevating MPO levels. Arg supplementation restored T-SOD (plasma, duodenum, ileum), CAT (plasma, ileum), and GSH-Px (jejunum, ileum) activities and reduced MDA (jejunum) content in PEDV-infected piglets. Hematological analysis showed Arg alleviated PEDV-induced increases in MCV and RDW-SD, and significantly elevated MCHC. The real-time quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated that Arg further enhanced PEDV structural genes (M, N, S) expression in the duodenum, ileum, and colon. Concurrently, Arg significantly up-regulated interferon-stimulated genes (MX1, OASL, ISG15, IFITM3) in the ileum, IRF7 in the duodenum and colon, and IFN-β in the ileum. Arg also down-regulated the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and CXCL2 and the antimicrobial peptide REG3G in the colon, while up-regulating the tissue repair gene MMP13 in the ileum. In conclusion, oral Arg exhibits a unique dual role: it promotes PEDV replication to a certain extent while significantly enhancing antioxidant capacity, strengthening intestinal antiviral immunity, and attenuating intestinal inflammation. These findings highlight Arg's role in promoting disease tolerance and offer a novel perspective for nutritional intervention strategies against PEDV infection.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory vascular disorder driven by dyslipidemia and characterized by foam cell formation originating from vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Mitophagy is a critical pathway for the selective clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and also contributes to macrophage foaming. Tripartite motif-containing protein 65 (TRIM65), a key protein within the TRIM family, plays a significant role in immune and inflammatory responses and is integral to the pathogenesis of AS. In vivo and in vitro models of as were established using ApoE-/- mice fed a high-fat diet and mouse aortic vascular smooth muscle (MOVAS) cells treated with oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL), respectively. Results indicated a significant increase in TRIM65 expression in atherosclerotic models. The generation of TRIM65-/-ApoE-/- mice demonstrated that TRIM65 knockdown reduced atherosclerotic plaque burden and lipid accumulation. In vitro experiments revealed that TRIM65 knockdown inhibited the formation of VSMC-derived foam cells while promoting mitochondrial autophagy. Mechanistic investigations showed that TRIM65 facilitates the degradation of key mitochondrial autophagy proteins (e.g., PINK1, Parkin), thereby inhibiting mitochondrial autophagy. This inhibition leads to the accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria, resulting in excessive ROS generation and exacerbating oxidative stress. By inhibiting mitochondrial autophagy, TRIM65 accelerates the formation of VSMC-derived foam cells, thereby promoting the onset and progression of as. This discovery not only deepens our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of as but also provides theoretical support for positioning TRIM65 as a potential novel therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of this disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42398277 is a review article
Herpesviruses employ sophisticated immune evasion strategies to establish lifelong infections, subverting type I interferon (IFN-I) responses critical for antiviral defense. However, their adaptive mechanisms across species remain poorly characterized. Using duck plague virus (DPV)-an avian alphaherpesvirus model-we identify a cooperative immune evasion axis wherein ICP27 orchestrates UL55-mediated immunosuppression through dual regulatory mechanisms: its RNA-binding domain (RGG) facilitates UL55 mRNA nuclear export, while its C-terminal domain (CTD) stabilizes UL55 protein via direct interaction. This partnership enables synergistic suppression of IFN-I signaling-co-expression of ICP27 and UL55 inhibits Poly(I:C)-induced immune genes (IFN-β, Mx, OASL, IL-6) more potently than either protein alone. UL55 functions as a precision-targeted IFN-I antagonist, selectively degrading RIG-I and IRF7 through proteasomal pathways-confirmed by proteasome inhibitor rescue (MG132), structural modeling (AlphaFold), and binding assays (Co-IP). Evolutionarily, UL55 homologs (DPV, Herpes simplex virus type 1 [HSV-1], Varicella zoster virus [VZV]) conserve RIG-I targeting but diverge in IRF3/IRF7 regulation-adaptations shaped by UL55 sequence divergence (38.68% identity) and host biology (e.g., waterfowl IRF3 deficiency). This work establishes ICP27-UL55 as a key regulatory axis in herpesviral immune evasion and redefines UL55 as a conserved yet adaptable immunosuppressor in Alphaherpesvirinae.IMPORTANCEThis study fundamentally advances herpesvirology by defining a novel immune evasion paradigm in duck plague virus. We reveal ICP27 as a master regulator that coordinates UL55 immunosuppression through a two-tiered mechanism: RGG domain-mediated mRNA nuclear export and CTD-dependent protein stabilization-an unreported strategy in herpesviruses. UL55 selectively degrades RIG-I and IRF7 via proteasomal pathways, enabling precise IFN-I suppression with minimal immune activation. Crucially, ICP27-UL55 synergy inhibits Poly(I:C)-induced immune genes (IFN-β, Mx, OASL, IL-6) more effectively than individual proteins. Evolutionary analyses demonstrate conserved targeting of RIG-I across alphaherpesvirus UL55 homologs (DPV, HSV-1, VZV) but host-adapted divergence in IRF3/IRF7 regulation, shaped by UL55 sequence variation (38.68% identity) and host biology (e.g., avian IRF3 deficiency). These findings provide the first evidence of effector coordination through integrated transcriptional/post-translational regulation in herpesviruses. Disrupting ICP27-UL55 interaction offers new antiviral targets, while UL55-deficient strains serve as vaccine candidates for poultry disease control.
Aim: Disturbances in exhausted and classical memory B cells have been implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus nephritis (LN), but the genetic regulation of their homeostasis remains poorly understood. Methods: We analyzed the single-cell RNA-seq data of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from the NIH SLE dataset (GSE135779) and another published LN single-cell RNA-seq dataset (dbGAP database accession code phs001457.v1.p1). Overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in exhausted and classical memory B cells from SLE and LN patients were identified, and their altered expression was validated in B cells obtained from LN patients. GO and KEGG analyses were used to analyze associated pathways. The relationships between exhausted and classical memory B cells and cellular metabolic pathways were also assessed. Results: Three DEGs (IFI44L, XAF1, and MX1) were detected in both exhausted and classical memory B cells, and their increased expression was verified in classical and exhausted memory B cells obtained from LN patients during remission. The protein-protein interaction network of the DEGs suggested that STAT1 showed the highest eigenvector centrality for these DEGs. IFI44L, XAF1 and MX1 were involved in distinct biological processes and immune pathways (especially JAK-STAT). Classical memory B cells showed higher expression of genes involved in sulfur metabolism (SQRDL and TST), amino sugar metabolism (GFPT1 and UAP1), and butanoate metabolism (ACADS and ACAT1), while exhausted B cells exhibited inverse relationships with these metabolic pathways. Conclusions: Altered expression of IFI44L, XAF1 and MX1 is associated with distinct metabolic signatures and immune pathways in exhausted and classical memory B cells in SLE and LN.
The present study aimed to characterize the immune response, differential gene expression, and functional alterations observed following an in vivo challenge of Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV) in crossbred pigs. RNA-sequencing was performed on whole blood samples collected from three pigs before and at 7 days post-infection. A total of 3428 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, including 970 significantly upregulated and 261 downregulated genes (|log2 fold change| ≥ 1.5, adjusted p < 0.05). The most prominent DEG was LAMB4, a gene associated with cellular attachment receptors facilitating CSFV binding to porcine cells. Several cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction genes, such as CXCL12, CCL2, CCR1, and IL10RA, were upregulated, indicating a strong activation of innate immune responses. Simultaneously, multiple adaptive immune genes, including CD28, CD83, SLA-DQB1, and IL1A, IL12A, IL26 were downregulated, suggesting viral-mediated suppression of antigen presentation and T-cell signaling. Pathway analysis highlighted the involvement of platelet activation and coagulation cascades during viral evasion. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis revealed a core antiviral module comprising MX1, MX2, ISG15, IFIH1, OASL, IFIT1, and UBE2L6, which are central to interferon signaling and viral restriction. Transcription factors such as ETV7, TOX3, and MSC were upregulated, pointing to immune modulation and possible T-cell exhaustion. Conversely, downregulation of HES1, PRDM6, and MYOG indicated impaired lymphocyte differentiation and tissue repair. Overall, the findings suggest a dual host response to CSFV, with strong innate activation alongside adaptive immune suppression, providing valuable insights for vaccine and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Hantaviruses are emerging zoonotic pathogens responsible for two severe clinical syndromes: (i) haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) and (ii) hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS), collectively causing more than 200,000 human cases annually worldwide. Despite their public-health importance, the molecular mechanisms governing the host response and the population-level dynamics of rodent-to-human spillover remain incompletely characterised. The timeliness of this framework is underscored by the April-May 2026 outbreak of Andes orthohantavirus aboard the MV Hondius cruise ship, the first such cluster in a maritime setting, with three deaths reported across multiple countries. This event revealed critical gaps in existing models that treat humans solely as dead-end spillover hosts. Our coupled Susceptible-Exposed-Infectious-Recovered-Dead (SEIRD) model assumes no human-to-human transmission and is therefore designed for hantavirus strains where spillover does not lead to secondary human cases, specifically Hantaan virus (HTNV), Puumala virus (PUUV), Sin Nombre virus (SNV), and Dobrava-Belgrade virus (DOBV). The Andes virus (ANDV) outbreak aboard the MV Hondius is used as a real-world case study to assess the boundaries of our model and to motivate future extensions, not as a direct validation target for its quantitative predictions. Here, we present an integrated computational study combining three complementary analyses. First, we performed a preliminary phylogenetic analysis of the viral sequence, identifying Orthohantavirus andesense as the likely etiological agent responsible for the vessel-associated outbreak. Second, we carried out a downstream transcriptomic analysis of Hantaan virus (HTNV)-infected human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), using publicly available RNA-seq data (GEO accession GSE133751, n=3 per group). This analysis identified 184 upregulated and 19 downregulated genes, highlighting a transcriptional response dominated by interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), including CXCL10, CXCL11, MX2, DDX58, IRF7, STAT1, OASL, and CMPK2. We then constructed a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network using STRING, comprising 176 nodes and 3210 edges, and applied a composite network centrality score to rank putative regulatory hubs. This analysis identified ISG15, IRF1, CXCL10, STAT1, and DDX58 as the most central nodes. Pathway enrichment analysis confirmed a strong activation of interferon signalling (Reactome, p=1.3×10-63), antiviral defence mechanisms (Gene Ontology, p=3.8×10-58), and NF-κB-related pathways, together with a concurrent suppression of ribosomal translation. Finally, we developed a coupled SEIRD epidemiological model that explicitly represents rodent-to-rodent and rodent-to-human transmission with logistic rodent population growth. Preliminary simulation analysis demonstrates that reducing human exposure to rodent excreta is substantially more effective than rodent population control alone for reducing human disease burden, and that rodent control in isolation can paradoxically increase human cases through a dilution-like effect. The integrated framework provides molecular and epidemiological insights relevant to hantavirus surveillance, therapeutic target identification, and public-health intervention design.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557414
Dysregulation of innate immunity during respiratory RNA virus infections drives systemic hyperinflammation and lung injury. Here, we show that importin β4 (IPO4) has a role in inhibiting antiviral innate immunity. Transcriptomics analysis illustrated a downregulation of IPO4 in alveolar macrophages, lung ciliated epithelium, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from severely ill patients with COVID-19 or influenza. We further identified CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (CEBPB) as the transcription factor for IPO4 reduction during RNA viral infections. Loss-of-function validation demonstrated that IPO4 dampens the innate antiviral and inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, IPO4 sequesters fatty acid synthase (FASN) to block palmitic acid production, thereby inhibiting mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) activation and the downstream innate immune signaling. Moreover, Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated pulmonary restoration of IPO4 significantly alleviated viral pneumonia in mice. These results indicate that the CEBPB-IPO4-FASN-MAVS axis preserves innate immune homeostasis to avoid inflammatory pathology, highlighting IPO4 as a potential therapeutic target for severe viral pneumonia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543035 is a review article
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
The Tom70-Hsp90 interaction is critical for MAVS-mediated interferon (IFN) production. Upon RNA virus infection, cytosolic Hsp90 recruits key innate immune signaling proteins to MAVS on mitochondria through its interaction with Tom70. To evade this innate immune response, SARS-CoV-2 Orf9b binds to Tom70, thereby disrupting the Tom70-Hsp90 interaction and suppressing IFN production. Despite its importance, the molecular mechanism underlying the Orf9b-mediated IFN antagonism has remained unclear. Here, using an integrative approach including cryo-electron microscopy and 19F NMR spectroscopy, we show that Orf9b inhibits the Tom70-Hsp90 interaction through a bipartite mechanism. Through comprehensive structural, thermodynamic, and kinetic analyses, we reveal a previously unrecognized interplay between the rigid and dynamically disordered regions of Orf9b that blocks Hsp90 access to Tom70. Collectively, our results provide a high-resolution mechanistic framework for understanding Orf9b-mediated suppression of the host innate immune response.
Herpes simplex keratitis (HSK) is a leading cause of infectious corneal blindness. Host antiviral responses, particularly type I interferon (IFN) signaling, are impaired during corneal herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection, partly due to viral immune evasion and metabolic reprogramming. This study investigated if topical glycolysis inhibition restores mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS)-associated innate antiviral signaling and improves HSK outcomes.In vitro and in vivo infection models were established using the HSV-1 McKrae strain. A stable hexokinase 2 (HK2)-knockdown human corneal epithelial cell (HCEC) line was generated using lentivirus. Protein/mRNA levels were analyzed via western blot (WB), immunofluorescence (IF), enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). Murine corneal pathology and viral proteins were assessed by slit-lamp imaging, IF, and WB.Elevated HK2 expression was detected in HSK models. HK2 knockdown or 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG)-mediated inhibition reduced HSV-1 replication (lower infected cell protein 0 [ICP0], higher interferon-stimulated gene 56 [ISG56]). Co-IP confirmed the interaction between HK2 and MAVS protein, and HK2 inhibition activated the TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)/interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) pathway. Topical application of 2-DG improved murine corneal epithelial integrity, reduced viral proteins (glycoprotein D, ICP0), and showed efficacy comparable to acyclovir.Topical glycolysis inhibition enhances corneal antiviral defenses via MAVS-mediated type I IFN signaling, controlling HSV-1 and alleviating disease. It reveals a novel corneal metabolism-antiviral immunity link, highlights HK2 as a therapeutic target for HSK, and supports metabolic therapies for HSK and ocular herpes virus infections.
Ferroptosis has emerged as a promising strategy to overcome resistance to conventional cancer therapies. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by hypoxia, therapy resistance, and an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Although hypoxia is likely to influence ferroptosis susceptibility and the associated inflammatory pathways that regulate antitumor immunity, their impact on ferroptosis sensitivity and innate immune responses remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of hypoxia on the induction of ferroptosis and immune-related signaling in PDAC cell lines. We examined how hypoxia affects the responses of Panc-1, BxPC3, and Capan-1 cells to the ferroptosis inducers RAS-selective lethal 3 (RSL3)/Imidazole ketone erastin (IKE) under normoxic and hypoxic (0.1% O2) conditions. Cell viability assays were used to assess ferroptosis sensitivity, and rescue experiments were performed using liproxstatin-1 (LIP). Gene expression analysis was conducted to evaluate changes in immune, interferon, inflammatory, and hypoxia-related genes following ferroptosis induction. Panc-1 cells were the most sensitive, whereas Capan-1 cells were resistant, particularly under hypoxia. Ferroptosis triggered cell line-specific responses involving interferon signaling, inflammation, and stress pathways. Panc-1 cells showed over-expression of RIG-I, MAVS, IRF3/7/9, STAT1/2, and CXCL10, particularly under hypoxia, indicating activation of Type I interferon (IFN)-associated transcriptional program. BxPC3 cells demonstrated broader cytokine induction, including IL-8, CCL2, CXCL2, GM-CSF, and IL-11, whereas Capan-1 cells were minimally responsive. Hypoxia also increased ANGPTL4 and GDF15 expression following ferroptosis induction. These findings show that hypoxia differentially affects ferroptosis sensitivity and immune responses in PDAC, revealing complex interactions among ferroptosis, innate immunity, and the tumor microenvironment.
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emerging enteric coronavirus that causes substantial morbidity in swine and may pose a zoonotic risk because of its cross-species transmission potential. Type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling is central to antiviral defense, initiated through the mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS)-TBK1-IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) axis and executed by the downstream JAK-STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 (ISGF3) pathway; however, how PDCoV circumvents both the induction and effector arms of this cascade remains incompletely understood. Here, we identify PDCoV nonstructural protein 13 (Nsp13) as a potent antagonist of IFN-I responses. Ectopic expression of Nsp13 markedly reduces IFN-β production and the expression of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs, such as ISG56 and CXCL10). Mechanistically, Nsp13 directly binds the C-terminal domain (CTD) of TBK1 and competitively disrupts TBK1 interactions with IRF3 and MAVS. In addition, Nsp13 preferentially binds IRF9 and impairs its nuclear translocation, thereby inhibiting IFN-α-induced signaling. Notably, PDCoV Nsp13 exhibits a host-target binding profile similar to that of SARS-CoV-2 Nsp13, yet it does not alter TBK1 ubiquitination or protein stability. Collectively, these findings reveal a dual-layer immune evasion strategy whereby PDCoV Nsp13 suppresses both IFN induction and downstream signaling, and highlighting Nsp13 as a potential target for antiviral intervention.Copyright © 2026 Ying Wang et al. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Retinal detachment (RD) is caused by the separation of the neural retina from the retinal pigment epithelium, which leads to photoreceptor cell death as the main cause of vision loss. Here, this study investigated the role of ZBP1-mediated PANoptosis in photoreceptor death after RD and elucidated its interaction with the cGAS-STING pathway. Initially, upregulation of ZBP1 expression in the vitreous fluid of patients with retinal detachment was detected, and retinal detachment mouse models were subsequently established via surgery. Western blot and immunofluorescence confirmed a significant upregulation of ZBP1 expression on day 3 after RD, accompanied by PANoptosis and cGAS-STING pathway activation. To investigate its mechanism, ZBP1 expression was knocked down via subretinal injection of adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-shRNA-Zbp1, which was found to reduce the expression of core PANoptosis molecules and inhibit the activity of the cGAS-STING signaling. Subsequently, hematoxylin and eosin staining, transmission electron microscopy, and electroretinography confirmed that ZBP1 knockdown improved retinal morphology, partially restored outer nuclear layer thickness and retinal function, and reduced photoreceptor cell death. Similarly, intraperitoneal injection of the cGAS-STING inhibitor C-176 attenuated ZBP1 activation and alleviated PANoptosis. In summary, ZBP1 regulates photoreceptor PANoptosis following RD, with knockdown alleviating this process via reduced cGAS-STING signaling and PANoptosis-related pathway activation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
STAT5A is unique in its diverse expression in different cells. Here, we show that STAT5A deficiency results in reduced expression of the actin-bundling protein α-actinin-1, which alters cytoskeletal reorganization, including loss of actin bundles, reduction of cellular motility, and clustering of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum in the perinuclear region. These changes in cellular architecture led to production of ROS by the mitochondria, which may be explained by reduced peroxisome abundance. This, in turn, results in dsDNA breaks and formation of cytoplasmic micronuclei, and activating the cGAS-STING pathway, and mediating type I IFN production and the expression of IFN-stimulated genes. The ectopic expression of α-actinin-1 or STAT5A in STAT5A knockout cells is sufficient to restore actin bundle formation and nullifies all downstream effects. Conversely, inhibiting downstream steps suppresses only subsequent events in the pathway. STAT5A knockout results in a similar phenotype as seen with cytochalasin B, an inhibitor of actin polymerization. Overall, we show that STAT5A-α-actinin-1 links cytoskeleton integrity to mitochondrial immune regulation.© 2026 Sun et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565751 is a review article
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease with limited therapeutic options. The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway, activated by cytosolic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), has been increasingly implicated in UC. Through proteomics and artificial intelligence modeling, this study identified for the first time that senkyunolide I (SEI), a primary bioactive phthalide from Ligusticum striatum DC. (L. striatum), inhibits experimental colitis via the cGAS-STING pathway, with mechanistic validation performed in both intestinal tissues and cultured macrophages. Mutagenesis, activity-based protein profiling, and micro-scale thermophoresis reveal that SEI directly binds voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) at residue K12 to inhibit its stress-induced oligomerization. This blockade prevents mtDNA release into the cytosol, thereby suppressing the cGAS-STING cascade and subsequent M1 macrophage polarization, as well as downstream NLRP3 inflammasome activation, pyroptosis, and ferroptosis in macrophages and colon tissues. Overexpression of VDAC1-WT and VDAC1-K12A in mice confirms this mechanism. Clinically, VDAC1 expression in UC patients positively correlates with cGAS-STING activation and disease severity. Collectively, SEI alleviates colitis by targeting VDAC1 oligomerization to inhibit the cGAS-STING pathway in macrophages, establishing the VDAC1-cGAS-STING axis as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
To investigate the effects and mechanisms of Shi Pi Shu Gan formula (SPSGF) on sequelae of pelvic inflammatory disease (SPID) in rats with liver stagnation and spleen deficiency.A SPID rat model was established using mixed bacterial infection, mechanical injury, and compound stress (restraint, fatigue, diet disorder). Rats were divided into control, model, SPSGF-low (9.9 g/kg), SPSGF-high (36.9 g/kg), positive control, mitophagy inhibitor (Mdivi-1), SPSGF, and SPSGF+Mdivi-1 groups (n=6 each) for a 2-week treatment. Behavior, uterine histopathology (HE, TUNEL, immunohistochemistry), inflammatory cytokines (ELISA), mitophagy (TEM), and cGAS, STING, p-CREB, and p-YAP1 proteins (Western blot) were assessed.SPSGF treatment reduced inflammatory lesions and apoptosis in uterine tissue, decreased mtDNA levels and cGAS/STING expression, and increased p-CREB and p-YAP1 expression compared with the model group.This study's findings illuminate a novel link between mitochondrial quality control and tissue repair in SPID. Notwithstanding its limitations, including the model's translational capacity and the formula's complexity, this work lays the groundwork for developing SPSGF as a promising multi-targeted therapeutic strategy, aligning with TCM principles for managing chronic inflammatory sequelae.SPSGF may inhibit the inflammatory response in SPID rats by activating mitophagy to inhibit excessive activation of the cGAS/STING pathway and by activating the downstream PKACREB- Yap1 signaling pathway by interfering with the mtDNA-cGAS-STING network, thereby alleviating the symptoms of SPID.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564398 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564071 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42562874
Immune and stress responses are closely interconnected, with glucocorticoids modulating neutrophil number and activity, and cytokines influencing stress response. Neutrophils, due to their role as primary responders to infection, high sensitivity to glucocorticoid fluctuations, and critical involvement in gut microbiota homeostasis, were selected as the central focus of this study. We examined how antibiotic-induced dysbiosis affects the hypothalamus-pituitary-interrenal (HPI) axis and stress-related neutrophil dynamics in common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). We analyzed the expression of stress-related genes and characterized neutrophil maturation and function within the hematopoietic niche. Dysbiotic fish exposed to acute stress exhibited significantly elevated cortisol levels compared to stressed fish with intact microbiota. Notably, even non-stressed dysbiotic fish showed increased cortisol level, indicating that microbiota disruption alone impairs HPI axis regulation. Antibiotic-treated and stressed fish displayed upregulation of il1β, gcsfr, cxcl8_l2, and cxcr1, suggesting enhanced granulopoiesis and neutrophil mobilization. However, systemic neutrophilia was attenuated in dysbiotic fish regardless of stress exposure. Transcriptomic profiling of neutrophils from dysbiotic, stressed fish revealed downregulation of mpx and cxcr4, and upregulation of mmp9, mhc1, trb, nlrp12, dhx58, irf3, irf7 and stat1, indicating altered maturation, increased migratory potential, and possible neutrophil-T cell interactions. In contrast, stressed fish with intact microbiota exhibited anti-apoptotic signatures and suppression of antiviral pathways. Across all stressed and dysbiotic groups, neutrophil phagocytic activity was significantly reduced. These findings underscore the pivotal role of gut microbiota in modulating stress responses, neutrophil development and trafficking, and immune function in vertebrates.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiac injury remains a major limitation of chemotherapy and is closely linked to mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and dysregulated mitophagy. Sirtuin 5 (SIRT5), a mitochondrial deacylation-related protein, has been implicated in mitochondrial homeostasis; however, its role in DOX-induced acute cardiaotoxicity is not fully understood. Here, we investigated whether SIRT5 mitigates acute DOX-induced cardiac injury by regulating prohibitin 2 (PHB2) succinylation and mitochondrial quality control. An acute DOX-induced cardiac-damaged mouse model was established (15 mg/kg for one single dose, i.p.) in male C57BL/6 mice, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), cardiac troponin T (cTnT), and cardiac creatine kinase isoenzyme MB (CK-MB) were elevated, accompanied by reduced cardiac SIRT5 expression. In primary cardiomyocytes, DOX (4 µM, 24 h) downregulated SIRT5 and induced excessive ROS production and apoptosis together with altered mitophagy-related signaling. SIRT5 overexpression attenuated DOX-triggered ROS accumulation and apoptosis and reversed these mitophagy-associated alterations. Mechanistically, PHB2 succinylation was increased upon DOX exposure, whereas SIRT5 overexpression reduced PHB2 succinylation detected by PHB2 immunoprecipitation followed by pan-succinyl-lysine immunoblotting. In addition, SIRT5 showed colocalization and interaction with PHB2. Collectively, our findings suggest that SIRT5 attenuates acute DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, potentially through modulating PHB2 succinylation and the mitophagic response, highlighting the SIRT5-PHB2 axis as a candidate target for alleviating early-onset of DOX-induced cardiac injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Prohibitin 2 (PHB2) is a highly conserved protein with essential roles in cell homeostasis and survival across different cell types. Previous studies have shown that the deletion of PHB2 results in an arrest in proliferation due to impaired mitochondrial function regulated by the dynamin-like GTPase OPA1. The function of PHB2 in immune cells remains unclear; however, some studies suggest that PHB2 plays a role in the cell membranes of B and T cells. In order to elucidate the role of PHB2 in immune cells, we generated PHB2-deficient T cells. Our findings reveal a pivotal role for PHB2 in the proliferation and differentiation of T cells. PHB2 deficiency inhibits T cell proliferation by inducing a cell cycle arrest at the G1 to S phase, thereby preventing the differentiation into effector T cells. Furthermore, in contrast to previous reports, T cells lacking PHB2 are more resistant to apoptosis. Metabolic analysis reveals that PHB2-deficient T cells fail to boost their energy production through glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation upon activation, hindering their ability to sustain biosynthetic processes and to proliferate in response to activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nervous necrosis virus (NNV) is a major viral pathogen that causes viral nervous necrosis in a wide range of fish species and poses a serious threat to global aquaculture. However, the antiviral responses of mandarin fish (Siniperca chuatsi) to NNV infection remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated host antiviral responses using Chinese perch brain (CPB) cell line and in vivo infection models. Transcriptome sequencing of red-spotted grouper nervous necrosis virus (RGNNV)-infected CPB cells revealed extensive transcriptional reprogramming, with numerous interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) significantly upregulated. Comparative transcriptomic analysis across multiple teleost species identified a conserved set of ISGs induced during RGNNV infection, including CMPK2, RSAD2, DHX58, IRF3, and EPSTI1. Among these genes, CMPK2 showed strong induction in both infected CPB cells and mandarin fish brain tissues. Functional assays further demonstrated that CMPK2 overexpression significantly inhibited RGNNV replication in CPB cells and was accompanied by increased expression of several interferon-related genes. These findings provide the first functional evidence that CMPK2 restricts RGNNV infection in S. chuatsi. Our study highlights a conserved interferon-responsive antiviral module in teleost fish and identifies CMPK2 as a potential antiviral effector involved in host defense against RGNNV infection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Bisphosphonates (BPs) have been used effectively to treat excessive bone loss for over 50 years. Recent clinical evidence suggests extra-skeletal benefits but how this occurs remains unknown. Here we use a panel of human, murine and cellular assessments to chart BP-induced ageing-related changes both systemically and at local organ sites. In vivo spatial transcriptomics in aged mice treated with zoledronate showed a shift in cellular composition towards that of young animals specifically in heart, liver and intestine, with upregulation of genes governing detoxification, mitochondrial stability, energy metabolism, and antioxidation. A 5000-plex randomized trial based human proteomic analysis showed significant alterations in ~400 proteins after zoledronate treatment, with downregulation of proteins linked to genomic instability, proteostasis loss, mitochondrial dysfunction, stem cell exhaustion, and SASPs. Fluorescent labeling and tracing confirmed uptake of bisphosphonates by non-skeletal cells. In addition, low doses of several common, clinically utilized BPs stimulated growth and protected against DNA damage-induced senescence in multiple human cell types, with strongest effects in cardiomyocytes. Finally, proteome-wide target deconvolution with AlphaFold identified previously unrecognized binding partners, including PHB2 and ASAH1, and downstream upregulation of MEF2A was validated to be a key mediator of zoledronate triggered benefits in cardiomyocytes. Collectively, these results identify potential geroprotective mechanisms for BP action in multiple non-skeletal tissues.© 2026. The Author(s).
DExH-box helicase 58 (DHX58/LGP2) is an innate immune regulator with a previously uncharacterized role in oncology. This study evaluates the multifaceted role of the DHX58 gene, examining its pan-cancer expression, prognostic value, and therapeutic potential across various tumor types through an extensive pan-cancer bioinformatics analysis.We conducted a bioinformatics analysis of DHX58 using TCGA and GTEx data from four platforms: GEPIA2, TIMER 2.0, UALCAN, and starBase. We assessed differential expression, prognostic significance and survival outcomes, drug sensitivity, functional enrichment, genomic alterations, protein-protein interactions, and DNA methylation across 32 cancer types.Our findings revealed that the differential expression of the DHX58 gene across numerous cancers was context-dependent, with consistent downregulation in lung squamous cell carcinoma and upregulation in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Low DHX58 expression correlated with poor survival in kidney chromophobe renal cell carcinoma, sarcoma, and skin melanoma, but with favorable outcomes in other cancers, such as colon adenocarcinoma. Notably, low DHX58 expression was associated with increased sensitivity to birinapant and saracatinib. Genomic alterations were infrequent, and methylation patterns were largely unchanged. Functional enrichment analysis emphasized DHX58's established role in innate immunity and antiviral responses, with its co-expressed genes implicated in viral defense pathways. Genomic profiling identified various alterations, including mutations and copy number variations, contributing to DHX58 dysregulation. Protein-protein interaction mapping solidified its central role in immune signaling, while DNA methylation analysis highlighted epigenetic regulation as another layer of control.Our pan-cancer analysis reveals that DHX58 has context-specific prognostic and predictive roles. While discrepancies between platforms exist, DHX58 emerges as a potential biomarker in specific cancers, particularly in the context of therapies involving agents like birinapant. These findings warrant further mechanistic and clinical investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42341379 is a review article
Ubiquitously expressed Prohibitin-1 (PHB1) and Prohibitin-2 (PHB2) serve pleiotropic functions in cellular processes, including signal transduction, mitochondrial metabolism and dynamics, and lipid raft formation. Located in phospholipid-rich subcellular sites such as the plasma membrane and mitochondrial inner membrane, PHB1 and PHB2 are emerging as important host targets for bacteria and viruses, influencing infection and host responses by these microbes. Here, we present the current understanding of PHB1 and PHB2 in bacterial and viral infection based on the cellular localization of PHBs at the plasma membrane, mitochondria, and cytoplasm. We also discuss the potential of targeting PHBs as therapeutics for bacterial and viral infections.Copyright: © 2026 Rivera-Palomino and Theiss.
This research is designed to establish a prognostic framework derived from m6A- and autophagy-related lncRNAs (m6aARLncs) to enhance survival prediction in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Concurrently, it endeavors to elucidate the role of prognostic framework in modulating the tumor immune microenvironment.Transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were employed as the training and independent validation cohorts, respectively. m6A-related genes (m6aRGs) and autophagy-related genes (ARGs) were curated from published literature and the Human Autophagy Database (HADb), respectively. Subsequently, differentially expressed m6aARLncs (DE-m6aARLncs) were identified by integrating co-expression analysis with differential expression profiling. A prognostic risk signature was constructed using univariate Cox and LASSO regression analyses. The model's predictive efficacy was rigorously validated through risk heatmap, survival analysis, ROC curves, differential analysis and independent prognostic analysis. Furthermore, the association between riskScores and clinical features was assessed. To elucidate the model's biological relevance, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was performed. The impact of the risk signature on the tumor immune microenvironment was comprehensively evaluated via tumor microenvironment analysis, immune cell correlation analysis, single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), and immune checkpoint profiling. Single-cell sequencing data analysis was carried out. Drug sensitivity profiling was conducted to identify putative therapeutic agents tailored to distinct risk subgroups. The putative m6A-autophagy-lncRNA regulatory axis may implicated in ESCC pathogenesis was proposed. Finally, the mRNA expression levels of m6aARLncs were validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).We established a robust risk prognostic model based on five m6aARLncs (LINC00847, UBL7-AS1, LINC01554, LINC00601, and FAM222A-AS1), which demonstrated significant efficacy in predicting overall survival in ESCC patients. Comprehensive immune profiling delineated the unique immune phenotype of the prognostic model, characterized by the infiltration of mast cells, B cells, neutrophils, plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), helper T cells, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), as well as human leukocyte antigens (HLA), etc. The B cells, neutrophils and dendritic cells identified by immune microenvironment analysis results may have been verified to some extent through single-cell sequencing analysis. Furthermore, the expression of two immune checkpoint molecules, TNFRSF18 and LAIR1, was significantly correlated with risk stratification, suggesting their potential therapeutic relevance. Pharmacogenomic analysis identified nine compounds (Shikonin, Bicalutamide, Bryostatin-1, Epothilone-B, JNK-9L, LFM-A13, QS11, VX-680, and Z-LLNle-CHO) exhibiting differential sensitivity between the dichotomous risk strata. We propose novel m6A-autophagy-lncRNA regulatory axis implicating the 5 m6aARLncs, 5 m6aRGs and 21 ARGs, which may play a pivotal role in ESCC pathogenesis. Finally, the results of RT-qPCR verification indicated that the expressions of FAM222A-AS1, LINC00601, LINC00847, LINC01554 and UBL7-AS1 were upregulated.This study yields findings that hold significant clinical implications for refining prognostic stratification and deciphering the immune landscape in ESCC. Moreover, they offer novel perspectives that may pave the way for more precise prognostic assessment and the formulation of targeted therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Ren, Hu, Wen, Xie, Wan, Liu, Yang, Zhang, Ren and Su.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a multifactorial metabolic disorder characterized by chronic hyperglycemia due to impaired insulin secretion and/or action. A severe complication is delayed wound healing, particularly diabetic foot ulcers, associated with defective angiogenesis, neuropathy, persistent inflammation, and increased infection risk. Biodegradable, biocompatible biomaterials have gained attention as advanced platforms for tissue regeneration. Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), microbial-derived biopolymers, are promising for wound healing. This study evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of PHAs derived from high-rate algal pond (HRAP) microalgae using a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat model. HRAP microalgal biomass was used for polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) extraction via solvent precipitation. Purified PHB was blended with polycaprolactone (PCL) to fabricate electrospun nanofiber scaffolds containing different algal extract concentrations (PHB-1, PHB-2, PHB-3). Structural characterization was performed by NMR and GC-MS. Diabetes was induced in male Wistar rats with a high-fat diet followed by STZ (30 mg/kg). Full-thickness excisional wounds were created and topically treated for 12 days. Wound healing progression was assessed by wound contraction, histopathology, and qRT-PCR analysis of IL-6, TNF-α, and MMP-1. GC-MS confirmed hydroxyalkanoate monomers, validating PHB biosynthesis. Scanning electron microscopy showed uniform, well-defined nanofiber morphology. PHB-based scaffolds significantly accelerated wound closure compared with untreated diabetic controls. Histology revealed enhanced re-epithelialization, dermal regeneration, reduced inflammatory infiltration, and reappearance of hair follicles. Gene expression analysis showed anti-inflammatory effects, with IL-6, TNF-α, and MMP-1 reduced by 67.99%, 74.01%, and 59.60%, respectively. PHB-based nanofiber scaffolds improved diabetic wound healing through combined regenerative and anti-inflammatory actions, supporting sustainable PHB as a promising biomaterial for advanced wound dressings.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530655 is a review article
Pathogens, tissue damage, and cellular stress are detected by innate immune sensor molecules to drive inflammatory signaling and cell death. Mutations in the sensor NLRP1 are associated with inflammatory disease, but the regulation of this sensor is not well understood. Here, we find that LPS, a TLR4 ligand and canonical activator of innate immunity, inhibits NLRP1-mediated caspase activation, IL-18 release, and inflammatory cell death, PANoptosis. This inhibition requires TRIF but not MyD88, implicating TRIF-dependent TLR signaling. IRF3 is also required, suggesting an essential role for type I IFN signaling. Indeed, IFN-β production or treatment with exogenous IFN-α or IFN-β inhibits NLRP1-dependent PANoptosis in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages and human macrophages and monocytes. Mechanistically, Nlrp1b/NLRP1 expression is significantly reduced in LPS- or type I IFN-treated cells. Overall, our study identifies a TLR4-TRIF-IRF3 signaling axis that induces type I IFNs to negatively regulate NLRP1 transcription, thereby blocking NLRP1-driven, caspase-1/caspase-8/RIPK3-dependent PANoptosis. These findings suggest type I IFNs as a potential therapeutic strategy for NLRP1-driven inflammatory diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type I interferon signaling is central to antiviral innate immunity, and disruption of this pathway may contribute to unusually severe illness during otherwise common viral infections in children. We report a previously healthy 12-month-old girl who presented with a fever for two weeks, followed by a generalized skin rash. She then subsequently developed a persistent fever, pancytopenia, splenomegaly, elevated soluble IL-2 receptor, and hypofibrinogenemia, fulfilling diagnostic criteria for hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). Because an underlying immune disorder was suspected, targeted panel sequencing was performed, followed by Sanger confirmation and RNA transcript analysis; this identified a heterozygous IFIH1 splice-site variant (NM_022168.4:c.2807+1G>A (rs35732034)). Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and transcript sequencing demonstrated exon 14 skipping (Δ14) in patient RNA, providing direct confirmation of the predicted splicing abnormality and aligning with the prior report by Asgari et al. regarding this same variant in children with severe viral illness. Although these findings support the biological relevance of the variant in this clinical setting, they do not establish a causal relationship or indicate that the variant was the sole cause of the inflammatory syndrome. As a single case report, this observation should therefore be interpreted cautiously; however, it suggests that IFIH1 abnormalities may be associated with infection-related hyperinflammation or an HLH-like presentation in some patients and highlights the value of RNA-based validation when interpreting candidate splice-site variants in innate immune genes.© 2026 by the Association of Clinical Scientists, Inc.
Yeast culture (YC) is widely applied as a functional feed additive, yet the mechanisms by which it regulates hepatic health, metabolism, and immune capacity in teleosts remain unclear. Here, juvenile Plectropomus leopardus were fed diets supplemented with 2.0% (YC2.0) or 8.0% YC (YC8.0) for 60 days, followed by hepatic histophysiological assessment, liver transcriptomic/metabolomic profiling, and an in vitro hepatocyte challenge with nervous necrosis virus (NNV). YC2.0 pincreased lipid droplet accumulation, improved antioxidant status, and lower aspartate aminotransferase(AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and MDA in the liver than the control (Con) and YC8.0 groups. RNA-seq identified 915 hepatic differentially expressed genes (DEGs): YC2.0-specific genes were enriched in steroid hormone biosynthesis, bile secretion, and rhythmic regulation, whereas YC8.0-upregulated clusters were enriched in NOD-like receptor and JAK-STAT signaling, hematopoietic cell lineage, and apoptosis, with elevated immune- and apoptosis-related markers (nlrp1, mcub, myc, map1lc3b, and gadd45β/γ). Metabolomics identified 680 differential metabolites across the three groups, showing that YC2.0 predominantly enhanced purine/nucleotide and glycerophospholipid metabolism, while YC8.0 shifted toward amino acid-centered pathways (arginine biosynthesis, histidine metabolism, and FoxO signaling). Multiomics integration revealed positive correlations of L-aspartic acid (L-Asp) and glutamic acid (Glu) with inflammatory DEGs, and of glycerophosphoethanolamine (Geptn) with apoptosis-related DEGs. In vitro, YC pretreatment alleviated NNV-induced cytopathic effects (CPEs) in hepatocytes, suppressed viral mRNA accumulation, and reduced the mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines (il1β, ifng, il6, il12a, il16, and tnfsf14) and immune pathway related DEGs. Collectively, these results characterize dose-dependent effects of YC on hepatic physiology and immune regulation, supporting its application as a functional aquafeed supplement.Copyright © 2026 Chenlin Yin et al. Aquaculture Nutrition published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), a debilitating chronic respiratory condition afflicting preterm neonates, stems from oxidative injury and is characterized by arrested alveolar growth and aberrant inflammatory responses. This investigation uncovers a novel mechanistic axis in which the 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE)/GPR75 signaling cascade acts as a previously unrecognized driver of NLRP1 inflammasome activation in neonatal BPD, thereby linking oxidative stress to inflammatory signaling via p53. Using murine hyperoxia models, we observe that excessive oxygen exposure selectively upregulates GPR75 expression and 20-HETE biosynthesis within alveolar epithelial cells. Genetic inactivation of Gpr75 in vivo significantly attenuated hyperoxia-induced lung injury, oxidative stress, and NLRP1-dependent secretion of interleukin-1β and interleukin-18. Mechanistic dissection revealed that 20-HETE induces NLRP1 inflammasome assembly in rat alveolar epithelia via p53-mediated signaling. In vitro corroboration via lentiviral-mediated Gpr75 silencing, with scrambled shRNA serving as a negative control, further validated its role in hyperoxia-triggered NLRP1 activation and cytokine release (P < 0.01 vs. scrambled control). Collectively, these findings establish the 20-HETE/GPR75 axis as a critical regulator of inflammasome-dependent pathogenesis in BPD. Blockade of this axis inhibits inflammasome assembly and downstream inflammation by suppressing p53 signaling. These results highlight this axis as a promising therapeutic target to mitigate oxygen-induced injury and inflammatory sequelae in preterm infants.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Type I diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disorder in which the insulin producing cells of the pancreas are attacked and destroyed by autoreactive T cells. The innate immune mechanisms that contribute to T1D remain incompletely defined. Genome-wide association studies in humans have identified alleles of the IFIH1 gene, which encodes the intracellular RNA sensor MDA5, that are strongly associated with development of T1D. We previously found that MDA5 signaling drives disease and mortality in a mouse model of Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome (AGS) caused by mutations in the ADAR1 RNA editing enzyme. Genetic dissection of disease in this ADAR1 mutant mouse model revealed that the double stranded RNA-activated kinase PKR and the RNA sensor ZBP1 are also essential for disease. To test the role of intracellular RNA detection in T1D in the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse model, we used CRISPR targeting to generate NOD mice targeted for Ifih1, Eif2ak2 (PKR) and Zbp1. We found that haploinsufficiency for Ifih1 resulted in modest but significant protection from T1D only in male NOD mice, but neither PKR nor ZBP1 contributed to T1D onset or incidence. Moreover, treatment of NOD mice with a pharmacological inhibitor of the integrated stress response (ISR) had no effect on T1D incidence in female NOD mice, but accelerated and exacerbated disease in male NOD mice. Together, our findings demonstrate that MDA5 and the ISR contribute to sex-specific disease incidence in NOD mice.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42454699 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42446837 is a review article
Loss of function mutation in the human DPP9 gene causes Hatipoglu syndrome leading to severe inflammasomopathy. A key feature of the disease is pancytopenia and patients require bone marrow transplantation, but the mechanism of cell loss is unclear since Dpp9 mutant mice have normal hematopoiesis, suggesting that a distinct mechanism of disease occurs in humans. Here, we present a model of human DPP9 deficiency leveraging reverse genetics in the MISTRG6 humanized mice. We found that CRISPR editing of human CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) led to very efficient and persistent gene deletion in vivo. Human DPP9 deletion recapitulated cytopenia in peripheral blood and in the bone marrow, and cell loss was cell intrinsic. However, DPP9 deletion led to little transcriptional changes suggesting post-transcriptional regulation in human HSPCs. Mechanistically, DPP9 deficiency led to the activation of the CARD8 inflammasome resulting in HSPC pyroptosis, whereas NLRP1 was dispensable for cell death. Thus, our results reveal a unique human mechanism of disease and offer therapeutic insight for this inflammasomopathy.
Intervertebral disc degeneration pathogenesis involves chronic inflammation and cell death, highlighting the need for targeted therapeutic strategies. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as promising bioactive materials for designing therapeutic approach. In this study, we demonstrate that youthful-state EVs (Y-EVs) outperform aged donor-derived EVs (O-EVs) in resolving inflammatory cascades within nucleus pulposus (NP) cells. EVs from young rats significantly suppressed TNF-α-induced inflammation in NP cells by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, inhibiting extracellular matrix catabolism, and ameliorating rat disc degenerationin vivo. Mechanistically, CD55 enrichment in Y-EVs attenuated NF-κB pathway activation, thereby disrupting inflammatory transcriptional programs. CD55 knockdown abrogated the anti-inflammatory efficacy of Y-EV, confirming its functional necessity. Besides, we identified thioredoxin (TRX) as a critical suppressor of NLRP1 inflammasome activation via direct protein binding, which inhibited NP cell pyroptosis. Crucially, CD55 in Y-EVs facilitated TRX-mediated NLRP1 suppression, whereas O-EVs failed to upregulate TRX or suppress the NLRP1 inflammasome. This study highlights the age-dependent functional divergence of EV bioactivity and establishes CD55 as a key determinant of their therapeutic superiority. The TRX-NLRP1 interaction represents a novel target for disc degeneration intervention, positioning youthful-state EVs as an optimized bioactive material for disc regeneration strategies.© 2026 IOP Publishing Ltd. All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556656 is a review article
Although transcriptome studies have been performed in cell culture models of HBV infection, the in vivo hepatic transcriptional response to persistent HBV expression remains incompletely characterized. In addition, whether HBV is associated with activation of necroptotic signaling in the liver has not been fully clarified. Therefore, this study aimed to: (1) define transcriptomic alterations in livers from an HBV transgenic mouse model; and (2) explore whether ZBP1-associated necroptotic signaling is present in HBV-Tg livers by integrating RNA-seq, bioinformatic analysis, and biochemical validation. We utilized an HBV transgenic mouse model and characterized it by measuring serum HBV DNA, HBsAg, AST, ALT, and TBIL levels and by performing hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Subsequently, the expression of protein-coding genes in HBV transgenic and control mice was analyzed by next-generation RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using EdgeR with thresholds of |log2(fold change)| > 1 and P value < 0.05. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed on the DEGs. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed based on the STRING database, and PPI modules were analyzed using the MCODE plugin in Cytoscape. Finally, we evaluated ZBP1-associated necroptotic signaling by examining the protein levels of ZBP1 and phosphorylated RIPK3/MLKL by Western blot. We identified 815 candidate differentially expressed genes, including 412 upregulated and 403 downregulated genes in HBV-Tg livers compared with control livers. KEGG pathway analysis indicated enrichment of immune-related pathways, metabolic pathways, and viral infection-related pathways. Zbp1 drew further attention because it was increased in HBV-Tg livers and located within an interferon/innate immune-related PPI module. At the protein level, ZBP1, p-RIPK3, and p-MLKL were increased in HBV-Tg livers. These findings suggest elevated ZBP1-associated necroptosis-related markers in the HBV-Tg liver model. We profiled gene expression in livers from HBV-Tg and control mice using RNA-seq and identified candidate DEGs, GO terms, and pathway terms associated with HBV-related liver responses. Our data support an association between HBV-Tg liver status and increased ZBP1, p-RIPK3, and p-MLKL expression. However, additional functional studies are required to determine cell specificity, causal direction, and the contribution of this signaling axis to liver injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Perioperative stress hyperglycemia is a transient but frequent metabolic disturbance strongly linked to postoperative organ injury and mortality; however, the immunometabolic mechanisms driving this association remain largely undefined. In a two-center cohort of patients undergoing total aortic arch replacement, we identify stress hyperglycemia as an independent determinant of poor postoperative outcomes that associates strongly with CD4+ T cell loss. Hyperglycemia induces inflammatory PANoptosis in CD4+ T cells from patients in response to surgical trauma. This results from elevated glucose driving the accumulation and release of succinate from monocytes, which subsequently acts on CD4+ T cells to compromise mitochondrial integrity and activate ZBP1-mediated PANoptosis. Our findings define a monocyte-T cell metabolic signaling axis that transduces hyperglycemic stress via elevated succinate to adaptive immune cell death and reveal potential therapeutic targets to prevent postoperative immune dysfunction and organ injury, especially for patients with hyperglycemic comorbidities.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to investigate the role of Z‑nucleic acids (Z‑NAs) in the pathogenesis of fungal keratitis (FK), focusing on its regulatory effects on fungal immune escape, inflammation, and biofilm activity.A mouse model of FK was established by the combination of stromal scrapes and corneal contact lens with Fusarium solani. Disease severity was assessed using clinical scoring and histopathological examination. In vitro, bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were infected with F. solani, and the efficiency of fungal phagocytosis and escape by BMDMs was determined through fungal counting. The expression of Z‑DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1)-PANoptosis markers in corneal tissues and BMDMs was detected by western blot, and the localization of Z-NAs in these samples was examined by immunofluorescence staining. Additionally, Z‑NA expression within in vitro fungal biofilms was detected by immunofluorescence, and its roles in modulating biofilm activity, antifungal drug resistance, and chemotactic ability were further characterized.ZBP1-PANoptosis was significantly activated in FK corneal tissues and positively correlated with clinical severity in FK. F. solani infection triggered Z‑NA transformation and ZBP1-PANoptosis activation in BMDMs, which in turn promoted fungal immune escape and exacerbated inflammation. Z‑NAs accumulated as extracellular DNA in fungal biofilms and were shown to regulate biofilm activity, drug resistance, and chemotaxis.Z‑NAs play a dual pathogenic role in FK by inducing ZBP1-PANoptosis in macrophages and enhancing biofilm function, thereby promoting the progression of FK.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive disease characterised by vascular remodelling. Inflammatory responses and oxidative stress have been shown to contribute to its progression. This study investigated the effects of a novel HIF-1α-miR-663b axis on pulmonary arterial smooth muscle inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis in a monocrotaline (MCT)-induced PAH rat model. A PAH rat model was constructed via MCT injection; moreover, miR-663b inhibitors were administered to inhibit miR-663b. PASMCs were cultured under hypoxic conditions to establish an in vitro PAH model. The data revealed that miR-663b was highly expressed in PAH rats and hypoxia-induced PASMC models. Overexpression of miR-663b exacerbated hypoxia-induced proliferation, apoptosis, migration and inflammation in PASMCs. Conversely, miR-663b inhibition reversed hypoxia-induced dysfunction in PASMCs. ZBP1 downregulation dampened miR-663b upregulation-mediated dysfunctions in PASMCs. In vivo experiments revealed that miR-663b inhibitors mitigated pulmonary arterial remodelling, inflammation and PANoptosis in MCT-induced PAH rats. HIF-1α expression was upregulated in hypoxia-induced PASMCs. ChIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays confirmed that HIF-1α transcriptionally regulated and promoted miR-663b expression. Upregulation of miR-663b inhibited AMPK/Sirt1 signalling pathway activation and promoted ZBP1-mediated PANoptosis. However, miR-663b inhibitors reversed hypoxia-induced PANoptosis in PASMCs. The protective effects of miR-663b inhibitors on PASMCs and their inhibitory effects on PANoptosis were significantly weakened by treatment with an AMPK inhibitor or a Sirt1 inhibitor. Collectively, these findings suggest that inhibiting HIF-1α-mediated miR-663b expression improves PAH by reducing PASMC dysfunction through the attenuation of inflammatory responses, oxidative stress and apoptosis in PASMCs and the activation of the AMPK/Sirt1 pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Left-handed (Z-form) double-stranded nucleic acid conformers (Z-DNA and Z-RNA, collectively called Z-NA) are molecular patterns recognized by ADAR1 and ZBP1, which are sensor proteins involved in innate immunity. Monoclonal antibodies raised against Z-DNA, such as Z22 and Z-D11, are employed as probes for the study of Z-NAs, but their substrate specificity and functional equivalence remain unclear. Here, we used biochemical, biophysical, and structural approaches to compare the binding modes and target specificies of Z22 and Z-D11, using Z-prone CG-rich dsDNA, dsRNA, and DNA-RNA hybrids as substrates. Both antibodies failed to form stable complexes with short CG-rich dsRNA under conditions compatible with antibody stability, which suggests that they are unable to induce A-to-Z transitions in dsRNA. In contrast, both antibodies robustly complexed with dsDNA and DNA-RNA hybrid substrates. Cryo-EM structural analysis confirmed that both antibodies interact with Z-NA through a conserved interaction network, and demonstrated that complexes between the antibodies and DNA-RNA hybrids adopted distinct higher-order organizations. Z22 retained binding to both Z-DNA and Z-RNA segments, whereas Z-D11 displayed substrate-dependent organization and was restricted to Z-DNA segments Molecular modelling provided mechanistic explanation for the differences in Z-RNA binding ability between the two antibodies, which was confirmed in situ with ADAR1-depleted, IAV- infected and JTE607-treated cells. We also demonstrate that Z-D11, in contrast to previously described Z22, is unable to induce B-to-Z-transitions in short d(CG) 6 oligos under physiological conditions. Together, these results show that anti Z-NA monoclonal antibodies are not functionally interchangeable: whereas Z22 recognizes pre-formed Z-RNA, Z-DNA- RNA hybrids, and Z-DNA, Z-D11 recognizes Z-DNA, and DNA segments in Z-DNA-RNA hybrids. These differences are dictated by substrate composition, local geometry, and conformational accessibility, which also likely impact their ability to induce NA structural transitions. These findings have important implications for interpreting antibody-based detection of left-handed nucleic acids in biological systems.
Cell death is a key effector mechanism of the innate immune system for host defense. While it is beneficial for pathogen clearance, excess lytic cell death is linked to inflammation, pathology, and disease. Therefore, tight regulation of cell death execution is critical. PANoptosis is an innate immune, lytic, and inflammatory cell death pathway initiated by innate immune sensors and driven by caspases and RIPKs, with roles in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer. During PANoptosis, caspases and RIPKs within PANoptosome complexes activate multiple executioner proteins, including gasdermin (GSDM) family proteins and mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL). These executioners form membrane pores that lead to membrane lysis and the release of DAMPs and cytokines. Although multiple executioners are activated during PANoptosis, the requirement for individual executioners in driving the lytic cell death remains unclear. To address this, we performed a comprehensive genetic analysis of GSDMD, GSDME, and MLKL using single, double, and triple knockout primary macrophages across triggers known to activate distinct PANoptosomes. Deletion of individual executioners did not reduce the activation of caspases or other executioners and did not fully block PANoptosis, suggesting these executioner molecules often act in a compensatory manner to execute PANoptosis. Furthermore, combined deletion of all three executioners provided greater protection than any single or double deletion. However, residual cell death still occurred even after genetic deletion of all three executioner proteins, suggesting the involvement of additional executioners that remain to be identified. Overall, our study suggests that targeting individual executioners will not be sufficient in disease contexts where PANoptosis drives pathology, and targeting the full executioner network or upstream molecules, such as sensors or essential PANoptosome complex components, will be needed for therapeutic efficacy in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune checkpoint therapies have transformed clinical practice; however, reliable biomarkers to predict response remain limited. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) has emerged as an important biomarker because it is thought to reflect neoantigen load, yet its predictive utility has been inconsistent. This limitation may partly arise because TMB primarily captures tumor-intrinsic immunogenicity, which is heterogeneous and does not fully reflect the state of antitumor immunity. To identify transcriptomic surrogates that capture both high mutational burden and antitumor immune activation, we investigated whether mRNA expression of mutagenic APOBEC3 family members could serve as surrogates for high TMB and T cell-rich tumors. Using a pan-cancer computational framework, we evaluated the association of four APOBEC3 genes with mutational burden, neoantigen load, immune infiltration, and immune checkpoint blockade response. Among APOBEC3A, APOBEC3B, APOBEC3G, and APOBEC3H, APOBEC3G emerged as the strongest and most consistent marker of a TMBhighCD8high and NeoantigenhighCD8high tumor phenotypes. Single-cell analyses further demonstrated that APOBEC3G is enriched in both malignant cells and T cells compared with other APOBEC3 family members, with APOBEC3G-positive CD8+ T cells exhibiting elevated activation markers including GZMB and IFNG. Importantly, retrospective analyses of 50 immune checkpoint blockade cohorts showed that APOBEC3G had the most consistent association among APOBEC3 family members with treatment response and clinical outcomes. Together, these findings identify APOBEC3G as a candidate transcriptomic marker of a TMB-associated, T cell-inflamed tumor state linked to immune-checkpoint blockade benefit, warranting further prospective validation.
Host immune factors shape viral evolution. The HIV-1 viral infectivity factor (Vif) protein counteracts host Apolipoprotein B Messenger RNA Editing Enzyme Catalytic Polypeptide-like 3 (A3G) to ensure productive infection. Using deep mutational scanning across two divergent HIV-1 Vif proteins, we systematically mapped and compared the mutational landscapes governing Vif antagonism of A3G. These high-resolution fitness maps reveal core principles of host-virus coevolution. Most missense mutations were strongly deleterious, reflecting pervasive purifying selection. However, several highly conserved Vif residues at binding interfaces with A3G, RNA, and core-binding factor β exhibited unexpected mutational tolerance, indicating structural flexibility at these sites. Comparative analysis revealed that strain-specific epistasis dictates Vif-A3G interactions, including adaptive changes at the Vif-A3G interface. Further analysis uncovered notable temporal epistasis, whereby initially adaptive Vif mutations critical for antagonizing hominoid A3G subsequently exhibited reduced fitness. Thus, structural robustness permits adaptation, while epistasis imposes constraints on Vif's ability to maintain A3G antagonism while remaining responsive to new evolutionary pressures.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42476292 is a review article
Patients with SLE have an increased risk of infections and infection-related mortality, which may be associated with disturbances in immune cell populations. Despite extensive research, findings regarding T-cell and B-cell alterations in SLE remain inconsistent. Therefore, we analysed peripheral blood immune cell subpopulations and their molecular profiles in patients with SLE with renal involvement compared with healthy controls (HCs).The phenotype and gene expression of lymphocytes from patients with SLE and lupus nephritis and healthy donors were assessed using flow cytometry and quantitative PCR. Exploratory multivariate and treatment-sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate global immune patterns and potential treatment-related confounding.Patients with SLE exhibited a decreased proportion of helper T (Th) cells and an increased percentage of cytotoxic T (Tc) cells compared with HC, accompanied by a reduced CD4/CD8 ratio. The percentages of CD4+CD28+ and CD8+CD28+ T cells were lower and correlated with disease duration, whereas the proportions of activated HLA-DR+ Th and Tc cells were increased. Serum interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-10 levels were elevated in patients with SLE. In addition, both T and B cells displayed increased expression of genes associated with inflammatory and interferon-related responses, including TBX21, APOBEC3G, IRF8 and ISG15. Exploratory multivariate profiling suggested coordinated immune activation patterns in SLE, characterised by enhanced T-cell activation, elevated inflammatory cytokines and plasmablast expansion, alongside reduced CD28+ T-cell subsets. Treatment-sensitivity analyses indicated that selected immune parameters may be influenced by glucocorticoid exposure and disease duration.Patients with SLE with renal involvement show coordinated disturbances in T-cell and B-cell compartments linked to chronic immune activation, interferon-related responses and disease duration. These findings support the relevance of integrated immune profiling in SLE but should be interpreted as exploratory and require validation in larger longitudinal cohorts.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Monkeypox (Mpox) is a viral disease that has garnered global attention due to its human-to-human transmissibility and cross-species transmission. Recent outbreaks in both endemic and non-endemic regions highlight the urgent need to elucidate its molecular mechanisms and evolutionary dynamics. As of now, there are no approved antiviral therapies available for the treatment of Mpox. In this work, we proposed a robust machine learning (ML) and bioinformatics approach to uncover candidate biomarkers associated with Mpox. Two microarray datasets and one RNA-seq dataset were analyzed to screen an initial panel of genes according to p-values. A two-stage feature selection pipeline based on Fisher Score (FS) and Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) was implemented on the selected gene set. The resulting optimized gene group was subsequently input into our suggested Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) model, which demonstrated superior classification accuracy compared to other classifiers. A total of 33 shared genes were discovered between the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and the final selected group. Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG signaling pathway analysis revealed critical biological functions and signaling pathways linked to the common genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed 10 key genes. Regulatory network analysis, incorporating TF-gene and TF-miRNA interactions, highlighted five hub genes with strong associations with regulatory mechanisms. Additionally, molecular docking revealed that ATG3, TRIM14, and DUOX1 exhibited strong interactions with therapeutic compounds. These results indicate that the discovered hub genes may serve as potential candidates for prompt detection, prognosis, and therapeutic targeting in Mpox infection.© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Organophosphate esters (OPEs) are widely used flame retardants and plasticizers prevalent in indoor air, dust, and water. Studies suggest prenatal OPE exposure is linked to adverse maternal and infant outcomes, but the biological mechanisms remain unclear.We examined associations between nine urinary OPE metabolites measured in the third trimester and DNA methylation in maternal blood from 175 pregnant women in the MADRES cohort. 837,856 CpGs were profiled using the Illumina EPIC array. We assessed the effect of each OPE (in tertile or detection status) and the joint effect of OPE mixtures using quantile g-computation models on DNA methylation sites, regions, and epigenetic age acceleration (EAA). Functional enrichment analyses were performed for suggestive CpGs and DMRs.We identified cg09294299 (P = 2.33 × 10-8) and cg13756168 (P = 3.94 × 10-8; ALS2) as epigenome-wide significant CpGs associated with BCEP and BDCIPP, respectively. Mixtures of OPEs also had joint effects on these two CpGs and three additional CpGs near PPP1R12A, AZI1 and ZDHHC11 (P < 0.05). We identified six differentially methylated regions (DMRs) associated with OPEs: BBOEP and BMPP were both associated with a DMR near RP11-661A12.5, BBOEP with a DMR near NNAT/BLCAP (P = 4.80 × 10-28), BDCIPP with DMRs near SLFN12 (P = 4.63 × 10-14) and ZDHHC11 (P = 1.42 × 10-12), and BEHP with DMRs near POU5F1 (P = 2.74 × 10-20) and PLA2G1B (P = 4.26 × 10-14). OPE mixtures showed a suggestive association with one DMR near POU5F1 (Padj = 0.1193). Functional enrichment analyses implicated neurogenesis, immune signaling, and stress response pathways at the CpG site level, with shared transcription factor enrichment at DMRs across multiple OPEs, including EZH2, EHMT2, and POLR2A. Higher BCEP levels were associated with accelerated aging by DunedinPACE, whereas higher BMPP and BEHP were associated with epigenetic age deceleration by Horvath and Levine clocks, respectively; no significant association with epigenetic age acceleration was found for the OPE mixture.Prenatal OPE exposure is associated with altered maternal DNA methylation and epigenetic aging, highlighting immune, inflammatory, and neurodevelopmental pathways.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Chromosomal DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are repaired by two fundamentally different mechanisms: homologous recombination (HR) and nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ). While NHEJ requires the Ku70-Ku80 heterodimer (Ku) and DNA ligase IV (LIG4), recent work has established a Ku/LIG4-independent mechanism for DSB joining, referred to as alternative end-joining or theta-mediated end-joining (TMEJ). Cells lacking NHEJ and TMEJ repair DSBs in a homology-dependent manner. Here we show that APOBEC3G (A3G), a cytoplasmic antiviral protein that possesses cytidine deaminase activity on ssDNA and inhibits the replication of various types of viruses such as HIV, affects DSB repair in the human lymphocyte cell line Nalm-6. We observed that genetic deletion of A3G in LIG4-null cells resulted in (a) reduced sensitivity to replication-dependent as well as -independent DSBs, (b) enhanced frequency of HR in chromosomal and extrachromosomal reporter assays, and (c) increased frequency of TMEJ-dependent random integration as well as HR-mediated targeted integration (gene targeting). Our results suggest that human A3G, albeit mainly cytoplasmic, acts to suppress HR and TMEJ during DSB repair, particularly when NHEJ is compromised.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Human APOBEC3B (A3B) restricts virus infections by catalyzing the deamination of cytosines to uracils in single-stranded DNA. A3B also contributes to mutagenesis and genome instability in cancer cells, driving tumor evolution and detrimental outcomes including therapy resistance and metastasis. A3B comprises tandem globular deaminase domains, with a multifunctional amino-terminal domain (NTD) and a catalytically active carboxy-terminal domain (CTD). Although individual domain structures have been studied, the structure of full-length A3B has remained elusive. Here, we report the cryoEM structure of wildtype A3B in complex with the natural antagonist BORF2 (the large subunit of the Epstein-Barr virus ribonucleotide reductase). The two domains of A3B bridge a novel BORF2 dimer interface, showing a unique domain positioning that distinguishes A3B from the related dual-domain retrovirus restriction factor APOBEC3G (A3G). Mutational analyses suggest that the unique NTD-CTD interaction regulates A3Bdeaminase activity. The BORF2 dimerization interface is stabilized by primary interactions with A3B-CTD and secondary contacts with A3B-NTD, as well as by A3B CTD-CTD dimerization. This matrix of interactions supports a molecular mechanism for A3B neutralization in which BORF2 binding leads to deaminase sequestration in large aggregates. The full-length wildtype A3B structure also provides a platform for future anti-viral and anti-cancer drug development efforts.
Despite epidemiological links between rare earth elements (REEs) exposure and thyroid dysfunction, health risks of chronic, low-dose mixture exposure in populations remain unknown. We exposed human thyroid follicular epithelial cells Nthy-ori 3-1 to a biomimetic 14-REE mixture, encompassing light (La, Ce, Pr, Nd, Sm, and Eu) and heavy (Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Yb, Lu, Sc, and Y) elements, at concentrations reflecting human internal exposure from 1× to 1000× serum background concentration (SBC). REEs significantly inhibited triiodothyronine (T3) secretion without affecting thyroxine (T4). This disruption was associated with dysregulation of the dual oxidase 1 (DUOX1)/catalase (CAT)-mediated H₂O₂ redox system involved in thyroid hormone synthesis, together with impaired deiodinase-mediated T4-to-T3 conversion. Upregulation of DUOX1 and thyroid peroxidase (TPO), alongside NRF2-mediated defense activation, was significantly initiated at the 1× SBC level, indicating high sensitivity to background environmental concentrations. REE-induced oxidative stress triggered mitochondrial damage and ATP depletion, which may be mechanistically linked to the impaired deiodinase-mediated T4-to-T3 conversion. Antioxidant intervention effectively restored mitochondrial integrity, ATP levels, and deiodinase activities, thereby rescuing T3 secretion. This study revealed a thyrotoxic mechanism of REEs under realistic exposure scenarios, providing critical evidence for assessing their environmental health risks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42360039 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection often elicits ineffective long-term immune responses due to inefficient immune priming, complicating disease management and vaccine development. Dendritic cells (DCs) are central regulators of antiviral immunity and antigen presentation; yet, the direct impact of RSV on these pathways remains poorly understood. In this study, we identify sustained HLA-DM expression as a unique hallmark of RSV infected CD1c+ DCs, a phenotype not observed following influenza infection or poly(I:C) stimulation. Using single cell RNA sequencing, pharmacological inhibition, and complementary controls, we demonstrate that TBK1 dependent Type I Interferon signaling is a key regulator of HLA-DM expression during DC maturation. Co-culture experiments further suggest that HLA-DM-high DCs influence CD4+ T cell differentiation, supporting a model in which sustained HLA-DM expression reshapes antigen presentation and downstream adaptive immunity. Together, these findings uncover a previously unknown link between innate antiviral signaling and antigen presentation machinery in human DCs.© 2026 The Authors.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) nonstructural protein 13 (NSP13) is a multifunctional helicase that plays a central role in viral RNA replication and suppression of host innate immunity. Beyond its essential function within the replication-transcription complex (RTC), NSP13 antagonizes type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling through interaction with the host kinase TBK1, making its protein-protein interactions attractive antiviral targets. In this study, we investigated whether fragments derived from the viral cofactor NSP8 can competitively interfere with NSP13 interactions. Using molecular dynamics simulations, interaction mapping, and neural network-based binding free energy prediction, we characterized NSP13 interfaces with (a) full-length NSP8 in 2 RTC binding modes, (b) N- and C-terminal NSP8 fragments, and (c) TBK1. Structural analyses revealed that the N-terminal fragment of NSP8 (NSP8-N, residues 1 to 87) binds NSP13 with high affinity and occupies residues critical for both TBK1 association and canonical NSP8-NSP13 interactions, including Met68, Tyr93, Phe90, Gly67, Ser350, and Thr351. Predicted binding free energies indicate that NSP8(N) forms a more stable complex with NSP13 than either the native RTC configuration or the NSP13-TBK1 complex, supporting a competitive binding mechanism. Functionally, coexpression experiments in poly(I:C)-stimulated A549 cells showed that, while NSP13 suppresses IFN-β transcription, coexpression of NSP8 or its N-terminal domain restores IFN-β levels to those of control cells. These findings support a dual inhibitory model in which NSP8-derived peptides sequester NSP13, preventing immune suppression and potentially impairing its recruitment to the RTC, highlighting the NSP8 N-terminal α-helical region as a promising scaffold for antiviral development.Copyright © 2026 Shina Pashova et al.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42546215
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567952
Sea cucumber is a high-value marine food that contains characteristic bioactive components, notably saponins and polysaccharides. Strategies promoting their biosynthesis to improve sea cucumber quality are vital for the industry. The impacts of three dietary yeast β-glucans (native β-glucan, ultrasonic-degraded low-molecular-weight β-glucan, and carboxymethylated β-glucan) on the biosynthesis of saponin and fucosylated chondroitin sulfate (FCS) in A. japonicus and the underlying mechanism were investigated. A 28-day feeding trial showed that modified β-glucans improved growth performance and immune responses, as well as elevated the body wall accumulation of saponin and FCS. Mechanistically, modified β-glucans up-regulated the genes involved in the saponin and FCS biosynthesis, including the core mevalonate pathway (hmgcr, mvk, mvd), downstream post-squalene modifications (sqle), and chondroitin backbone biosynthesis (xylt1, chsy1, chpf). Moreover, these β-glucans up-regulated the TLR-MAPK signaling axis genes (tlr, myd88, irak4, traf6, tak1, mkk1, erk, p38) and increased p38/ERK protein abundance and phosphorylation levels. In vivo MAPK inhibition attenuated β-glucan-induced saponin and FCS accumulation and the expression of hmgcr, sqle, xylt1, and chsy1. Our findings reveal that modified β-glucans enhance A. japonicus quality by promoting saponin and FCS biosynthesis in association with the TLR-MAPK signaling axis-mediated immune-metabolic crosstalk.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pathogens infect hosts by interacting with host proteins and exploiting their functions to their advantage. Short linear motifs, small functional regions within intrinsically disordered protein regions, are common mediators of host-pathogen protein interactions. While motifs have been more extensively studied in viruses and bacteria, the extent to which eukaryotic unicellular parasites use motifs during infection remains poorly explored. Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread intracellular apicomplexan parasite capable of infecting all warm-blooded animals and invading any of their nucleated cells. Toxoplasma's secreted proteins are key in interacting with host proteins during infection, making them potential sources for motifs. To study the role of motifs in Toxoplasma gondii infection, we curated 19 known motif instances in Toxoplasma proteins from the scientific literature. To identify more motifs in Toxoplasma-secreted proteins, we developed a computational pipeline that predicts and annotates putative motif matches with structural and functional features. Using this approach, we identified 24,097 motif matches within 295 proteins from secretory organelles. We highlight strategies to further prioritize likely functional motif matches by focusing on integrin motifs, degrons, TRAF6-binding motifs, and 42 confirmed secreted proteins. We subjected peptides containing four predicted TRAF6-binding motifs to experimental validation, supporting the predicted motifs in the Toxoplasma proteins RON10 and GRA15. Our motif predictions provide a valuable resource for generating hypotheses and designing experiments to study infection mechanisms. The characterization of motifs in Toxoplasma will be key to understanding the molecular principles underlying its broad host range and more comprehensive apicomplexan infection strategies.IMPORTANCEToxoplasma gondii is a widely distributed intracellular parasite that achieves successful infection by interacting with different host cell proteins. Short linear motifs are small functional modules found in unstructured protein regions and recognized by folded protein domains. Given that unstructured protein regions are a common feature of Toxoplasma's proteins, we hypothesize that motifs play important roles during its infection cycle. Here, we highlight the role of motifs during the Toxoplasma host cell invasion cycle through a curated set of motif examples. Through a computational pipeline, we predict thousands of motifs in secreted proteins, outline strategies for working with these predictions, and finally experimentally test peptides containing a motif involved in the innate immune response, successfully supporting the potential binding of two motifs. Our work provides a resource for further motif testing in Toxoplasma proteins, aiming at understanding the molecular mechanisms of the organism's infection strategies and its broad host range.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a mycotoxin that impairs the function of various vital organs of the body including testes. Prunin (PRU) is a plant derived flavonoid with potential pharmacological properties. The current research was performed to assess the potential role of PRU to counter AFB1-induced testicular toxicity in male albino rats. Forty-eight male rats (Weight: 230-250 g; Age: 8-10 week) were divided into four equal groups, including control, AFB1 (50 μg/kg) group, AFB1 + PRU (50 μg/kg + 20 mg/kg) co-treated group, and only PRU (20 mg/kg) group. The groups were treated with their respective doses for 56 days and then the rats were euthanized, samples were collected and biochemical as well as histopathological analyses were performed. The outcomes of our research showed that AFB1 upsurged the expressions of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Moreover, AFB1 reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes i.e., HO-1, GSR, GPx, CAT, SOD, while elevating ROS, MDA and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and IL-6) levels. AFB1 intoxicated group showed notable reduction in the HOS coiled tail sperms and spermatogenic indices i.e., sperm motility, count and viability. Furthermore, AFB1 increased the structural defects in mid-piece, head and tail of sperms and lowered the levels of testosterone. AFB1 also induced histological injuries in the testicles of rats. Additionally, AFB1 lowered the expressions of Bcl-2 and steroidogenic enzymes and increased the expressions of Caspase-3 and Bax. However, PRU supplementation markedly recovered the testicular tissues from AFB1-induced injuries. Our findings proposed that PRU exhibits the protective effects against AFB1-instigated testicular toxicity due to its oxidative stress mitigating and TLR4/NF-κB pathway modulating properties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
NLRC3 serves as a critical negative regulator of inflammatory signalling pathways and is implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple disorders, including inflammatory diseases and malignancies. However, the specific functions and underlying mechanisms of NLRC3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remain largely elusive. Here, we report that the expression of NLRC3 was downregulated in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Mice deficient in NLRC3 were hypersusceptible to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and NLRC3 exerted a tumour-suppressive function during HCC development by inhibiting the TRAF6/MYC/NF-κB signalling cascade. Mechanistically, the NLRC3-HSP90 interaction competitively inhibited the binding of the HSP90 chaperone to TRAF6/MYC and impaired the K63-linked ubiquitination and stabilization of the TRAF6/MYC proteins. In the absence of NLRC3, TRAF6 and MYC reciprocally regulated the expression of the other and triggered a TRAF6-MYC positive feedback loop that accelerated the progression of HCC. Our study reveals a novel functional link between NLRC3 and MYC signalling and indicates that HSP90 is a potential target for hindering the progression of NLRC3-deficient HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) infection and reactivation in B-lymphocytes are tightly regulated by host antiviral response genes. In the present study, we identify Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs) RSAD2 (radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2) and CMPK2 (Cytidine/Uridine Monophosphate Kinase 2) as key modulators of EBV expression and cellular response during EBV infection and reactivation. EBV primary infection and reactivation lead to a coordinated upregulation of RSAD2 and CMPK2. Depletion of RSAD2 reduced cell viability and limited EBV reactivation, while depletion of CMPK2 led to reactivation of EBV lytic gene expression during latency. Despite distinct subcellular localizations, RSAD2 at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and CMPK2 in the mitochondria, transcriptomic analysis revealed that both genes functionally converge and exhibit overlapping roles in driving shared immunometabolic pathways, specifically Interferon (IFN) signaling, MAPK signaling, oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, eukaryotic translation, and ATF-4-associated unfolded protein response (UPR). We show that RSAD2 and CMPK2 knockdown affects IRAK1-TRAF6-TAK1 expression levels, and RSAD2 overexpression downregulates NF-κB signaling by EBV membrane associated oncoprotein LMP1. Depletion of RSAD2 and CMPK2 had significant effects on global metabolites consistent with a remodeling of nucleotide metabolism, glycolysis, fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation of superoxides. EBV reactivation induced formation of antiviral ribonucleotide ddhCTP during lytic EBV reactivation which was strictly dependent on RSAD2. These observations demonstrate that RSAD2 and CMPK2 function in a coordinated ER-Mitochondria-Interferon signaling axis that shapes EBV reactivation and host immune control, including a novel layer of immunometabolic regulation modulating viral latency and reactivation.Copyright: © 2026 Zankharia et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537739 is a review article
Lupus nephritis (LN), a severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is closely associated with aberrant immune-inflammatory responses. Currently, reliable non-invasive biomarkers are lacking, and existing treatments remain limited. Targeting autoimmune and inflammatory pathways offers new therapeutic potential. Triptolide (TP), a diterpenoid triepoxide compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicine Tripterygium wilfordii, exhibits potent immunosuppressive, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proteinuric effects, demonstrating remarkable efficacy in tumors, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and kidney-related disorders. This study investigates the mechanism by which TP ameliorates LN through the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis to regulate TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA stability. In vitro (human renal tubular epithelial cell line) and in vivo (MRL/lpr mouse model) experiments were conducted. Renal function was assessed by measuring 24-hour urinary albumin, blood urea nitrogen, and serum creatinine levels. Serum levels of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-2, were detected by ELISA. Renal histopathological changes were observed via hematoxylin-eosin and periodic acid-Schiff staining. The cytotoxicity of TP was determined using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. The expression of hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 mRNA was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression of TRAF6 and its downstream pathway components (phosphorylated p65/p65, phosphorylated p38/p38) was detected by Western blot. Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry, and intracellular reactive oxygen species levels were measured to assess oxidative damage. Immunoglobulin G and complement component 3 deposition were evaluated by immunofluorescence. The interactions among hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 were investigated using RNA pull-down, fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. TRAF6 mRNA stability was examined following Actinomycin D treatment. Bioinformatics analysis revealed upregulation of hsa_circ_0001439 in LN (P<0.05). TP improved renal function and histopathology in LN mice (P<0.05). Silencing hsa_circ_0001439 or ELAVL1 alleviated renal injury (P<0.05), while their overexpression reversed TP's therapeutic effects (P<0.05). Hsa_circ_0001439 bound to ELAVL1 to stabilize TRAF6 mRNA (P<0.05). In rescue experiments, TP reduced inflammation (P<0.05), but hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 overexpression counteracted this effect (P<0.05). TRAF6 inhibition further mitigated oxidative damage (P<0.05), confirming TRAF6 as a key target. This study elucidates that TP alleviates LN by inhibiting TRAF6-driven inflammation via the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis, providing a potential therapeutic target for LN treatment.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
This study aimed to characterize acquired enamel pellicle (AEP) proteomic changes after exposure to citric acid (CA) and hydrochloric acid (HCl) under different pellicle formation times (3 and 120 min) in the same volunteers.Nine healthy volunteers participated in this randomized crossover in vivo study. The AEP was allowed to form for 3 or 120 min and subsequently exposed for 10 s to deionized water (control), 1% CA (pH 2.5), or 0.01 M HCl (pH 2.0). Pellicle samples were collected, followed by protein extraction, tryptic digestion, and analysis by nanoliquid chromatography (nanoLC) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) with MSE (data-independent acquisition; nanoLC-MSᴱ). Label-free quantitative proteomics were performed for relative quantification using t-test (p < 0.05).At 120 min, CA exposure markedly reduced several typical AEP proteins, especially acidic proline-rich proteins (PRPs). Conversely, basic PRPs were upregulated, suggesting acid-resistance protein signature. At 3 min, basal-layer proteins (PRPs, cystatins, histatins and mucins) were more abundant. Hemoglobins increased 6-8-fold (up to 150-fold in 3 min control), suggesting association with early pellicle formation and an acid-resistant protein signature. CA exposures for 120 min also upregulated typical AEP proteins (PRPs, mucins, cystatins, immunoglobulins), while HCl exposure depleted albumins and lactotransferrin.Intrinsic and extrinsic acids induce distinct proteomic signatures in the AEP. Hemoglobin and PRPs appear consistently enriched in the early pellicle layer, reflecting an initial acid-resistant protein signature. These findings provide new insights into the molecular remodeling of the AEP following intrinsic and extrinsic acid exposure, highlighting proteins potentially involved in early-stage pellicle formation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The mechanisms underlying the modulation of the salivary perception of umami peptides remain poorly understood. Herein, three umami peptides (DDL, DEL, and ENG) obtained from Agrocybe aegerita were used to investigate the regulatory role of saliva in umami taste perception via a combined approach involving sensory evaluation and proteomics analysis based on 4D-DIA technology. The results revealed that umami intensity peaked at 10 s after ingestion and was accompanied by a significant increase in saliva secretion (p < 0.05). Further proteomics analysis revealed that lactotransferrin and proline-rich proteins are closely associated with the sensory perception of umami peptides. Differentially expressed proteins were mainly enriched in pathways related to saliva secretion and proteasome function. This study provides new insights from the perspectives of salivary proteomics and dynamic salivary secretion, contributing to a deeper understanding of the mechanisms by which saliva regulates umami perception.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus fumigatus represent the dominant bacterial and fungal pathogens in the lungs of adults with cystic fibrosis. Understanding how these species interact with each other and the host may provide insight into pathology and microbial succession in the lung. The ex vivo pig lung model is suitable for studying host responses to pathogens in an ethical and cost-effective manner due to its rich cell complexity and anatomical and immunological similarities to humans. Metagenomic analysis demonstrated that A. fumigatus promoted the proliferation of Pseudomonadota and P. aeruginosa in coinfected explants. Proteomic analysis of coinfected alveolar lung explants identified reduced virulence of A. fumigatus in competition with P. aeruginosa with reductions in abundance of dipeptidyl-peptidase 5 (-10.30-fold) and thioredoxin reductase gliT (-11.72-fold) and a reduction in amide biosynthetic processes. P. aeruginosa flourished in coinfected tissue and increased protein translation and amino acid biosynthesis and cellular nitrogen utilization. Examination of changes in the porcine proteome indicated specific nutritional utilization with A. fumigatus inducing greater complement activation and utilization of amino acids, while P. aeruginosa infection induced greater natural killer cell toxicity and potential butanoate metabolism from the host. Increased abundance of proteins associated with inflammation and immune activation was observed in coinfected samples relative to the mono-infected tissues. Coinfection also resulted in the reduction in abundance of ferritin and lactotransferrin, which may indicate elevated bioavailability of iron that could facilitate P. aeruginosa virulence.
Milk is an essential nutritional source for human health, yet developing efficient and sustainable indoor dairy production systems to produce milk-associated components remains a major challenge. Here, we propose a biomimetic mammary gland-on-a-chip system that recapitulates both the structural features and lactation mechanism of the mammary gland for producing milk-associated bioactive components. The chip is designed with a medium channel providing circulation, an intermediate porous hydrogel layer for substance diffusion, and highly specialized microchambers for culturing mammary epithelial cells. The mammary gland-on-a-chip enables tight-junction formation and active secretion of milk bioactive components such as lactotransferrin and triglycerides. More importantly, by expanding the microchambers and parallelizing the chips, increased collection of partial milklike secretions containing selected bioactive components was achieved. Our work represents the successful development of a robust microphysiological system as a potential in vitro platform for mammary gland research and is promising in addressing future food and environmental crises.Copyright © 2026 Xiang Lin et al.
Rhinovirus (RV) infections increase the risk for developing asthma and are the major trigger for disease exacerbations. CC16 levels are decreased in patients with asthma and inversely associated with inflammation and exacerbation frequency.We sought to determine the impact of CC16 on the RV species A, type 1B (RV-A1B) infection in airway nasal epithelial cells in the context of asthma status.Human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) from participants with asthma and non-asthmatic participants in air-liquid interface culture were infected with RV-A1B, with and without recombinant CC16 (rCC16). Viral RNA and expression of host factors previously identified as associated with CC16 levels, including lysozyme, SPLUNC1, lactotransferrin, and surfactant protein D, were quantified by quantitative RT-PCR. Animal models and mouse tracheal epithelial cells (MTECs) sufficient and deficient in CC16 were infected with RV-A1B, with and without rCC16, to verify findings.HNECs from participants with asthma (n = 7) had lower gene expression of CC16 and associated host defense factors under baseline conditions compared with HNECs from non-asthmatic participants (n = 7). Whereas RV infection increased host factors in HNECs from non-asthmatic participants, HNECs from participants with asthma failed to upregulate host factors in response to RV. rCC16 induced the expression of the host defense factors and reduced viral burden in HNECs from both non-asthmatic participants and participants with asthma, which was partly dependent on integrin α2β1, or VLA-2, interactions. CC16-deficient (CC16-/-) mice had worse RV infection, more inflammation, and lower gene expression of host defense factors in their lungs compared with wild-type mice. Secreted protein levels were verified from apical washings of MTECs from CC16-/- mice, which were significantly decreased compared with WT MTECs. Rescue studies in CC16-/- mice by delivery of rCC16 during RV infection resulted in decreased inflammatory cell recruitment and infection.Results suggest that CC16 reduces RV infection in epithelial cells by mediating the upregulation of host defense factors and that this mechanism may be defective in patients with asthma who have low levels of CC16.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early breast cancer diagnosis is critical, particularly for individuals at hereditary risk. The aim of this study was to identify blood-derived protein biomarkers for breast cancer diagnosis to improve current screening strategies.Absolute quantification of 98 plasma proteins was performed via a UPLC-MRM-MS assay on plasma samples from 135 breast cancer patients and paired controls, one-third of which were of hereditary BRCA1/2 origin, and from women diagnosed within 5 years from blood collection. Plasma protein concentration profiles were compared between patients and paired controls across breast cancer subgroups.Proteomic analysis revealed four plasma proteins with elevated abundance and four other proteins with reduced abundance across different breast cancer subgroups. Haptoglobin (HP) was elevated in sporadic cases (n = 88) and cases with grade 3 tumors (n = 44), adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein was elevated in cases with large tumors (n = 60) and grade 3 tumors (n = 44), lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) was elevated in node-positive (n = 58) and HER2 (n = 9) cases, and secreted protein acidic and cysteine rich was elevated in luminal B (n = 45) cases. Transthyretin was reduced in luminal B patients, and apolipoprotein A4 was reduced in HER2 patients. Immunoglobulin heavy constant mu (IGHM) and CD5 antigen-like (CD5L) were lower in BRCA1/2 (n = 47) and triple-negative (n = 17) patients than in paired controls. IGHM and CD5L were also lower in BRCA1/2 patients than in paired sporadic patients. Additionally, IGHM in plasma was lower among BRCA2 mutation carriers (n = 7) diagnosed with breast cancer within 5 years of blood collection than among paired controls and CD5L was also lower than among paired controls and sporadic patients diagnosed within 5 years of blood collection. The plasma proteins associated with breast cancer specific survival were LBP, HP, and IGHM.These findings indicate that plasma protein concentrations may have diagnostic and prognostic value for breast cancer screening and could provide valuable insights for biomarker discovery.© 2026. The Author(s).
The integration of nanotechnology into ophthalmology represents a promising frontier for the development of precision diagnostics and therapeutics aimed at enhancing ocular health. While the systemic interactions of iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) with blood plasma have been extensively studied, their biomolecular interactions within the ocular environment, particularly human tears, remain largely unexplored. In this study, we comprehensively investigate the physicochemical behaviour and proteomic corona interactions of IONPs upon exposure to human tear extracts. Dynamic light scattering (DLS) revealed a modest increase in hydrodynamic diameter from ∼115 ± 3.3 nm to ∼139 ± 0.7 nm, accompanied by a reduction in the zeta potential (ZP) from ∼-36 ± 1.7 mV to ∼-29 ± 1 mV, likely due to protein adsorption. Proteomic profiling via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identified that 25 tear proteins got adsorbed onto the IONPs when compared to tear alone samples with 91 proteins, revealing the association of Lysozyme C, Lactotransferrin, Mammaglobin B, Lipocalin-1, keratins, immunoglobulins, opiorphin propeptide, Keratin II, Protein S100 and mesothelin proteins implicated in bacteriolysis, iron transport, transcriptional regulation, immune response, the cytoskeleton, tissue integrity, nucleotide binding, inflammation regulation, skin tissue formation, endogenous inhibition, microbiome homeostasis and signal transduction. These findings provide protein dynamics of the ocular nano-bio interface, emphasizing the influence of tear protein composition on IONPs. Our results highlight how tear protein corona formation defines the physicochemical stability of IONPs within the human tear environment and provide a basic understanding of these alterations, which may influence IONP-based ocular therapeutic systems.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) faces significant challenges in the development of novel therapeutic strategies due to drug resistance and disease relapse. Therefore, this study aims to identify new therapeutic targets for AML using a drug-target Mendelian randomization approach.Summary-level data on low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-related traits were obtained from the GWAS data available on the IEU Open GWAS platform, and AML-associated genetic data were sourced from the GWAS Catalog. Seven genes involved in LDL metabolism were selected as potential drug targets: Apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), Apolipoprotein B (APOB), Apolipoprotein C1 (APOC1), Apolipoprotein E (APOE), Cholesteryl Ester Transfer Protein (CETP), LDL Receptor (LDLR), and Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9). The inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method was used as the primary analytical approach, with supplementary analyses conducted using MR-Egger regression, weighted median, simple mode, and weighted mode methods to validate the findings.1. Drug-target Mendelian randomization analysis revealed that lowering LDL levels by targeting and inhibiting APOB may increase the risk of AML, with rs13392272 identified as a potential functional locus in this process. 2. Further validation showed that targeting and inhibiting APOB to reduce its own levels may also increase the risk of AML, with rs693 considered a potential functional locus involved in this effect.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis involves dysregulated extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and inflammation. Apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), while known for lipid metabolism, has an uncharacterized role in OA.Clinical samples including infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) (n=3), synovial fluid (n=11), and serum (n=11) from patients with and without OA were analyzed via immunohistochemistry (IHC) and ELISA. In vitro, human chondrocytes (C28/I2) were treated with recombinant APOA4 (5 nM), siRNA knockdown (si-APOA4), or overexpression (OE-APOA4). Functional assays (qPCR, RNA-seq, CCK-8, colony formation) and inflammatory modeling (IL-1β ± APOA4) assessed chondrocyte responses. Wnt pathway involvement was probed via Wnt3a rescue.APOA4 expression was significantly elevated in OA IFP tissues, synovial fluid, and serum vs. controls (p < 0.05). APOA4 treatment upregulated the level of anabolic markers (COL2, p=0.0006; ACAN p=0.0055) and downregulated catabolic factors (MMP3, p=0.0249; MMP13, p=0.0214), while enhancing chondrocyte proliferation. OE-APOA4 mimicked these effects, whereas si-APOA4 reversed them. APOA4 attenuated IL-1β-induced inflammation, preserving COL2/ACAN and suppressing MMPs. RNA-seq implicated Wnt/β-catenin suppression (NES = -1.314; p = 0.008) as a key mechanism. Wnt3a treatment partially reversed APOA4's chondroprotective effects.APOA4 mitigates OA progression by promoting ECM anabolism, inhibiting inflammation, and suppressing Wnt/β-catenin signaling. It represents a novel therapeutic target for OA.© 2026 Yao et al.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare, aggressive malignancy associated with heterogeneous prognosis. Preoperative differentiation from adrenocortical adenoma (ACA) remains challenging, and no serum tumor marker has been established. We aimed to identify circulating protein biomarkers that distinguish ACC from ACA using a stepwise, multiplatform proteomics strategy.We assembled discovery (ACC = 10, ACA = 67) and verification (ACC = 7, ACA = 11) cohorts from a tertiary center and profiled fasting plasma using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) with data-independent acquisition. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were defined by t-tests with P < .05 and |fold-change| >1.2; DEPs common to both cohorts were prioritized. Targeted validation by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) used an expanded, two-center cohort including additional cases from Asan Medical Center (ACC = 31; ACA = 78). Orthogonal validation employed the Olink Explore 384 Inflammation II panel in an independent set (ACC = 15; ACA = 24).The discovery cohort yielded 67 DEPs (22 upregulated and 45 downregulated in ACC), and the verification cohort identified 17 DEPs. Three proteins, CD44, proteoglycan 4, and apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), were common to both analyses and were underexpressed in ACC compared with ACA. In PRM, CD44 and APOA4 showed directionally concordant, significant decreases in ACC, prioritizing these markers for further evaluation. In the Olink analysis, 40 proteins differed between ACC and ACA after false discovery rate correction; APOA4 remained significantly lower in ACC.Across discovery, targeted, and orthogonal platforms, APOA4 consistently exhibited lower circulating levels in ACC, supporting its potential as a serum biomarker for the preoperative differentiation of ACC from ACA. External, multiethnic validation and clinically deployable assays, alone or within multimarker panels, are warranted.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Breastfeeding anchors infant immunity and long-term health, but its benefits are threatened by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) mastitis, an increasingly prevalent condition driven by antimicrobial resistance and therapeutic limitations. Beyond compromising maternal wellness, mastitis threatens the safety and continuity of breast milk, highlighting a critical need for innovative intervention strategies. Herein, we demonstrated that α‑ketobutyrate (α-KB), a metabolite of the transsulfuration pathway, mitigated S. aureus‑induced inflammation, oxidative stress, and blood-milk barrier (BMB) disruption both in vivo and in vitro. α‑KB enhanced macroautophagic/autophagic responses, marked by increased ATG5, BECN1 (beclin 1), and LC3-II:LC3-I conversion and reduced SQSTM1/p62, through a RIPK1-lactate-TFEB axis. Specifically, it directly bound and stabilized RIPK1, elevated lactate production, and drove TFEB nuclear translocation to activate macroautophagy/autophagy and promote intracellular bacterial clearance. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested stable α‑KB and RIPK1 binding via hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions; RIPK1 knockout abolished α‑KB-induced autophagy and lactate generation, effects rescued by lactate supplementation. This study identifies a novel immunometabolic circuit linking a metabolite to RIPK1-lactate-TFEB-mediated autophagy, offering therapeutic potential against antibiotic‑resistant S. aureus mastitis and presenting a new paradigm for safeguarding breastfeeding quality and infant health.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; α-KB: α‑ketobutyrate; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BMB: blood-milk barrier; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; DARTS: drug affinity responsive target stability; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MST: microscale thermophoresis; NOS2: nitric oxide synthase 2; OCLN: occludin; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PTGS2: prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2; Rapa: rapamycin; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerasechain reaction;S. aureus:Staphylococcus aureus; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TJP1: tight junction protein 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WT: wild-type.
Genistein is a dietary isoflavone that is abundant in soy products and has been suggested to exert cardiovascular protective effects; however, its role in hypertension remains incompletely defined. Here, we investigated whether genistein ameliorates angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced hypertension and endothelial dysfunction using complementary in vivo, ex vivo, and in vitro models. The oral administration of genistein substantially attenuated Ang II-induced elevations in systolic and diastolic blood pressure in mice without affecting body weight. Histological analyses revealed that genistein alleviated aortic wall thickening and smooth muscle hypertrophy, whereas vascular reactivity assays demonstrated improved endothelium-dependent relaxation while preserving the endothelium-independent responses. In isolated murine aortic rings, genistein reversed Ang II-induced hypercontractility and restored acetylcholine-mediated vasodilation. Furthermore, in human umbilical vein endothelial cells, genistein suppressed the Ang II-induced overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and restored nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Mechanistically, genistein improved endothelial redox-NO coupling, accompanied by transcriptional remodeling of the redox/NO axis [e.g., suppression of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 4 (NOX4) and nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2) and restoration of nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3)], which is consistent with reduced ROS and enhanced NO bioavailability. Collectively, our findings identify genistein as a potent endothelial-protective agent that ameliorates Ang II-induced hypertension, highlighting its therapeutic potential in cardiovascular disease driven by vascular dysfunction.© 2026 The Korean Society of Food Science and Nutrition.
Sex differences in immune responses impact cancer outcomes and treatment response, including in glioblastoma (GBM). However, host factors underlying distinct immune-cancer interactions are poorly understood. Here we identify γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as a female-specific driver of GBM-promoting immune response. We demonstrated that GABA receptor B (GABBR) signaling enhances the T cell suppressive function of granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (gMDSCs) from female mice by upregulating the cationic amino acid transporter 2-L-arginine-nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2) pathway. GABBR agonism promotes GBM growth in female preclinical models through gMDSCs, while GABBR antagonism extends survival and reduces NOS2 in tumor-infiltrating gMDSCs only in female mice. Immune cells from female participants with GBM have enriched GABA transcriptional signatures and a higher GABA concentration compared to male counterparts. Collectively, these results highlight the sex-specific immunomodulatory role of GABA in tumorigenesis, supporting future assessment of GABA pathway inhibitors for cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
IFNG (interferon gamma)-activated macrophages contribute to accelerated clearance of platelets and excessive secretion of inflammatory cytokines in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). In this study, we identified two distinct subpopulations of activated macrophages: phagocytic macrophages (M[IFNG]p), which predominantly exhibit phagocytic activity, and inflammatory macrophages (M[IFNG]i), characterized by their pro-inflammatory capacity. The M(IFNG)p and M(IFNG)i subsets were functionally disturbed in patients with ITP. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) deficiency in macrophages was discovered in ITP and has been reported to induce sustained inflammation. Furthermore, CMA interference enhanced pro-inflammatory function rather than phagocytic activity of macrophages in vitro. In parallel, macrophage-specific conditional lamp2a (lysosome associated membrane protein 2A) knockout mice exhibited expansion and excessive cytokine release of M(IFNG)i. Restoring CMA restrains M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member) in ITP. Here, anti-ITGB3/CD61 immune-sensitized splenocytes were transferred into severe combined immunodeficient mice to establish an active murine model of ITP. CMA activation diminished the pro-inflammatory and phagocytic activity of activated macrophages and ameliorated thrombocytopenia in ITP mice. MeRIP-sequencing identified PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) as a crucial activator for LAMP2A, exhibiting decreased m6A methylation and subsequent downregulation, which indicated a potential mechanism underlying CMA deficiency in activated macrophages. In conclusion, restoring CMA restrains the M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms the M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 to raise platelet counts in ITP. Targeting CMA in activated primary human macrophages presents a promising therapeutic strategy to rapidly and sustainably increase platelet counts and restore immune balance in ITP.Abbreviation ALDH2: aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member; ALKBH5: alkB homolog 5, RNA demethylase; CCL: C-C motif chemokine ligand; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CSF1/M-CSF: colony stimulating factor 1; CUT&Tag: Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation; CXCL: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCGR/FcγR: Fc gamma receptor; HLA-DR: major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; IGF2R: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; IL: interleukin; ITP: immune thrombocytopenia; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; m6A: N6-methyladenosine; MeRIP-seq: methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; MFI: mean fluorescence intensity; mRNA: messenger RNA; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NOS2/iNOS: nitric oxide synthase 2; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homolog; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; Th1: T-helper 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WTAP: WT1 associated protein.
Distant metastasis is the leading cause of mortality in many cancers. Although metabolic reprogramming is recognized as a hallmark of cancer, how tumor-intrinsic metabolic enzymes regulate tumor-immune crosstalk during metastatic progression remains poorly understood. Here, using a high-throughput functional CRISPR-Cas9 screen targeting metabolic genes in an orthotopic 4T1 murine mammary carcinoma model of spontaneous lung metastasis, we identify a selective enrichment of arginase 2 (ARG2)-deficient tumor cells in metastatic lungs of immunocompetent but not RAG1-deficient mice, indicating a lymphocyte-dependent mechanism. Loss of ARG2 enhances spontaneous lung metastasis without affecting primary tumor growth. Further, metastatic outgrowth in the lung is not affected when tumor cells are injected intravenously, indicating that ARG2 regulates an early stage of the metastatic cascade. Mechanistically, ARG2 deficiency upregulates nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2), resulting in increased nitric oxide production, accumulation of cytosolic DNA, and activation of the cGAS-STING-NF-κB pathway, leading to upregulation of inflammatory cytokines. ARG2-deficient tumors exhibit an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment characterized by enrichment of Th17 cells and reduced anti-tumor immune populations. Functionally, Th17 cells enhance tumor cell migration in vitro and promote spontaneous lung metastasis in vivo . Genetic deletion of NOS2 attenuates cytosolic DNA accumulation, reduces STING-NF-κB activation, restores anti-tumor immunity, and suppresses ARG2 deficiency-driven metastatic burden in vivo . Collectively, these findings define a tumor cell-intrinsic ARG2-NOS2 axis that regulates inflammatory signaling and the tumor microenvironment to promote metastasis, highlighting a targetable vulnerability in metastatic breast cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42248132 is a review article
Background: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), increase colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. Methods: Mouse IBD and CRC models with a combination of pharmacological, knockout and knock-in approaches was employed to analyze the involvement of TOP2s and NOS2 in CRC tumorigenesis. Key pathologies, such as inflammatory and neoplastic scores, were examined by immunohistochemical assays. Results: In colon tissues from acute, chronic colitis and CRC mouse models and from CD patients, the biomarkers γH2AX and 53BP1pS25/S29 of DNA breaks (mainly representing DSBs) accumulated, alongside increases in topoisomerase II (TOP2) and nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS2). Genetic ablation of NOS2 (Nos2-/-) or TOP2β (Top2βf/f) as well as pharmacological inhibition with ICRF-193 (a TOP2 inhibitor) or PTIO (a NO scavenger) reduced DSB formation and disease severity. Consistently, Nos2-/-, or ICRF-treated, mice exhibited decreased tumor burden. DSBs and tumor accumulation were pronounced in the distal colon, mirroring human CRC distribution. While ICRF-193 suppressed tumor growth, Top2βf/f deficiency (with a compensatory TOP2α upregulation) enhanced tumor development, indicating potential roles for TOP2 isozymes in tumor formation and progression. Conclusion: Collectively, these findings identify the cooperative action of TOP2 and NOS2 in driving DSBs, highlighting a potential therapeutic target in inflammation-associated CRC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Plant polysaccharides can exert immunomodulatory activities. In this study we provided chemical characterization of wheat cell culture-derived polysaccharides (WCCPS) and assessed their capacity to modulate inflammatory responses in mouse macrophages. The total sample (T-010) contained arabinogalactans, arabinans, glucans and xyloglucans. Fractionation by anion-exchange chromatography rendered a bound acidic fraction (B-010) and an unbound neutral fraction (UB-010). The B-010 fraction was enriched in arabinogalactans and arabinans, with some galactans, homogalacturonans, and arabinoxylans. The neutral UB-010 fraction was composed of glucans and xyloglucans. None of the WCCPS preparations triggered cytokine production on their own, but each potentiated different macrophage responses to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The total WCCPS in T-010 increased LPS-induced tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin (IL)-6 secretion, whereas the acidic arabinogalactan-rich fraction B-010 boosted IL-6 release and selectively upregulated nitric oxide synthase 2 (Nos2) and cholesterol 25-hydroxylase (Ch25h) expression in response to LPS. In contrast, the neutral UB-010 fraction enhanced IL-6 levels and induced Nos2 expression without altering Ch25h expression. These results suggest that WCCPS can modulate distinct aspects of the inflammatory response, with their effects shaped by their composition and structural features. Future research will focus on elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying the immunomodulatory activity of WCCPS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548868 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545892 is a review article
Defective intestinal epithelial tight junction (TJ) barrier function and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress are central pathological features of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), yet the molecular mechanisms ER stress to TJ disruption remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of autophagy in regulating intestinal TJ homeostasis during ER stress. ER stress was elevated in inflamed Crohn's disease tissue and chronic dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) colitis. In human intestinal epithelial Caco-2 monolayers, murine colon, and human colonic explants, induction of ER stress with tunicamycin, thapsigargin, or brefeldin A disrupted TJ barrier integrity, as demonstrated by reduced transepithelial electrical resistance and increased paracellular permeability. ER stress selectively increased the pore-forming TJ protein claudin-2 and altered occludin localization without significantly affecting other claudins. Pharmacologic activation of autophagy with rapamycin attenuated ER stress, restored TJ barrier function, reduced claudin-2 accumulation, and preserved occludin localization. Conversely, CRISPR-Cas9-mediated deletion of autophagy gene ATG7 exacerbated ER stress, apoptosis, and TJ barrier dysfunction in vitro, while intestinal epithelial-specific Atg7 knockout mice exhibited enhanced ER stress-induced intestinal permeability in-vivo. Mechanistically, prolonged ER stress impaired autophagic flux through IRE1α kinase signaling, resulting in accumulation of p62 and claudin-2. Inhibition of IRE1α kinase activity restored autophagy, reduced claudin-2 levels, and preserved TJ barrier function. We further identified adaptor-associated kinase 1 (AAK1) as a downstream mediator of IRE1α signaling during ER stress, with increased AP2M1 phosphorylation and altered claudin-2 trafficking. Claudin-2 overexpression alone induced ER stress and lysosomal damage, suggesting a feed-forward mechanism amplifying epithelial injury. Finally, enteric rapamycin administration reduced ER stress and restored autophagy in murine DSS colitis. Collectively, these findings identify an IRE1α-AAK1-autophagy axis as a critical regulator of intestinal TJ barrier integrity during ER stress.
Considering the increasing prevalence of pulmonary fibrosis (PF) and the increased exposure to risk factors contributing to its development, this study utilizes the bleomycin (BLM)-induced PF model to explore the potential early therapeutic strategies displayed by the bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) and their derived exosomes. The research assessed the efficacy of two administration methods: injection and inhalation by employing a comprehensive evaluation approach, including computed tomography imaging, biochemical assays, molecular analysis, and histopathological examinations. Fifty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; the CON group received saline intratracheally (IT) and served as the control group, the BLM group received IT BLM (5 mg/kg), the BMMSCs group received (BLM + BMMSCs in a dose of 106 cells per rat, I/P), the Exo-INJ group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg per rat I/P), and the Exo-INH group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg by inhalation). The oxidative status indicators, glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the level of surfactant protein D (SP-D), a biomarker of lung damage, were evaluated. Furthermore, the level of genetic expression of inflammatory cytokines interleukin-10 (Il10), interleukin-1 beta (Il1b), pro-fibrotic and apoptotic markers, such as transforming growth factor-beta (Tgfb), Bcl-2-Associated X Protein (Bax), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (Fgf2), which functions as a growth factor to protect lung epithelial damage, were determined. Both BMMSCs and their derived exosomes exhibited antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and regenerative properties and have early therapeutic effects against PF, underlining them as promising antifibrotic candidates. In addition, the inhalation approach demonstrated superior performance in a specific metric while yielding comparable results in another. Consequently, it cannot be regarded as the optimal strategy across all evaluation criteria. Therefore, more studies are required to substantiate its applicability and explore the potential improvement that could enhance its overall efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Radiation-induced lung injury, a well-recognized complication of thoracic radiotherapy, can progress to pulmonary fibrosis, sharing pathological features with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Although nintedanib is widely used as an antifibrotic agent, the therapeutic benefit of combination strategies remains partially understood. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of combined metformin and nintedanib treatment in a mouse model of irradiation-induced lung fibrosis. Female C57BL/6 mice were subjected to localized irradiation of 90 Gy in the left lung and treated daily with metformin, nintedanib or both drugs for 6 weeks. Lung fibrosis was assessed using gross examination, hydroxyproline quantification, histopathological scoring and quantitative image analysis. Changes in fibrosis- and injury-related proteins were examined by western blotting, including transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), a profibrotic cytokine; SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), an inhibitory regulator of TGF-β signaling; and surfactant protein D (SP-D), a lung epithelial injury-associated protein. Nintedanib-containing treatments improved histological lung injury in irradiated mice, including reduced collagen deposition, low pathological scores and preserved air space structure. Hydroxyproline content was also lower in the combination treatment group than in the other groups. The nintedanib-containing treatments suppressed irradiation-induced upregulation of transforming growth factor-β expression, and SMAD7 expression was selectively upregulated following combined treatment. In addition, elevated SP-D level following irradiation was partially reduced following nintedanib administration. These findings suggest that combined metformin and nintedanib treatment may provide a broader protective profile against radiation-induced pulmonary fibrosis, particularly in association with SMAD7 upregulation, although further studies are required to clarify whether the combination provides significant advantages over nintedanib monotherapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Japanese Radiation Research Society and Japanese Society for Radiation Oncology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42495604 is a review article
This study aimed to identify plasma biomarkers associated with systemic sclerosis-related interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) and progressive pulmonary fibrosis (SSc-PPF) using an unbiased proteomic approach, and to assess their predictive value across independent cohorts.Plasma from 202 patients with SSc was analysed, including a discovery cohort (n = 45) and a replication cohort (n = 157) from 3 centres (Paris, Bordeaux, Leeds). Patients were stratified by ILD status (SSc without ILD [SSc-NoILD] vs SSc-ILD) and ILD progression (SSc with nonprogressive pulmonary fibrosis [SSc-NoPPF] vs SSc-PPF), with SSc-PPF defined according to INBUILD criteria. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified candidate biomarkers in the discovery cohort. Top candidates were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the replication cohort. Differential expression, pathway enrichment, and predictive performance analyses were performed.A total of 1507 proteins were quantified, of which 44 and 51 were associated with SSc-ILD and SSc-PPF, respectively. Five candidates progressed to ELISA validation, among which surfactant protein D (SP-D) and matrix metalloproteinase 8 (MMP-8) were successfully replicated. In the combined cohort, SP-D was elevated in SSc-ILD vs SSc-NoILD (17.36 ± 11.99 vs 9.49 ± 7.92 ng/mL; P < .0001). MMP-8 was higher in SSc-PPF vs SSc-NoPPF (17.67 ± 12.45 vs 10.77 ± 10.92 ng/mL; P < .001). Its prognostic value for PPF was further replicated in another cohort of 113 patients from Tokyo and Milan. In combined analyses, MMP-8 independently predicted SSc-PPF and improved performance when added to clinical variables.SP-D and MMP-8 emerge as candidate biomarkers for diagnosing SSc-ILD and predicting SSc-PPF, respectively. Their validation across multicentric cohorts supports their relevance for clinical risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In a cross-sectional study of UK brick and stone workers exposed to respirable crystalline silica, Club cell protein (CC16), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFββ), C-reactive protein, rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, lung surfactant proteins A & D, and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 were measured in serum samples from 261 workers. Questionnaire data on health outcomes were also recorded, along with spirometry and a chest X-ray. Individual cumulative respirable crystalline silica exposures were calculated. Four subjects (1.5%) had silicosis, and these were characterised by evidence of small airways obstruction, reduced predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 s and noticeable increases in monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 and surfactant protein A. CC16 and surfactant protein D significantly increased with cumulative respirable crystalline silica exposure, but CC16 also independently decreased with evidence of airflow obstruction or small airways obstruction. Therefore, the interpretation of serum CC16 levels in silica-exposed populations may be complex. There was some evidence of down-regulation of the PDGFββ pathway with increasing exposure. Surfactant protein D levels were also associated with several chronic respiratory symptoms reported by workers. Serum surfactant protein A, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin showed little or no relationship to cumulative respirable crystalline silica levels. These data raise the possibility that surfactant protein D, CC16, surfactant protein A, and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 may have a role in defining the natural history of silicosis, with the latter 2 biomarkers possibly reflecting where pathology is evidenced on imaging techniques.© Crown copyright 2026.
The effects of exercise intensity on airway epithelial integrity markers and inflammatory responses remain unknown. Therefore, we investigated the effects of high- and moderate-intensity exercise on airway epithelial integrity markers (club cell protein 16 [CC16], surfactant protein D [SP-D], and the CC16/SP-D ratio), along with systemic inflammation assessed via high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP] in healthy young men. Twenty healthy young men were randomly divided into two groups: high-intensity (n = 10) and moderate-intensity (n = 10) and both groups completed 20-min of continuous intensity treadmill exercise. The exercise intensities for the high-intensity and moderate-intensity groups were 85%-90% and 65%-70% of maximum heart rate, respectively. Serum was collected before and at +1 and + 24 h after exercise. CC16, SP-D, and hs-CRP concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A two-way repeated measures analysis of variance suggested that CC16, SP-D, CC16/SP-D ratio, and hs-CRP changed significantly over time (p < 0.05). Time × group interaction effects were observed for CC16 (p = 0.032) and CC16/SP-D ratio (p = 0.010) but not for SP-D (p = 0.824) and hs-CRP (p = 0.422) concentrations. Post hoc analysis revealed that CC16 concentrations at +1 h (p = 0.002) and the CC16/SP-D ratio at +24 h (p = 0.005) were higher for the high- compared to the moderate-intensity group. Our findings suggest for the first time that exercise intensity has a significant impact on CC16 and the CC16/SP-D ratio but does not affect the release of SP-D or hs-CRP.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Sport Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH on behalf of European College of Sport Science.
High-salt diet (HSD)-induced hypertension is a common form of hypertension and is closely associated with inflammation, target-organ injury, and gut microbiota dysbiosis. Natural products have shown potential in the prevention and treatment of hypertension, and regulation of the gut microbiota and its metabolites may represent an important therapeutic mechanism. Phyllanthus emblica L. (PE) is a medicinal plant with reported cardiovascular-protective and antihypertensive effects.In this study, a salt-sensitive rat model was used to systematically evaluate the effects of PE extract on blood pressure (BP), inflammatory responses, renal and vascular pathological changes, intestinal barrier function, gut microbiota composition, and metabolite profiles. The potential mechanisms of PE were further explored with a focus on the gut microbiota-metabolite axis.PE intervention significantly alleviated the HSD-induced increase in BP, reduced the expression of the pro-inflammatory factors TNF-α and IL-1β, and improved renal and vascular tissue injury. PE also regulated the intestinal tight junction proteins Claudin-2 and ZO-1, suggesting an improvement in intestinal barrier function. Notably, high-dose PE extract restored HSD-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis, particularly by increasing the abundance of beneficial bacteria such as Lactobacillus. Metabolomic analysis showed that high-dose PE extract improved HSD-induced alterations in the intestinal metabolite profile, with eight bile acid metabolites being significantly reversed. Correlation analysis further suggested that the protective effects of PE may be associated with regulation of gut microbiota and their metabolites, especially through the bile acid pathway.These findings suggest that PE extract may exert protective effects against HSD-induced hypertension by modulating the gut microbiota-metabolite axis, improving intestinal barrier function, reducing inflammation, and alleviating renal and vascular injury. This study provides preliminary experimental evidence for the potential application of PE in the prevention and treatment of salt-sensitive hypertension.Copyright © 2026 Peng, He, Nie, Wei, Wu, Qi, Tang and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519810 is a review article
To investigate the expression of C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2) on platelets in children with chronic primary immune thrombocytopenia(ITP), and its effect on platelet function.11 chronic ITP patients who were diagnosed at the Department of Hematology of Children's Hospital of Soochow University from April 2023 to September 2024, and 12 control cases were enrolled in this study. Both the expression of CCRL2 on platelets was measured, and the effects of Ccrl2 deletion on platelet production and function were evaluated.Deletion of Ccrl2 did not affect platelet counts and megakaryopoiesis, but significantly impaired the maximum aggregation rate, P-selectin expression, and adhesive ability to collagen I of platelets. In addition, the levels of CCRL2 and CD36 on platelets in children with chronic ITP were significantly decreased. However, the absolute number of neutrophils and the concentrations of Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9) and Defensin Alpha 1(DEFA1) were significantly increased.The weakened platelet function in children with chronic ITP may be related to the decreased CCRL2 expression.
Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury presents a biphasic pathology: an acute oxidative-inflammatory phase leading to organ failure, and a recovery phase marked by mucosal dysfunction and bacterial translocation. The developed MPB@TA-Cu-Ma nanocomposite functions as a dual-phase therapeutic platform with significant efficacy. It rapidly scavenges reactive oxygen species (ROS) (exhibiting a 50.15% higher clearance in vitro) and suppresses macrophage pyroptosis within 6 h post-I/R. Furthermore, it enhances mucosal integrity (1.98-fold Occludin upregulation) and angiogenesis (3.6-fold increase in CD31+ cells) by 96 h. Transcriptomic and immunohistochemical analyses identify three key mechanisms underlying this efficacy: (1) inhibition of the NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3)/ cysteinyl aspartate-specific proteinase 1 (caspase-1) pathway to suppress pyroptosis; (2) upregulation of defensin alpha 1 (DEFA1) and desmoglein 1 (DSG1) for epithelial repair; and (3) enhancement of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) expression for vascular regeneration. Overall, MPB@TA-Cu-Ma achieves synchronized, phase-adaptive therapy by disrupting the oxidative-inflammatory-barrier axis through enhanced ROS scavenging, enzyme-mimetic activity, promotion of angiogenesis, and immune modulation, thereby effectively addressing the complex biphasic pathology of intestinal I/R injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to investigate the effect of Lactobacillus gasseri SBT2055 (LG2055) on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Mice were fed with high-fat diet (HFD) to establish NAFLD animal model. HFD mice were administrated with LG2055 gavage to explore the role of LG2055 on NAFLD. This study revealed that LG2055 gavage decreased serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG), reduced lipid accumulation in liver tissue, promoted the expression of intestinal mucosal proteins mucin 2 (MUC2), defensin alpha 1 (DEFA1), and defensin alpha 4 (DEFA4), inhibited the levels of pro-inflammatory factors tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin (IL)-6, and increased the levels of anti-inflammatory factors IL-10 and immunoglobulin (Ig)A, IgG, and IgM. LG2055 decreased the abundance of Verrucomicrobota, Akkermansiaceae and Akkermansia while increased the abundance of Bacteroidota, Actinobacterota and Muribaculaceae. These findings implied that LG2055 alleviate liver damage caused by NAFLD by reducing hepatic lipid accumulation and gut homeostasis and regulating gut microbiota to inhibit intestinal inflammation, and increase immune regulation.
Anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 antibody-positive (MDA5+) dermatomyositis (DM) is characterized by a high incidence of rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease (RP-ILD). Unique transcriptomic signatures in patients with MDA5+ DM were investigated.Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), skin, and muscle biopsies from 28 patients with MDA5+/- DM were sequenced. Uniquely expressed transcripts identified using RNA sequencing analysis of PBMCs were further validated using quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Receiver operating characteristic analysis was used to determine the diagnostic potential of the target genes.In MDA5+ DM samples, components of antiviral defense, neutrophil migration, and immune-associated pathways (in PBMCs), fatty acid metabolic processes (in skin), and antigen recognition (in muscle tissue) were upregulated. The expressions of defensin alpha 3 (DEFA3), ribonuclease family member 2 (RNASE2), and interferon alpha inducible protein 27 (IFI27) were upregulated and exhibited good predictive values for RP-ILD in MDA5+ DM.The activation of the IFN, virus-associated, and aberrant immune response pathways, as well as fatty acid metabolic processes may be involved in MDA5+ DM pathogenesis. IFI27, DEFA3, and RNASE2 may contribute to RP-ILD pathogenesis and serve as biomarkers of MDA5+ DM.© 2025 Deutsche Dermatologische Gesellschaft (DDG).
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most aggressive and lethal malignancies, driven by late diagnosis, limited therapeutic options, and high metastatic potential. Beyond their canonical roles in hemostasis, platelets have emerged as active modulators of tumor progression and promising noninvasive biomarkers. Among platelet-associated molecules, α-defensins, particularly Defensin Alpha 1/3 (DEFA1/3), have been implicated in inflammation and immunity; however, their contribution to PDAC pathogenesis remains unclear. We combined bioinformatic analysis of platelet transcriptomes with functional and in vivo zebrafish xenograft validation to investigate the impact of DEFA1/3 on PDAC aggressiveness. DEFA1/3 was significantly upregulated in PDAC-derived platelets. Defensin-enriched platelet-like particles (defensin-rich platelets, DRPs) and recombinant DEFA1/3 enhanced pancreatic cancer cell proliferation, migration, and three-dimensional growth in vitro and promoted tumor dissemination in zebrafish xenografts. Transcriptomic profiling revealed the upregulation of SPARC, KDM6A, and GATA6, whereas clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-PDAC linked high DEFA1/3 expression to poor survival, increased immune infiltration, and activation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Platelet-derived DEFA1/3 acts as a functional modulator of PDAC progression, linking platelet granule content to tumor aggressiveness and highlighting a potential biomarker and therapeutic target within the platelet-tumor axis.
We previously demonstrated neutrophil MPO derived HOCl targets the vinyl ether bond of plasmalogens resulting in the Liberation of 2-chlorofatty aldehydes (2-ClFALDs) and their oxidation products, 2-chlorofatty acids (2-ClFAs), which elicit neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation. In this study, the click chemistry analog of 2-chlorohexadecanoic acid (2-ClHA) was utilized to identify 127 proteins covalently modified by 2-ClHA in human neutrophils. Bioinformatics revealed that multiple proteins modified by 2-ClHA are related to protein modification and binding as well as metabolite interconversion. Three key proteins involved in NET formation and function were modified by 2-ClHA including peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4), neutrophil defensin alpha 3 (DEFA3), and neutrophil collagenase (MMP8). PAD4 activity was shown to be increased by 2-ClFA treatment. Further studies investigated 2-ClFA modified protein localization over time during NET formation. Initially PAD4 and 2-ClFA-modified proteins were extranuclear but over time they both localized to distinct nuclear regions. Following DNA release from neutrophils, 2-ClFA-modified proteins were found throughout the neutrophil and DNA strands. In summary, multiple neutrophil proteins are modified by 2-ClHA, including PAD4. 2-ClHA modification and activation of PAD4 is suggested as a key component of 2-ClHA elicited NET formation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Defensin beta 1 (DEFB1) is a key immune response gene, but its role in cancer remains unclear. This study aims to explore DEFB1 expression, genetic alterations, immune infiltration, and prognostic significance across various cancer types.We analyzed DEFB1 expression and its association with cancer prognosis using data from public platforms, including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx), and Human Protein Atlas (HPA). Additionally, we examined DEFB1 genetic alterations, immune cell infiltration, and its molecular partners using various bioinformatics tools.DEFB1 expression was highest in salivary glands, kidneys, and pancreas. In cancers, DEFB1 was upregulated in cholangiocarcinoma, kidney chromophobe, and melanoma, but downregulated in breast, colon, and rectal cancers. High DEFB1 expression was linked to poorer overall survival in lung adenocarcinoma and pancreatic adenocarcinoma, but better survival in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Genetic analysis revealed alterations in liver and gastric cancers. Immune infiltration analysis showed a correlation between DEFB1 and cancer-associated fibroblasts in liver cancer, while neutrophil infiltration was linked to bladder carcinoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and lung squamous cell carcinoma. Key genes associated with DEFB1 included KLK1, BSND, and CLCNKB.This study highlights DEFB1's potential as a prognostic biomarker and its influence on the tumor immune microenvironment across different cancers. These findings suggest DEFB1 could be a target for future cancer therapies, although further studies are needed to validate these results.© 2025. The Author(s).
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is the most common respiratory emergency and one of the most severe clinical syndromes. Bacterial and viral infections are the frequent etiological factors. Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) is the most significant gram-negative pathogen associated with pneumonia and ARDS in critically ill patients with respiratory diseases. However, multi-drug resistance and biofilm formation pose significant challenges to the clinical treatment of PA-associated pulmonary infections. In this study, we focused on edaravone (EDA), a brain-protective agent and free-radical scavenger commonly used in neurology, and examined its role in PA-ALI. We found EDA significantly mitigated pulmonary pathological damage, inflammatory responses and Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) generation induced by PA in vivo. The in-vitro assays revealed EDA inhibited the transcription and secretion of pro-inflammatory factors induced by PA in RAW264.7 cells by targeting the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathways. Additionally, EDA reduced the production of intracellular ROS and cell death. EDA treatment enhanced the transcription of antimicrobial peptides, including defensin beta 1 (Defb1), defensin beta 2 (Defb2), CC motif chemokine ligand 20 (Ccl20), secretory leukocyte peptidase inhibitor (Slpi), and lactotransferrin (Ltf), with a significant upregulation of Defb1 expression. We also explored the role of EDA in lung endogenous stem cells using Sftpc-DreER; Scgb1a1-CreER; R26-TLR mice. Our findings indicated that EDA promoted the regeneration of club cells in response to PA stimulation by promoting their proliferation. And also, EDA inhibited PA infection induced cell apoptosis in lung tissues. In conclusion, EDA acts as a protective agent in PA-ALI. It not only inhibits inflammatory responses induced by PA but also enhances the expression of antimicrobial peptides and promotes club cell regeneration. Therefore, EDA may serve as an adjunctive treatment for PA-ARDS.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The prevalence of generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) is high. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Proteomics techniques can be employed to assess the pathological mechanisms involved in GAD.Twenty-two drug-naive GAD patients were recruited, their serum samples were used for protein quantification and identified using Tandem Mass Tag and Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM). Machine learning models were employed to construct predictive models for disease occurrence by using clinical scores and target proteins as input variables.A total of 991 proteins were differentially expressed between GAD and healthy participants. Gene Ontology analysis revealed that these proteins were significantly associated with stress response and biological regulation, suggesting a significant implication in anxiety disorders. MRM validation revealed evident disparities in 12 specific proteins. The machine learning model found a set of five proteins accurately predicting the occurrence of the disease at a rate of 87.5%, such as alpha 1B-glycoprotein, complement component 4 A, transferrin, V3-3, and defensin alpha 1. These proteins had a functional association with immune inflammation.The development of generalised anxiety disorder might be closely linked to the immune inflammatory stress response.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a malignant cardiovascular disease with a complex etiology, in which several types of cells play important roles. Sex differences in disease susceptibility and survival have been observed in PAH patients, but few studies have analyzed the effect of changes in cell type and number on sex differences in PAH at the single-cell level. In this study, we performed a series of analyses on GSE169471 and GSE228644 datasets and found significant changes in the ratio of several types of cells in male PAH lung tissues. Surprisingly, we found that the ratio of macrophages in male PAH samples was 7 times higher than that in females. Consistently, the ratio of M1 macrophages was also significantly increased in male PAH samples. The different expression genes (DEGs) in macrophages were mainly involved in the ribosome pathway, which is closely related to cell proliferation. Inhibition of ribosomal protein L39 (RPL39), a core gene in the ribosome pathway, can inhibit macrophage proliferation and attenuate the sex differences in PAH. In conclusion, our study suggests that ribosome pathway-associated cell proliferation of macrophages might be associated with sex differences in PAH.Copyright © 2025 Haixia Wang et al. Canadian Respiratory Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Asthma is a chronic respiratory disease that affects billions of people. Due to its diverse phenotypes and endotypes with distinct pathophysiological mechanisms, significant challenges arise in its clinical diagnosis and treatment. The discovery of potential biomarkers of asthma has significant implications for its clinical classification and precise treatment. The purpose of this study is to identify potential biomarkers for asthma, providing a foundation for its diagnosis and treatment.We constructed an ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized asthmatic mice model and used isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation (iTRAQ) labeling and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) technology to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in lung tissues. We then performed enrichment analyses of the DEPs using the Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases, and constructed protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks.We identified 242 DEPs in the asthmatic mice model and showed that heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5 (HSPA5) is a central protein in asthma. Consistent with our bioinformatics analysis, our western blot validation confirmed that the protein levels of arginase 1 (ARG1), chitinase-like protein 3 (CHIL3), chloride channel accessory 1 (CLCA1), and bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein (BPI) fold-containing family B member 1 (BPIFB1) were significantly increased in asthma group compared to the control group. Thus, we found that CLCA1 and BPIFB1 were the most promising potential biomarkers of asthma.Our iTRAQ analysis and western blot verification of asthmatic mice showed that HSPA5 is a central protein in asthma, and CLCA1 and BPIFB1 are novel potential biomarkers that could play significant roles in the diagnosis and treatment of asthma.2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Currently, the effect of miR-130 on non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains controversial. In this study, the expression of miR-130 and lncRNA MRPL39 in tumor and non-tumor tissues of NSCLC patients was examined using real-time PCR (RT-PCR) and correlated with the prognosis of NSCLC. The phenotypic effects of miR-130 and MRPL39 on proliferation and migration of NSCLC cell line A549 cells were assessed through CCK-8 and Transwell assays with miR-130 mimic and MRPL39 (mitochondrial ribosomal protein L39) overexpressed plasmid transfection. StarBase/TargetScan analysis and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays were conducted to investigate the relationship between MRPL39, miR-130, and Tuberculosis sclerosis 1 (TSC1). MiR-130 was overexpressed, and MRPL39 was downregulated in NSCLC tissues and cells. Inhibition of miR-130 expression and overexpression of MRPL39 resulted in the inhibition of the viability and migration of A549 cells. MRPL39 is a potential upstream regulatory long non-coding RNA of miR-130, and its expression is negatively regulated by miR-130. TSC1 was identified as a target of miR-130, suppressing the antitumor effects of FGD5-AS1 silencing on GBM cells. After overexpression of MRPL39, the mRNA and protein levels of TSC1 in A549 cells significantly increased. However, after transfection with miR-130 mimic, the up-regulation of mRNA and protein was inhibited, leading to the suppression of cell proliferation and migration.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2024. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Neonates have different cellular composition in their bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) when compared to foals and adult horses; however, little is known about the non-cellular components of BALF. The objective of this study was to determine the proteomic composition of BALF in neonatal horses and to compare it to that of foals and adult horses. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples of seven neonates (< 1 week age), four 5 to 7-week-old foals, and six adult horses were collected. Quantitative proteomics of the fluid was performed using tandem mass tag labeling followed by high resolution liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and protein relative abundances were compared between groups using exact text. A total of 704 proteins were identified with gene ontology terms and were classified. Of these, 332 proteins were related to the immune system in neonates, foals, and adult horses. The most frequent molecular functions identified were binding and catalytic activity and the most common biological processes were cellular process, metabolic process, and biological regulation. There was a significant difference in the proteome of neonates when compared to foals and to adult horses. Neonates had less relative expression (FDR < 0.01) of many immune-related proteins, including immunoglobulins, proteins involved in the complement cascade, ferritin, BPI fold-containing family B member 1, and macrophage receptor MARCO. This is the first report of equine neonate BALF proteomics and reveals differential abundance of proteins when compared to BALF from adult horses. The lower relative abundance of immune-related proteins in neonates could contribute to their susceptibility to pulmonary infections.Copyright: © 2023 Rivolta et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Honeycombing is a histological pattern consistent with Usual Interstitial Pneumonia (UIP). Honeycombing refers to cystic airways located at sites of dense fibrosis with marked mucus accumulation. Utilizing laser capture microdissection coupled mass spectrometry (LCM-MS), we interrogated the fibrotic honeycomb airway cells and fibrotic uninvolved airway cells (distant from honeycomb airways and morphologically intact) in specimens from 10 patients with UIP. Non-fibrotic airway cell specimens from 6 patients served as controls. Furthermore, we performed LCM-MS on the mucus plugs found in 6 patients with UIP and 6 patients with mucinous adenocarcinoma. The mass spectrometry data were subject to both qualitative and quantitative analysis and validated by immunohistochemistry. Surprisingly, fibrotic uninvolved airway cells share a similar protein profile to honeycomb airway cells, showing deregulation of the slit and roundabout receptor (Slit and Robo) pathway as the strongest category. We find that (BPI) fold-containing family B member 1 (BPIFB1) is the most significantly increased secretome-associated protein in UIP, whereas Mucin-5AC (MUC5AC) is the most significantly increased in mucinous adenocarcinoma. We conclude that fibrotic uninvolved airway cells share pathological features with fibrotic honeycomb airway cells. In addition, fibrotic honeycomb airway cells are enriched in mucin biogenesis proteins with a marked derangement in proteins essential for ciliogenesis. This unbiased spatial proteomic approach generates novel and testable hypotheses to decipher fibrosis progression.© 2023. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the leading cause of deaths among patients with gynecologic malignancies. In recent years, cancer stem cells (CSCs) have attracted great attention, which have been regarded as new biomarkers and targets in cancer diagnoses as well as therapies. However, therapeutic failure caused by chemotherapy resistance in late-stage EOC occurs frequently. The 5-year survival rate of patients with EOC remains at about 30%.In this study, the expression of acylglycerol kinase (AGK) was analyzed among patients with EOC. The effect of AGK on EOC cell proliferation and tumorigenicity was studied using Western blotting, flow cytometry, EdU assay and in vivo xenotransplantation assays. Furthermore, AGK induced CSC-like properties and was resistant to cisplatin chemotherapy in the EOC cells, which were investigated through sphere formation assays and the in vivo model of chemoresistance. Finally, the relationship between AGK and RPL39 (Ribosomal protein L39) in mitochondria as well as their effect on the mitochondrial function was analyzed through methods including transmission electron microscopy, microarray, biotin identification and immunoprecipitation.AGK showed a markedly upregulated expression in EOC, which was significantly associated with the poor survival of patients with EOC, the expression of AGK-promoted EOC cell proliferation and tumorigenicity. AGK also induced CSC-like properties in the EOC cells and was resistant to cisplatin chemotherapy. Furthermore, the results indicated that AGK not only maintained mitochondrial cristae morphogenesis, but also increased the production of reactive oxygen species and Δψm of EOC cells in a kinase-independent manner. Finally, our results revealed that AGK played its biological function by directly interacting with RPL39.We demonstrated that AGK was a novel CSC biomarker for EOC, which the stemness of EOC was promoted and chemotherapy resistance was developed through physical as well as functional interaction with RPL39.© 2022. The Author(s).
Objective: To analyze the protein expression differences of lacrimal gland adenoid cystic carcinoma (LACC) with high-grade transformation (HGT). Methods: Experimental study. A total of 8 paraffin tissue samples were collected in Tianjin Medical University Eye Hospital from December 2012 to January 2019. According to pathological examination, the samples were divided into the LACC group and the LACC-HGT group, with 4 cases in each group. The LACC group included 2 male samples and 2 female samples, with an average age of 53 years. The LACC-HGT group included 2 male samples and 2 female samples, with an average age of 44 years. Primary cells were cultured from fresh tumor tissue. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification techniques were used to screen the differentially expressed proteins between the two groups, and bioinformatics analysis was conducted for the differentially expressed proteins. Microarray was used to screen differentially expressed mRNAs between LACC and LACC-HGT primary cells. The mass spectrum data were intersected with mRNA microarray data, and quantitative real-time (qRT) PCR was performed to verify the results. Proteomics and microarray data were compared using the independent sample t test. The qRT-PCR data were compared pairwise by one-way analysis of variance. Results: A total of 105 HGT-related differential proteins were detected in this study, including 50 up-regulated proteins and 55 down-regulated proteins. The significantly up-regulated proteins included hemoglobin subunit beta, hemoglobin subunit alpha 1, and collagen type Ⅵ alpha 2 chain; the significantly down-regulated proteins included Cereblon, adenosylhomocysteinase like 2, and ribosomal protein L39 pseudogene 5. Gene ontology analysis results showed that the LACC-HGT differential proteins were mainly located in the cytoplasm, vesicle cavity, and extracellular matrix, had organic acid binding and molecular carrier activity, and participated in the regulation of extracellular matrix composition, immunity, inflammation, apoptosis, and other biological processes. Pathway analysis showed that the LACC-HGT differential proteins were mainly involved in signal pathways such as mitogen-activated protein kinase signal pathway and extracellular matrix proteoglycans and glycan metabolism signal pathway. Protein complex prediction analysis screened out 4 up-regulated protein complexes and 1 down-regulated protein complex. There were 15 LACC-HGT differential proteins that overlapped with mRNA chip differential genes, of which 6 were tumor-related proteins including collagen type XIV alpha 1 chain (COL14A1), EMAP like 4 (EML4), inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 4 (ITIH4), NDRG family member 2 (NDRG2), osteoglycin (OGN) an Ras homolog family member C (RhoC). The main function was the movement and migration of tumor cells. The qRT-PCR results showed that the relative expression levels of COL14A1, EML4, ITIH4, NDRG2, OGN, and RhoC in primary LACC-1, LACC-2, LACC-HGT-1, and LACC-HGT-2 cells were significantly different (F=1 675.98, 38.53, 27.37, 16.47, 13.38, 25.22, all P<0.01). For example, the relative expression of COL14A1 in primary LACC-HGT-1 (16.09±0.51) and LACC-HGT-2 (9.96±0.34) cells was significantly higher than that in primary LACC-1 (1.00±0.13) and LACC-2 (0.67±0.08) cells (all P<0.05). Conclusion: There are differentially expressed proteins between LACC-HGT and LACC, among which COL14A1, EML4, ITIH4, NDRG2, OGN, and RhoC may play an important role in LACC-HGT and can be used as potential targets of LACC-HGT in further study. (Chin J Ophthalmol, 2021, 57: 531-539).
Early-onset preeclampsia (PE) is a pregnancy complication that can lead to severe adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. However, the mechanisms underlying the development of early-onset PE are not fully understood. Ribosomal protein L39 (RPL39) is a member of the S39E family of ribosomal proteins that plays an important role in stem cell self-renewal, cancer metastasis, and chemoresistance. In this study, we aimed to explore the potential function of RPL39 in placental trophoblast cells. We analyzed the expression of RPL39 in early-onset PE and normal placental tissues using real-time PCR, western blot analysis, and immunohistochemistry. The results showed that RPL39 was markedly downregulated in early-onset PE placental tissues. RPL39 knockdown inhibited trophoblast cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, as well as placental explant outgrowth. Flow cytometry analysis suggested that knockdown of RPL39 resulted in cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase, but had no significant effect on cell apoptosis. We also found that RPL39 knockdown could alter cell morphology. We then measured the expression of the epithelial cell marker E-cadherin following knockdown of RPL39 in Bewo and HTR8/SVneo cells. RPL39 knockdown increased the expression of E-cadherin. Furthermore, E-cadherin expression was upregulated in placental explant outgrowth tissues transfected with RPL39 small interfering RNA. In conclusion, RPL39 plays an essential role in proliferation, invasion, and migration of trophoblast cells by targeting E-cadherin. Our findings provide novel insight into the mechanisms underlying the occurrence of early-onset PE.© 2021 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Spontaneous clearance of acute hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is more common in women than in men, independent of known risk factors.To identify sex-specific genetic loci, we studied 4423 HCV-infected individuals (2903 male, 1520 female) of European, African, and Hispanic ancestry. We performed autosomal, and X chromosome sex-stratified and combined association analyses in each ancestry group.A male-specific region near the adenosine diphosphate-ribosylation factor-like 5B (ARL5B) gene was identified. Individuals with the C allele of rs76398191 were about 30% more likely to have chronic HCV infection than individuals with the T allele (OR, 0.69; P = 1.98 × 10-07), and this was not seen in females. The ARL5B gene encodes an interferon-stimulated gene that inhibits immune response to double-stranded RNA viruses. We also identified suggestive associations near septin 6 and ribosomal protein L39 genes on the X chromosome. In box sexes, allele G of rs12852885 was associated with a 40% increase in HCV clearance compared with the A allele (OR, 1.4; P = 2.46 × 10-06). Septin 6 facilitates HCV replication via interaction with the HCV NS5b protein, and ribosomal protein L39 acts as an HCV core interactor.These novel gene associations support differential mechanisms of HCV clearance between the sexes and provide biological targets for treatment or vaccine development.© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press for the Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Parental history of dementia is associated with increased dementia risk. We investigated whether having a parent with dementia is associated with increased peripheral inflammation in middle-aged adults.Participants were from the Offspring Study (n = 1204). Parental dementia status was determined by a diagnostic consensus conference. Plasma chemokine and cytokine concentrations were assayed with Luminex technology.Parental history of dementia was associated with higher levels of eotaxin and lower levels of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, vascular endothelial growth factor A, and interleukin (IL)-27. IL-18 and epidermal growth factor levels were higher in Black individuals with a parental history of dementia compared to Hispanic individuals with the same history. Women with a parental history of dementia had higher levels of interferon-alpha 2, IL-12p70, soluble CD40 ligand, and IL-18 compared to men with the same history.Parental history of dementia is associated with elevated markers of peripheral inflammation. These associations vary across sex, race, and ethnicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Recombinant protein expression in heterologous biological systems is an expanding field in synthetic biology. Photosynthetic organisms have the potential to provide an efficient low-cost platform for recombinant protein production because they require minimal growth nutrients and are less susceptible to zoonotic and other contaminants. Cyanobacteria are a class of microorganisms that are gaining as the preferred photosynthetic cell factories for product generation. In this study, the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 was used as a host to stably over-express a functional form of the human interferon α-2 (IFN), as a fusion construct with the abundant CpcB β-subunit of phycocyanin. To cleave and isolate the free form of IFN from the fusion protein, different constructs were designed containing the Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) or Human Rhinovirus (hrv) 3 C protease cleaving loci, placed between the leading CpcB and trailing IFN moieties of the fusion proteins. The work examined the comparative cleaving efficacy of TEV and HRV proteases in separating IFN from such over-expressed phycocyanin fusion protein complexes. It was concluded that the HRV protease system is superior to that of TEV, and that of other cleaving proteases recently tested, and may thus be incorporated in the toolkit of cyanobacterial synthetic biology for recombinant protein synthesis and isolation.© 2025 The Author(s). Biotechnology and Bioengineering published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Fracture healing failure affects millions globally, yet early molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to characterize initial fracture response through analyzing peripheral blood hematology, multiplex cytokine profiles, and microRNA (miRNA) expression in fracture hematoma within the first 5 days post-injury. In a prospective cohort of 64 patients with acute clavicle fractures, we assessed hematological parameters, cytokine levels via multiplex immunoassays, and miRNA expression through RNA sequencing, and quantitative PCR (qPCR) validation. Fracture severity and time elapsed post-injury were key drivers of molecular response variability. Severe fractures (type C) were associated with older patient age and impaired hematological parameters, including reduced hemoglobin, erythrocyte counts, and hematocrit. Leukocyte counts declined over time, reflecting evolving systemic inflammation. Severity-dependent cytokines included eotaxin, interferon alpha-2 (IFNα2), interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1α), macrophage inflammatory protein-1 (MIP-1α), whereas interferon gamma-induced protein 10 (IP-10) and MIP-1α distinguished temporal healing phases. MiRNA profiling revealed 55 miRNAs with significant time-dependent expression changes (27 downregulated, 28 upregulated). Five key miRNAs (miR-140-5p, miR-181a-5p, miR-214-3p, miR-23a-3p, miR-98-5p) showed robust temporal patterns and enrichment in cytokine signaling pathways critical for bone repair. This work presents the first detailed molecular portrait of early human fracture healing, highlighting hematological, immune cytokine, and miRNA networks orchestrating repair. These insights provide a foundation for biomarkers development to predict healing outcomes and support precision-targeted interventions in fracture management.
The prognostic factors associated with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer treated with immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy need to be identified.We retrospectively analyzed the efficacy of ICI therapy in patients with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer at our center. The number of CD8 + T cells and the expression of PD-L1 were assessed using immunohistochemical assays. A multi-analyte flow assay was used to detect the concentrations of 13 inflammatory cytokines. Both univariate and multivariate models were constructed using pretreatment clinical variables and cytokines.We included 71 patients with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer treated with at least two cycles of anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1); the objective response rate was 36.62%, and the disease control rate was 78.87%. Elevated levels of interferon-alpha 2 (IFN-α2), IL-1β, and IL-12p70 in serum were associated with improved overall survival. Higher levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) correlated with longer overall survival and progression free survival. According to the results of the multivariate analysis, a high level of C-reactive protein (CRP) (> 10) independently predicted overall survival. Age, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and MCP-1 were independently associated with progression-free survival. Chemotherapy containing platinum after immunotherapy progression achieved a partial response rate of 55.55%.The results of ICI combination therapy have demonstrated a response rate of over one third. Peripheral blood markers, such as cytokines, could potentially serve as predictors of immunotherapy efficacy in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer patients.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s).
Immunotherapy has become one of the primary forms of cancer treatment. The inhibition of immune checkpoint molecules, including indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), is a promising approach for immunotherapy. Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is well known as a tumor suppressor that antagonizes oncogenic signaling molecules/pathways and plays a key role in the prognosis and (immuno)therapy of the disease. In this study, twenty healthy and tumorous renal tissue pairs were investigated, and the mRNA (RT-qPCR) and protein (Western blot) expression of IDO and PTEN were analyzed. In two cancer cell lines (CAKI-2; A-498), the protein of IDO and PTEN was measured followed by IDO induction with interferon alpha-2 (IFN-α2). According to our results, a significantly higher mRNA expression of IDO and PTEN was found in tumorous tissues compared to the adjacent healthy kidney specimens. The mRNA expression of IDO and PTEN showed a positive correlation in 80% of the sample pairs. Western blot results confirmed the protein expression of both IDO and PTEN. In the cell lines, immunocytochemistry showed that IDO is inducible with IFN-α2. In summary, our results suggest that IDO expression may play a role in the development of renal cancer, and IDO as well as PTEN might be potential biomarkers for patients with RCC.
Cytokine levels in the peripheral blood of children infected with the influenza A virus are significantly associated with disease diagnosis and severity. This study aimed to investigate the correlation between the expression levels of six cytokines in the peripheral blood of pediatric patients with influenza and the diagnosis and severity of their condition.The levels of six cytokines were measured using a flow cytometric microsphere array. Statistical analysis was performed using IBM SPSS Statistics 26.0 to compare differences between the groups, with a P value of less than 0.05 considered statistically significant.Univariate analysis showed that the levels of interferon alpha-2 (IFN-α2), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and interleukin-18 (IL-18) were significantly elevated in the influenza group (P≤0.001). IL-18 levels were higher in the H3N2 group than in the H1N1 group (P=0.03), and IFN-α2 levels were higher in the Mycoplasma coinfection group compared to the influenza-only group (P=0.04). Notably, significant differences in IFN-α2 and MCP-1 levels were observed between the mild-moderate and severe influenza A subgroups (P=0.008, P=0.01, respectively). Negative correlations were found between the severity of influenza A and the levels of IFN-α2 and MCP-1 (r=-0.357, P=0.006 and r=-0.329, P=0.01, respectively). Multifactorial logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis identified IFN-α2 and MCP-1 as independent risk factors for severe influenza A.Inflammatory cytokine levels are critical in modulating the immune and inflammatory responses of the body. IFN-α2 and MCP-1 could serve as early indicators of severe influenza A. IL-18 levels were significantly higher in the H3N2 group compared to the H1N1 group, this finding may aid in differentiating between influenza subtypes, providing insights for tailored interventions.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Rose Bengal Photodynamic Therapy (RB-PDT) offers dual therapeutic benefits by enhancing corneal stiffness and providing antibacterial activity, presenting significant potential for patients with keratoconus complicated by keratitis. Our purpose was to assess the effect of rose bengal photodynamic therapy (RB-PDT) on the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, as well as on extracellular matrix (ECM)-related molecules, in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation of keratoconus human corneal fibroblasts (KC-HCFs). Additionally, the involvement of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathways which are downstream of the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) pathway were examined.KC-HCFs were stimulated with varying concentrations of LPS (0-10 μg/ml), which was followed by RB-PDT. The expression levels of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), IL-6, IL-8, interferon alpha 2 (IFNA2), IFNB1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 (CCL-4), collagen I, collagen V, lysyl oxidase (LOX), transforming growth factor β 1(TGF-β1) were measured using qPCR, ELISA, or western blot. The activation of the NF-κB and MAPK pathways was assessed using qPCR and western blot.In LPS-induced inflammation of KC-HCFs, the expression of IL-6 was further amplified by the treatment with RB-PDT (p = 0.001). However, the activation of the MAPK and NF-κB pathways did not increase following RB-PDT. Additionally, RB-PDT reduced the transcription of collagen I and collagen V (p≤0.03), while the transcription of LOX and TGF-β1 secretion remained unchanged in KC-HCFs exposed to LPS.In LPS-induced inflammation of KC-HCFs treated with RB-PDT, despite the increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, the activation of the TLR4 signaling pathways is lacking. RB-PDT may have no adverse effects on corneal scar formation of keratoconus corneas in the short term.Copyright: © 2025 Chai et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The aim of this study was to describe the clinical features and treatment responses of Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) and Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) with kidney involvement.We retrospectively analyzed patients with RDD and ECD with kidney involvement from 2005 to 2023, evaluating kidney function changes, as well as computed tomography (CT), and metabolic responses.The study included 4 patients with RDD and 44 with ECD, with median ages of 58 and 51 years, respectively. Patients with RDD lacked kidney symptoms, whereas 27.3% of patients with ECD exhibited lower extremity edema. The median estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was 80.5 (63-125) in RDD and 100 (22-133) ml/min per 1.73 m2 in ECD. All patients with RDD had renal masses; 68.2% of ECD cases showed perirenal infiltration. Two patients with RDD received steroids (1 postnephrectomy), and 2 received lenalidomide and dexamethasone (RD) therapy. One patient with RDD (25%) showed eGFR improvement, and 3 (75%) had CT and positron emission tomography (PET)-CT responses. Of 34 patients with ECD, 26 were treated with interferon-alpha, 5 with BRAF inhibitor, and 3 with cytarabine. The rates of eGFR improvement, CT response, and PET-CT response were 14.7%, 5.9%, and 52.9%, respectively. Median follow-up was 27.0 months for RDD and 53.0 months for ECD. The 5-year overall survival was 66.7% for RDD and 81.8% for ECD. The median progression-free survival was 18.3 months for RDD and 59.4 months for ECD.We described details of kidney involvement characteristics and treatment responses in RDD and ECD, highlighting the typical renal mass in RDD and perirenal soft tissue in ECD. Patients with ECD may experience irreversible kidney dysfunction, indicating the critical need for early diagnosis and timely treatment.© 2024 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Despite developing new diagnostics, drugs, and vaccines, treating tuberculosis (TB) remains challenging. Monitoring inflammatory markers can contribute to more precise diagnostics of TB, identifying its active and latent forms, or monitoring its treatment success. We assessed alterations in plasma levels of 48 cytokines in 20 patients (17 males) with active pulmonary TB compared to age-matched healthy controls (n = 18). Blood samples were collected from individuals hospitalised with TB prior to commencing antibiotic therapy, after the first week, and following the third week. The majority of patients received treatment with a combination of four first-line antituberculosis drugs: rifampicin, isoniazid, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide. Plasmatic cytokine levels from patients three times and controls were analyzed using a Bio-Plex Pro Human Cytokine Screening Panel. The results showed significantly higher levels of 31 cytokines (p<0.05) than healthy controls. Three-week therapy duration showed significantly decreased levels of nine cytokines: interferon alpha-2 (IFN-α2), interleukin (IL) 1 alpha (IL-1α), IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), IL-6, IL-10, IL-12 p40, IL-17, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). Out of these, only levels of IL-1α and IL-6 remained significantly elevated compared to controls. Moreover, we have found a negative correlation of 18 cytokine levels with BMI of the patients but no correlation with age. Our results showed a clinical potential for monitoring the levels of specific inflammatory markers after a short treatment duration. The reduction in cytokine levels throughout the course of therapy could indicate treatment success but should be confirmed in studies with more individuals involved and a longer observation period.Copyright: © 2024 Krivošová et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Herpes simplex viruses type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2) are widespread human pathogens that establish chronic latent infections leading to recurrent episodes. Current treatments are limited, necessitating the development of novel antiviral strategies. This study aimed to assess the antiviral efficacy of novel topical formulations containing interferon alpha-2b (IFN α-2b) against HSV-1 and HSV-2. The formulations, Oftalmoferon® forte (eye drops) and Interferon Vaginal Tablets, demonstrated potent antiviral effects against HSV-1 and HSV-2 in Vero cells, respectively, with concentration-dependent inhibition of viral replication. Subsequently, their efficacy was tested in animal models: HSV-1 keratitis in the rabbit eye model and HSV-2 genital herpes in mice. Oftalmoferon® forte effectively treated HSV-1 keratitis, reducing clinical symptoms and ulcerations compared to virus control. Interferon Vaginal Tablets showed promising results in controlling HSV-2 genital herpes in mice, improving survival rates, reducing clinical signs, weight loss and viral replication. The novel IFN α-2b formulations exhibited significant antiviral activity against HSV infections in cell culture and animal models. These findings suggest the potential of these formulations as alternative treatments for HSV infections, particularly in cases resistant to current therapies. Further studies are warranted to optimize treatment regimens and assess clinical efficacy in humans.
Marek's disease (MD) is caused by the highly contagious Marek's disease virus (MDV), a tumorigenic alphaherpesvirus. The disease is presently managed through vaccination. Nevertheless, the dynamic nature of MDV presents challenges, as new virulent strains may arise that can potentially overcome existing vaccine-mediated immunity. To address this, new and more effective vaccines are crucial. The immune system's first line of defense against infections is the innate immune response, where type I interferons (IFN-I) play a key role. As with other alphaherpesviruses, MDV encodes numerous genes capable of modulating IFN-I production during infection. Ablation of these genes in MDV could result in attenuation, thereby facilitating the creation of novel vaccine strains with augmented IFN-I induction during infection. Hence, a system to identify immunomodulatory MDV gene products that impede IFN-I production in avian innate immune cells is required. Herein, we present an innovative screening method that quantifies the expression of Interferon Omega 1 (IFNω1) in an avian macrophage-like cell line expressing MDV genes via recombinant lentivirus (rLV) integration. Five MDV gene products hypothesized to inhibit IFN-I production (Meq, US3, R-LORF4, UL46, and UL48) were assayed in our screening system. Stable expression of all MDV genes was obtained when rLV was utilized to insert these genes into HD11 cells. Additionally, we established the optimal conditions for activation of the IFN-I response in HD11 cells using a 2 kb double-stranded DNA segment delivered by transfection as a stimulant. With this approach, we demonstrated that these MDV gene products significantly decreased the gene expression of IFN-I when activated by transfection with double-stranded DNA.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41809048 is a review article
The transcription factor Sex-determining region Y-box protein 3 (SOX3) is well known for its critical roles in sex determination and cell differentiation; however, its function in antiviral innate immunity remains unexplored. This study uncovered how SOX3, induced by viral infections, modulates type I interferon (IFN-I) responses. RNA sequencing, quantitative PCR, and immunoblot analysis collectively revealed that SOX3 overexpression suppresses virus-induced interferon beta 1(IFN-β) promoter activation and significantly inhibits the expression of key antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), including ISG15 and interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1). Conversely, the knockdown of SOX3 enhanced IFN-β production and ISGs expression, confirming its role as a negative regulator of antiviral immunity. Mechanistically, chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) identified SOX3 binding specifically at the AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1) locus. Further analysis demonstrated that SOX3 directly upregulates AKT1 expression, subsequently increasing phosphorylation and inactivation of the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN). Inactivation of PTEN inhibited interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) nuclear translocation, leading to reduced IFN-β expression. Thus, our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized SOX3-AKT1-PTEN signaling axis in the regulation of antiviral innate immunity, providing new insights into immune evasion strategies and highlighting potential therapeutic targets to enhance antiviral responses.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the association of genetic polymorphisms in MB21D1 (Mab-21 domain-containing 1), TMEM173 (Transmembrane Protein 173), IFNB1 (Interferon beta 1), IFNGR1 (Interferon gamma receptor 1), IFNGR2 (Interferon gamma receptor 2), IRF3 (Interferon Regulatory Factor 3), and IRF8 (Interferon Regulatory Factor 8) with susceptibility to non-tuberculous mycobacteria pulmonary disease (NTM-PD) as well as their correlation with the treatment outcomes and immune status of patients.Forty-four tagSNPs from the candidate genes were genotyped in a 2-phase cohort study including an initial discovery phase involving 707 NTM-PD patients and 726 healthy controls and a replication phase involving 357 NTM-PD patients and 400 controls. The frequencies and distributions of genotypes were compared between the case and control groups. Treatment success rates, sputum culture conversion rates, imaging characteristics, and peripheral blood immunological indices were compared among patients with different genotypes.Individuals with the IFNGR1 rs2234711 A/A genotype were more susceptible to MAC-PD compared to those with the G/G genotype (discovery phase OR = 1.752, P.adj = 0.025; replication phase OR = 2.143, P.adj = 0.019). Patients with the rs2234711 A/A genotype exhibited significantly lower treatment success rates and sputum culture conversion rates, along with elevated levels of peripheral blood heparin-binding protein (HBP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and interleukin-10, but significantly decreased interleukin-1β levels (all P < 0.05). Individuals with the IRF8 rs2280378 A/A genotype were more susceptible to MAB-PD (discovery phase OR = 2.302, P.adj = 0.014; replication phase OR = 2.465, P.adj = 0.015). Compared to G/G genotype patients, those with the rs2280378 A/A genotype exhibited lower treatment success rates and sputum culture conversion rates, were more likely to develop pulmonary cavities and multiple lung field involvement, and showed elevated levels of peripheral blood HBP and C-reactive protein, along with significantly reduced levels of serum interleukin-12 P70, tumor necrosis factor-α, and CD8 + T lymphocytes (all P < 0.05).In the Chinese Han population, IFNGR1 genetic polymorphisms are closely associated with MAC-PD susceptibility, while IRF8 genetic polymorphisms are associated with MAB-PD susceptibility. Variants in IFNGR1 and IRF8 significantly affect the immune status and treatment outcomes of MAC-PD and MAB-PD patients, respectively.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a central nervous system inflammatory disorder with evidence of peripheral immune system dysregulation. Complex signaling interaction of immune cytokines transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFB1) and interferon beta 1 (IFNB1) have been reported, but not fully defined in MS. Thus, we aimed to assess association of TGFB1 and IFNB1 mRNA expression with MS onset and phase of the disease. Additionally, we investigated the genetic basis of the two under-examined genetic variants, previously designated as eQTLs for TGFB1 (rs1800469) and IFNB1 (rs2275888), with MS occurrence and expression of investigated genes.Study included 417 MS patients and 293 controls for genetic association and 71 MS patients and 101 healthy controls for gene expression analysis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Analysis was performed using TaqMan® technology (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, US).We found significantly higher TGFB1 mRNA level in relapsing-remitting (RR) MS patients in comparison to the controls (P = 0.03). Relative IFNB1 mRNA levels in RRMS patients who were in relapse was significantly higher in comparison to those in remission (P = 0.03). A positive correlation of TGFB1 and IFNB1 mRNA levels was observed in MS patient's subgroups. Genetic variants did not affect MS occurrence or the gene expressions.Current findings provide important supplementary information about the association between TGFB1 and IFNB1 gene expression and MS. Cross-talk between TGFB1 and IFNB1 might be a modulating factor of inflammatory response in different phases of RR MS. These results need to be further replicated.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Methyltransferase-like-3 (METTL3)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of messenger RNAs plays a pivotal role in regulating innate immune responses, either promoting or combating virus replication. However, the biological function of METTL3 during porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) infection remains unclear. In this study, we found that PRRSV infection reprograms m6A modifications in cellular transcripts, enhances METTL3 expression, and alters its subcellular distribution. Intriguingly, METTL3 overexpression facilitates PRRSV replication, whereas its deficiency suppresses it, primarily through the negative regulation of type I interferon (IFN-I) production. Further investigation revealed that METTL3 interacts with and promotes the degradation of IκB kinase-ε (IKKε) during PRRSV infection. Mechanistically, METTL3-mediated m6A modification of SQSTM1 (sequestosome 1) enhances SQSTM1 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression, increasing autophagy levels. Moreover, METTL3 facilitates the formation of K63-linked ubiquitin chains on IKKε, targeting it for degradation via SQSTM1-dependent selective autophagy. Collectively, our findings unveil a novel mechanism whereby METTL3 facilitates PRRSV replication by suppressing antiviral innate immunity, thereby offering potential targets for antiviral therapy.IMPORTANCEPorcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), induced by the porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), poses a highly contagious threat to the global swine industry, leading to substantial economic losses. The genetic variability and immune evasion capabilities of PRRSV complicate the development of effective vaccines and control strategies. Thus, a comprehensive understanding of PRRSV's immune evasion mechanisms is imperative. In this study, we reveal that METTL3 plays a pivotal role in PRRSV's evasion of interferon (IFN) immunity. Specifically, METTL3 targets IKKε, inducing its autophagy degradation and subsequently inhibiting the expression of interferon beta 1 (IFNB1). Furthermore, PRRSV infection alters the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of various host genes, with notable changes observed in the m6A modification and transcriptional levels of SQSTM1, which are regulated by METTL3. This regulation is crucial for SQSTM1-mediated autophagy degradation of IKKε. Our findings offer novel insights into the mechanisms underlying host protein involvement in PRRSV's immune evasion.
As a core aptamer for anti-DNA viral immunity, STING1 (stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1) is tightly regulated to ensure the proper functioning of the natural antiviral immune response. However, many mechanisms underlying the regulation of STING1 remain largely unknown. In this study, we identify EXOC4/SEC8 (exocyst complex component 4) as a novel positive regulator of DNA virus-triggered type I interferon signaling responses through stabilizing STING1, thereby inhibiting DNA viral replication. Mechanistically, EXOC4 suppresses K27-linked ubiquitination of STING1 at K338, K347, and K370 catalyzed by the E3 ligase FBXL19 (F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 19), thereby preventing ubiquitinated-STING1 from recognition by SQSTM1 (sequestosome 1) for autophagic degradation. Importantly, mice conditionally knocked out for Exoc4/Sec8 are more susceptible to herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection and exhibit more severe lung pathology compared to control mice. This further confirms the important role of EXOC4/SEC8 in antiviral natural immunity. Taken together, our study reveals the importance of EXOC4/SEC8 in promoting STING1-centered antiviral natural immunity and highlights its potential as an anti-DNA viral therapeutic target.Abbreviations: ACTB/β-actin: actin beta; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMP; CQ: chloroquine; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; EXOC4/SEC8: exocyst complex component 4; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; HAdV-4: human adenovirus type 4; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus type 1; IFIT1: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFIT2: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2; IFNB1: interferon beta 1; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; IFN-I: type I interferon; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; ISRE: IFN-stimulated response element; MG132/Z-LLL-CHO: carbobenzoxy-Leu-Leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MST: microscale thermophoresis; PMs: peritoneal macrophages; Poly(dA:dT): polydeoxyadenylic-thymidylic acid; qPCR: quantitative real-time PCR; shRNAs: short hairpin RNAs; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious dose; WT: wild-type.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide with limited treatment options due to extensive radiation and chemotherapy resistance. Monotherapy with immune checkpoint blockade showed no survival benefit. A combination of immunomodulation and radiotherapy may offer new treatment strategies, as demonstrated for non-small cell lung cancer. Radiation-induced anti-tumour immunity is mediated through cytosolic nucleic acid sensing pathways that drive the expression of interferon beta-1 (IFNB1) and proinflammatory cytokines.Human PDAC cell lines (PANC-1, MIA PaCa-2, BxPC-3) were treated with X-rays and protons. Immunogenic cell death was measured based on HMGB1 release. Cytosolic dsDNA and dsRNA were analysed by immunofluorescence microscopy. Cell cycle progression, MHC-I and PD-L1 expression were determined by flow cytometry. Galectin-1 and IFNB1 were measured by ELISA. The expression levels and the phosphorylation status of the cGAS/STING and RIG-I/MAVS signalling pathways were analysed by western blotting, the expression of IFNB1 and proinflammatory cytokines was determined by RT-qPCR and genome-wide by RNA-seq. CRISPR-Cas9 knock-outs and inhibitors were used to elucidate the relevance of STING, MAVS and NF-κB for radiation-induced IFNB1 activation.We demonstrate that a clinically relevant X-ray hypofractionation regimen (3x8 Gy) induces immunogenic cell death and activates IFNB1 and proinflammatory cytokines. Fractionated radiation induces G2/M arrest and accumulation of cytosolic DNA in PDAC cells, which partly originates from mitochondria. RNA-seq analysis shows a global upregulation of type I interferon response and NF-κB signalling in PDAC cells following 3x8 Gy. Radiation-induced immunogenic response is regulated by STING, MAVS and NF-κB. In addition to immunostimulation, radiation also induces immunosuppressive galectin-1. No significant changes in MHC-I or PD-L1 expression were observed. Moreover, PDAC cell lines show similar radiation-induced immune effects when exposed to single-dose protons or photons.Our findings provide a rationale for combinatorial radiation-immunomodulatory treatment approaches in PDAC using conventional photon-based or proton beam radiotherapy.Copyright © 2024 Kerschbaum-Gruber, Kleinwächter, Popova, Kneringer, Appel, Stasny, Röhrer, Dias, Benedum, Walch, Postl, Barna, Kratzer, Pickl, Akalin, Horvat, Franke, Widder, Georg and Slade.
In recent years a broader range of immunomodulatory and immunosuppressive treatment options have emerged for people with progressive forms of multiple sclerosis (PMS). While consensus supports these options as reducing relapses, their relative benefit and safety profiles remain unclear due to a lack of direct comparison trials.To compare through network meta-analysis the efficacy and safety of alemtuzumab, azathioprine, cladribine, cyclophosphamide, daclizumab, dimethylfumarate, diroximel fumarate, fingolimod, fludarabine, glatiramer acetate, immunoglobulins, interferon beta 1-a and beta 1-b, interferon beta-1b (Betaferon), interferon beta-1a (Avonex, Rebif), laquinimod, leflunomide, methotrexate, minocycline, mitoxantrone, mycophenolate mofetil, natalizumab, ocrelizumab, ofatumumab, ozanimod, pegylated interferon beta-1a, ponesimod, rituximab, siponimod, corticosteroids, and teriflunomide for PMS.We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and Embase up to August 2022, as well as ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO ICTRP.Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that studied one or more treatments as monotherapy, compared to placebo or to another active agent, for use in adults with PMS.Two review authors independently selected studies and extracted data. We performed data synthesis by pair-wise and network meta-analysis. We assessed the certainty of the body of evidence according to GRADE.We included 23 studies involving a total of 10,167 participants. The most frequent (39% of studies) reason for a rating of high risk of bias was sponsor role in study authorship and data management and analysis. Other concerns were performance, attrition, and selective reporting bias, with 8.7% of studies at high risk of bias for all three of these domains. The common comparator for network analysis was placebo. Relapses over 12 months: assessed in one study (318 participants). None of the treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo. Relapses over 24 months: assessed in six studies (1622 participants). The number of people with clinical relapses is probably trivially reduced with rituximab (risk ratio (RR) 0.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.19 to 1.95; moderate certainty evidence). None of the remaining treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo. Relapses over 36 months: assessed in four studies (2095 participants). The number of people with clinical relapses is probably trivially reduced with interferon beta-1b (RR 0.82, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.93; moderate certainty evidence). None of the remaining treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo. Disability worsening over 24 months: assessed in 11 studies (5284 participants). None of the treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo. Disability worsening over 36 months: assessed in five studies (2827 participants). None of the treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo. Serious adverse events: assessed in 15 studies (8019 participants). None of the treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo. Discontinuation due to adverse events: assessed in 21 studies (9981 participants). The number of people who discontinued treatment due to adverse events is trivially increased with interferon beta-1a (odds ratio (OR) 2.93, 95% CI 1.64 to 5.26; high certainty evidence). The number of people who discontinued treatment due to adverse events is probably trivially increased with rituximab (OR 4.00, 95% CI 0.84 to 19.12; moderate certainty evidence); interferon beta-1b (OR 2.98, 95% CI 1.92 to 4.61; moderate certainty evidence); immunoglobulins (OR 1.95, 95% CI 0.99 to 3.84; moderate certainty evidence); glatiramer acetate (OR 3.98, 95% CI 1.48 to 10.72; moderate certainty evidence); natalizumab (OR 1.02, 95% CI 0.55 to 1.90; moderate certainty evidence); siponimod (OR 1.53, 95% CI 0.98 to 2.38; moderate certainty evidence); fingolimod (OR 2.29, 95% CI 1.46 to 3.60; moderate certainty evidence), and ocrelizumab (OR 1.24, 95% CI 0.54 to 2.86; moderate certainty evidence). None of the remaining treatments assessed showed moderate or high certainty evidence compared to placebo.The number of people with PMS with relapses is probably slightly reduced with rituximab at two years, and interferon beta-1b at three years, compared to placebo. Both drugs are also probably associated with a slightly higher proportion of withdrawals due to adverse events, as are immunoglobulins, glatiramer acetate, natalizumab, fingolimod, siponimod, and ocrelizumab; we have high confidence that this is the case with interferon beta-1a. We found only low or very low certainty evidence relating to disability progression for the included disease-modifying treatments compared to placebo, largely due to imprecision. We are also uncertain about the effect of interventions on serious adverse events, also because of imprecision. These findings are due in part to the short follow-up of the included RCTs, which lacked detection of less common severe adverse events. Moreover, the funding source of many included studies may have introduced bias into the results. Future research on PMS should include head-to-head rather than placebo-controlled trials, with a longer follow-up of at least three years. Given the relative rarity of PMS, controlled, non-randomised studies on large samples may usefully integrate data from pivotal RCTs. Outcomes valuable and meaningful to people with PMS should be consistently adopted and measured to permit the evaluation of relative effectiveness among treatments.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. on behalf of The Cochrane Collaboration.
Bile acids (BAs) are natural metabolites in mammals and have the potential to function as drugs against viral infection. However, the limited understanding of chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) receptors and downstream signaling, along with its lower suppression efficiency in inhibiting virus infection limits its clinical application. In this study, we demonstrate that farnesoid X receptor (FXR), the receptor of CDCA, negatively regulates interferon signaling, thereby contributing to the reduced effectiveness of CDCA against virus replication. FXR deficiency or pharmacological inhibition enhances interferon signaling activation to suppress virus infection. Mechanistically, FXR impairs the DNA binding and transcriptional abilities of activated interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) through interaction. Reduced IRF3 transcriptional activity by FXR-IRF3 interaction significantly undermines the expression of Interferon Beta 1 (IFNB1) and the antiviral response of cells, especially upon the CDCA treatment. In FXR-deficient cells, or when combined with Z-guggulsterone (GUGG) treatment, CDCA exhibits a more potent ability to restrict virus infection. Thus, these findings suggest that FXR serves as a limiting factor for CDCA in inhibiting virus replication, which can be attributed to the "signaling-brake" roles of FXR in interferon signaling. Targeting FXR inhibition represents a promising pharmaceutical strategy for the clinical application of BAs metabolites as antiviral drugs.© 2024 The Authors.
The interaction between human immunoglobulin G (IgG)1 Fc and the Fc gamma receptor (FcγR) IIIa/CD16a elicits protective immune responses. Antibody N-glycosylation stabilizes the FcγR-binding interface and is thus essential for interaction with wildtype IgG1 Fc. Furthermore, the N-glycan introduces substantial compositional and functional heterogeneity, with distinct glycoforms providing different affinities and discrete responses in vivo. Accordingly, various engineering endeavors to improve antibody binding strive to boost the therapeutic efficacy of monoclonal antibodies but do not directly address compositional heterogeneity.Here, we describe a previously unexplored approach to engineer IgG1 Fc. We eliminated carbohydrate heterogeneity by removing the N-glycan but stabilizing the FcγR-binding interface with disulfide bonds.These newly generated Fc domains served as a starting point for protein engineering through yeast surface display to enhance receptor-binding affinity. We recovered Fc variants from this approach that demonstrated FcγRIIIa binding affinities comparable to the starting sequence and thus serve as a proof-of-principle for this strategy.
Fc gamma receptor IIIA (FCGR3A) encodes CD16a, a key mediator of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) that regulates innate and adaptive immunity, especially in natural killer (NK) cells and monocytes. We generated an FCGR3A-EGFP knock-in human embryonic stem cell (hESC) line via CRISPR/Casn9n. The cell line showed a normal karyotype, maintained expression ofthe pluripotency markers OCT4, SOX2, and NANOG, and retained trilineage differentiation potential. This reporter line enables real-time tracking of FCGR3A expression during immune cell differentiation, serving as a useful tool for studying FCGR3A+ immune cell development and related immune mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Natural killer (NK) cells are increasingly recognized as central effectors in kidney allograft injury, extending beyond their traditional role in innate immunity. This narrative review summarizes current evidence linking NK cells to microvascular inflammation, with a focus on both antibody-dependent and antibody-independent rejection. In antibody-mediated rejection, NK cells may be activated through Fc gamma receptor IIIa (CD16a) engagement with endothelium-bound donor-specific antibodies, leading to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and proinflammatory cytokine release. In parallel, emerging data highlight donor-specific antibody-independent pathways of NK cell activation, most prominently "missing-self" recognition, driven by donor-recipient killer immunoglobulin-like receptor-HLA incompatibility. Direct proof of concept for an effector role of NK cells in rejection comes from a series of experimental models. High-dimensional transcriptomic and spatial profiling of clinical transplant biopsies consistently demonstrate NK cell enrichment in antibody-mediated rejection and microvascular inflammation, with expression signatures correlating with graft injury severity and outcomes. Moreover, functional genetic polymorphisms in NK cell receptors, including Fc gamma receptor IIIa and the activating receptor NK group 2 member C, might modulate NK cell responsiveness and as a consequence susceptibility to microvascular injury. Therapeutically, emerging strategies such as CD38-targeting monoclonal antibodies, mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition, and, still in experimental phase, interleukin-15 blockade suggest potential to modulate NK cell activity and counteract rejection. Collectively, these findings position NK cells as central effector cells integrating innate and adaptive alloimmune responses and highlight them as promising therapeutic targets in kidney transplantation.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Coronin-1A (CORO1A), a conserved WD-repeat protein enriched in immune cells, plays a pivotal role in host-pathogen interactions and immune regulation, yet the mechanisms controlling its expression have remained elusive. We identify vitamin D3 and retinoic acid as potent repressors of CORO1A transcription via a novel competitive displacement mechanism, wherein soluble VDR/RXR heterodimers outcompete NFAT1 at its binding site on the CORO1A promoter. Luciferase reporter assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation and electrophoretic mobility shift assays pinpoint NFAT1 as the dominant transcriptional driver of CORO1A in the myeloid lineage, with NFAT1/NFAT2 jointly controlling its expression in lymphoid cells. Strikingly, perturbation of the calcineurin-NFAT1 axis sharply reduces CORO1A levels, markedly enhancing macrophage-mediated mycobacterial clearance. The present work uncovers previously unrecognized lineage-specific transcriptional circuitry for CORO1A regulation and positions the calcineurin-NFAT1 pathway as a compelling therapeutic target for immune modulation and host-directed interventions against infectious disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the Biochemical Society.
The case report describes a novel finding of a homozygous variant in the coronin 1A (CORO1A) gene, associated with atypical severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in a 9-year-old female patient with recurrent infections and unique immunological features, including periodic T-cell lymphocytosis and T- and B-cell lymphopenia.A 9-year-old female with a known history of recurrent pneumonia presented to the emergency department with a 2-week history of intermittent fever, progressive lethargy, and pallor. Her past medical history was remarkable for multiple hospital admissions secondary to community-acquired pneumonia and urinary tract infections, totaling four admissions to date. Family history was significant for consanguinity between parents and a healthy 4-year-old younger male sibling. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated bilateral diffuse centrilobular nodules, scattered ground-glass opacities, and left lower lobe consolidation, in addition to a tree-in-bud pattern. Immunological evaluation revealed T-cell lymphocytosis, B-cell lymphopenia, and a decreased CD4/CD8 ratio. Based on these findings, the pediatric allergy and immunology team recommended genetic testing for primary immunodeficiency. The panel identified a homozygous variant of uncertain significance (VUS) in the CORO1A gene. Pathogenic variants in CORO1A are associated with autosomal recessive CORO1A-related SCID.The novel homozygous variant in the CORO1A gene suggests the likelihood of an atypical form of SCID, characterized by periodic T-cell lymphocytosis, T-cell lymphopenia, B-cell lymphopenia, and a low CD4/CD8 ratio, expanding the spectrum of CORO1A deficiency.Copyright © 2026 Alanoud Aljohani et al. Case Reports in Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The release of exosomes involves the fusion of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) with the plasma membrane (PM), a process driven by the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex. However, the specific SNARE complex mediating MVB-PM fusion and its regulatory mechanism remain unclear. Here, we show that Coronin-1a (Coro1a) increases extracellular vesicle (EV) biogenesis by promoting the assembly of the STX-12-SNAP-23-VAMP-7 SNARE complex independent of neddylation. Mechanistically, Coro1a activates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) to enhance SNAP-23 phosphorylation, thereby driving the recruitment of STX-12 and VAMP-7. Consequently, Coro1a-induced EV biogenesis is abolished by PKM2 inhibition or SNAP-23 silencing. Furthermore, Coro1a levels are elevated in lung tumor tissues and correlate with poor patient survival, suggesting that Coro1a-mediated enhancement of EV production contributes to tumor progression. Our data demonstrate that Coro1a facilitates EV biogenesis by promoting SNARE complex assembly during MVB and PM fusion.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) recurrence is driven by therapy-resistant cells that escape surgical detection and withstand subsequent chemoradiotherapy. However, the molecular basis connecting invasion, metabolic detectability, and treatment resistance remains elusive. Here, we identify Coronin-1A (Coro1A), a cytoplasmic actin-associated regulator, as a multidirectional modulator of cancer stemness in GBM. Across six patient-derived GBM lines, Coro1A mRNA expression strongly correlated with both cell motility and the proportion of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)-negative cells, and high Coro1A levels predicted significantly poorer prognosis in recurrent GBM cases. To assess its function, Coro1A-knockdown clones were generated from a recurrent GBM-derived culture (PDM123). Silencing Coro1A significantly reduced migration and modestly decreased proliferation, with the extent of motility reduction correlating with residual Coro1A expression. Importantly, knockdown enhanced intracellular accumulation of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) under 5-ALA treatment, even in highly motile cells, indicating that Coro1A simultaneously governs invasiveness and intraoperative fluorescence detectability. Furthermore, Coro1A depletion increased sensitivity to temozolomide (TMZ) and X-ray irradiation, revealing its critical contribution to therapy resistance. Collectively, these findings establish Coro1A as a central cytoskeletal regulator that unifies invasion, diagnostic escape, and therapeutic resilience-highlighting its potential as a curative target capable of dismantling the multifaceted resistance of GBM.© 2026. The Author(s).
Programmed cell death (PCD) governs tissue homeostasis and shapes tumor-immune interactions. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), apoptosis evasion drives resistance and poor outcomes, yet the PCD landscape and the role of Coronin 1A (CORO1A) remain insufficiently defined.We integrated AML bone marrow single-cell RNA-seq (GSE154109) with bulk RNA-seq from TCGA (training) and GSE71014 (testing), and GTEx normal marrow. After batch correction, we profiled 3,524 PCD- related genes. Single-cell analyses (Seurat, Harmony) resolved hematopoietic and malignant populations; pathway activity was quantified by ssGSEA/GSVA. Survival modeling used a multi-algorithm framework (10 learners, 117 combinations). Immune features were inferred via IOBR; immunotherapy response via TIDE; drug sensitivity via OncoPredict. We analyzed DepMap AML cell lines (n = 29), correlating CORO1A CRISPR dependency (CERES) with CORO1A expression (log2 TPM) by Pearson's correlation in R. CORO1A function was tested by shRNA knockdown in HL-60 and THP-1 cells with CCK-8, Annexin V, and Western blot.Malignant cells and monocytes/macrophages showed higher PCD enrichment than lymphoid clusters. Malignant cells upregulated MYC/E2F targets, DNA repair, fatty acid metabolism, with attenuated interferon signaling. From 3,524 genes, we derived a five-gene prognostic signature-CORO1A and PECAM1 (risk), and CLEC11A, ITGA4, AGTPBP1 (protective)-via optimal LASSO plus stepwise Cox (mean C-index 0.72; TCGA 0.74; GSE71014 0.70). Discrimination was strong (AUCs: training 0.816/0.803/0.887 at 1/3/5 years; testing 0.711/0.765/0.749) and independent of age and sex. Risk score-associated transcripts were enriched for apoptosis, FoxO signaling, senescence, proteoglycans in cancer, and HTLV-1 pathways; GSEA indicated hematopoietic stemness and NRF2-upregulated programs. High-risk tumors had higher stromal/immune scores, lower purity, increased monocytes/macrophages/neutrophils, and reduced B/T/NK infiltration; the risk score correlated with cytokines (CXCR3, IL10, PF4, PPBP). TIDE predicted greater immunotherapy benefit in high-risk patients. OncoPredict suggested higher sensitivity in the high-risk group to 5-fluorouracil, PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors (afuresertib, pictilisib, taselisib, dactolisib), and the MET inhibitor savolitinib. CORO1A was highly expressed in AML cell lines; knockdown reduced proliferation, decreased Bcl-2/Bax ratio by 1.5-fold, and increased apoptosis.Multi-omic integration of PCD-related genes delineates PCD-driven heterogeneity in AML and yields a robust five-gene prognostic model with therapeutic implications. CORO1A emerges as a potential apoptosis-associated oncogene that promoting AML cell survival.©2026 Yang et al.
The Fc γ-receptor IIIa (FcγRIIIa), or CD16a, is a receptor for the Fc region of IgG that plays an essential role in the regulation of antibody effector functions. Dysregulated CD16a activity contributes to tissue damage and chronic inflammation or, conversely, compromises the removal of immune complexes. CD16a glycoforms with high-mannose N-linked glycans at site N162 demonstrate higher affinity for IgG compared to other forms. Here, we developed a targeted nanoliquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) method for the site-specific study of CD16a N-glycosylation. The method was applied to assess changes in site N162 N-glycosylation in a model of monocyte differentiation and in CD16a from human primary monocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Site N162 N-glycosylation was similar across the surveyed cell types. An increase in the proportion of high-mannose N-glycan compositions at site N162 was observed, corresponding to high-affinity glycoforms of CD16a, in a model of monocyte differentiation. Here, the feasibility of using targeted glycopeptide PRM to study CD16a glycosylation in primary cells has been demonstrated. This strategy is well-suited for adaptation to clinical studies focused on the role of CD16a glycosylation in physiology, immunotherapy, and immune disorders. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD071784.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease burden is greatest between 6 weeks and 6 months of life, with young age the most common risk factor among hospitalized children. A robust innate immune response in the airway epithelium is crucial for mitigating RSV-associated disease, but early-life immune responses to infection remain largely unexplored. RNA-seq analysis of RSV-infected primary nasal epithelial cell cultures from healthy infants at birth and 1 year revealed diminished expression of interferon epsilon (IFNE), a poorly characterized type I IFN, in newborns vs 1 year. We hypothesized, therefore, that IFNE plays an important role during infant RSV infection. We found that IFNE is basally expressed in airway epithelial cell lines. Recombinant human IFNε (rhIFNε) induced an antiviral state against an RSV clinical isolate and related Sendai virus, but not SARS-CoV-2 under the conditions tested. The antiviral potency of rhIFNε was diminished relative to rhIFN beta (rhIFNβ1) or rhIFN lambda-1 (rhIFNλ1), as evidenced by IC50 data. Importantly, rhIFNε induced similar ISGs as rhIFNβ1 but demonstrated a transient temporal expression profile that differed from both rhIFNβ1 and rhIFNλ1. These results suggest that lower IFNε expression at birth may contribute to increased susceptibility to severe RSV-associated disease, offering insights into potential interventions.Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major pediatric respiratory pathogen. Despite advances in vaccine development and monoclonal antibody prophylaxis, the immune factors driving RSV-associated disease remain unclear. Notably, severe disease is not limited to recognized high-risk groups; most affected children share only young age as a risk factor. To better understand virus-host interactions in early life, we previously derived primary airway epithelial cell cultures from the same healthy newborns at birth and at 1 year, infected them with a clinical RSV isolate, and performed total RNA sequencing. In this study, we present evidence that the transcriptional expression of interferon epsilon (IFNE), a relatively understudied type I interferon, varies with chronological age, coinciding with the period of the greatest burden of severe RSV-associated disease. We also show that recombinant human IFNε exhibits antiviral activity against RSV in airway epithelial cells, although with reduced potency compared to other type I and III interferons. These results expand our understanding of interferon responses during early-life RSV infection and suggest that reduced IFNε expression in newborns may partly explain their increased vulnerability to severe disease.
Antiviral defenses at mucosal barriers are essential for preventing viral entry and systemic infection. Interferon epsilon (IFNε) is a unique type I IFN that, unlike other family members, is not induced by infection but is constitutively expressed in epithelial tissues. IFNε was initially characterized in the female reproductive tract (FRT), where it provides broad antiviral protection, but its roles outside the FRT remain poorly defined. Here, we used Ifnε-/- mice and single-cell RNA sequencing to delineate IFNε function across distinct mucosal surfaces. In the FRT, Ifnε expression was restricted to specific epithelial subsets, was independent of estrous stage, and maintained basal ISG expression. IFNε was also retained intracellularly in primary human FRT-derived cells. Extending these analyses to the intestine, we found that IFNε is highly expressed in villous-tip enterocytes of the small intestine in vivo, where it sustains inflammatory enterocyte subsets and maintains type III IFN expression. Loss of Ifnε depleted these subsets and rendered mice more susceptible to enteric viral infection. Together, these findings establish IFNε as a constitutively expressed, spatially restricted IFN that coordinates mucosal antiviral defenses across both reproductive and gastrointestinal epithelial tissues.Interferon epsilon (IFNε) is a unique type I IFN that, unlike other family members, is not induced by infection but is constitutively expressed in epithelial tissues. In this manuscript, we define the epithelial cell types that constitutively express IFNε in the uterus and small intestine at a single-cell resolution. We show that mice lacking IFNε lose key antiviral defenses in a tissue-dependent manner; uterine epithelial cells have diminished basal ISG expression, and key populations of cytokine-expressing enterocytes are absent from the small intestine. In the intestine, this correlates with increased susceptibility to infection with an enteric virus in mice. These findings establish IFNε as a key contributor to mucosal immunity, sustaining antiviral defenses within tissue-specific epithelial cells of both the female reproductive tract and intestine, and broaden our understanding of its role beyond traditional pathogen-induced interferon responses.
Malaria, caused by Plasmodium parasites, remains a global health crisis, necessitating novel therapeutic strategies targeting host-parasite interactions. During liver-stage infection, parasites exploit host vesicular trafficking machinery, particularly SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) proteins that mediate membrane fusion. Using a CRISPR/Cas9 knockout system in HeLa cells combined with advanced microscopy of Plasmodium berghei-infected HeLa cells, we identified specific endolysosomal SNAREs including Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 7 (VAMP7), Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 8 (VAMP8), Vesicle Transport Through Interaction With T-SNAREs 1B (Vti1B), and Syntaxin 7 (Stx7) to be recruited to the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) with distinct temporal profiles. This demonstrates the parasite's precise manipulation of host endolysosomal trafficking pathways. VAMP7 and Vti1B were localized to the PVM within 30 min post-infection, suggesting potential roles during invasion, while VAMP8 and Stx7 appeared later around 24 h post infection (hpi), coinciding with increased nutrient acquisition. Single gene deletions showed minimal impact, but combinatorial knockouts (KO) revealed critical redundancy. VAMP7-VAMP8 as well as VAMP7-Vti1B double KO significantly reduced parasite infection and growth, with Vti1B playing a dominant role. Triple KO phenotypes mirrored VAMP7-Vti1B disruption, underscoring Vti1B's dominant role. SNARE depletion also impaired the lysosome-PVM association and LAMP1 positive vesicle recruitment. Our findings indicate Plasmodium hijacks a coordinated host SNARE network to fuse lysosomes with the PVM for nutrient uptake. Targeting Vti1B-containing complexes disrupts this pathway without host cell toxicity, offering a promising host-directed antimalarial approach.
Chemoresistance in esophageal cancer (EC) continues to impose formidable clinical challenges, driving disease recurrence and adverse outcomes. While vesicle-associated membrane protein 7 (VAMP7), a SNARE family regulator, has emerged as an oncogenic participant in tumor evolution, its mechanistic role in EC chemoresistance remains uncharted. Clinico-pathological analyses reveal pronounced VAMP7 overexpression in EC specimens, correlating with unfavorable prognosis, metastatic dissemination, advanced tumor staging, and cisplatin-refractory phenotypes. Functional interrogation demonstrates that VAMP7 silencing attenuates malignant hallmarks-proliferation, migratory capacity, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-while potentiating apoptotic cascades. Mechanistically, VAMP7 exhibits robust positive correlation with ferroptosis regulators GPX4 and NRF2, establishing its role as a ferroptosis checkpoint inhibitor that sustains cisplatin resistance. Combinatorial VAMP7 depletion and cisplatin treatment synergistically diminished neoplastic viability through dual mechanisms: amplification of ferroptosis biomarkers (lipid peroxidation, iron dysregulation) and induction of mitochondrial ultrastructural derangements. Conversely, ectopic VAMP7 expression in resistant clones upregulated GPX4/NRF2 axis activity and reinstated chemotolerance. Therapeutically, co-administration of ferroptosis agonists (RSL3/Erastin) with cisplatin abrogated VAMP7-mediated resistance, evidenced by suppressed xenograft growth and amplified mitochondrial pathology in preclinical models. This work identifies VAMP7 as a novel ferroptosis-chemoresistance nexus in EC, offering a translational framework for overcoming cisplatin refractoriness through coordinated inhibition of VAMP7 signaling and ferroptosis potentiation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Persistent infection with high-risk human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) is a principal etiological factor in cervical cancer. Nevertheless, the molecular events linking HPV16-associated lesion progression to malignant transformation remain insufficiently characterized, particularly those involving vesicular trafficking and autophagy regulation.Proteomic analysis was conducted across five stages of HPV16-associated cervical lesion progression to identify differentially expressed proteins. The expression of vesicle-associated membrane protein 7 (VAMP7) was validated in cervical tissue specimens and cellular models. Gain- and loss-of-function approaches were employed to assess the effects of VAMP7 on cellular proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis. Autophagic activity was evaluated by LC3 lipidation, autophagosome accumulation, and analysis of SNARE complexrelated proteins. The in vivo effects of VAMP7 were examined using xenograft tumor models.VAMP7 demonstrated dynamic expression changes during cervical lesion progression, characterized by decreased expression in HPV16-positive non-malignant tissues and a gradual increase with disease severity, reaching the highest levels in advanced cervical cancer. Functionally, VAMP7 enhanced proliferation, migration, and invasion while inhibiting apoptosis in cervical cancer cells, whereas distinct effects were observed in non-tumor cervical epithelial cells. Mechanistically, VAMP7 regulated autophagic flux through modulation of SNARE-mediated vesicle fusion, resulting in altered autophagosome accumulation and autophagy-related signaling. In xenograft models, VAMP7 overexpression significantly promoted tumor growth and increased the expression of autophagy-associated markers.These data indicate that dysregulation of VAMP7-mediated autophagy contributes to cervical carcinogenesis in an HPV16-associated context. VAMP7 may represent a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of cervical cancer.VAMP7 displays dynamic expression changes during HPV16-associated cervical lesion progression. VAMP7 promotes malignant phenotypes of cervical cancer cells by regulating autophagic flux via SNARE-mediated vesicle fusion. Dysregulated VAMP7-mediated autophagy contributes to cervical carcinogenesis in an HPV16-associated context.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41075257
Antiviral defenses at mucosal barriers are essential for preventing viral entry and systemic infection. Interferon epsilon (IFNε) is a unique type I IFN that, unlike other family members, is not induced by infection but is constitutively expressed in epithelial tissues. IFNε was initially characterized in the female reproductive tract (FRT), where it provides broad antiviral protection, but its roles outside the FRT remain poorly defined. Here, we used Ifnε -/- mice and single-cell RNA sequencing to delineate IFNε function across distinct mucosal surfaces. In the FRT, Ifnε expression was restricted to specific epithelial subsets, was independent of estrous stage, and maintained basal ISG expression. IFNε was also retained intracellularly in primary human FRT-derived cells. Extending these analyses to the intestine, we found that IFNε is highly expressed in villous-tip enterocytes of the small intestine in vivo , where it sustains inflammatory enterocyte subsets and maintains type III IFN expression. Loss of Ifnε depleted these subsets and rendered mice more susceptible to enteric viral infection. Together, these findings establish IFNε as a constitutively expressed, spatially restricted IFN that coordinates mucosal antiviral defenses across both reproductive and gastrointestinal epithelial tissues.
We tested the hypothesis that oxidative stress (OS)-induced inflammatory response in decidual cells (DECs) may transfer and/or trigger the release of interferon epsilon (IFNε)-positive extracellular vesicles (EVs) from vaginal epithelial cells (VECs) to minimize vaginal disturbances.VECs were treated for 48 h under the following conditions: (1) standard VEC media, (2) OS-inducing cigarette smoke extract (CSE); and supernatant from (3) normal/untreated DECs, and (4) CSE-treated DECs. The concentration of cytoplasmic, secreted, and VEC-derived EV bound IFNε (n = 3 each) was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). EVs were isolated from culture media by cushioned-density gradient ultracentrifugation and characterized by immunoblotting and nanoparticle tracking analysis.Induction of OS in VECs with CSE increased intracellular IFNε in VECs (p = 0.0007) but not free or EV-bound IFNε compared to control VECs. Exposure to conditioned media from untreated and CSE-treated DECs induced increased intracellular (p = 0.004, p = 0.049) and free IFNε (p = 0.04, p = 0.03) from VECs. VEC-derived EVs (126 ± 11.8 nm) expressed exosome markers, and did not change in size regardless of the treatment but decreased in number due to exposure to untreated (p = 0.004) and CSE-treated DECs (p = 0.025) conditioned media. Furthermore, VEC exosomal IFNε increased by 2.6-fold (p = 0.0001, untreated DECs) and ∼4-fold (p = 0.041, CSE-treated DECs) compared to controls.Mucosal immune defense mediated by IFNε may be an innate response by VECs under OS. This was further evidenced by an overall increase in IFNε due to both physiologic and pathologic impact of decidua on VECs. IFNε may indicate a stress response by VECs or paracrine crosstalk between gestational tissues.American Journal of Reproductive Immunology© 2025 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Interferon-ε (IFNε), which is highly abundant in the epithelium of the female reproductive tract (FRT), is a recently identified tumor suppressor for ovarian cancer. IFNε induces the expression of certain HLA class I family members in HGSOC (high-grade serous ovarian cancer), and its expression is lost during ovarian tumorigenesis. However, tumor stage-dependent expression of HLA class I family members in ovarian cancer has not been previously studied.Data analysis and visualization were performed using various gene expression and transcriptomics datasets in the R statistical programming environment.We found that the expression of HLA-A, -B, -C, -E, -F, -G, and -J is lower in late stage ovarian tumors compared to early-stage tumors. The total expression of HLA class I family members decreases with age in ovarian cancer. Furthermore, we showed that the expression of some IFN-regulated genes, which were shown to be upregulated by IFNε, decreases from early to late stage in ovarian cancer, in parallel to the loss of IFNε expression in ovarian tumorigenesis and possibly in tumor progression. We also found that breast tumors (another hormonally driven cancer) with positive progesterone receptor status have lower IFNε mRNA expression compared to those with negative PR status. Besides, we reported that breast tumors with positive estrogen receptor (ER) status have lower expression of IFNε compared to those with negative ER status.Combined, this study points that the decrease in the expression of IFNε, HLAs, or some other IFNε-regulated genes during ovarian cancer progression might contribute to worse prognosis in advanced disease.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Homozygous deletion of 9p21, containing CDKN2A/B and MTAP (CMdel), underlies emerging therapeutic strategies including PRMT5/MAT2A inhibition. The clinicogenomic context and treatment outcomes of CMdel in NSCLC remain incompletely defined.We analyzed Tempus Lens records with paired DNA/RNA sequencing. After quality filtering, 16,947 patients were included in the primary dataset and 10,996 in the validation dataset, and stratified by deletion status (CMdel vs CMwt). Interferon status was defined by interferon-kappa (IFNK) expression (log2[TPM+1]) using the 25th percentile of CMwt as threshold. Immune composition was inferred by quanTIseq. First-line regimens were grouped as ICI-mono, ICI-chemo, chemotherapy, or TKI. Best response and time-to-next-treatment with risk-set adjustment were assessed.CMdel occurred in 11.7% (n=1,991) and 15% (n=1,676), and was enriched in mucinous histology, stage IV disease, and never-smokers. CMdel associated with EGFR, TERT, and SMARCA4 alterations, whereas CMwt associated with RB1, SETD2 and ARID2. >50% of CMdel tumors harbored targetable co-alterations, enriched in EGFR/ALK/RET and relatively depleted in KRAS. CMdel tumors exhibited lower PD-L1, mutation burden, and immune infiltration. TTNT did not differ by CM status for ICI-mono or TKI, but was shorter in CMdel for ICI-chemo and chemotherapy. Discordant and broad deletions were less common and had weaker TTNT association. IFNK-low expression marked immune-excluded subgroups with worse treatment outcomes.CDKN2A/MTAP loss defines a prevalent, genomically distinct NSCLC subset enriched in actionable drivers. CMdel associates with worse outcomes to ICI/chemotherapy-containing regimens. These findings highlight convergent biology at 9p21 and support biomarker-guided development of PRMT5/MAT2A inhibitors in MTAP-deleted NSCLC.
Differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes is accompanied by profound reorganization of intracellular architecture, but how organelle remodeling interfaces with cell fate control is not well understood. Here, we generate a compartment-resolved proteomic map of keratinocyte differentiation and identify extensive remodeling of lysosomes, mitochondria, autophagic vesicles, plasma membrane, and nucleus. Differentiating keratinocytes display coordinated enrichment of lysosomal degradative machinery, vesicular trafficking factors, and mitochondrial metabolic proteins, revealing organelle remodeling as a prominent feature of epidermal differentiation. From the lysosomal proteome, we identify Sorting Nexin 3 (SNX3) as a critical regulator of epidermal homeostasis. SNX3 increasingly localizes to LAMP1-positive vesicles during differentiation, and its loss impairs epidermal differentiation, suppresses Notch signaling, and promotes proliferative gene expression. In vivo , SNX3 -deficient skin grafts fail to maintain normal epidermal architecture and instead develop into squamous cell carcinoma. Mechanistically, SNX3 mediates efficient Notch receptor activation, as SNX3 loss reduces nuclear Notch1 and NICD production, whereas NICD re-expression can rescue the differentiation defect. Our study defines a proteomic framework for organelle remodeling during epidermal differentiation and identifies lysosome-associated SNX3 as a key link between endolysosomal trafficking, Notch signaling, and epidermal tissue homeostasis.
The rising prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) has led to an increase in complications, including mild cognitive impairment. Accordingly, there is a growing interest in the potential neuroprotective benefits of newer anti-diabetic drugs, such as dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors (DPP-4is) and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2is). Although clinical studies suggest that these drugs mitigate cognitive decline, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the potential mechanisms through which DPP-4is or SGLT2is, in combination with metformin, confer neuroprotection.We conducted a cross-sectional study involving T2D patients on either metformin alone or in combination with a DPP-4i or SGLT2i, alongside healthy controls. Cognitive and metabolic phenotypes were assessed, followed by serum proteomic profiling, computational drug target prediction, network analyses and molecular docking to identify signalling pathways linked to cognitive impairment.T2D patients on combination therapy demonstrated better cognitive function, independent of other phenotypic, metabolic and biochemical factors. Proteomic profiling revealed 36 differentially expressed proteins that were preserved or restored to control levels in the combination therapy group. Gene set enrichment analysis highlighted the modulation of the complement pathway, particularly the involvement of ficolin-3 (FCN3). Molecular docking suggested that the sugar-like or glycyl moieties in anti-diabetic drug molecules interacted with FCN3, potentially inhibiting complement system activation. Such interaction was confirmed by binding studies using surface plasmon resonance.These findings are significant in tailoring T2D treatment to reduce cognitive complications and exploring drug design to target neuroinflammatory disorders.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic progressive lung disorder characterized by overactivation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and limited therapeutic efficacy. This study identifies sorting nexin 3 (SNX3), a retromer-associated protein, as a dual regulator of PF pathogenesis through coordinated molecular mechanisms. SNX3 is significantly upregulated in PF patients' lungs and bleomycin-induced murine fibrotic models, with predominant localization in alveolar type 2 (AT2) epithelial cells correlating with β-catenin hyperactivation and fibrotic progression. Genetic ablation of SNX3 in AT2 cells attenuated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, collagen deposition, and pulmonary dysfunction, while SNX3 overexpression exacerbated these phenotypes. Mechanistic studies further elucidated two distinct SNX3-driven regulatory pathways. Wls is rescued by SNX3 from lysosomal degradation to sustain Wnt ligand secretion and canonical pathway activation. In addition to Wls, casein kinase 1α (CK-1α) is identified as a novel cargo protein for SNX3, which mediates its plasma membrane recruitment via Rab5a-dependent endosomal recycling, bypassing the β-catenin destruction complex, ultimately suppressing proteasomal degradation of β-catenin. This dual regulatory mechanism positions SNX3 as a master coordinator of both Wnt-dependent and -independent β-catenin signaling in PF. Furthermore, we screened inhibitors targeting SNX3 and identified a novel small molecule, LC4, which effectively ameliorated pulmonary dysfunction and reversed pulmonary fibrosis. Tetrahedral framework nucleic acids (TDNs), known for their excellent biocompatibility and drug delivery capacity, were utilized to develop a multifunctional nanodrug delivery system (TDN-LC4) to enhance the treatment of PF. By optimizing this loading approach, we improved LC4 delivery efficiency, enhanced its therapeutic potential, and minimized off-target effects. Our findings reveal SNX3 as a master coordinator of dual Wnt-dependent and -independent β-catenin activation, and propose TDN-LC4 as a potential therapeutic strategy to disrupt pathogenic signaling redundancy in PF pathogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
This study aimed to identify novel circulating protein biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) superior to alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) by integrating tumor stemness index and secreted protein screening, and to explore their roles in prognosis, immune microenvironment, and tumor mechanisms.Stemness-associated differentially expressed genes were identified from TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) and GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus) databases after applying ComBat batch effect correction and quantile normalization to harmonize the datasets. WGCNA (weighted gene co-expression network analysis), secreted protein databases, and plasma sequencing were used to select candidate genes. Functional and immune infiltration analyses were performed, alongside multivariable Cox regression modeling and inverse variance weighted (IVW) Mendelian Randomization (MR) for prognostic and causal validation.A total of 19 genes significantly associated with tumor stemness and detectable in circulation were identified. After filtering based on clinicopathological features and survival analysis, 10 key genes were selected. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed that, aside from FCN3 (ficolin 3), the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of CRHBP (corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein), CLEC3B (C-type lectin domain family 3 member B), TEK (TEK receptor tyrosine kinase), SOGA1 (SOGA family member 1), IL33 (interleukin 33), CXCL12 (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12), NENF (neudesin neurotrophic factor), and ITM2B (integral membrane protein 2B) (AUCs [area under the curves] ranging from 0.67 to 0.99) surpassed those of AFP (AUC = 0.64). Cibersort analysis indicated significant associations of CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, IL33, NENF, CXCL12, and AFP with various immune cell infiltrates. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) suggested that CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, NENF, and AFP were primarily enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, whereas IL33, CXCL12, SOGA1, and ITM2B were involved in MAPK, GNRH, and NOTCH signaling. A multivariable Cox regression model identified CLEC3B, TEK, and NENF for constructing a prognostic signature, which demonstrated strong predictive performance in the TCGA cohort, as evidenced by the concordance index (C-index), time-dependent ROC analysis (1-/3-/5-year AUCs: 0.74/0.72/0.70), and decision curve analysis. IVW MR analysis further confirmed a causal relationship between cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) of the NENF gene and HCC risk (P = 0.024), with no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity detected. Elevated NENF protein expression, validated by proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses of public databases and a tissue microarray cohort, was significantly associated with HCC progression and reduced overall survival (hazard ratio [HR], 2.456; 95% CI, 1.271-4.960; P = 0.012).This multi-omics study reveals a panel of eight circulating proteins with diagnostic performance superior to that of AFP and independent prognostic value in HCC, nominating NENF as a causal biomarker for disease progression and survival.© 2026. The Author(s).
The lectin pathway, activated by ficolins, contributes to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) pathogenesis, but ficolin data remain inconsistent across populations. Present muti-centric cross-sectional study assessed serum ficolin-1, -2, and - 3 levels and their associations with clinical features and disease activity among SLE patients from five Indian regions (Mumbai, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, and Nagaland). Serum levels of ficolin-1, ficolin-2, and ficolin-3 were measured using ELISA. Disease activity was assessed using the SELENA-SLEDAI score. Statistical analyses were performed using non-parametric tests, with p < 0.05 considered significant. Serum ficolin levels differed significantly by region. Ficolin-1 and ficolin-2 levels were positively correlated with the renal involvement in SLE patients from Mumbai (r = 0.218; p < 0.001 and r = 0.199; p = 0.001, respectively), while ficolin-1 levels were also correlated with lupus nephritis (LN) in SLE patients from Manipur (r = 0.247; p = 0.040). In Assam, ficolin-2 levels were significantly reduced in patients with mucocutaneous manifestations (r=-0.258; p = 0.014), and ficolin-3 levels showed a negative correlation with musculoskeletal manifestations (r=-0.217; p = 0.040). In Mumbai, ficolin-1 levels were positively associated with disease activity (r = 0.139; p = 0.018), and ficolin-3 levels correlated positively with anti-dsDNA autoantibodies (r = 0.172; p = 0.004). Conversely, ficolin-3 levels showed a negative correlation with anti-dsDNA (r=-0.470; p < 0.001) in Assam. The present study demonstrated significant regional variations in ficolin levels among SLE patients across India. Association of ficolin-1 and ficolin-3 with specific organ involvement suggested their potential as possible immunological indicators in SLE. These findings suggested the importance of considering regional and ethnic differences in SLE management and warranted further validation through larger, longitudinal studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41392690 is a review article
Ficolins, encoded by FCN genes, are key pattern recognition molecules of the lectin complement pathway involved in immune complex clearance, a process often impaired in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Genetic polymorphisms in FCN genes may influence disease susceptibility. However, their functional significance in SLE remains unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the association of selected FCN gene single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with SLE, lupus nephritis (LN), and serum ficolin levels in a Western Indian cohort. Seven SNPs in FCN1 (rs2989727, rs1071583), FCN2 (rs7851696, rs17549193, rs7865453, rs17514136), and FCN3 (rs3813800) were genotyped in 200 SLE patients and 200 healthy controls using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) sequence-specific primer and PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism. Serum ficolin-1, -2, and -3 levels were measured using ELISA. Statistical analysis included χ2 test, Kruskal-Wallis test, and logistic regression to assess associations and calculate odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals. The analysis identified significant associations of FCN2 rs7851696, rs7865453, and rs17514136, as well as FCN3 rs3813800, with SLE susceptibility. Among LN patients, FCN1 rs2989727 and rs1071583, FCN2 rs17514136, and FCN3 rs3813800 showed significant associations. FCN3 rs3813800 was significantly associated with ficolin-3 levels, while FCN2 rs7865453 was associated with complement component 1q-circulation immune complex levels. These findings provide novel insight into associations of FCN gene polymorphisms with SLE and LN susceptibility, with genotype-phenotype correlations suggesting their biological relevance. Future longitudinal and mechanistic studies are warranted to validate these associations and explore their therapeutic potential.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
This research aimed to elucidate the roles of plasma secretory protein genes in mediating the comorbid effects between hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and heart failure (HF).A comprehensive analysis utilizing Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), differential expression analysis, and advanced deep learning techniques was conducted to identify three plasma-secreted protein genes (Ficolin-3: FCN3, Fibroblast Activation Protein: FAP, High Mobility Group Box 2: HMGB2) as key players in the comorbid interplay between HCC and HF.Validation experiments confirmed the significant biological functions of these genes in disease pathogenesis. Additionally, dexamethasone and catechins were identified as promising candidates for pharmacological intervention in the prevention of HCC and HF.These findings unveil potential mechanistic pathways of comorbidity between HCC and HF, providing novel biological markers and therapeutic targets for the prognostic evaluation and treatment of these conditions, with substantial implications for refining clinical diagnosis and therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The lectin pathway of complement aids in removing apoptotic cells and maintenance of tissue homeostasis. However, its role in SLE pathogenesis remains unknown. This study aimed to assess the association of ficolins, mannose-binding lectin (MBL), and other pathogen recognition molecules (PRMs) of the lectin pathway and their corresponding autoantibodies with various clinical manifestations and disease activity in SLE patients from Western India. In this cross-sectional study, 282 clinically diagnosed SLE patients were included. Serum levels of ficolins, antigenic MBL, MBL-associated serine proteases (MASPs), MBL-associated protein 44 (MAp44), Collectin liver-1 (CL-L1), and their corresponding autoantibodies were quantified using ELISA. Group differences were analyzed using Mann-Whitney U tests, while associations/relationships were evaluated using chi-square tests and Spearman's correlations. Serum levels of ficolin-2 (p < 0.001), MASP-3 (p = 0.030), and MAp44 (p < 0.001) were significantly elevated, while antigenic MBL (p < 0.001) and MASP-1 (p < 0.001) were significantly reduced in SLE patients compared to healthy controls (HCs). Renal involvement was associated with elevated ficolin-1 (p = 0.009), while hematological manifestations were linked to reduced MASP-1 (p = 0.018), MASP-3 (p = 0.002), and MAp44 (p = 0.002) levels. Mucocutaneous manifestations were associated with elevated MAp44 (p < 0.001) and anti-ficolin-1 (p = 0.038) autoantibodies. Anti-ficolin-1 (p = 0.001), anti-ficolin-2 (p = 0.001), and anti-ficolin-3 (p < 0.001) autoantibodies were significantly elevated in SLE patients compared to HCs. Anti-ficolin-2 autoantibodies were negatively correlated with ficolin-2 (r=-0.153, p = 0.015). Anti-MBL antibodies were correlated with SLEDAI (r = 0.169, p = 0.007) and anti-dsDNA antibodies (r = 0.178, p = 0.005). These findings indicate altered levels of lectin pathway-associated PRMs and their corresponding autoantibodies in SLE. Their association with clinical manifestations, disease activity, and complement-related parameters, suggest their potential as novel biomarkers in SLE.© 2025. The Author(s).
Gelsolin, a Ca2+-dependent actin filament (F-actin) severing protein, plays essential roles in apoptosis, cell motility, and the actin-scavenger system of the bloodstream. It comprises six related domains (G1 to G6) connected by variable linkers (L1 to L5), each contributing distinctly to severing. Individually, neither G1 nor G2G3 severs F-actin, whereas the combined fragment G1-G3 displays potent, Ca2+-independent severing activity, largely mediated by G1, which relies on G2G3 for recruitment to F-actin. The C-terminal fragment G4-G6 neither binds nor severs F-actin but, once recruited via G2G3, contributes to the severing efficiency of full-length gelsolin. However, it remains unclear whether the other domains rely on G2G3 solely for recruitment or also for conformational changes in F-actin that facilitate binding and severing. Here, through a series of cryo-EM structures, we show that G2G3 binds F-actin in a stepwise manner, inducing conformational changes, including a kink in the filament and rotation of a subunit at the binding site, that prime F-actin for binding by the other gelsolin domains and severing. These changes propagate beyond the G2G3 binding site, revealing how F-actin buffers the effects of kinking. Biochemically, substituting G1 with G4 within G1-G3 yields a construct, G4-G3, with substantial severing activity, albeit Ca2+-dependent and lower than that of G1-G3. This result indicates that G4 can substitute for G1 when primed by G2G3, while sequence adaptations make G1 uniquely effective at severing. Collectively, these findings define a dual role of G2G3: recruiting other gelsolin domains and priming F-actin for severing.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gestational success in ruminants depends on the maintenance of a dynamic maternal-foetal microenvironment, resulting from complex interactions among the conceptus, extraembryonic membranes, maternal tissues, and gestational fluids. This study performed a comparative and longitudinal proteomic characterization of allantoic and amniotic fluids throughout pregnancy in sheep, aiming to elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in maternal-foetal communication and embryonic development. Samples of allantoic and amniotic fluids aseptically collected from extraembryonic compartments after uterine opening following animal slaughter and allocated into three gestational groups according to foetal development: early gestation (0-50 days; n = 6), mid gestation (50-100 days; n = 3) and late gestation (100-150 days; n = 5). After centrifugation and protein quantification using the Bradford method, standardized aliquots were subjected to in-solution protein digestion and analysed by nano-LC-ESI-Q-TOF mass spectrometry. A total of 201 proteins were identified in the allantoic fluid and 159 proteins in the amniotic fluid, with five proteins showing significant differences across gestational stages. In the allantoic fluid, differentially abundant proteins included alpha-2-macroglobulin, gelsolin, basement membrane-specific heparan sulphate proteoglycan core protein and alpha-globin chain. In the amniotic fluid, changes were observed in peroxiredoxin-2, mucin-5 AC, fetuin-B, cystatin domain-containing protein and globin domain-containing protein. Multivariate analyses revealed progressive remodelling of the foetal extraembryonic microenvironment, associated with proteolytic control, tissue remodelling, redox homeostasis, epithelial protection and metabolic processes. Collectively, these findings reinforce the active role of foetal extraembryonic fluids in gestational physiology and highlight their potential as sources of biomarkers associated with reproductive success in sheep.© 2026 The Author(s). Reproduction in Domestic Animals published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Renal amyloidosis is an important cause of kidney injury that is often associated with significant morbidity and mortality. In this study, we aim to characterise the clinicopathological patterns and identify potential prognostic factors in renal amyloidosis at an Australian tertiary referral centre over a decade. A total of 63 biopsy-diagnosed cases of renal amyloidosis from 2011 to 2021 were retrospectively reviewed. Cases were initially subtyped by immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry. Mass spectrometry was performed when rare subtypes were suspected. Histological characteristics were correlated with clinical parameters at the time of biopsy. The primary outcome was severe renal impairment (SRI), defined as an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <10 mL/min/1.73 m2 or commencement of renal replacement therapy. Amyloid light chain (AL) amyloidosis was the most common subtype (79%), followed by amyloid A (AA) (11%), and the rare subtypes included amyloid leukocyte cell-derived chemotactic factor-2 (3.2%); amyloid transthyretin wild-type (1.6%); amyloid apolipoprotein C-II (1.6%); amyloid fibrinogen (1.6%); and amyloid gelsolin amyloidosis (1.6%). Patients with AA amyloidosis were younger than those with other subtypes. The classic histological patterns of common and rare amyloid subtypes, as described in the literature, were replicated in our cohort. Interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy had a strong correlation with baseline eGFR and were important prognostic factors for SRI. Nephrotic-range proteinuria showed a trend towards SRI, but amyloid subtype (AL vs AA vs other) did not stratify outcome. Most AL amyloidosis cases (69%) were confirmed to be monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, with a smaller proportion showing an underlying haematological malignancy. All patients with AA subtype had an underlying chronic inflammatory disease condition. We demonstrate classic histopathological features of common and rare subtypes of renal amyloidosis in an Australian cohort. Histological markers at biopsy, indicative of chronic renal damage, have value as prognostic factors.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Thyroid nodules are extremely common, yet the exact physio-pathological mechanisms underlying their benign or malignant development remain poorly understood. Pentraxin-3 (PTX3) is an innate immune inflammatory mediator involved in inflammation, tissue remodeling, and oncogenesis, processes often coexistent in thyroid pathology. This study evaluated plasma and tissue PTX3 in patients undergoing thyroidectomy for benign or malignant nodules.A total of 52 patients were enrolled. Plasma PTX3 levels were assessed by ELISA before surgery and again 45 days afterward. PTX3 expression, along with the abundance of two immune cell populations (e.g. macrophages and mast cells) was evaluated by immunohistochemistry using a tissue microarray.Preoperative plasma PTX3 levels were significantly elevated (4.58 ng/mL, p<0.05) compared with the normal reference range and declined significantly after surgery (3.58 ng/mL, p<0.05). No significant differences in plasma PTX3 were observed between benign and malignant conditions. In tissue analysis, PTX3 expression was significantly elevated in malignant tissues relative to healthy thyroid counterparts, in which it was entirely absent; however, its overall expression levels remained low to moderate across most malignant samples. CD68 and tryptase showed variable patterns, with a higher abundance of macrophages and mast cells in carcinomas and a significant association between mast cell presence and thyroid cancer (p = 0.0025).Our findings suggest that increased PTX3 levels may indicate an active inflammatory response or tissue stress linked to thyroid nodular disease. Nevertheless, its specificity for distinguishing benign from malignant lesions has yet to be determined. Its strong local expression in thyroiditis and consistently low expression in most carcinomas further support the concept that the long pentraxin PTX3 plays an important role in innate immune activation and inflammation-driven thyroid tissue remodeling. Additional studies are needed to better define its potential prognostic value in thyroid carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 Cieri, Grizzi, Bottazzi, Rodda, Petrillo, Leone, Pasqualini, Morenghi, Zuliani, Uccella and Chiari.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with chronic low-grade inflammation contributing to endothelial dysfunction, metabolic imbalance, and cardiovascular complications. Although semaglutide (SEM) and tirzepatide (TIR) provide important metabolic and cardioprotective benefits, their early anti-inflammatory effects and potential sex-dependent differences remain incompletely understood. This study comparatively evaluated the effects of SEM and TIR on systemic inflammatory biomarkers in a murine model of streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus. Thirty BALB/c mice were allocated into six experimental groups according to sex and treatment: control, SEM, and TIR groups (n = 5/group). Diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal streptozotocin administration, followed by treatment with SEM or TIR. Circulating interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and pentraxin-3 (PTX-3) levels were measured at baseline, one week after streptozotocin administration, and after six weeks of treatment. Control groups exhibited progressive increases in IL-1β and PTX-3 levels, indicating sustained inflammatory activation. In contrast, SEM- and TIR-treated animals showed attenuated inflammatory responses characterized by transient or stabilized biomarker profiles. Differential inflammatory responses were observed between treatments and sexes. Male SEM and Male TIR groups demonstrated stable IL-1β levels, whereas female treated groups showed persistent elevations, particularly Female TIR animals. PTX-3 responses also displayed differential sex-dependent patterns, with Female SEM animals exhibiting the most stable inflammatory profile. These findings suggest differential early immunomodulatory effects of the two modern antidiabetic drugs, characterized by distinct biomarker responses according to sex and inflammatory marker profile. IL-1β and PTX-3 may represent complementary biomarkers for the assessment of early inflammatory activation associated with diabetes mellitus and its cardiometabolic complications.
Periodontitis pathogenesis is driven by oral microbiome dysbiosis and dysregulated host immune responses. This cross-sectional study characterized salivary microbiome and inflammatory mediator profiles to identify candidate biomarkers distinguishing periodontal health from periodontitis (PD) using hyperplex PCR, multiplex assay and exploratory machine learning.Stimulated saliva samples from 57 participants (28 periodontally healthy, 29 with PD stage III/IV) were collected and analyzed using Hyperplex PCR (simultaneously amplifying multiple targets in a single assay) for oral bacteria and a multiplex immunoassay including 37 inflammatory mediators. Random forest modeling explored the discriminatory performance of individual and combined biomarkers.Individuals with PD stage III/IV showed elevated relative abundance of Filifactor alocis, Fretibacterium spp., Parvimonas micra (P < 0.05) compared to periodontally healthy individuals. Among determined inflammatory mediators, the levels of Chitinase 3-like 1, sIL-6Rβ, sIL-6Rα, IL-19, pentraxin-3, sTNF-R1 and TWEAK were elevated in PD stage III/IV. Exploratory modeling identified Fretibacterium spp. as the strongest individual discriminator (AUC = 0.82), a performance that was not improved by two- or three-marker combinations incorporating additional bacteria or inflammatory mediators.In exploratory unadjusted analyses, salivary Fretibacterium spp. showed the highest discriminatory performance (AUC = 0.82), although this association was not statistically significant after adjustment for age, smoking, and cardiovascular disease. These exploratory findings require further validation in larger, diverse cohorts to assess their potential clinical utility.Copyright © 2026 Titusson, Lundmark, Soares, Damdimopoulos, Johannsen, Naseem and Yucel-Lindberg.
Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is best known as an antiviral protein, but accumulating evidence supports pro-tumorigenic functions across several cancers. Here, we examined IFITM3 in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). IFITM3 depletion suppressed MDA-MB-231 cell proliferation, migration, sphere formation, and xenograft tumor growth, whereas IFITM3 overexpression enhanced these phenotypes. IFITM3 depletion restored E-cadherin expression and increased membrane-associated E-cadherin-β-catenin complexes. These changes were accompanied by reduced nuclear active β-catenin and decreased Wnt/β-catenin transcriptional activity in cultured cells. Altered β-catenin localization was also observed in xenograft tumors. Conversely, IFITM3 overexpression enhanced WNT3a-responsive transcription and nuclear accumulation of active β-catenin. IFITM3 expression was elevated in breast tumors and was associated with shorter overall survival in a selected lymph-node-negative TNBC cohort. Together, these findings identify IFITM3 as a regulator of β-catenin localization and Wnt signaling that promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stem-like properties in TNBC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-associated acute liver injury (SALI) is an independent risk factor that significantly worsens sepsis prognosis, underscoring the need for mechanistic insights to guide targeted therapy. Accordingly, we established a sepsis mouse model via cecum ligation and puncture (CLP) and performed in vitro experiments using murine hepatic Kupffer cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Here, we found that growth arrest and DNA damage 45A (GADD45A) was highly expressed in liver tissues of CLP-induced septic mice, and its knockdown ameliorated liver injury and systemic inflammation. Mechanistically, GADD45A knockdown upregulated ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha (ATP5A1) expression by disrupting the interaction between tripartite motif-containing 25 (TRIM25) and ATP5A1, thereby suppressing pyroptosis and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in LPS + ATP-stimulated murine Kupffer cells. Additionally, Aly/REF export factor (ALYREF), a 5-methylcytosine (m5C) reader, was upregulated in septic liver tissues and LPS + ATP-treated Kupffer cells. ALYREF likely stabilized GADD45A mRNA in an m5C-dependent manner, thereby promoting its expression. ALYREF knockdown inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent macrophage pyroptosis and alleviated SALI, likely by modulating the GADD45A/TRIM25/ATP5A1 axis. Notably, the increased expression of ALYREF in SALI appeared to be driven by activated STAT3 signaling. In conclusion, ALYREF, likely driven by activated STAT3 signaling, appears to activate the GADD45A/TRIM25/ATP5A1 axis in an m5C-dependent manner to promote NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent macrophage pyroptosis, thereby contributing to the development of SALI and suggesting a promising therapeutic strategy for targeted SALI intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is overexpressed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and is associated with poor prognosis. Previous studies implicate IFITM3 in oncogenic processes and immune modulation; however, the mechanisms by which IFITM3 contributes to leukemogenesis and shapes the AML immune microenvironment remain unclear. Here, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk gene expression analyses with macrophage polarization assays using IFITM3high AML cell lines and their corresponding IFITM3 knockdown models, together with gain-of-function experiments in IFITM3low HL-60 cells, alongside functional assays and pharmacologic perturbations, to define the immunological function of IFITM3 in AML. Our results revealed for the first time that IFITM3high AML cell lines polarize M0 macrophages toward a M2-like phenotype. IFITM3 knockdown significantly reduced the M2 marker CD163 and increased the M1 marker CD80. Consistently, IFITM3-deficient AML cells decreased M2-associated gene expression and diminished secretion of TGF-β and IL-10, together with lower viability and G1/G0 cell-cycle arrest. Conversely, enforced IFITM3 expression in HL-60 cells biased macrophages toward a predominantly M2-like state, whereas vector controls promoted a mixed M1/M2 pattern. Mechanistically, loss of IFITM3 reduced total PI3K and AKT protein levels and markedly decreased PI3K/AKT phosphorylation. Pharmacologic PI3K inhibition with LY294002 suppressed PI3K/AKT phosphorylation and specifically attenuated IFITM3-dependent M2 polarization and associated cytokine programs, while also reducing leukemic cell proliferation in co-culture. Clinically, we extended the adverse prognostic effect of IFITM3 to AML patients with intermediate molecular risk. These findings provide comprehensive evidence that IFITM3 contributes to a tumor-supportive AML microenvironment by driving M2 macrophage polarization, highlighting IFITM3 as a potential therapeutic target in IFITM3high AML.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Neuroinflammation in multiple sclerosis (MS) is driven by the infiltration of myelin-reactive T cells into the central nervous system (CNS). Interferon-β (IFN-β) is one of the earliest disease-modifying treatments (DMTs) approved for MS and remains widely used in special populations (pregnant and elderly patients) owing to its favorable safety profile. However, the exact mechanism of action of this drug and reliable biomarkers of treatment response remain unclear. Transcriptomic profiling and data integration approaches offer powerful tools for investigating complex patterns of regulation and molecular mechanisms underlying therapeutic efficacy. In this study, we performed an integrative analysis of openly available transcriptomic datasets to characterize IFN-β-induced gene expression changes in MS patients. By combining data from large independent cohorts, we identified a 43-gene transcriptional signature consistently associated with IFN-β treatment across disease stages, including progressive MS. To explore the relevance of this signature, we cross-referenced the 43-gene signature with publicly available expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) datasets to determine whether these genes could be influenced by known MS-associated risk variants highlighting Interferon-Induced Transmembrane Protein 3 (IFITM3) as a candidate molecular mediator of MS. This integrative approach provides new insights into IFN-β-driven immune modulation and supports the development of therapeutic strategies for MS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42297936 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42261248 is a review article
Vesicular stomatitis virus is a zoonotic rhabdovirus that infects livestock and can cause economically important disease. Tripartite motif-containing 25 (TRIM25) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in innate antiviral signaling, but its role in pigs during vesicular stomatitis virus infection is unclear.To define the mechanism by which swine TRIM25 restricts vesicular stomatitis virus replication.Porcine 3D4/21 cells with TRIM25 overexpression or knockdown were infected with vesicular stomatitis virus. Viral replication was quantified by immunoblotting, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, and 50% tissue culture infectious dose assays. Type I interferon signaling was assessed by transcript quantification, interferon-beta and interferon-stimulated response element reporter assays, and co-immunoprecipitation. Viral RNA binding was tested by RNA immunoprecipitation.TRIM25 overexpression reduced viral RNA and infectious titers, whereas TRIM25 knockdown increased replication (p < 0.01). TRIM25 increased interferon-beta and interferon-stimulated gene expression and enhanced interferon-beta and interferon-stimulated response element promoter activity (p < 0.01). Mechanistically, TRIM25 promoted Lys63-linked ubiquitination of RIG-I and increased phosphorylation of TANK-binding kinase 1 and interferon regulatory factor 3. TRIM25 also bound vesicular stomatitis virus genomic RNA, and binding required the C-terminal region.Porcine TRIM25 restricts vesicular stomatitis virus replication by amplifying type I interferon signaling and directly binding viral RNA.© 2026 The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
The Nipah virus (NiV) matrix (M) protein, essential for viral assembly, has been increasingly recognized for its potential immunomodulatory functions. However, its role in modulating the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling pathway-a central regulator of inflammation and innate immunity-remains poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that NiV-M significantly promotes activation of the classical NF-κB pathway. Our data showed that NiV-M interacts with multiple cellular signaling molecules of the NF-κB pathway, including tripartite motif containing 25 (TRIM25), inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase subunit alpha (IKKα), nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cell inhibitor alpha (IκBα), and the p65 subunit of NF-κB. Further analyses revealed that NiV-M enhanced the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of TRIM25, facilitating its interaction with both retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2), thereby promoting K63-linked ubiquitination of RIG-I and TRAF2. Moreover, NiV-M strengthened the interaction between IKKα and IKKβ, leading to enhanced IKK complex activity and accelerated degradation of IκBα. In addition, NiV-M promoted phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of p65, thereby amplifying NF-κB-driven gene expression. In summary, our results demonstrate a multifaceted strategy by which NiV-M regulates the NF-κB pathway, a mechanism that may contribute to NiV pathogenesis via inflammatory dysregulation. These findings suggest potential therapeutic approaches for alleviating symptoms associated with immunopathology of NiV by targeting virus-host interactions.IMPORTANCEThis study reveals a previously unknown role of the Nipah virus matrix (M) protein in driving excessive inflammation, a key factor in the virus's high mortality. We discovered that the M protein acts as a master switch, hijacking a central human immune pathway (NF-κB) at multiple points to trigger a "cytokine storm." This explains how the virus causes severe tissue damage and organ failure in infected individuals. By identifying the specific human proteins targeted by the M protein, our work establishes that this viral component functions not only in viral assembly but also in the dysregulation of host inflammatory responses, thereby providing a new perspective on its potential contribution to severe NiV-associated disease. These findings open new avenues for treating NiV infections by developing drugs that target these interactions, potentially controlling the devastating inflammation rather than just the virus itself.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) causes severe neurological deficits mainly attributable to secondary brain injury. Parthanatos is a subtype of regulated cell death triggered by glutamate excitotoxicity. Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is an immune regulatory molecule involved in neuronal death in various neurodegenerative disorders. However, it remains unclear whether and how IFITM3 and parthanatos participate in secondary brain injury after ICH.This study aims to investigate whether IFITM3 aggravates neuronal parthanatos by impairing astrocytic glutamate uptake after ICH and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.Bioinformatics analysis of transcriptome datasets from ICH human patients and mouse models was performed to identify the IFITM3 expression and its potential functions. IFITM3 knockout mice and mice with AAV-mediated astrocytic IFITM3 overexpression were subjected to the ICH model by autologous blood injection. Neurobehavioral tests, Western blot, immunofluorescence staining, glutamate uptake assay, and pharmacological approaches were employed to elucidate the role of IFITM3 in glutamate uptake and neuronal parthanatos.IFITM3 was upregulated and served as a hub gene in immune response and cell death after ICH. IFITM3 knockout improved the sensorimotor and cognitive functions of ICH mice. Conversely, astrocytic IFITM3 overexpression reversed these neuroprotective effects. Specifically, IFITM3 knockout alleviated neuronal excitotoxicity and parthanatos by restoring astrocytic glutamate uptake in the perihematomal region, as evidenced by decreased glutamate levels, oxidative damage, PARP-1 overactivation, PAR overproduction, and nuclear translocation of the AIF-MIF complex. Additionally, IFITM3 knockout reduced p38 MAPK phosphorylation and increased the expression of glutamate transporter EAAT2. Administration of a p38 MAPK inhibitor in IFITM3-overexpressing mice restored EAAT2 expression and attenuated neuronal parthanatos after ICH.Astrocytic IFITM3 upregulation causes impaired glutamate uptake, excitotoxicity, parthanatos, and neurological deficits through p38 MAPK/EAAT2 pathway, highlighting IFITM3 and parthanatos as potential therapeutic targets for ICH.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Fibrosis represents a complex pathological process that culminates in organ damage and failure. Cataract, specifically anterior subcapsular cataract (ASC) and posterior capsular opacity (PCO), is a common manifestation of ocular fibrosis, primarily driven by the epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Tripartite motif containing 25 (TRIM25), an E3 ubiquitin ligase and member of the TRIM protein family, plays a pivotal role in various biological processes including protein homeostasis, signaling pathways, immune responses, and cell growth. This study aims to elucidate the role of TRIM25 in LECs EMT and its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby identifying a novel therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of fibrotic cataracts.To investigate the expression level of TRIM25, we utilized an TGF-β2-induced human lens epithelial cell (SRA01/04) EMT model and employed lentivirus mediated knockdown techniques to examine the effects of TRIM25 on cellular proliferation, migration, and EMT in lens epithelial cells. These effects were assessed using Western blot analysis, wound healing assays, EdU incorporation assays, and immunoprecipitation experiments. Additionally, we explored the interaction between TRIM25 and PCBP1, as well as the regulation of the Notch signaling pathway.TRIM25 was found to be up-regulated in the TGF-β2-induced EMT model of lens epithelial cells. The knockdown of TRIM25 significantly attenuated the TGF-β2-induced EMT process, leading to a reduction in cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, TRIM25 interacts with PCBP1 and potentially targets PCBP1 for degradation via its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, thereby activating the Notch signaling pathway and promoting EMT along with associated cellular behavior changes.TRIM25 activates the Notch signaling pathway through the targeted degradation of PCBP1, thereby promoting the epithelial-mesenchymal transition and fibrosis in lens epithelial cells. These findings suggest that TRIM25 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of fibrotic cataracts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by a highly immunosuppressive and desmoplastic tumor microenvironment (TME) that limits the efficacy of immunotherapy. However, the evolution of this immunosuppressive TME and the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we construct a dynamic single-cell atlas spanning uninvolved adjacent pancreatic tissue (UNIN), intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), and PDAC. We confirm the stepwise establishment of an immunosuppressive milieu, accompanied by the emergence of LRRC15+ fibroblasts as determinants. Functional assays further identify tumor-derived LAMB3 as a regulator of LRRC15+ fibroblast differentiation. Mechanistically, LAMB3 promotes FOSL2-dependent transcriptional activation of LRRC15 through the ITGB1/FAK/MAPK signaling axis, ultimately suppressing T cell cytotoxicity. Orthotopic models reveal that LAMB3 overexpression increases the LRRC15 positive area and impairs T cell cytotoxicity, whereas FAK inhibition partially reverses these effects. In parallel, LAMB3 knockdown reduces the LRRC15 positive area and improves the efficacy of PD-1 blockade. Moreover, glycolytic reprogramming in PDAC ductal cells upregulates LAMB3 expression and correlates with increased LRRC15+ fibroblast enrichment. Clinically, co-enrichment of LAMB3+ PDAC ductal cells and LRRC15+ fibroblasts is associated with inferior overall survival. Collectively, our findings define a dynamic ductal-fibroblast-immune multicellular axis underlying PDAC pathogenesis and provide insights into potential therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Os odontoideum(OO) is a rare bone malformation at the craniovertebral junction, the presence of which can lead to potential instability of atlantoaxial joints. The cause, prevalence and treatment of OO are still controversial. There are two main theories regarding the pathogenesis of OO: congenital factors and traumatic factors. The congenital hypothesis suggests that the lesion results from segmental defects caused by incomplete fusion of the dens and the axis vertebral body during embryonic development. Our research team previously reported a case series involving three generations of a family affected by OO without a clear history of trauma, suggesting the existence of congenital pathogenic factors for this disease. Based on this, we conducted this study to further explore the pathogenesis of OO. METHODS: We consecutively recruited 25 OO patients including 15 males(60%) and 10 females(40%) from 2021 to 2023. The clinical manifestation and concomitant deformities were analyzed and whole-exome sequencing(WES) was performed. The variants in OO patients were compared with those from 79 normal population controls using a case-control association analysis of individual rare variants. The analysis results were used to prioritize disease-associated candidate genes by combining Odds Ratio(OR) values and P values. OR values measure the strength of association between genetic variations and the disease, while P values determine the statistical significance of the results. Nominally high OR values and low P values can indicate a potential association between genetic variations and the disease. By integrating these two metrics, genes with notable correlations to OO were identified. RESULTS: The analysis identified four genes nominally associated with OO based on their P values and OR values. Cell Division Cycle 27(CDC27) exhibited a P value of 0.002 and an OR of 5.08, indicating a notable association with the disease. Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy Region Gene 1 Binding Protein(FRG1BP) showed a P value of 0.004 and an OR of 5.59, further supporting its potential relevance. Tripartite Motif Containing 8(TRIM8) had a P value of 0.02 and an OR of 4.58, suggesting a potential association. Centrosomal Protein 250(CEP250) demonstrated the most notable correlation among the four genes, with a P value of 0.005 and an OR of 7.78. CONCLUSION: Our study identifies rare variants potentially linked to OO and provides preliminary data that could inform hypotheses regarding a complex genetic basis, though larger cohorts and functional studies are needed for validation. Our findings of rare variants associated with OO, though preliminary, highlight a potential complex genetic basis for this condition. This underscores the need for further research which may ultimately aid in risk stratification and early detection in high-risk families.
Gastric cancer (GC) is among the most common malignant tumors worldwide. The inhibition of p53 ubiquitination can inhibit the progression of GC. The mechanism through which plasmolipin (PLLP) regulates p53 ubiquitination in GC remains unclear. In this study, the correlation between PLLP expression and the prognosis of GC was analyzed on the basis of data from The Cancer Genome Atlas database, and the expression characteristics of PLLP and p53 were verified by immunohistochemistry. A PLLP overexpression/knockdown GC cell model was constructed, and cell proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion were detected by Cell Counting Kit-8, flow cytometry, and Transwell assays. Coimmunoprecipitation and Western blotting were used to analyze the PLLP-tripartite motif-containing 59 (TRIM59)-p53 regulatory axis. The antitumor effect of PLLP in vivo was verified by tumor formation experiments in nude mice. Cycloheximide tracking assays, coimmunoprecipitation, and ubiquitination analysis were used to determine the effect of PLLP on p53 stability. Combined with bioinformatics prediction and experimental verification, the interaction between PLLP and the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM59 and its regulatory effect on the ubiquitination and degradation of p53 were analyzed. Flow cytometry and Transwell assays were used to verify the biological effect of the PLLP-TRIM59-p53 axis. We found that PLLP was downregulated in GC (p < 0.05). PLLP interacts with TRIM59, inhibits TRIM59-mediated ubiquitination degradation of p53, and inhibits the progression of GC cells with WT p53. PLLP may be used as a potential biomarker for targeted therapy of GC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background Cancers remain a significant global health challenge; identification of cutting-edge diagnostic and prognostic markers plus innovative therapeutic targets is crucial. Tripartite motif molecule 59 (TRIM59) is a potential oncogene. However, its specific role in cancers is lacking. We aimed to investigate the expression of TRIM59 in pan-cancer as well as its implications for tumorigenesis, clinicopathological factors, and immune cell infiltration. Moreover, we aimed to investigate the protein-protein interaction and evaluate its potential as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in pan-cancer using bioinformatic analysis. Methods We analyzed TRIM59 across different cancer types using public datasets and bioinformatics tools. To study gene expression patterns, we used gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), University of Alabama at Birmingham Cancer Data Analysis Portal (UALCAN), tumor immune estimation resource (TIMER), and University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) Xena, and validated our findings using additional datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets. We assessed diagnostic performance with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. We also used Kaplan-Meier plotter (K-M plotter), GEPIA, UALCAN, and TIMER to explore how TRIM59 expression relates to patient prognosis and immune cell infiltration. Genetic changes were examined with cBioPortal, while the search tool for recurring instances of neighboring genes (STRING) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis helped us study protein-protein interaction networks and pathway enrichment. For statistical analysis, we used the Limma (Linear Models for Microarray Analysis) program and standard tests. Results TRIM59 was significantly upregulated in 22 cancers, with the highest level of expression in breast cancer (BRCA), esophageal cancer (ESCA), lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), and stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD). High TRIM59 expression is significantly associated with a worse prognosis in kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma (KIRP), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and it was also associated with various clinicopathological factors in BRCA, ESCA, LUSC, STAD, and immune markers across all these cancers. High TRIM59 expression is associated with infiltration of different immune cells in BRCA, ESCA, LUSC, STAD, LIHC, KIRP, and LUAD. Also, TRIM59 is associated with various genetic alterations across different types of tumors, and it interacts with several proteins. Conclusion In this study, we found that TRIM59 contributes to the carcinogenesis and increased malignant behavior of BRCA, ESCA, STAD, LUSC, LUAD, and KIRP. We also found that TRIM59 is a potential diagnostic biomarker for BRCA, ESCA, LUSC and STAD and a prognostic biomarker for KIRP, LIHC, and LUAD. Moreover, it correlates with immune infiltration and may be relevant to immunotherapy in these cancers. Furthermore, its correlation with tumor protein 53 (TP53), alpha/beta hydrolase domain containing 5 (ABHD5), and evolutionarily conserved signaling intermediate in toll pathway (ECSIT) may be used as a potential area of therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026, Attaelmanan et al.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy offers a promising approach to improve outcomes for patients with relapsed, refractory, or metastatic osteosarcoma. However, novel target antigens are needed to overcome obstacles limiting CAR T-cell efficacy against osteosarcoma and other solid tumors. Leucine-rich repeat-containing 15 (LRRC15) has been identified as a promising target in patients with osteosarcoma. Given these findings, we aimed to develop LRRC15-CAR T cells and evaluate their antitumor activity and safety in preclinical models.We evaluated LRRC15 expression in normal tissues and pediatric solid tumors using gene expression and immunohistochemical (IHC) approaches. We generated LRRC15-CAR T cells using a binding domain that recognizes human and murine LRRC15 and evaluated their specificity, antitumor activity, and safety in preclinical studies.Gene expression analysis demonstrated limited Lrrc15 expression in normal tissues and high expression in osteosarcoma, which was confirmed at the protein level by IHC staining of primary pediatric osteosarcoma tumors. In vitro, LRRC15-CAR T cells demonstrated specificity and cytotoxicity against LRRC15-positive targets. In vivo, LRRC15-CAR T cells exhibited antitumor activity in both human xenograft and immunocompetent murine osteosarcoma models, leading to significantly increased survival compared with controls. Finally, comprehensive toxicity analysis demonstrated a positive safety profile of intravenously administered LRRC15-CAR T cells.LRRC15-CAR T cells exert anti-osteosarcoma activity while maintaining a positive safety profile. These promising findings support the clinical translation of LRRC15-CAR T cells for patients with osteosarcoma and potentially other LRRC15-positive solid tumors.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Eugenol plays a significant role in various cancers and can influence the sensitivity of cancer cells to chemotherapy. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which eugenol regulates glycolysis through the tripartite motif containing 59 (TRIM59)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway in osimertinib-resistant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Drug-resistant lung cancer cell lines were established using osimertinib and treated with eugenol at different concentrations for 24 h. After treatment with eugenol, siTRIM59, TRIM59 overexpression, and the ERK inhibitor, either alone or in combination, the cell counting kit-8 was used to assess cell viability in drug-resistant cell lines. Flow cytometry, colony formation assay, and transwell assays were employed to evaluate the effects of eugenol on cell apoptosis, clonogenic ability, migration, and invasion, respectively. Relevant kits were used to measure the glycolytic activity of the cells. Eugenol inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration of drug-resistant cells, promoted apoptosis, and reduced glucose consumption, lactate release, and glycolytic activity in drug-resistant cells. TRIM59 expression was higher in drug-resistant cancer cells, while eugenol treatment inhibited the expression of TRIM59 and ERK phosphorylation. Silencing of TRIM59 enhanced the effect of eugenol on drug-resistant cell lines. Overexpression of TRIM59 reversed the effects of eugenol on drug-resistant cell lines, whereas ERK inhibition reversed the effects of TRIM59 and enhanced the therapeutic effects of eugenol on cancer cells. Moreover, eugenol inhibited the tumor growth, TRIM59 expression, and ERK phosphorylation in osimertinib-treated mice. Eugenol can effectively overcome osimertinib resistance in NSCLC by regulating glycolysis through the TRIM59/ERK signaling pathway. Eugenol could serve as a promising adjunctive therapy to improve chemotherapy efficacy and overcome drug resistance in NSCLC.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Leucine-rich repeat-containing 15 (LRRC15) is a recently identified cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) marker found in various types of cancer. However, its functional role and clinical significance in cervical cancer (CC) remain unclear.We analyzed LRRC15 expression in 20 normal cervical (NC) tissue samples and 87 CC tissue samples using RT-qPCR. Correlations between LRRC15 expression and clinicopathological parameters and prognosis in CC patients were evaluated. The biological functions of LRRC15 and its effects were investigated in CC cell lines with and without human papillomavirus (HPV) infection.LRRC15 expression was significantly associated with lympho-vascular space (LVS) involvement in patients with CC (p<0.001). Patients with high LRRC15 expression had significantly poorer progression-free survival outcomes than those with low LRRC15 expression (p=0.014). LRRC15 knockdown suppressed WNT and focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling, leading to increased Caspase3/7 expression and, consequently, enhanced apoptosis in CC cells, regardless of HPV infection.LRRC15 expression is a marker of poorer prognosis in patients with CC, suggesting that LRRC15 represents a potential therapeutic strategy for CC.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Bladder cancer (BCa) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy, and precision treatment remains challenging. Identifying molecular biomarkers and risk factors is essential for improving prognosis and therapeutic strategies.We integrated expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) data with Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to identify candidate risk genes associated with BCa. Subsequently, a prognostic risk model was developed using machine learning methods to explore its correlation with molecular features, immune cell infiltration, and ferroptosis-related pathways. Based on these findings, the Tripartite Motif Containing 59 (TRIM59) protein was selected for further experimental validation. The functional role of TRIM59 in BCa progression was further investigated using MTT assays in BCa cell lines. Additionally, western blotting (WB) was conducted to confirm the potential association between TRIM59 expression and ferroptosis regulation.The risk model identified distinct signaling pathways that differentiate the high-risk and low-risk BCa groups. The low-risk group demonstrated greater infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Conversely, the high-risk group exhibited enhanced immune evasion, as evidenced by increased infiltration of macrophages and fibroblasts. Furthermore, TRIM59 exerts a regulatory influence on ferroptosis progression in BCa by modulating key genes involved in this process, including Solute Carrier Family 7 Member 11 (SLC7A11), Glutathione Peroxidase 4 (GPX4), and Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long Chain Family Member 4 (ACSL4).Our integrative approach highlights the potential of genomic and immune microenvironment data in developing personalized risk models for BCa, offering insights into individualized treatment strategies. Importantly, TRIM59 is involved in ferroptosis resistance in BCa. These findings have potential implications for identifying diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for BCa treatment.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Hormonal intrauterine device (IUD) is an effective contraceptive method with high user satisfaction rates. To guide the introduction of hormonal IUD into the public sector in Tanzania, an operational research study was conducted to assess client acceptability of hormonal IUDs.To explore clients' perspectives on contraceptives and experiences with hormonal IUDs.This observational mixed-methods study (2023-2024) used focus group discussions with current or future contraceptive users (N = 58, baseline), plus facility register reviews, a structured quantitative survey (N = 100, endline) and semi-structured in-depth qualitative interviews (N = 18 at midline 2, N = 15 at endline) with hormonal IUD clients. Register and survey data were analysed for descriptive statistics. Qualitative data was analysed thematically and triangulated with quantitative data.In total, 1,198 clients chose hormonal IUD during the eight-month study. At baseline, women had limited knowledge and several concerns about IUDs and emphasised the importance of good contraceptive counselling. Client satisfaction with hormonal IUD at six months post-insertion was high (93% were strongly or somewhat satisfied). Most (92%, 83% and 100%) clients were strongly satisfied with the counselling, follow-up care and removal services received, respectively. Hormonal IUD clients found the characteristic of localised release of hormones possibly offering a better side-effect profile than other hormonal methods appealing.Hormonal IUD clients showed high satisfaction with the method and care received throughout the study. The authors recommend introduction of hormonal IUD into the public sector in Tanzania, with investments in community awareness, male engagement, and strengthening the quality of contraceptive counselling and side effects management.
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a three-dimensional deformity characterised by coronal curvature, axial rotation, and altered trunk translation. Radiographic indices (e.g., Cobb angle) quantify structure but incompletely represent functional correctability, a core target of physiotherapeutic scoliosis-specific exercises (PSSE). Side-Shift Therapy (SST), originating from the RNOH tradition (Mehta, 1985) and operationalised via a mobility classification (Betts et al., 2014), is a voluntary lateral translation of the trunk relative to the pelvis (not a side-bend). This paper presents a biomechanics-first teaching framework linking functional spinal unit (FSU) mechanics, thoracic ring behaviour, motor control sequencing, and growth-modulation hypotheses. FSUs are modelled as 6-DOF systems with translation-rotation coupling; in simplified terms, Ktt represents resistance to translation and Ktr represents how rotation changes when translation is performed (short note: coupling = rotation response during translation). Load-path optimisation is framed via an apical bending moment approximation M ≈ Fg·dlat (dlat = lateral moment arm). Time-under-load is explained using viscoelastic forms where eta captures time-dependence. In growing spines, a Hueter-Volkmann-type simplification gdot = g0 - ksigma is used to describe stress-sensitive growth (k = stress sensitivity). Clinically, original mobility Types (1: beyond midline; 2: to midline; 3: cannot reach midline) are retained with reported substantial reliability (kappa ≈ 0.76-0.77). A multiplanar update adds transverse modifiers for Types 1-2: A (rotation reduces), B (rotation persists), C (rotation worsens), providing a pragmatic proxy for coupling behaviour and thoracic compliance. The framework supports stratified PSSE prescription and outlines testable targets for reliability, responsiveness, and predictive validity.
Post-traumatic hydrocephalus (PTH) is a prominent complication that arises after decompressive craniectomy(DC) for traumatic brain injury(1), characterized by a multifaceted pathogenesis and substantial inter-individual variability. This study aims to identify potential risk factors to provide clinical support for the diagnosis and treatment of PTH.This study retrospectively analyzed the clinical data of 457 patients who underwent decompressive craniectomy for traumatic brain injury at the Department of Neurosurgery, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, between January 2015 and December 2022. Univariate analysis and Multivariable binary logistic regression were conducted to identify risk factors. The resulting model was validated using three approaches: ROC curve analysis, decision curve analysis (DCA), and goodness-of-fit tests.PTH occurred in 123 patients (26.9%). Multivariable analysis identified postoperative intracranial infection (OR = 15.296), midline shift ≥ 10 mm (OR = 195.636), effacement of the ambient cistern (OR = 25.361), subarachnoid hemorrhage (OR = 5.324) and distance between the superior margin of the bone window and the midline < 2.5 cm (OR for ≥ 2.5 cm = 0.334) as independent risk factors. Firth regression confirmed midline shift as a robust predictor (OR = 95.63). Subgroup analysis based on the timing of PTH onset showed that distance between the superior margin of the bone window and the midline < 2.5 cm was associated with earlier PTH onset (< 3 months) (OR = 10.40).Several clinical and radiological factors are independently associated with PTH after DC, with midline shift being the most significant predictor. A short distance between the superior margin of the bone window and the midline is associated with earlier onset of PTH.© 2026. The Author(s).
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is among the most lethal malignancies worldwide, with a five-year survival rate below 20%. Ferroptosis-a regulated form of cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation-has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy, yet its regulation in ESCC remains poorly understood. We investigated the role of tripartite motif-containing 31 (TRIM31), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in ESCC progression and ferroptosis.TRIM31 expression was significantly elevated in ESCC tissues compared with normal esophageal tissues (The Cancer Genome Atlas and Genotype-Tissue Expression datasets; p < 0.001) and correlated with advanced Tumor, Node, and Metastasis (TNM) stage (p = 0.004), lymph node metastasis (p = 0.024), and poor overall survival (p = 0.0027). Functional assays revealed that TRIM31 knockdown reduced ESCC cell proliferation, impaired colony formation, and suppressed migration (p < 0.01). In vivo, TRIM31 silencing decreased xenograft tumor volume by over 70% and Ki-67 expression by 73%. Mechanistically, TRIM31 directly interacted with VDAC1 via its coiled-coil domain, promoting VDAC1 ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. This interaction inhibited ferroptosis, as evidenced by increased lipid reactive oxygen species, elevated intracellular Fe2+ levels, and mitochondrial damage upon TRIM31 knockdown. Conversely, TRIM31 overexpression attenuated ferroptosis induced by RSL3. We further identified hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha as a transcriptional activator of TRIM31, binding to its promoter region. Importantly, TRIM31 knockdown synergized with the ferroptosis inducer imidazole ketone erastin, achieving a 90% reduction in tumor growth without significant toxicity.TRIM31 promotes ESCC progression by degrading VDAC1 and suppressing ferroptosis. Targeting TRIM31 enhances ferroptosis-based therapy and represents a novel, clinically actionable strategy for ESCC treatment. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 44, 550-571.
Monocyte adhesion to vascular endothelial cells is a critical step in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. While unconventional myosins are known to participate in various cellular activities, their specific role in monocyte-endothelium adhesion remains unclear.In the present study, we investigated the effects of Myosin IF (Myo1f), a class I unconventional myosin, on atherosclerosis and its underlying mechanisms.A high-cholesterol diet was administered to apolipoprotein E-KO (Apoe-/-) mice to establish an atherosclerosis model, which was further combined with Myo1f knockout to investigate the specific role of Myo1f in atherosclerosis development. Bone marrow transplantation was conducted to assess the significance of Myo1f in myeloid cells related to atherosclerosis. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with non-coronary artery disease (non-CAD) and coronary artery disease (CAD) were isolated to examine the correlation between Myo1f and human atherosclerosis. Co-immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry analysis was performed to identify molecules associated with Myo1f, which were subsequently validated and mechanistically investigated through both in vivo and in vitro experiments. Additionally, potential therapeutic drugs for atherosclerosis were explored using the Apoe-/- mouse model.Myo1f expression was found to be significantly increased in PBMCs of patients with coronary artery disease. Moreover, Myo1f-deficient mice exhibited a notable reduction in atherosclerotic plaque area and lipid deposition compared to Apoe-/- mice. Notably, monocyte Myo1f deletion obviously reduced its integrin β2 (ITGB2) expression, consequently impeding the adhesion of monocytes to vascular endothelial cells. Mechanistically, Myo1f promoted actin polymerization by recruiting epithelial protein lost in neoplasm (EPLIN) and depolymerization of G-actin/myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTFA), leading to the nuclear translocation of MRTFA and upregulation of ITGB2 transcriptional expression. Treatment with CCG-1423, a MRTFA inhibitor, resulted in reduced atherosclerotic lesions in Apoe-/- mice.Our data indicate that Myo1f regulates monocyte adhesion and contributes to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis by recruiting EPLINα, which stabilizes F-actin. This stabilization enhances MRTFA nuclear translocation, thereby promoting ITGB2 transcription.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease marked by lipid accumulation and immune cell infiltration in arterial walls. Macrophages contribute by internalizing oxidized low-density lipoprotein, forming foam cells, and driving inflammation. The ubiquitin-proteasome system regulates immune and inflammatory responses in atherosclerosis. This study investigated the protective role of TRIM31 (tripartite motif-containing 31), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in macrophage lipid metabolism and inflammation through selective regulation of LOX-1 (lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1).Transcriptomic profiling, macrophage-specific Trim31 knockout (Trim31fl/flLyz2cre) and overexpression (Trim31Lyz2-KI) mice, and Lox-1 knockout (Lox-1-/-) models were used to examine the impact of TRIM31 in vivo (n=8 per group). TRIM31 substrates were identified using single-cell RNA sequencing of atherosclerotic aortas and proteomic/immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry analyses. Functional assays were performed in both mouse and human macrophages (n=5-6 per group). Ubiquitination mechanisms were clarified through immunoprecipitation and site-directed mutagenesis. Rescue experiments involved Lox-1 knockdown or reconstitution with wild-type and lysine 12 to arginine variant (K12R) Lox-1 and Trim31 overexpression in Lox-1-/- or Apoe-/-Lox-1-/- mice to evaluate the functional importance of Lox-1 ubiquitination in vivo (n=8 per group) and in vitro (n=5 per group).TRIM31 was selectively upregulated in macrophages under oxidized low-density lipoprotein stimulation and in atherosclerosis plaques. Trim31 deficiency exacerbated plaque burden, foam cell formation, and inflammatory signaling (n=8 per group). Single-cell analysis revealed enrichment of lipid transport and inflammatory pathways in Trim31-deficient plaques. LOX-1 was identified as a key TRIM31 substrate. TRIM31 promoted K48-linked ubiquitination of LOX-1 at lysine 12, facilitating its degradation. The atheroprotective effects of Trim31 were abolished in Lox-1-/- or K12R-variant rescue models. The TRIM31-LOX-1 axis was also confirmed by human macrophages in regulating lipid uptake and inflammation.TRIM31, an inducible, macrophage-enriched protective factor in atherosclerosis, restricts foam cell formation and inflammation by targeting LOX-1 for proteasomal degradation. These findings position TRIM31 as a promising therapeutic target for macrophage-driven atherogenesis.
Smile esthetics are crucial in orthodontics; however, orthodontists, general dentists, and laypersons perceive deviations differently, prompting the need for comparative evaluation. This study explored how these groups assess upper midline discrepancies, gingival display, maxillary cant, reduced upper teeth show, asymmetric upper lip elevation, and chin deviation, aiming to determine their combined impact on smile attractiveness and treatment needs while identifying thresholds for clinical intervention to enhance patient-focused care.This cross-sectional study was conducted in the Department of Orthodontics from August 2023 to October 2024. A frontal smile photograph was digitally manipulated to create six series of images (54 images), each with nine variations of upper midline displacement with respect to facial midline (-2 to +2 mm in 0.5 mm increments). Modifications included increased gingival exposure (gumminess), a 5° maxillary cant, reduced upper teeth show, 2 mm asymmetric upper lip elevation, and 2 mm chin deviation. Ninety evaluators (30 orthodontists, 30 general dentists, 30 laypersons) assessed the images using a visual analog scale (VAS) for attractiveness and indicated the need for treatment. Data were analyzed using one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) for VAS scores and chi-square tests for treatment need, with intra-evaluator reliability assessed using intraclass correlation coefficients.Orthodontists demonstrated significantly higher sensitivity to minor upper midline deviations (-1.0 mm to 0.0 mm), maxillary cant, and asymmetric upper lip elevation compared to general dentists and laypersons (P < 0.05), with significant intergroup differences in perceived treatment need for all conditions except chin deviation at the ideal midline (0.0 mm). As deviations increased beyond 0.5 mm, perceptions converged, becoming statistically indistinguishable (P > 0.05). Orthodontists recommended treatment most frequently (>90% for 1.5-2.0 mm deviations), particularly for chin deviation and upper lip asymmetry, while laypersons showed the lowest treatment need perception (40%-60% No for minor deviations). Increased gingival display and chin deviation amplified the treatment need across groups, with same-side chin and midline deviations less noticeable than opposite-side deviations.Professional expertise significantly influenced the detection of subtle smile deviations, with orthodontists advocating treatment more often than laypersons. These findings emphasize the need for tailored patient communication to align clinical interventions with patient expectations and enhance patient-centered orthodontic outcomes.Copyright © 2025, Ravichandra et al.
Esophageal cancer, a prevalent malignant neoplasm affecting the digestive system, is characterized by a poor prognosis and high rates of mortality and morbidity. The tripartite motif containing 31 (TRIM31) gene has been implicated in a variety of human cancers. However, little is known about its phenotypic expression and mechanistic role in esophageal cancer progression. Our study revealed that TRIM31 is highly expressed in esophageal cancer. Loss-of-function analysis demonstrated that TRIM31 depletion inhibited esophageal cancer cell proliferation while suppressing tumor growth and promoting apoptosis in vivo. Furthermore, silencing TRIM31 significantly inhibited migration and invasion while modulating the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related markers. Mechanistically, gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase (BBOX1) is predicted to be a downstream gene of TRIM31 and is downregulated in esophageal cancers. TRIM31 enhances the proliferation, migration, and invasion of Eca109 cells through the ubiquitination of BBOX1. In conclusion, TRIM31 functions as an oncogene, suggesting its potential as a novel therapeutic target or prognostic biomarker for patients with esophageal cancer.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aimed to further explore immune protein patterns in cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) by describing additional findings from an initial proteomic study to investigate whether an unbalanced immune response may contribute to the occurrence of SIDS in certain cases.The subjects included 46 SIDS cases and 39 controls autopsied at the Department of Forensic Sciences, Oslo, Norway. The causes of death in the controls were accidents/trauma. The normalised protein expression of 92 proteins were analysed in samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by Proximity Extension Assay (PEA).For the purpose of this report, 17 of the immune system-related proteins in the assay were chosen for a more in-depth analysis. The major finding was a downregulation in the proteins Retinoic Acid-Inducible Gene I (DDX58/RIG-I), Phosphoinositide-3-Kinase Adaptor Protein 1(PIK3AP1), Interferon Regulatory Factor 9 (IRF9), Tripartite Motif Containing 5 (TRIM5), TRAF Family Member-Associated Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-Κb) Activator (TANK) and TNF Receptor Associated Factor 2 (TRAF2), and upregulation of CXADR Ig-like cell adhesion molecule (CXADR).The results are in keeping with the findings of earlier studies, supporting the role of immune system dysregulation as a potential predisposing factor for SIDS.© 2025 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) in dogs is a prevalent allergic disorder associated with environmental allergens, including the house dust mite Dermatophagoides farinae (Df).To describe clinical and immunological changes over time in dogs with canine (c)AD sensitised to Df undergoing Df allergen-specific immunotherapy (ASIT) and to test the hypothesis that ASIT is associated with changes in Canine Atopic Dermatitis Extent and Severity Index, 4th iteration (CADESI-04), pruritus and medication scores and selected immunological markers.Fifteen dogs with cAD sensitised to Df received ASIT for 12 months. Clinical evaluations included CADESI-04 and pruritus Visual Analog Scale (PVAS). Gene expression of interleukin (IL)-31, interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was analysed using real-time PCR. Serum levels of Df-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)E, total IgG and IgG subclass 1 were measured using immunoassays. Evaluations were performed at 0, 6 and 12 months.Significant reductions in pruritus scores and IL-31 expression were observed, while IFN-γ expression increased. CADESI-04 scores decreased, although the change was not statistically significant. A reduction in medication scores was observed over time. Serum analysis showed increased concentrations of IgG and IgG1, while Df-specific IgE remained elevated.Dermatophagoides farinae ASIT resulted in a reduction in pruritus and medication use over a 12 month period. Associated with this, PBMCs IL-31 was reduced and IFN-γ elevated. An increased serum IgG and IgG1 were measured, and Df-specific IgE remained elevated. These findings support an immunological effect of ASIT, yet further studies with a larger cohort are required to validate the findings.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of ESVD and ACVD.
Current therapeutic strategies for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovitis rely primarily on immunosuppression, with limited options targeting the diseased synovial fibroblasts (FLSs). Modulating the metabolic state of FLSs has been proposed as a potential approach to shift them toward an anti-inflammatory phenotype and alleviate synovitis. However, the molecular mechanisms that bridge FLS metabolism to anti-inflammatory defense remain largely unexplored.We aimed to identify the target of ORI in synovial cells and to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which ORI alleviates RA synovitis.The therapeutic effects of oridonin were first assessed in an IL-1β-induced MH7A cell model of synovitis. Its direct protein target was identified using CC-ABPP, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), pull-down, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) assays. The specific binding site was confirmed by co-crystallization, LC-MS/MS analysis, and site-directed mutagenesis of GAPDH. The underlying mechanisms were investigated using Western blot, ELISA, immunofluorescence, RT-qPCR, HPLC, and metabolomics in FLSs. Furthermore, therapeutic efficacy and pathway validation were examined in GAPDH-knockdown mice with adjuvant-induced arthritis using immunohistochemistry and hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining for pathological assessment.This study identified GAPDH as the direct target of oridonin in MH7A cells. ORI covalently binds to Cys152 of GAPDH, thereby inhibiting GAPDH enzymatic activity. Metabolomics data revealed an interruption in the glycolytic process. Metabolite analysis revealed the accumulation of methylglyoxal, which further activated the KEAP1-NRF2/HO-1 signaling pathway and suppressed the NF-κB signaling pathway. The existence of GAPDH-KEAP1-NRF2 and NF-κB signal pathways were validated in both cell with GAPDH siRNA and GAPDH+/- mice with adjuvant-induced arthritis for the first time.GAPDH inhibition by oridonin induces intracellular accumulation of methylglyoxal, which activates KEAP1-NRF2/HO-1 signaling pathway and suppresses NF-κB signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cardiac fibrosis, a major pathological hallmark of aging that leads to heart failure, is characterized by excessive collagen deposition. Our knowledge of what sustains collagen synthesis in the aging heart is still very preliminary. Here, we uncover a central role for chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), a selective lysosomal degradation pathway, in this process. We demonstrate that CMA is suppressed in the aging heart, which promotes collagen overproduction in fibroblasts, whereas enhancing CMA activity ameliorates fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, we identify SHMT2 (serine hydroxymethyltransferase 2) as a CMA substrate whose accumulation with aging drives collagen synthesis by increasing glycine availability. Integrative omics revealed a systemic downregulation of the ketone body β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) in aged mice. BHB supplementation - via a cyclic ketogenic diet - restored CMA, attenuated fibrosis, and improved cardiac function. This recovery was mediated through BHB-induced activation of the HCAR2 receptor and subsequent phosphorylation of HSPA8/HSC70, which systemically reactivates the CMA machinery. Furthermore, we show that Lycium barbarum polysaccharide (LBP) rejuvenates hepatic ketogenesis and mimics the benefits of BHB. Our findings establish a BHB-HCAR2-CMA-SHMT2 regulatory axis as a critical mechanism driving aging-related cardiac fibrosis and highlight nutritional strategies that target CMA as promising therapies against cardiac aging.Abbreviations AcAc: acetoacetic acid; BHB: β-hydroxybutyrate; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; COL1: collagen type I; COL3: collagen type III; ECM: extracellular matrix; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; HCAR2: hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 2; HSPA8/HSC70: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; HF: heart failure; HK2: hexokinase 2; IVRT: isovolumic relaxation time; KD: ketogenic diet; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; LBP:Lycium barbarumpolysaccharide; PKM/PKM2: pyruvate kinase M1/2; SHMT2: serine hydroxymethyltransferase 2; VIM: vimentin.
Phospholipase C gamma-2 (PLCγ2) catalyzes the hydrolysis of the membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) to form diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol trisphosphate (IP3), feeding into diverse downstream signaling pathways. PLCG2 polymorphisms have been associated with reduced and/or increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias, longevity, autoinflammation, and immune disorders. In the brain, PLCγ2 is expressed in microglia, and other neuroimmune and vascular interface populations, yet its role in brain homeostasis remains incompletely defined.We analyzed the brains of three-month-old Plcg2 wild-type (WT), heterozygous (Het KO) and homozygous knockout (Homo KO) littermate mice modeling human PLCG2 loss-of-function risk alleles linked to AD risk using a multiomic approach that included lipidomics, metabolomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics, together with immunofluorescence, as well as flow-cytometric profiling of peripheral and brain-draining immune compartments.Plcg2 deficiency substantially impaired early survival and produced splenomegaly without increasing total spleen cellularity, instead shifting spleen composition toward myeloid/innate-enriched cells and away from B cells, with expansion of age-associated B-cell (ABC-like) subsets and parallel reductions in CD4 and CD8 regulatory T cells in spleen and cervical lymph nodes. Brain lipidomics revealed selective depletion of PIP2, despite very low bulk PLCγ2 protein abundance relative to other PLC family members. PLCγ2 loss led to significant reductions in myelin-enriched lipid classes and myelin/paranode-associated proteins, accompanied by compensatory upregulation of oligodendrocyte/myelin genes, and modest shifts in microglial, lysosomal, complement, and oxidative metabolism pathways by NanoString and DIA-MS. Targeted acylcarnitine profiling demonstrated reprogramming of brain oxidative metabolism, with increased short-, medium-, and long-chain acylcarnitines and enrichment of mitochondrial matrix fatty-acid and amino-acid catabolic enzymes in Homo KO brains.Loss of PLCγ2 installs a coordinated program that compromises systemic immune tolerance and subtly erodes central myelin and phosphoinositide homeostasis while enhancing brain oxidative metabolism, effects that extend beyond microglial phagocytic signaling and may underlie increased vulnerability to AD pathology and aging, providing a mechanistic framework for how PLCG2 variation may link systemic immune regulation, white-matter integrity, and neurodegenerative risk.Because constitutive Plcg2 Homo KO mice display high early mortality and intestinal vascular abnormalities, observed phenotypes may reflect developmental compensation and may not fully recapitulate protective human PLCG2 variants.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42520666
Dermatomyositis (DM) and antisynthetase syndrome (ASS) are heterogeneous subsets of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies with persistent unmet needs in disease activity assessment and stratification. Although CD4+ T cells are recognized as important contributors to disease pathogenesis, the role of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) remains insufficiently defined.Peripheral blood samples were collected from patients with DM (n = 50), patients with ASS (n = 14), and healthy donors (HDs, n = 20). The frequency of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes with expression of cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GZMB+CD4+ CTLs) was analyzed by flow cytometry to quantify GZMB+CD4+ CTLs and characterize their phenotype. Disease activity and severity were evaluated using standard clinical indices. Multiplex immunohistochemistry was performed on skin biopsy specimens from patients with DM (n = 4) to assess tissue infiltration and endothelial injury.The proportion of circulating GZMB+CD4+ CTLs was significantly increased in both DM and ASS compared with HDs. In patients, this population showed phenotypic features consistent with enhanced cytotoxicity and tissue trafficking, including increased fibroblast growth factor binding protein 2 (FGFBP2) expression and reduced circulating fractions of cells positive for C-X3-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3). GZMB+CD4+ CTL frequency was positively associated with global disease activity and cutaneous activity, and decreased after treatment independently of specific drug regimens. Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that circulating GZMB+CD4+ CTLs effectively distinguished active from remitting disease in both DM and ASS. In DM skin lesions, GZMB+CD4+ CTLs were abundant and were accompanied by increased endothelial apoptosis and enhanced HLA-DR expression.Peripheral GZMB+CD4+ CTLs are expanded in DM and ASS and are closely associated with disease activity. Their accumulation in lesional tissue and association with endothelial injury support a potential pathogenic role, while their diagnostic performance suggests that they may serve as a biomarker and potential therapeutic target in these diseases.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chi, Shi, Wan, Chang, Jiang, Wang, Han, Chen and Gong.
Reliable reference genes are critical for ensuring the accuracy of RT-qPCR-based gene expression analysis, especially under environmental stress conditions. In this study, Leymus chinensis was used as the experimental material, and eight candidate reference genes-alpha-tubulin (TUA), beta-tubulin (TUB), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1α), 18S ribosomal RNA (18S rRNA), adenylyl cyclase-associated protein (CAP), adenine phosphoribosyl transferase (APRT), and actin (ACT)-were selected to evaluate their expression stability under cold, drought, heat, NaCl, high pH, wounding, abscisic acid (ABA) and jasmonic acid (JA) treatments. Primer specificity and amplification efficiency were first assessed, and the candidate genes were then comprehensively analyzed using geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and RefFinder. The results showed that the amplification efficiencies of all primers ranged from 95.0% to 107.2%, and the Ct values of the candidate genes ranged from 17.31 to 30.99. Comprehensive analysis using RefFinder showed that ACTIN was the most stable gene under ABA and NaCl treatments, EF1α under heat and wounding treatments, CAP under JA and high pH treatments, APRT under cold treatment, and TUB under drought treatment. geNorm analysis indicated that two reference genes were sufficient for accurate normalization under each treatment condition. The reliability of the screening results was further confirmed by expression-level validation of LcbZIP46, LcWRKY5, and LcFIN1. This study provides a stable reference gene system for RT-qPCR-based expression analysis in Leymus chinensis under environmental stress conditions.
Although the main antimicrobial therapy for adult and neonatal listeriosis is ampicillin, prophylactic treatments are currently lacking. We compared the efficiency of nanovaccines with prenatal or postnatal ampicillin treatments in pregnant female mice during the development of neonatal listeriosis. Nanovaccines prepared with gold nanoparticles and listeriolysin O (LLO) or glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) peptides and inoculated into pregnant females, prevented neonatal listeriosis and the appearance of comorbidities, better than pre or postnatal ampicillin treatment. Evaluation of the ability of nanovaccines as immunomodulators of blood cells in patients with listeriosis, revealed the strong and specific immunogenic capacity of the use of GAPDH nanovaccines as putative immunotherapies in listeriosis.
Mitochondria-ER contact sites (MERCs) are crucial signaling hubs, but their role in anti-tumor immunity is unclear. This study revealed that the mitophagy regulator PRKN ubiquitinated CD274 at MERCs in human cervical cancer cells, a key mechanism for anti-tumor immunity. CD274 expression inversely correlated with PRKN in cervical cancer. Upon mitophagy activation, CD274 was recruited from ER to MERCs by PINK1, enhancing its interaction with PRKN. PRKN then ubiquitinated CD274 at residues K89 and K105 within its extracellular domain. Functionally, a ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutant promoted the anaerobic glycolysis and MTOR signaling, accelerating cancer cell growth. Coculture with ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutant-expressing cancer cells increased the CD8+ T-cells' exhaustion. Single-cell RNA sequencing of mouse tumors showed the expansion of exhausted CD8+ T cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) with ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutation. In vivo, ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutant accelerated tumor growth and reduced the therapy efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Conversely, clinical sample analysis showed that CD274 localization at MERCs or its ubiquitination levels were closely associated with the improved immunotherapy efficacy. Thus, mitophagy-dependent recruitment of CD274 to MERCs for PRKN-mediated ubiquitination is a novel pathway that activates the anti-tumor immunity and improves the immunotherapy efficacy, presenting a promising strategic target for cervical cancer treatment.Abbreviations: CCCP, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CD, cluster of differentiation; CHX, cycloheximide; FCCP, carbonyl cyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone; GAPDH, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GZMB, granzyme B; IFNG, interferon gamma; LDHA, lactate dehygrogenase A; MAP1LC3, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MFN2, mitofusin 2; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OCR, oxygen consumption rate; PBMC, peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PDCD1, programmed cell death 1; PI, propidium iodide; PINK1, PTEN induced putative kinase 1; PKM, pyruvate kinase, muscle; RPS6, ribosomal protein S6; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; TME, tumor microenvironment.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus are major opportunistic pathogens capable of developing antibiotic resistance and forming device-associated biofilms, which complicate clinical management. The present study aimed to investigate the antimicrobial and anti-biofilm properties of dermcidin-derived peptides against clinical isolates of these bacteria.Clinical isolates of methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MSSA and MRSA), as well as carbapenem-susceptible and carbapenem-resistant P. aeruginosa (CSPA and CRPA), were examined for their susceptibility to dermcidin-derived peptides (DCD-1 L, SSL-23, and SSL-25). The in vitro inhibitory activity of the peptides on bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation was evaluated at sub-MIC levels, while their biofilm-disrupting potential was assessed on mature biofilms. Furthermore, the expression of key biofilm-associated and quorum-sensing genes was quantified using qRT-PCR following peptide exposure.Dermcidin-derived peptides markedly inhibited bacterial attachment and biofilm formation at sub-inhibitory concentrations (1/2, 1/4, and 1/8 MIC). In addition, they exhibited strong biofilm eradication activity at higher concentrations (8×-64× MIC). Gene expression analysis revealed significant down-regulation of adhesion- and quorum-sensing-related genes in both S. aureus and P. aeruginosa after treatment.The results suggest that dermcidin-derived peptides, regardless of their net charge, possess potent inhibitory effects on bacterial attachment and biofilm development. These findings highlight their potential as promising therapeutic agents for the prevention and control of biofilm-associated infections.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42150086
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42092611
Bacterial keratitis is a potentially blinding corneal infection, with Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa being the leading gram-positive and gram-negative pathogens, respectively. The increasing antimicrobial resistance among these pathogens necessitates the development of newer therapeutic approaches. This study aims to assess the therapeutic efficacy of mesenchymal stem cell-derived conditioned medium (MSC-CM) for ocular isolates of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa. The MSCs were derived from human adipose tissue, bone marrow, dental pulp, and umbilical cord. The antibacterial effects of MSC-CM were studied through zone of inhibition and colony-forming unit assays, whereas morphological changes were studied through scanning electron microscopy. Furthermore, to mimic bacterial infections, human corneal epithelial cells were stimulated with bacterial endotoxins, and changes in the expression of antimicrobial peptides (LL-37, Human Beta Defensin-3 [HBD-3], Dermcidin, Hepcidin-25, and Lipocalin-2) and inflammatory mediators (IL-6 and TNF-α) were evaluated through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. While HBD-3 was present in the highest concentration across all sources of MSCs, treatment with MSC-CM further upregulated the expression of antimicrobial peptides while downregulating the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators, suggesting its immunomodulatory effects. The results suggest that MSC-CM exhibits antibacterial effects against the tested ATCC strains and clinical isolates of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa causing ocular infections, with the highest efficacy shown by the adipose tissue-derived MSC-CM. Furthermore, in an ex vivo human corneal infection model, adipose-derived MSC-CM decreased the bacterial burden while preserving corneal transparency compared to untreated controls. These findings indicate the promising therapeutic potential of MSC-CM for ocular bacterial infections.
Menstrual symptoms, including primary dysmenorrhea and premenstrual syndrome, are significant problems affecting women's health condition. However, their biological functions are still unclear. The objective of this study was to elucidate proteins related to menstrual symptoms with high-performance two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE). Serum samples were collected once a week over 5 weeks. At the same time, 46 types of menstrual symptoms were evaluated using a menstrual distress questionnaire (MDQ) on a scale of 0-4 (0: not at all, closer to 4: very strongly). 2DE images were obtained from the serum of participants with continuous menstrual phases, including the luteal, menstrual, and follicular phases. Multiple regression analysis was conducted to identify proteins that change in response to the interaction between menstrual phase and menstrual symptoms. As a result, six symptoms were associated with specific proteins (muscle stiffness with serine protease-1; general aches and pains with junction plakoglobin; tension with transferrin, ceruloplasmin, and desmoglein; depression with kininogen-1; distractibility with dermcidin; take naps; stay in bed with transferrin and hemopexin). These results indicate that various menstrual symptoms may have different underlying mechanisms. Further research into these proteins may lead to novel understanding of menstrual symptoms and support more effective health management for women.© 2026 The Author(s). FASEB BioAdvances published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Despite the high incidence of influenza virus infections, one-fifth of people infected with influenza remain asymptomatic. The mechanisms associated with this immune resilience are, however, unknown. Here, we show that the human antimicrobial peptide dermcidin has antiviral activity against influenza viruses through binding to hemagglutinin and extends its effect to taxonomically unrelated respiratory viruses such as measles virus and human coronavirus OC43. We show that dermcidin is present in all anatomical regions associated with the entry routes of respiratory viruses, that its levels increase during viral respiratory infections, and that it protects mice against influenza disease. Notably, dermcidin levels were higher in asymptomatic individuals than in susceptible peers, suggesting a role in the onset of disease symptoms. Thus, we show that dermcidin inhibits influenza virus infection in vitro and in vivo, with potential as a human-derived product for the prevention and treatment of respiratory viral infections.
TFF1 is a secretory polypeptide that is typical of mucous epithelia belonging to the trefoil factor family (TFF) of lectins. Originally, TFF1 was discovered as an estrogen-responsive gene in breast cancer cell lines. However, its major physiological expression site is the stomach where it exists mainly in a monomeric form, with minor amounts of homodimeric as well as heterodimeric forms, such as a high-molecular-mass complex with IgG Fc binding protein (FCGBP). For the first time, we characterized different low-molecular-mass forms of TFF1 in human post-menopausal vaginal specimens, i.e., monomeric and dimeric forms. Attempts to identify high-molecular-mass forms of TFF1, such as TFF1-FCGBP, failed. Based on its known anti-inflammatory effects, TFF1 could play an important role in the homeostasis of vaginal microbiota, which is normally predominated by Lactobacillus spp. Due to its lectin activity, TFF1 might also be capable of binding to members of the vaginal microbiota or to vaginal fungal pathogens. This points to a potential role for TFF1 in the vagina's innate immune defence and could be of clinical relevance particularly after menopause, e.g., for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis or vulvovaginal candidiasis, as here vaginal dysbiosis is often observed as a consequence of estrogen deficiency.
BACKGROUND: Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is a rare, asbestos-linked cancer with a long asymptomatic latency, delaying diagnosis and limiting treatment options. Identifying blood‐based biomarkers that signal disease before symptoms onset could improve surveillance of at‐risk individuals. METHODS: In our work, we conducted a prospective proteomic study of pre-diagnostic serum from 21 PM cases (< 5 years before diagnosis) and 21 asbestos‐exposed controls in the EPIC cohort using SWATH‐MS, followed by ELISA validation. Findings were tested in an independent MoMar cohort of 32 pre‐diagnostic plasma samples (< 1 year before diagnosis) and 32 matched controls. RESULTS: SWATH-MS identified 12 differentially expressed proteins (nominal p < 0.05, fold change > 1.3 or < 0.75). Transferrin and complement C4A were elevated, while beta‐2‐microglobulin and dermcidin were reduced in pre‐diagnostic cases. ELISA confirmed a borderline significant rise in beta‐2‐microglobulin within two years of diagnosis in EPIC. Calretinin and mesothelin were also detected in both cohorts, with the five‐marker panel achieving an AUC of 0.91 (p = 0.001) in MoMar but not reaching significance in EPIC (AUC = 0.88, p = 0.17). CONCLUSIONS: Integrating novel proteomic biomarker candidates with established markers enhances early PM detection in high-risk populations. Larger, multi‐cohort validation is warranted to refine this biomarker panel for clinical surveillance.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40943120 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40806779 is a review article
The molecular regulators behind the pathogenesis of keloid have not been fully determined. Through Mendelian randomization and multiomics analyses, we identified retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (RARRES2) as a causal risk factor for keloid. We further found that RARRES2 is mainly enriched in fibroblasts in various human tissues. RARRES2 is highly expressed in keloid tissue and mainly enriched in fibroblasts of keloid. Heparan sulfate proteoglycan 2 (HSPG2) was identified as a potential downstream effector molecule of RARRES2, and p-STAT3 was proven to bind to the promoter region of HSPG2. We demonstrated that RARRES2 promotes the expression of HSPG2 by phosphorylating STAT3. Moreover, we confirmed that RARRES2 exerts the pro-scarring effect through the STAT3/HSPG2 pathway in primary fibroblasts and animal models. Overall, our results demonstrate that RARRES2 is a key regulator of keloid pathogenesis through STAT3-mediated HSPG2 activation, and RARRES2 can serve as a specific molecular target in patients with keloid.© 2026 The Author(s).
Accurate assessment of illness severity is crucial in critically ill patients. The APACHE II score is widely used but complex and fails to reflect underlying immune-inflammatory dysregulation. C-type lectin domain family 4 member D (CLEC4D), a pattern recognition receptor on myeloid cells, is pivotal in immune responses. We investigated whether circulating CLEC4D levels could serve as a novel biomarker for severity of illness.368 adult ICU patients were enrolled. Serum CLEC4D levels, APACHE II scores, and immune-inflammatory parameters were measured within 24 hours of admission. Associations were analyzed using generalized additive models and multiple linear regression.Patients with high APACHE II scores (≥16) exhibited significantly elevated CLEC4D levels compared with those with lower scores (344.20 ± 65.75 pg/mL vs. 321.28 ± 73.31 pg/mL, P = 0.002). Multiple linear regression demonstrated a robust positive association between CLEC4D and APACHE II scores, with each 1 pg/mL increase in CLEC4D corresponding to a 0.016-point rise in APACHE II (P < 0.05). CLEC4D was inversely correlated with lymphocyte (β = -0.028, P < 0.001) and IL-6 (β = -1.404, P = 0.021) but positively correlated with PCT (β = 0.022, P = 0.031). Subgroup analyses confirmed the stability of this correlation across tumor and non-tumor cohorts and revealed a markedly stronger association among patients with sepsis (β = 0.030, P < 0.001).Circulating CLEC4D levels positively correlate with APACHE II scores in critically ill patients, potentially associated with dynamic shifts in immune-inflammatory markers. CLEC4D represents a promising biomarker for assessing illness severity, especially in sepsis.© 2026 Wang et al.
Preeclampsia is a severe hypertensive disorder of pregnancy associated with low SIRT1 (sirtuin 1) levels in trophoblasts. Single-cell sequencing showed abnormal activation of trophoblast Rarres2 (retinoic acid receptor responder 2) and macrophage Cmklr1 (chemokine-like receptor 1) at the maternal-fetal interface in systemic Sirt1 heterozygous knockout mice. This study investigated how low SIRT1 in trophoblasts increases RARRES2 expression, affecting macrophage polarization and preeclampsia pathogenesis.We conducted coculture experiments to analyze trophoblast RARRES2 and macrophage CMKLR1 interactions, performed luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays to validate transcription factors for RARRES2 in trophoblasts, and utilized mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation to identify transcriptional coregulators. cKO (trophoblast-specific Sirt1 knockout) mice were generated and treated with Rarres2 knockout or progesterone supplementation to validate the role of the SIRT1/RARRES2 axis in preeclampsia pathogenesis and prevention by progesterone. Finally, we measured RARRES2 and SIRT1 levels in the plasma of patients with preeclampsia.Low-SIRT1 expression in trophoblasts promoted M1-type macrophage polarization and inhibited trophoblast invasion, mediated by the RARRES2-CMKLR1 interaction. SIRT1 regulated RARRES2 expression in trophoblasts by recruiting NCOR2 (nuclear receptor corepressor 2). cKO mice showed preeclampsia-like symptoms and RARRES2-CMKLR1 activation at the maternal-fetal interface, which were reversed by Rarres2 knockout or progesterone supplementation. Notably, RARRES2 levels were higher and were a risk factor, whereas SIRT1 levels were lower and were a protective factor for preeclampsia in early pregnancy.This study highlights SIRT1's potential role in regulating abnormal trophoblast-macrophage interactions at the maternal-fetal interface in preeclampsia and offers a new strategy for its early prediction and prevention.
Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease is the most common genetic cause of kidney failure. Outcome prediction is essential to guide therapeutic decisions. However, currently available models are of limited accuracy. We aimed to examine the potential of serum proteomics for improved risk stratification. Here we show that 29 proteins are significantly associated with yearly kidney function decline. Functional enrichment on these 29 proteins reveals GO:BP terms related to immune response, lipoproteins and metabolic processes. A comparison to an Immunoglobulin A nephropathy cohort provides information regarding the eGFR-dependency and disease specificity of these proteins. The final outcome prediction model (adjusted R² 0.31) contains six proteins, namely Endothelial Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor (SERPINF1), Glutathione Peroxidase 3 (GPX3), Afamin (AFM), FERM Domain Containing Kindlin-3 (FERMT3), Complement Factor H Related 1 (CFHR1), and Retinoic Acid Receptor Responder 2 (RARRES2), the predictive value of which is independent from the clinical and imaging parameters currently used in clinical care. The validation of these models in different cohorts indicates the accuracy of the models. It will now be important to move towards targeted validation in a prospective study.© 2025. The Author(s).
We aimed to characterize genetic alterations in Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) using whole genome microarrays.We performed mRNA expression microarray analysis using RNA isolated from whole blood of 25 PWS patients and 25 age-matched controls. After preprocessing the data to reduce heterogeneity, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between groups were identified using a linear regression model package. Reactome pathway analysis was performed for upregulated and downregulated genes using EnrichR. Correlations between gene expression levels and clinical factors were estimated using Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.Of 21,488 probes examined in the microarray analysis, 4,156 were detected. Fifty-two genes had different expression levels in children with PWS compared with healthy controls (36 genes upregulated and 16 downregulated). Twelve genes were upregulated and 13 were downregulated in obese PWS patients compared with normal-weight PWS (NW-PWS) patients. The C-type lectin domain family 4 member D (CLEC4D) was upregulated in both PWS (vs. control) and obese-PWS (vs. NW-PWS) patients, and CLEC4D expression was also correlated with body mass index-standard deviation score in PWS patients. Among the genes upregulated in obese PWS vs. NW-PWS, Annexin A3 (ANXA3), potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 15 (KCNJ15), and selenium binding protein 1 (SELENBP1) were upregulated in obese-control vs. NW-control. Gene ontology analysis revealed that upregulated DEGs were significantly enriched in biological processes, including pathways involved in myeloid dendritic cell activation associated with CLEC4D.This study revealed differences in gene expression between obese and NW-PWS patients. The regulation of macrophage infiltration by CLEC4D suggests a possible mechanism associated with obesity-related complications in PWS.© 2025 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
The brain is a common metastatic site for carcinoma, and metabolic reprogramming is crucial for organ-tropic metastatic formation. Li et al. found RARRES2 deficiency affected lipid metabolic reprogramming through PTEN-mTOR-SREBP1 pathway and promoted BCBrM. Other studies revealed that lipid metabolic reprogramming is part of metabolic adaptation to central nervous system. Overall, there is an intricate connection between lipid metabolism and brain metastases, and disrupting this connection may be a potential therapeutic target for BCBrM treatment.© 2024 The Author(s). Cancer Innovation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Tsinghua University Press.
Chronic noise exposure poses a remarkable public health concern, drawing attention to its impacts on the brain. Ferroptosis is involved in several brain-related diseases. However, the role of ferroptosis in the effects of chronic noise on the brain remains elusive. This study aimed to investigate the effects of chronic noise exposure on the brain and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.A chronic noise-induced cognitive impairment model in rats was constructed and validated. The pathological state and ferroptosis level of the rat hippocampus were determined using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Bioinformatics was employed to investigate the interrelationship between chronic noise exposure and genes. Genetic relationships were analyzed using Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Cytoscape was employed for the prediction of upstream molecular and drug targets.In vivo experiments revealed that chronic noise exposure could induce Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like neuropathological changes in rat hippocampus and cognitive impairment. Moreover, protein markers indicative of ferroptosis and levels of lipid peroxidation were quantified to elucidate underlying mechanisms. Thereafter, oxidative stress- and ferroptosis-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) underwent functional enrichment and PPI network analyses. Additionally, 8 genes with diagnostic significance were identified. In MR analysis, retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (Rarres2) gene exhibited a negative genetic relationship with AD.Chronic noise exposure could induce AD-like neuropathological changes and cognitive impairment via ferroptosis. The results of MR analysis indicated that Rarres2 gene may act as a protective factor in AD. This gene may be upstream of ferroptosis and serve as a target for the prevention and treatment of chronic noise-induced cognitive impairment.
In patients with Crohn's disease (CD) on combination therapy (infliximab and immunosuppressant) and stopping infliximab (cohort from the study of infliximab diSconTinuation in CrOhn's disease patients in stable Remission on combined therapy with Immunosuppressors (STORI)), the risk of short-term (≤6 months) and mid/long-term relapse (>6 months) was associated with distinct blood protein profiles. Our aim was to test the external validity of this finding in the SPARE cohort (A proSpective Randomized Controlled Trial comParing infliximAb-antimetabolites Combination Therapy to Anti-metabolites monotheRapy and Infliximab monothErapy in Crohn's Disease Patients in Sustained Steroid-free Remission on Combination Therapy).In SPARE, patients with CD in sustained steroid-free clinical remission and on combination therapy were randomly allocated to three arms: continuing combination therapy, stopping infliximab or stopping immunosuppressant. In the baseline serum of the STORI and SPARE (arm stopping infliximab) cohorts, we studied 202 immune-related proteins. The proteins associated with time to relapse (univariable Cox model) were compared between STORI and SPARE. The discriminative ability of biomarkers (individually and combined in pairs) was evaluated by the c-statistic (concordance analysis) which was compared with C-reactive protein (CRP), faecal calprotectin and a previously validated model (CEASE).In STORI and SPARE, distinct blood protein profiles were associated with the risk of short-term (eg, high level: CRP, haptoglobin, interleukin-6, C-type lectin domain family 4 member C) and mid/long-term relapse (eg, low level: Fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand, kallistatin, fibroblast growth factor 2). At external validation, the top 10 biomarker pairs showed a higher c-statistic than the CEASE model, CRP and faecal calprotectin in predicting short-term (0.76-0.80 vs 0.74 vs 0.71 vs 0.69, respectively) and mid/long-term relapse (0.66-0.68 vs 0.61 vs 0.52 vs 0.59, respectively).In patients with CD stopping infliximab, we confirm that the risk of short-term and mid/long-term relapse is associated with distinct blood protein profiles showing the potential to guide infliximab withdrawal.NCT00571337 and NCT02177071.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480070 is a review article
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication of HIV infection and associated with progression to kidney failure. We investigated associations between Apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) variants and AKI, and between AKI, APOL1 variants and incident kidney failure, in people of African ancestry with HIV.We conducted a retrospective analysis of AKI (Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes stages 2/3 and 3) in Genetic Markers of Kidney Disease Progression in People of African Ancestry with HIV (GEN-AFRICA) participants stratified by APOL1 genotype (2 [G1G1, G1G2, G2G2], 1 [G1G0, G2G0] or 0 [G0G0] variants). Robust Poisson regression estimated AKI prevalence ratios (PR) within 3 months of cohort inception. Poisson regression with generalized estimating equations estimated AKI incidence rate ratios (IRR) during follow-up, adjusting for sex, age, time-updated cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) count, HIV viral load, and kidney function. Cox proportional hazards models examined associations between AKI, APOL1 variants, and incident kidney failure.Among 2701 participants (43% male; mean age 38.7 years; 12.7% with 2 APOL1 variants), 165 individuals experienced 183 AKI episodes. Participants with 2 APOL1 variants were more likely to experience AKI at cohort inception (adjusted PR 6.9, 95% CI: 3.5-13.8, P < 0.001), had more severe AKI, and poorer recovery of kidney function post-AKI compared with those with 0 variants, but not during follow up. AKI was associated with incident kidney failure and this association varied by APOL1 status (P interaction < 0.001).Among people with HIV, 2 APOL1 variants were associated with increased risk of AKI, especially severe AKI at cohort inception, and poorer recovery of post-AKI. AKI identified individuals at increased risk of progression to kidney failure.© 2026 The Author(s).
Accurate understanding of long-term risks after living kidney donation is critical to inform evidence-based policies for donor candidate evaluation and selection.To determine whether apolipoprotein L1 gene (APOL1) polymorphisms were associated with worse kidney function after living kidney donation.This retrospective cohort study included all living US kidney donors who donated from January 2000 to December 2008, whose contact information was obtained from the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients. After using online search tools to update addresses and telephone numbers, Black and White US living kidney donors who donated during this period were invited to participate. Enrolled study participants had home-based research visits conducted by a subcontract agency between March 2020 and March 2024. Final data analysis was conducted from April 2024 until February 2026.APOL1 polymorphisms and race.The primary outcome was an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2 by serum creatinine at the time of home-based research visits. Additional outcomes were an eGFR of less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2, urinary albumin-creatinine levels of 30 or greater or 300 or greater mg/g, and hypertension.A total of 445 Black kidney donors (295 female individuals [66%]; mean [SD] age, 38 [10] years) and 208 White kidney donors (141 female individuals [68%]; mean [SD] age, 44 [10] years) were enrolled. Sixty-eight Black donors (15.3%) had APOL1 high-risk genotypes (G1/G1, G2/G2, or G1/G2). Home-based research study visits occurred a median (IQR) of 18.5 (16.9-20.5) years after donation. Forty-six of all participants (7.0%) were noted to have an eGFR of less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2. Black kidney donors with APOL1 high-risk genotypes had a higher risk of developing an eGFR of less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2 than Black kidney donors without APOL1 high-risk genotypes (relative risk, 2.31; 95% CI, 1.16-4.61; P = .02) (after adjustment for predonation eGFR: relative risk, 1.91; 95% CI, 0.90-4.03; P = .09).The study found that the APOL1 genotype is a risk factor for reduced kidney function postdonation. These results suggest that all Black individuals who are living donor candidates in the US should undergo APOL1 genotyping for better risk stratification.
Recently, proteinuria has been accepted as a surrogate end point for clinical trials in focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) ang IgA nephropathy. However, proteinuria has not been evaluated in Apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1)-mediated kidney disease (AMKD).Real world data (RWD) analysis of 128 patients of African ancestry with APOL1 high risk genotypes, without diabetes, enrolled in the Million Veteran Program (MVP; n=109) or the biorepository at Vanderbilt University (BioVU; n=19), who had urine albumin-creatinine ratio (UACR) >= 420 mg/g (PCR~0.9 g/g) with a concurrent GFR value. The main predictor was change in the log-UACR at 12 months. The primary outcome was annual GFR slope over 24 months. Secondary outcomes included a kidney composite of a sustained 30% GFR decline, end stage kidney disease (ESKD) or death and ESKD as a single outcome. Linear regression and Cox proportional hazards models were used to assess the effect of changes in UACR and the outcomes.In the pooled analysis the mean age was 56.8 (SD 15.5) y, 116 were male (90.6%) and three patients had diagnosis of FSGS at baseline. Mean baseline eGFR was 46.8 (SD 16.1) mL/min/1.73m2, mean baseline UACR was 1240.8 (1107.7) mg/g, mean eGFR slope was 4.67[-6.00, -3.33] mL/min/1.73m2/year and the geometric mean percentage changes in the UACR at 12 months were -57.5% [-65.0%, -48.4%]. For every 1 unit of log (UACR) increment at 12 months, the annual eGFR slope decreased by -1.80 [-2.56, -1.03] mL/min/1.73m2 in the pooled analysis. For every 1 unit of log (UACR) increment at 12 months, the Cox regression showed a 61% increase in the risk of a kidney composite (p=0.002) and a 98% increase in the risk of ESKD (p<0.001). It was estimated that a 50% reduction of UACR at 12 months was associated with a 28% reduction in the kidney composite endpoint (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR]=0.72; 95% confidence interval [CI]:0.59-0.88; p=0.002), and a 38% reduction in the risk of ESKD (aHR=0.62; 95% CI:0.49-0.80; p<0.001).Changes in UACR at 12 months significantly modify the rate of decline of GFR over 24 months and clinically meaningful endpoints, supporting the use of UACR changes as surrogate endpoint in AMKD.
Nephrologists often order genetic testing panels to clarify diagnoses in patients with diverse presentations of kidney disease. This was not the case 10 years ago, prior to the current era of precision medicine. In the past, elevated blood sugars and blood pressures were felt to be the primary factors that initiated diabetic and mislabeled "hypertensive" nephropathy. In addition, the markedly higher incidence rates of kidney failure in African Americans relative to European, Asian, and Hispanic Americans were poorly understood. This changed with recognition of marked familial aggregation of kidney failure, particularly in the African American population. The 2010 discovery of the apolipoprotein L1 gene (APOL1) association with chronic kidney disease demonstrated that two coding variants in a single gene caused more than 35% of kidney failure in African Americans. APOL1 explained ancestry-based disparities in incidence rates of nephropathy, as well as outcomes after kidney transplantation and live kidney donation. This manuscript reviews the APOL1 discovery and its resultant changes in our understanding of kidney disease susceptibility. Mechanisms of APOL1 injury in kidney cells and novel therapies are reviewed with an emphasis on gaps in existing knowledge and future directions.
The mechanisms by which apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) risk variants, G1 and G2, induce kidney disease in individuals of African ancestry remain contentious.In this study, we utilized a heterologous expression system of HEK-293 cells and human podocytes to investigate APOL1-mediated cytotoxicity using genetic, electrophysiological, and microscopy-based approaches.APOL1 variants showed dynamic transport in vesicle-like structures towards the plasma membrane via actin filaments. At the plasma membrane, the non-risk APOL1 G0 and risk variants formed non-selective cation-permeable pores for Na+ and Ca2+, exhibiting functional activity under basal conditions. Extracellular Ca2+ was identified as the primary source of Ca2+ influx through APOL1, leading to cytotoxicity. APOL1 risk variants exhibited increased basal channel activity compared to non-risk APOL1 G0, resulting in haplotype-dependent cytotoxicity. Furthermore, we observed that both the M1 (N264K) variant and APOL1 inhibitor, VX-147, exerted protective effects on cell viability by blocking the APOL1-dependent intracellular Ca2+ influx.This study demonstrated APOL1 to be a membrane protein involved in the influx of Ca2+ from the extracellular medium. Increased activity of APOL1 led to markedly increased cytotoxicity, which supports the gain-of-function theory. This effect was prevented by the presence of N264K variant or treatment with the APOL1 inhibitor VX-147.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
Understanding how family history and genetic factors-particularly apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) renal risk variants (RRVs)-contribute to kidney disease risk among Black individuals continues to evolve.In a cohort of prospectively enrolled Black adults who underwent APOL1 genotyping and completed surveys at a Midwestern U.S. academic hospital (01/24/2019-03/21/2025; NCT05656261), we examined APOL1 RRV distribution in relation to family history, baseline clinical factors, and 3-month renal function change.Among 220 eligible participants, 17% (37/220) carried APOL1 high-risk genotypes (two RRVs). Family history of hypertension alone was reported by 37% (81/220), kidney disease alone by 3% (6/220), and both by 49% (109/220). High-risk genotypes were more common among those with both hypertension and kidney disease in their family (18%) versus those without either (12%). High-risk APOL1 genotype prevalence rose with increasing antihypertensive medication use (24% among those prescribed ≥4 agents) and was higher among individuals with lower race-free estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) or albuminuria. Among 173 participants with eGFR values at 3-months, high-risk genotypes were more frequent among those with eGFR decline versus improvement (23% vs. 12%).APOL1 high-risk genotypes were more common among individuals with a family history of hypertension and/or kidney disease, greater medication burden, lower kidney function, and early eGFR decline. The partial overlap between genetic and familial risk underscores the complex interplay of inherited, clinical, and environmental factors. Continued study and integrative strategies are needed to refine kidney disease risk stratification, enhance early identification, and guide prevention and treatment in at-risk populations.Copyright © 2026 Lentine, Elsurer Afsar, Clair, Memon, Edwards, Miyata, Afsar, Schnitzler, Xiao, Carriker, Abu Al Rub, Hsu, Muiru, Freedman, Philipneri, Caliskan and St. Louis APOL1 Study Collaborators.
The exonic variants G1 and G2 in apolipoprotein-L1 (APOL1) are linked to an increased risk of kidney disease as well as kidney transplant rejection. Outside of the association of these prevalent variants with African ancestry, the underpinning causal mechanisms for rejection are unknown. We investigated T cell function using transgenic mice with physiologic expression of WT (G0), G1 APOL1 (G1), or G2 APOL1 (G2). Mice with the G1 or G2 variant showed greater CD8+ T cell activation with expansion of a central memory T cell (Tcm) subset. Stimulated G1 CD8+ T cells showed enhanced proliferation and cytokine production, which was reversed with APOL1 inhibition. In MHC-mismatched cardiac transplants, G1 mice demonstrated greater CD8+ T cell infiltration and worse survival. The bulk transcriptome of G1 CD8+ T cells and the single-cell transcriptome of graft-infiltrating Tcms showed enrichment of canonical T cell receptor (TCR) pathways including Ca2+ signaling. G1 CD8+ T cells demonstrated baseline ER Ca2+ depletion followed by sustained increases in cytosolic Ca2+ upon TCR stimulation. G1 CD8+ T cells were more sensitive to Ca2+ chelation, or store-operated Ca2+ entry inhibition, and were relatively resistant to calcineurin antagonism compared with G0 CD8+ T cells. Analogously, in a kidney transplant cohort, transplant recipients carrying an APOL1 risk variant (G1 or G2) who had elevated peripheral Tcms before transplantation developed rejection despite having significantly higher tacrolimus levels than recipients with the G0/G0 APOL1 genotype. In summary, we have unraveled an excitatory mechanism for APOL1 variants in T cells that causally links them to kidney rejection.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health burden that disproportionately impacts people of recent African ancestry. The discovery of risk variants in the apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) gene has transformed the understanding of racial disparities in CKD. In particular, APOL1 variants have been associated with increased risk of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, virus-associated nephropathy, and other glomerular diseases in Black adults. While approximately 10-15% of Black Americans have a high-risk APOL1 genotype, disease penetrance is variable and is likely mediated by additional genetic and environmental "second hits." Variants in APOL1 have also been implicated in kidney transplant outcomes and pregnancy complications, underscoring its broad clinical relevance. Advances in therapeutic strategies, including small molecule inhibitors of APOL1 pore function, APOL1 antisense oligonucleotides, and JAK-STAT pathway modulation, offer promise for targeted interventions in adult populations. Emerging data in children highlight similar genotype-phenotype associations, with evidence of high-risk APOL1 genotype impacting steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome and CKD progression. However, pediatric studies remain limited and underpowered, leaving critical gaps in the understanding of disease epidemiology, mechanisms, and long-term outcomes. This review will explore current knowledge of APOL1 kidney disease (AMKD) with a particular focus on pediatric populations and highlight the need for inclusion of children in future studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Pediatric Nephrology Association.
Salt stress severely impairs plant growth through two distinct cellular insults: osmotic stress caused by water limitation and ionic toxicity resulting from excessive Na+ accumulation. Although plant osmosensors have been identified, the mechanisms underlying ionic stress perception remain elusive. Salt stress also activates autophagy, a conserved degradation pathway that removes damaged organelles and protein aggregates to promote stress tolerance. In animals, master regulators such as transcription factor EB (TFEB) coordinate this response by activating autophagy genes across the pathway, but no analogous regulator has been identified in plants. Here, we show that MUSTANG4 (MUG4), a transcription factor derived from Mutator-like element (MULE) transposons, functions as an ionic stress sensor and the primary transcriptional driver of salt-induced autophagy in Arabidopsis. MUG4 responds to elevated monovalent cation concentrations, but not chloride anions or osmotic stress, thereby distinguishing ionic from osmotic stress. Ionic stress compacts the intrinsically disordered region (IDR) of MUG4 and drives liquid-liquid phase separation of the full-length protein, as demonstrated by Förster resonance energy transfer-fluorescence lifetime imaging, in vitro assays, and coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations. Genome-wide in vivo CUT&Tag sequencing and RNA sequencing reveal that MUG4 directly and coordinately activates autophagy genes spanning multiple functional stages of the pathway. IDR deletion abolishes phase separation, reduces autophagy gene activation and autophagic flux, and prevents the truncated protein from rescuing the salt-sensitive phenotype of mug4 mutants. These findings identify a dedicated plant ionic stress sensor and establish a mechanistic link between exapted transposable elements, phase separation, and transcriptional stress responses, thereby integrating ionic stress perception with autophagy activation.
Amuc_1100, an outer membrane protein of the mucin-degrading commensal bacterium Akkermansia muciniphila, is known to strengthen intestinal epithelial barrier integrity, with reports suggesting a potential involvement of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Its role in the vaginal epithelial barrier, however, remains unexplored. In this study, recombinant Amuc_1100 was expressed in a baculovirus-insect cell system and purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC). Purified Amuc_1100 exhibited concentration-dependent binding to recombinant TLR2 in ELISA. In VK2/E6E7 vaginal epithelial cells, Amuc_1100 treatment did not alter viability across the tested concentrations, confirming the absence of cytotoxicity. Western blot analysis demonstrated that Amuc_1100 treatment significantly increased the expression of tight junction-associated proteins, including Zonula Occludens-1 (ZO-1), Claudin-1 (CLDN-1), and Claudin-4 (CLDN-4), under basal conditions. Furthermore, stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or zymosan A markedly reduced ZO-1 levels, whereas co-treatment with Amuc_1100 restored expression under both conditions. Collectively, these findings provide preliminary evidence that recombinant Amuc_1100 modulates tight junction-associated protein expression in vaginal epithelial cells. However, additional functional barrier assays, mechanistic studies, and in vivo validation are required to further evaluate its potential as a postbiotic candidate.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Organic dust exposures, particularly in occupational settings, induce airway inflammation and contribute to the development and progression of chronic lung disease and impaired tissue regeneration. Interleukin-22 (IL-22) is a pleiotropic cytokine recognized for maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and promoting tissue repair; however, its regulation in lung myeloid cells, particularly macrophages, remains poorly understood. Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), a pattern recognition receptor highly expressed on lung macrophages, recognizes bacterial components abundant in organic dust and drives inflammatory signaling. We investigated the mechanistic role of TLR2 signaling in regulating IL-22 production by lung macrophages following exposure to microbial-enriched agricultural organic dust extract (DE).An immortalized lung macrophage cell line (MH-S) was stimulated with selective Toll-like receptor agonists and pharmacologic inhibitors to determine the contribution of individual TLR pathways to IL-22 production. To examine the role of TLR2 in vivo, wild-type (WT) and TLR2-deficient (tlr2-/-) mice were exposed to DE repeatedly for two weeks. IL-22 expression and macrophage localization were evaluated using RNAscope in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence analysis.TLR2 stimulation preferentially induced IL-22 production compared with other TLR pathways while simultaneously coordinating pro-inflammatory cytokine responses. Activation of the TLR2/1 heterodimer, but not TLR2/6, significantly increased IL-22 production, indicating pathway-specific regulation of reparative signaling. In vivo, repeated DE exposure resulted in significantly reduced pulmonary IL-22 expression in tlr2-/- mice compared with WT controls. Furthermore, tlr2-/- lungs exhibited fewer IL-22+CD68+ cells, an overall reduction in macrophage numbers, and a significant decrease in the proportion of CD68+ macrophages expressing IL-22, suggesting that TLR2 is required for both macrophage accumulation and IL-22 production during dust-induced lung injury.These findings identify TLR2 as a critical regulator of IL-22-mediated reparative programming in lung macrophages following organic dust exposure. Our study reveals a previously unrecognized link between innate immune sensing and epithelial repair pathways, providing mechanistic insight into how TLR2 promotes tissue restoration after environmental lung injury. Targeting the TLR2-IL-22 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating occupational dust-induced lung damage.Copyright © 2026 Oyewole, Mondal, Jones, McDermott, Cunningham, Dean, Barahona, Threatt, Wahl, Poole and Nordgren.
Interleukin-33 (IL-33) is a central regulator of immune responses and inflammation, and genetic variation in IL33 and its receptor IL1RL1 (ST2) is strongly linked to disease susceptibility, notably asthma. Emerging evidence suggests that IL-33 also influences hematopoietic processes and platelet biology, indicating functions beyond canonical immunity. We investigated two missense variants identified in a patient with unexplained thrombocytopenia: a rare novel IL33 variant, c.385T>C (p.Tyr129His) and the common IL1RL1 variant c.1501_1502CA>AG (p.Gln501Arg), previously associated with reduced IL-33 signaling. Structural modeling revealed that IL-33 Y129H disrupts a conserved hydrogen bond within the IL-33/ST2/IL-1RAcP ternary complex, destabilizing receptor engagement. Functional assays confirmed markedly reduced binding affinity and biological activity, establishing Y129H as a loss-of-function variant. The IL1RL1 Q501R variant affects the Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain, critical for recruiting adapter proteins such as MyD88. Modeling revealed pronounced perturbation in a peripheral helix of the TIR domain, potentially impacting adapter recruitment and downstream signaling, providing a mechanistic basis for its protective association with asthma. Together, these findings provide structural and functional insights into clinically relevant IL33 and IL1RL1 variants. Their simultaneous occurrence in a patient with thrombocytopenia further supports a potential role for this pathway in platelet homeostasis and stress-responsive hematopoiesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) is an innate immune receptor linked to obesity primarily via NF-κB activation. Using a mouse model of overnutrition and in vitro TLR2 stimulation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, we show that lipids, advanced glycation end products, and low-density lipoproteins extend TLR2 signaling beyond NF-κB to promote Type I IFN production and signaling, establishing the relevance of this pathway to human obesity. This response was abolished by pharmacologic inhibition of the receptor for advanced glycation end products, which recognizes glycated proteins and lipids. In vivo dietary reversal, metformin, and tirzepatide each reduced diet-induced inflammation, but differed in their metabolic effects: dietary reversal reduced weight gain and LDL, tirzepatide reduced weight without lowering LDL, and metformin exerted anti-inflammatory effects independent of weight or LDL. These findings identify TLR2-Type I IFN signaling as a feature of diet-induced inflammation and highlight the diverse immunomodulatory effects of weight-management therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Interleukin-33 (IL-33) is a key orchestrator of broad-spectrum downstream host-response mechanisms, including inflammation, tissue homeostasis, and repair. Dysregulation of IL-33 signaling is associated with several pathological conditions. The FRONTIER program comprised four phase 2 signal-finding studies of tozorakimab, an anti-IL-33 human immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody, in diabetic kidney disease (FRONTIER-1), moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (FRONTIER-2), moderate-to-severe asthma (FRONTIER-3), and moderate-to-severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic bronchitis (FRONTIER-4). This analysis assessed the safety data from these clinical studies.FRONTIER-1-4 were randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies evaluating the efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and immunogenicity of tozorakimab in adults. Participants received subcutaneous tozorakimab (FRONTIER-1, 30-300 mg; FRONTIER-2, 60-600 mg; FRONTIER-3, 300-600 mg; FRONTIER-4, 600 mg) or placebo every 4 weeks for 4-7 doses, with follow-up periods ranging from 24-36 weeks from the first dose. Safety (adverse events [AEs], serious AEs, and AEs of special interest) and immunogenicity endpoints from the FRONTIER studies were summarized.In total, 1076 patients were included in this analysis (tozorakimab, n=738; placebo, n=338). Deaths occurred only in FRONTIER-1, in similar proportions between treatment groups (tozorakimab, 0.9%; placebo, 0.8%), and were unrelated to tozorakimab. The proportion of participants experiencing at least one treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) or serious TEAEs was generally similar between tozorakimab and placebo groups. The proportion of participants experiencing AEs of special interest, including events of progression of heart failure, was low (tozorakimab, 0.0-1.5%; placebo, 0.0-0.8%), with no meaningful differences between groups; the frequency of injection-site reactions was however higher in tozorakimab than in placebo recipients (tozorakimab, 1.2-20.9%; placebo, 0.0-4.9%). No clinically significant trends were observed in laboratory or vital-sign parameters, and immunogenicity was low.Tozorakimab was well tolerated across a range of inflammatory diseases, with no safety concerns identified.© 2026 Patel et al.
The present study was conducted to assess the effects of lycopene (LP) supplementation on antioxidant status, lipid peroxidation, heat-shock proteins, and lipid profile in heat-stressed goat kids. Twenty-one healthy growing Barbari goat kids (4-8 months old) with an average body weight of 9.87 ± 1.09 kg were randomly allocated into three experimental groups, comprising seven animals per group. The activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity increased linearly (P < 0.023) with increasing dietary LP levels. Conversely, concentrations of myeloperoxidase, reactive oxygen species modulator-1, and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances declined linearly (P < 0.001) as LP inclusion in the diet increased. Dietary LP supplementation significantly decreased (P < 0.05) heat shock protein 70, heat shock protein 90, and cortisol concentrations, with the lowest values observed at 100 mg LP/kg DM. Total cholesterol levels were not affected by LP supplementation. However, dietary LP reduced (P < 0.05) low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations, with the most pronounced effect at 100 mg LP/kg DM. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were significantly increased (P < 0.05) by LP supplementation, showing the greatest response at 100 mg LP/kg DM. Overall, supplementation of LP at 50 or 100 mg/kg DM improved antioxidant status and modulated the lipid profile by reducing oxidative stress markers, with the highest beneficial response observed at 100 mg LP/kg DM.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to International Society of Biometeorology.
Arterial hypertension and endurance training are related to left atrial (LA) remodeling and risk of atrial fibrillation (AF). Serum blood biomarkers have been explored in relation to cardiovascular risk. Our aim was to assess the influence of patient and echocardiographic characteristics on serum blood biomarkers in individuals at risk for AF.A population of 511 subjects was analyzed: 286 endurance athletes and 225 patients with arterial hypertension. Participants underwent 2D and 3D echocardiography with speckle-tracking analysis. Blood samples were obtained to evaluate biomarkers of myocardial damage (Brain Natriuretic Peptide, troponin I, Oncostatin M, heart-type Fatty Acid-Binding Protein and Placenta Growth Factor), vascular endothelial dysfunction (Endothelial cell-specific molecule 1), and fibrosis (Matrix Metalloproteinase 1, 2 and 9, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 6 and 16, and Galectin-3 (Gal-3)). Linear regression models were fitted to discern the relationship of patient and echo characteristics and serum biomarker levels.The results revealed the significant influence of age, gender, body mass index and renal function on biomarker levels. Parameters of myocardial damage showed a limited range of values in our cohort with no differences between groups. Biomarkers of fibrosis were uniformly elevated in hypertension, with Gal-3 levels independently associated with LA reservoir strain.Serum levels of fibrosis biomarkers differ between populations at risk for AF. In hypertension Gal-3 levels are associated with LA reservoir function, making it a potential biomarker for LA remodeling in this setting. Clinical follow-up is needed to relate these findings with clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Loncaric, Forado Benatar, Mimbrero Guillamon, Nunno, Jimenez-Arjona, Tirapu, Montserrat, Sanchis, Doltra, Bijnens and Sitges.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42245248 is a review article
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) follows a biphasic clinical course in which an initial mechanical insult is followed by a prolonged secondary injury cascade that drives ongoing neurological deterioration. Secondary injury processes include neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, maladaptive gene regulation, and neuronal apoptosis. Current TBI management strategies primarily address intracranial pressure, cerebral perfusion, and oxygenation but do not directly target these downstream biological mechanisms. Cervical sympathetic blockade (CSB) involves administration of local anesthetic to the cervical sympathetic ganglia, typically at the C6 level or at combined C6/C4 levels, resulting in transient interruption of sympathetic outflow. The cervical sympathetic system has functional connections to immune organs, including the thymus, spleen, and bone marrow, suggesting a role in immune modulation. Emerging preclinical and clinical evidence indicates that CSB may attenuate secondary injury mechanisms after TBI. This review synthesizes available evidence to evaluate the therapeutic potential of CSB in TBI and to delineate its mechanistic effects on secondary injury pathways.We conducted a comprehensive narrative review of preclinical and clinical studies examining the effects of CSB in TBI and related neurological conditions. Literature searches were performed using PubMed and Google Scholar, supplemented by citation tracking of relevant studies. Included evidence encompassed randomized controlled trials, prospective cohort studies, retrospective case series, and mechanistic animal models. Outcomes of interest included clinical symptom burden, inflammatory cytokines, BBB integrity markers, mitochondrial and oxidative stress measures, gene expression profiles, and apoptotic signaling. Evidence from related conditions such as subarachnoid hemorrhage, migraine, and postoperative cognitive dysfunction was incorporated to inform mechanistic interpretation.Available clinical studies, though limited in size, demonstrate rapid and sustained reductions in TBI-related symptom burden following CSB. Randomized controlled trials show that CSB significantly reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-1β (IL-1β), as well as neuronal injury markers such as S100β and neuron-specific enolase, likely mediated by downregulation of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling. Observational studies corroborate reductions in inflammatory biomarkers and markers of BBB disruption. Preclinical models demonstrate that CSB mitigates mitochondrial oxidative stress through enhancement of antioxidant defenses and suppression of Reactive Oxygen Species Modulator 1 (Romo1) expression. Additional studies show that CSB shifts the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio toward an anti-apoptotic profile, promoting neuronal survival. Clinical data from subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgical populations further support improved cognitive and functional outcomes accompanied by reduced inflammatory signaling.CSB targets multiple convergent mechanisms of secondary brain injury that are not addressed by current standard TBI management, including neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, dysregulated gene expression, and apoptosis. Clinical improvements following CSB are accompanied by measurable biological changes, supporting a mechanistically grounded therapeutic effect. Limitations of the current evidence include small sample sizes, heterogeneous populations, and reliance on surrogate biomarkers. Larger, well-controlled trials are needed to define efficacy, optimize patient selection, and assess long-term neurological outcomes. CSB represents a promising, mechanism-driven intervention with potential relevance for both civilian and military TBI populations.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pyroptosis promotes the progression of osteoarthritis (OA). This study aims to explore the functions and regulating mechanisms of E74-like factor 3 (ELF3) in chondrocyte pyroptosis. A mouse model of OA and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes were employed. Adenovirus sh-ELF3, miR-9-5p inhibitor or oe-Nuclear Factor kappa B subunit 1 (NFKB1) were administered to OA mice via intra-articular injection. LPS-induced chondrocytes were transfected with sh-ELF3, oe-NFKB1, miR-9-5p mimic/inhibitor or negative controls. Articular cartilage tissues were assessed using H&E staining, Safranin O/fast green staining, and Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI) grading system. Pyroptosis was assessed by flow cytometry combined with Western blot analysis of key markers, while apoptosis was detected by TUNEL staining. Levels of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and Interleukin-18 (IL-18) were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Interactions among ELF3, miR-9-5p, and NFKB1 were validated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and luciferase reporter assays. We found that pyroptosis was enhanced and ELF3 expression was elevated in both the OA mouse model and LPS-induced chondrocytes. Depletion of ELF3 inhibited pyroptosis, apoptosis, extracellular matrix (ECM) degeneration, and inflammation in LPS-injured chondrocytes. Mechanistically, ELF3 suppressed miR-9-5p transcription, which targeted NFKB1, and NFKB1 interacted with ELF3 to form a regulatory loop. miR-9-5p inhibition or NFKB1 overexpression reversed the protective effects of ELF3 knockdown on pyroptosis and ECM degradation. In vivo study further confirmed that silencing ELF3 attenuated articular cartilage injury through miR-9-5p/NFKB1/ NLR Family Pyrin Domain Containing 3 (NLRP3) axis. Overall, the ELF3/miR-9-5p/NFKB1 axis accelerated OA progression by promoting NLRP3-mediated chondrocyte pyroptosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To investigate the molecular mechanisms of early mitochondrial stress in keratinocytes induced by ionizing radiation (IR), focusing on the key role of ROMO1 in radiation-induced skin injury (RISI).HaCaT keratinocytes were used to assess cellular status, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress at various time points after different irradiation doses. Mitochondrial proteomics at 24 hours post-20 Gy irradiation identified ROMO1 as the protein with the greatest reduction in expression. ROMO1-overexpressing HaCaT cells and skin-specific Romo1 knockout (Romo1-sKO) mice were established to investigate its functional mechanisms. ROMO1 expression and localization were analyzed by Western blot and immunofluorescence; flow cytometry measured ROS, mtROS, and mitochondrial membrane potential in ROMO1-overexpressing cells, while CCK-8, LDH release, and colony formation assays evaluated viability and proliferation. The role of Romo1 in the progression and repair of radiation-induced skin injury was further examined in Romo1-sKO mice.At 24 hours post-20 Gy irradiation, HaCaT cells exhibited inhibited proliferation (P < 0.05) and mitochondrial dysfunction (P < 0.0001). Mitochondrial proteomics identified 43 differentially expressed proteins (26 upregulated, 17 downregulated), with enrichment analysis indicating their involvement in oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial assembly and stress response. Among these, reactive oxygen species modulator 1 (ROMO1) was identified as the most significantly downregulated key protein in the early radiation response (P < 0.01, FDR = 0.03). In vitro, ROMO1 overexpression increased mtROS levels and mitochondrial membrane potential (P < 0.0001) but suppressed cell viability and promoted reproductive death (P < 0.05) after radiation. In vivo, Romo1-sKO mice showed accelerated wound healing, with a reduction in skin injury score by approximately 1 point, along with enhanced tissue regeneration at 25 days post-irradiation compared to control mice.The mitochondrial protein ROMO1 is a key regulator of the early keratinocyte stress response to radiation. It impedes the repair of radiation-induced skin injury by suppressing cell proliferation via modulation of mitochondrial function. Targeted inhibition of ROMO1 may represent a novel therapeutic strategy to promote healing and prevent chronic progression of radiation-induced skin injury.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Milk cells are mirrors of mammary health and immune responses in dairy cows. However, their specific physiological or pathological significance in cows with high somatic cell count (SCC) remains poorly understood. Dysregulation of milk cell physiology may contribute to inflammatory responses and impact mammary health and milk production. By investigating the composition and function of milk cells in high and low SCC cows, our study aimed to identify SCC-associated biological processes in the mammary gland. Sixteen animals were divided as two groups, SCC-h group (n = 8, milk SCC > 200 × 103/mL) and SCC-l group (n = 8, milk SCC < 100 × 103/mL). The milk performance traits of dairy cows were assessed, and RNA sequencing of milk cells was conducted. Metabolomic analysis was performed to identify 'find-me' signals associated with efferocytosis. The expression patterns of genes involved in apoptotic and non-apoptotic cell death, actin remodelling and efferocytosis were analysed. The protein levels of inflammatory and anti-inflammatory genes and nuclear receptors were determined. The immune microenvironment in milk cells was also dissected to understand the dysregulation in high SCC cows. The results showed increased expressions of key genes associated with apoptosis, necroptosis and pyroptosis in the high SCC group. However, the 'find-me' signals and 'eat-me' signals in the high SCC group were reduced compared with the low SCC group. Therefore, the protein levels of IL-1β and nuclear factor kappa B subunit 1 (NFκB1) levels were increased, whereas the protein level of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) was decreased in high SCC group. These results demonstrated an enhanced pro-inflammatory signalling and altered immune microenvironment of milk cells in high SCC group. The high SCC group showed higher proportions of various types of immune cells, including dendritic cell, neutrophil and CD8+ T cell, indicating a pro-inflammatory immune microenvironment. Our study highlights the dysregulation of efferocytosis and immune microenvironment in milk cells of high SCC cows, potentially contributing to chronic inflammation and impaired mammary gland health. Reviving proper efferocytic function and rebalancing the immune microenvironment are essential for enhancing disease management and improving dairy cow welfare and productivity. Understanding the significance of milk cells in udder health can facilitate targeted interventions to optimise milk production and maintain mammary health in dairy farming.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Reactive oxygen species modulator 1 (ROMO1) is a highly conserved inner mitochondrial membrane protein that senses reactive oxygen species and regulates mitochondrial dynamics. ROMO1 is required for mitochondrial fusion in vitro, and silencing ROMO1 increases sensitivity to cell death stimuli. The physiological role of ROMO1 remains unclear.To determine the role of Romo1 in vivo, we used gene targeting in mice to ablate Romo1 in the whole mouse and to conditionally knock out Romo1 in the pancreatic beta cell. Mitochondrial functional analyses were performed on isolated mouse and human islets lacking Romo1/ROMO1.We show that ROMO1 is essential for embryonic development, as Romo1 null mice die before embryonic day 8.5, earlier than GTPases OPA1 or MFN1/2 which catalyse mitochondrial inner and outer membrane fusion. Knockout of Romo1 in adult pancreatic beta cells results in impaired glucose homeostasis in young male mice (4 months) due to an insulin secretion defect. Isolated islets from male, but not female, mice showed impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. While mitochondria from female mice were morphologically normal, mitochondria in Romo1 adult beta cell knockout (RABKO) cells from male mice were swollen and fragmented, with a reduction in mtDNA content. Knockout of Romo1 did not affect basal respiration in males or females, but deletion of Romo1 in both sexes in mice and of ROMO1 in isolated human islets reduced spare respiratory capacity, which involved the specific loss of respiratory activity at complex II/succinate dehydrogenase. Ageing of female RABKO mice resulted in loss of spare respiratory capacity and glucose intolerance.Our data demonstrate that ROMO1 is a key regulator of mitochondrial bioenergetics and spare respiratory capacity and is required for effective nutrient coupling to insulin secretion in the beta cell. These observations point to a critical role for spare respiratory capacity in the maintenance of euglycaemia and to the potential for targeting ROMO1/complex II to promote glucose coupling in settings of insulin insufficiency.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease. The Shen-Kang Recipe (SKR) is a traditional Chinese medicine formula used clinically to slow DKD progression, but its bioactive constituents and molecular targets remain unclear. Solute carrier family 15 member 2 (SLC15A2/PEPT2), a high-affinity peptide transporter expressed in renal proximal tubules, has been implicated in kidney pathophysiology, yet its potential role in mediating the therapeutic effects of the SKR has not been explored. Here, we evaluated the effects of the SKR in db/db mice and found that SKR treatment significantly improved renal function, attenuated glomerulosclerosis, and reduced interstitial collagen deposition. Wide-target metabolomics and quantitative proteomics revealed that the SKR broadly reversed DKD-associated metabolic and proteomic disturbances, particularly in pathways related to energy and amino acid metabolism. Proteomic analysis identified SLC15A2 as a key proximal tubule protein downregulated in DKD and selectively restored by the SKR. UPLC-Q-TOF/MS-based serum pharmacochemistry and network pharmacology highlighted quercetin as a principal bioactive component of the SKR. Molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) confirmed direct, high-affinity binding between quercetin and SLC15A2 (KD = 7.5 µM). In TGF-β1-stimulated HK-2 cells, quercetin suppressed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), as evidenced by restored E-cadherin and reduced N-cadherin, vimentin, and α-SMA expression; this effect was abrogated by siRNA-mediated SLC15A2 knockdown, demonstrating the functional necessity of this axis. Collectively, these findings identify a quercetin-SLC15A2 axis through which the SKR inhibits EMT and alleviates renal fibrosis in DKD, providing a mechanistic basis for its clinical application and nominating SLC15A2 as a potential therapeutic target.
The CGAS-STING1 pathway is an innate immune system that can detect double-stranded DNA in the cytoplasm and trigger antiviral immune responses. Increasing evidence indicates that CGAS-STING1 signaling can induce autophagy; however, the activation and potential role of the CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy during RNA virus infection remain unclear. Here, we initially observed that cytosolic DNA acts as a potent inducer of CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy. Unexpectedly, pre-activation of this pathway via DNA-CGAS-STING1 (1-340) transfection significantly promoted the replication of RNA viruses tested including SFTSV and enterovirus 71 (EV-71). Using SFTSV as a model to investigate the physiological trigger during infection, we demonstrated that SFTSV induces mitochondrial damage, leading to the leakage of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) into the cytoplasm. This endogenous mtDNA activates CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy, which SFTSV then exploits for its replication. Indeed, depletion of mtDNA abolishes SFTSV-induced autophagy and impairs viral replication. Mechanistically, the SFTSV nucleoprotein directly interacts with STING1, hijacking STING1-derived membranes from the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) and Golgi apparatus to form its replication platform. Our study reveals a new host anti-RNA virus strategy, namely activating CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy through cytosolic DNA, as well as the mechanism by which SFTSV hijacks CGAS-STING1-dependent autophagy for viral replication.Abbreviations: CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC: endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; EV-71: enterovirus 71; EtBr: ethidium bromide; Gn: glycoproteins N; IFN-I: type I interferon; KO: knockout; MOIs: multiplicities of infection; NP: nucleoprotein; NSs: non-structural proteins; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SFTSV: Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WT: wild-type; gDNA: genomic DNA; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) and the neuroinflammatory disease, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). The HTLV-1 Tax regulatory protein plays a critical role in HTLV-1 persistence and pathogenesis; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that Tax dynamically regulates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and membrane potential to trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. Tax is recruited to damaged mitochondria through its interaction with the IKK regulatory subunit IKBKG/NEMO and directly engages the ubiquitin-dependent PINK1-PRKN/parkin pathway to induce mitophagy. Tax also recruits autophagy receptors CALCOCO2/NDP52 and SQSTM1/p62 to damaged mitochondria to induce mitophagy. Furthermore, Tax requires PRKN to limit the extent of CGAS-STING1 activation and suppress type I interferon (IFN) induction. HTLV-1-transformed T-cell lines and PBMCs from HAM/TSP patients exhibit hallmarks of chronic mitophagy, and inhibition of PRKN in HTLV-1-transformed cell lines downregulates p19 Gag expression and induces cell death. Collectively, our findings suggest that Tax manipulation of the PINK1-PRKN mitophagy pathway represents a new HTLV-1 immune evasion strategy important for maintaining viral gene expression and cell survival.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATLL: adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DOX: doxycycline; GFP: green fluorescent protein; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; HAM/TSP: HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; HTLV-1: Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1; IFN: interferon; IkB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: IkB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MT-CO2: mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase II; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; OPTN: optineurin; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qRT-PCR: quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction; RFP: red fluorescence protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SAR: selective autophagy receptor; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; Ub: ubiquitin; VCL: vinculin; WT: wild-type.
In recent years ERphagy, the selective autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), has emerged as a key selective autophagic pathway involved not only in the recycling of the ER, but also in preventing the replication of viruses and bacteria. The mechanisms by which ERphagy achieves this do not seem immediately related to canonical xenophagy pathways and could provide a new avenue for therapeutic targets to combat pathogenic infections. In this editor's corner we briefly summarize the ways ERphagy is involved in pathogen infection, highlighting the potential ERphagy has as an understudied innate immune response pathway.Abbreviation: IFN-I: type I interferon; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a globally prevalent pathogen that poses a significant health threat due to its lifelong latency. This persistence is driven by intricate immune evasion mechanisms, the deciphering of which remains a challenge. Here, we identified the HSV-1 tegument protein UL16 as a novel viral immunosuppressive factor, which significantly suppresses the RIGI-like receptor (RLR)-mediated antiviral immunity. We found that UL16 can interact with MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein) and induce its degradation, thereby inhibiting type I interferon (IFN-I) production. Further investigation revealed that UL16-induced MAVS degradation was facilitated via mitophagy involving the mitochondrial cargo receptor FUNDC1 (FUN14 domain containing 1). Knockout of FUNDC1 expression completely disrupted UL16-induced MAVS degradation and restricted HSV-1 replication. In contrast, overexpression of FUNDC1 augmented the suppressive effect of UL16 on MAVS-triggered IFN-I signaling and consequently benefited viral replication. Notably, the C-terminal domain (CTD) of UL16 primarily accounted for its immunosuppressive function, which was also demonstrated to be essential for UL16 engagement with MAVS, FUNDC1 and MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3). A conserved LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif within the UL16 CTD was identified to play a critical role in LC3 recruitment enhancement. Furthermore, the UL16-deficient HSV-1 exhibited markedly attenuated viral infectivity and pathogenicity in vivo. In summary, our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized pathway through which HSV-1 UL16 subverts host immunity by inducing mitophagy. This study provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions and establishes a rational foundation for developing novel therapeutics against HSV-1 infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CARD: caspase recruitment domain; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; CXCL10: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ds: double-stranded; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HEK: human embryonic kidney; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; IAV: influenza A virus; IFIH1/MDA5: interferon induced with helicase C domain 1; IFIT1/ISG56: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFN-I: type I interferon; IgG: Immunoglobulin G; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; kDa: kilodalton; KO: knockout; KSHV: Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; Mdivi-1: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; NanoBiT: NanoLuc Binary Technology; NC: negative control; NTD: N-terminal domain; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RIGI/RIG-I: RNA sensor RIG-I; RLR: RIGI-like receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SeV: Sendai virus; sgRNA: single guide RNA; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TM: transmembrane; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TRAF: TNF receptor associated factor; TUFM: Tu translation elongation factor, mitochondrial; UL16: unique long region 16; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD-FMK: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
Atherosclerosis, the pathological basis of cardiovascular diseases including coronary artery disease and ischemic stroke, is increasingly recognized as a chronic inflammatory disease. The contribution of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2 (NOD2), a key pattern recognition receptor in immunity, to atherosclerosis remains poorly defined. This study investigated the role of NOD2 in platelet-mediated monocyte activation and evaluated the therapeutic potential of pharmacological NOD2 inhibition. NOD2 protein wasdecreased in platelets from atherosclerotic patients and mice, accompanied by elevated NOD2 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. These alterations were not attributable to transcriptional regulation. Plasma exosomes from atherosclerotic patients contained increased NOD2 protein. Accordingly, platelet activation caused a reduction in NOD2 protein within platelets and the release of NOD2-enriched exosomes that increased NOD2 expression in THP-1 monocytes. NOD2 overexpression in THP-1 cells enhanced cell migration and proinflammatory response without affecting cell adhesion and differentiation, whereas treatment with the NOD2 receptor antagonist GSK669 attenuated both processes. Mechanistically, NOD2 upregulated LOX-1 and activated the RIP2/JNK/p38 axis during THP-1 differentiation. In hyperlipidemic ApoE-/- mice, platelet-derived exosomes carrying NOD2 exacerbated atherosclerosis, while intravenous administration of GSK669 attenuated atherosclerosis and showed efficacy comparable to aspirin in this mouse model. In conclusion, we uncover a previously unrecognized mechanism whereby platelet-to-monocyte transfer of NOD2 via exosomes drives monocyte inflammation and migration, exacerbating atherosclerosis. The anti-atherosclerotic effects of GSK669, a NOD2 receptor antagonist with previously reported antithrombotic efficacy comparable to aspirin and a favorable bleeding profile in mice, highlight NOD2 antagonism as a promising alternative therapeutic strategy against atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The cGAS-STING1 pathway is essential for innate immunity, while its functions beyond immune activation have emerged as a key research topic. Recent studies have revealed the non-canonical roles of this pathway in autophagy. However, whether it participates in organelle quality control through selective autophagy processes such as mitophagy remains largely unexplored. In our study, we identify the cGAS-STING1 pathway as an essential upstream regulator of PINK1-PRKN-dependent mitophagy. We demonstrate that upon mitochondrial damage, STING1 is recruited to damaged mitochondria in a process requiring PINK1- and VCP/p97-mediated degradation of outer mitochondrial membrane proteins. STING1 at damaged mitochondria then activates TBK1, which phosphorylates the mitophagy receptor OPTN at Ser177, enhancing its recruitment to damaged mitochondria and driving efficient mitophagy. Disruption of the STING1-TBK1-OPTN axis impairs mitophagy and shifts the cellular response from pro-survival mitophagy to apoptosis. Our findings therefore uncover a non-canonical, pro-survival function of the cGAS-STING1 pathway in mitophagy, extending its role beyond innate immunity to the regulation of selective autophagy and cell fate decisions.Abbreviations: BafA1: bafilomycin A1; cGAS: cyclic GMP‑AMP synthase; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GABARAP: GABA type A receptor-associated protein; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MQC: mitochondrial quality control; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-Acetylcysteine; Nec-1: Necrostatin-1; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OPTN: optineurin; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RIPK1: receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 1; ROS: reactive oxygen species; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; Z-VAD-FMK: benzyloxycarbony (Cbz)-l-ValAla-Asp (OMe)-fluoromethylketone.
Cytosolic DNA is well established as an inducer of innate immunity through activating DNA-sensing machinery, such as the CGAS-STING1 pathway. Recently, we uncovered a previously unknown function of cytosolic DNA by elucidating its role in regulation of rDNA transcription. Cytosolic DNA interacts with UBTF and POLR1A, two essential components of the RNA polymerase I transcription machinery, thereby retaining a portion of these two proteins in the cytoplasm and resulting in an inhibition of rDNA transcription. This leads to decreased protein synthesis and reduced cell proliferation. Furthermore, STING1-induced autophagy selectively eliminates cytosolic DNA, abolishing the cytoplasmic retention of UBTF and POLR1A and consequently restoring rDNA transcription, protein synthesis, and cell proliferation. Thus, our findings reveal a DNA-sensing pathway-independent function of cytosolic DNA, which underscores cytosolic DNA as a novel player in cell metabolism.Abbreviations: cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMP; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus-1; POLR1A: RNA polymerase I subunit A; rDNA: ribosomal DNA; rRNA: ribosomal RNA; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; UBTF: upstream binding transcription factor.
Coronaviruses (CoVs) encode a variety of transmembrane proteins that are translated and processed at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Three host ER resident transmembrane proteins, activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), and PKR-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), sense the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER and initiate the unfolded protein response (UPR) to maintain ER proteostasis. We observed that SARS-CoV-2 Spike broadly activated all three arms of the UPR, whereas the Membrane (M) protein selectively inhibited ATF6. ATF6 has a unique activation mechanism whereby ER stress triggers translocation to the Golgi where ATF6 is processed by resident proteases to release the ATF6-N transcription factor. We observed that M inhibited the stress-induced production of ATF6-N, suggesting that ATF6 failed to engage with Golgi proteases for processing. M also inhibited sterol regulatory element binding protein-2 (SREBP2)-mediated activation of sterol responses and stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1 (STING)-mediated activation of interferon responses, both of which are activated in the ER and require translocation to the Golgi for interactions that yield transcriptional responses. We observed that M accumulated in the cis-Golgi, and triggered dispersal of the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Using a cargo sorting assay, we determined that ER-to-Golgi cargo trafficking was intact in the presence of M, but cargo accumulated with M in the cis-Golgi and did not proceed further in the secretory pathway. We also observed aberrant cholesterol accumulation at the cis-Golgi with M, consistent with our observation of M association with detergent resistant membranes. Together, these data suggest that CoV M proteins interfere with Golgi architecture and trafficking. Because CoV egress does not require the canonical secretory pathway, this mechanism could allow the virus to selectively interfere with host responses to infection without impeding egress of nascent virions.Copyright: © 2026 Caddell et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42047332 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42028144 is a review article
African swine fever virus (ASFV) is the causative agent of African swine fever (ASF), a fatal and highly contagious disease, resulting in enormous losses to the global swine industry. No licensed vaccines or effective therapeutics are currently available to control ASFV infection. Interferons (IFNs) serve as key mediators of host antiviral immunity by inducing interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), but the specific mechanisms by which individual ISGs restrict ASFV replication remain unclear. Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3 (IFIT3, also called ISG60) has been shown to exhibit antiviral activity against various viruses, but its role in ASFV infection has not been previously studied. Here, we used porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs), the primary target cells of ASFV, to investigate IFIT3's function in ASFV replication. We found that overexpression of IFIT3 inhibited ASFV replication, while its knockdown enhanced viral propagation. Mechanistically, IFIT3 directly blocked ASFV adsorption to host cells, thereby suppressing all subsequent stages of the viral cycle. IFIT3 also specifically interacted with ASFV F334L, an early viral gene product that encodes the small subunit of ribonucleotide reductase, a key enzyme for viral DNA synthesis. Additionally, IFIT3 positively regulated the STAT1/TBK1/IRF3 signaling axis: its overexpression increased phosphorylation of TBK1 and IRF3, as well as the protein level of STAT1, while IFIT3 knockdown attenuated activation of these molecules. Transcriptomic analysis of IFIT3-knockout PAMs revealed significant suppression of innate immune pathways, including type I interferon, JAK-STAT, and RIG-I-like receptor pathways, along with downregulated expression of core antiviral molecules such as ISG15, MX1, and STAT1. Conversely, pathways related to viral adsorption, endocytosis, and cytoskeleton were activated, and pathways involved in protein translation initiation, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and autophagy were dysregulated, creating a favorable intracellular environment for ASFV replication. In conclusion, IFIT3 restricts ASFV replication possibly by inhibiting viral adsorption and promoting innate immune signaling, identifying it as a potential therapeutic target against ASFV. This study's limitation is its in vitro PAM model; future work will validate IFIT3's role in vivo and develop targeted inhibitors.
The western flower thrips (WFT), Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) (Thysanoptera: Thripidae), is a globally significant pest causing severe damage to a wide range of crops. Although RNA interference (RNAi) technology enables species-specific pest control through targeted gene silencing, the limited number of validated efficient RNAi target genes has hindered practical application of RNAi for WFT management. This study aims to screen and identify effective RNAi target genes in WFT using an optimized oral delivery system. We selected 15 candidate target genes based on homologous sequences from closely related insect species. DsRNAs targeting these genes were synthesized and fed to WFT nymphs and adults. Mortality and fecundity were monitored at 24, 48, and 72 h post feeding. Feeding on the dsRNAs of six genes (V-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit A, V-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit B, Neuropeptide F receptor, Maltase A1, sorting and assembly machinery component 50 homolog, toll-like receptor 6) significantly increased mortality in WFT nymphs and adults, with a higher lethal effects observed in nymphs. Notably, toll-like receptor 6 knock-down resulted in the highest mortality, and the daily fecundity of adult WFT fed with dsRNA targeting Neuropeptide F receptor for 72 h increased significantly. Expression analysis confirmed significant down-regulation of these 6 target genes by dsRNA. This study identified six high-efficacy target genes for RNAi-based WFT management, establishing a foundation for developing environmentally sustainable RNAi biopesticides.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Although toll-like receptor 6 (TLR6) plays an important role in innate immunity and host antiviral responses, its impact on pegylated interferon-alpha (PegIFNα) treatment efficacy in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) remains unclear. We aimed to investigate whether genetic variations of TLR6 are associated with the response to PegIFNα treatment. This study included 945 HBeAg-positive CHB patients treated with PegIFNα for at least 48 weeks and followed for 24 weeks from two multicenter phase IV trials (Cohort 1, n = 238; Cohort 2, n = 707). Across the TLR6 gene, 13 tag-SNPs were selected. Furthermore, a polygenic score (PGS) was developed by incorporating the newly identified variant of TLR6 and two previously reported SNPs (CD55_rs28371597 and CXCR4_rs28367495). Both TLR6 tag-SNPs and PGS were tested their associations with treatment efficacy. Among the 13 tag-SNPs, TLR6_rs7696175 (C > T) was identified as the most significantly associated variant with HBsAg decline at week 72 in both cohorts. The T allele of TLR6_rs7696175 was significantly associated with greater HBsAg decline, especially higher rates of decline ≥ 1 log10 IU/mL and ≥ 2 log10 IU/mL at week 72 (Cohort 1 + 2: p ≤ 0.001 for all associations). Moreover, the PGS integrating TLR6_rs7696175 and two previously reported SNPs significantly improved prediction accuracy for HBsAg decline at week 72 (Cohort 1 + 2: p < 0.001 for all comparisons) and outperformed single SNPs. Overall, this study identifies TLR6_rs7696175 as a novel genetic biomarker and demonstrates the superiority of a compact PGS for predicting HBsAg decline in PegIFNα-treated CHB patients, facilitating personalized treatment for CHB.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The imbalance in macrophage M1/M2 polarization is a critical driver of excessive inflammation during the early stage of acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS), yet its upstream regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the role of interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3 (IFIT3) in early ALI pathogenesis. IFIT3 was significantly upregulated in pulmonary macrophages from ALI mice. Functionally, IFIT3 promoted M1 polarization and exacerbated lung inflammatory injury by positively regulating the cGAS-STING pathway. Mechanistically, IFIT3 served as a molecular bridge between STING and the deubiquitinase USP18, thereby inhibiting ubiquitination-mediated degradation of STING and amplifying downstream inflammatory signaling. Furthermore, IFIT3 knockdown ameliorated early lung injury in vivo. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that IFIT3 promotes macrophage M1 polarization and early inflammation in ALI by scaffolding USP18 to stabilize STING, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for ALI/ARDS.
Osteoporosis is characterized by decreased bone mass and disrupted microarchitecture. Gut microbiota-derived factors may regulate bone homeostasis. This study investigated the effects and mechanisms of Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus LGG, conditioned medium (LCM) on osteoclastogenesis and bone loss. RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) was assessed by TRAP staining, F-actin ring imaging, resorption pit assay, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. Ovariectomized (OVX) mice received oral LCM for 8 weeks. Bone architecture was analyzed by micro-CT and histology (H&E, TRAP, immunohistochemistry). Serum bone turnover markers and toxicity indicators were measured by ELISA. Transcriptome sequencing was performed on LCM-treated BMMs, followed by differential expression and KEGG enrichment analyses. Pathway involvement was validated via pharmacological inhibition. LCM demonstrated favorable biocompatibility while significantly reducing TRAP-positive cell number, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorption area in RANKL-treated BMMs. The expression of osteoclastogenic markers was markedly downregulated. In OVX mice, LCM treatment preserved the trabecular microarchitecture of lumbar vertebrae and femur, increased BV/TV, Tb.Th, and Tb.N, and reduced osteoclast number. Serum bone resorption marker (β-CTx) decreased, while bone formation markers (BALP and P1NP) showed no significant change. No adverse effects were observed in body weight or liver and kidney function indices. Transcriptome analysis revealed NF-κB pathway suppression. Western blotting confirmed that LCM reduced phosphorylation of IKKα, IκBα, and p65. Regulation of TLR6 can restore NF-κB activation and osteoclast function. LCM alleviates bone loss by inhibiting osteoclastogenesis mediated via the TLR6/NF-κB signaling pathway. LGG shows promise as a potential therapeutic agent, warranting further clinical investigation.© 2025. The Author(s).
The advent of effective combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has significantly improved HIV-1 treatment, saving millions of lives. However, HAND remains a concern, particularly among aging individuals with HIV-1. The mechanisms underlying HAND are not well understood.This study investigated the role of interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3 (IFIT3) and its upstream regulator, signal transducer, and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1), in HAND pathology. Using the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line and HIV-infected humanized mice, we examined the effects of the cART drugs, HIV Tat protein, and HIV-1 virus on STAT1 and IFIT3 expression.The results showed that HIV-1 exposure significantly upregulated STAT1 and IFIT3, contributing to neuroinflammation.This study identified IFIT3 as a critical molecular marker for HAND, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target and offering new insights into disease pathology and treatment strategies.Copyright © 2025 Das, Sahoo, Roy, Xu, Galarza, Garza, Rodrigo, Duttaroy and Roy.
RelA protein expression is linked to triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) aggressiveness and poor prognosis. Consequently, it is crucial to investigate the molecular changes that underlie breast cancer progression and chemotherapy resistance associated with RelA overexpression. In this study, we performed a comprehensive qualitative analysis of proteomics and metabolomics in TNBC cells overexpressing RelA, compared to TNBC cells with basal levels. Trapped ion-mobility spectrometry time-of-flight mass spectrometry was employed to achieve high-resolution analysis. The results unveiled 27 significantly dysregulated proteins in MDA-MB-231 RelA cells relative to MDA-MB-231 cells. The upregulated proteins in MDA-MB-231 RelA cells include interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3 and cytochrome b5, which are involved in tumor progression and regulation of the cellular redox system, respectively. In addition, metabolomics analysis revealed 21 altered metabolites, such as cyclic AMP and pyridine. The integrated analysis of multi-omics data highlighted the most significantly impacted pathways, including ABC transporters, arginine biosynthesis, and purine metabolism, among others. This study effectively provides valuable insights into potential proteins, metabolites, and signaling pathways that mediate the aggressiveness of TNBC through RelA. Moreover, the multi-omics integrated analysis elucidated the role of RelA in chemotherapy resistance, tumor progression, migration, and invasion, which suggests potential biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets.© 2025 Wiley‐VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.
BH-3 like motif containing inducer of cell death (BLID) is a known prognostic factor in breast cancer. The aim of the present study was to determine the significance of BLID in the outcomes of chemotherapy and mechanisms affected in BLID-deficient breast cancer cells. Reverse transcription-PCR, reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, dual-luciferase reporter and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were used to determine the effects of drugs on BLID expression and binding of forkhead box protein O3a (FOXO3a) to the BLID promoter. RNA arrays, antibody microarrays and microRNA arrays were used to illuminate the omics features of BLID knockdown vs. isogenic control breast cancer cell lines. Kaplan-Meier plotter and receiver operating characteristic plotter tools were used to determine the prognostic and therapy response benefits of BLID expression using publicly available clinical datasets. BLID expression was induced in response to several chemotherapeutic drugs. Drug treatment resulted in increased binding of FOXO3a to the BLID promoter, and FOXO3a knockdown was associated with decreased expression of BLID. BLID depletion led to a decrease in the cytotoxicity of chemotherapeutic drugs. Through multi-omics profiling, three functionally distinct classes of effectors that were predominately influenced in BLID knockdown cells were identified: i) Genes and proteins associated with cell death and survival, including cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein 2/baculoviral IAP repeat containing 3, phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit α/p110α and DFNA5/gasdermin E; ii) members of the aldo-ketoreductase family 1, specifically aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 implicated in drug metabolism; and iii) effectors of the interferon response, including IFNβ1, interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2 and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3. Finally, higher BLID expression was associated with improved overall survival in several types of cancer and the response of breast cancer to anthracyclines. The results of the present study demonstrated that BLID is a target of FOXO3a, and BLID-deficiency in breast cancer cells was associated with modulation of cell death, survival and proliferation, chemoresistance, drug potency, and the interferon response. These findings highlighted BLID as a promising biomarker of drug response and offer a novel framework of integrative mechanisms of therapeutic resistance and disease progression.Copyright: © 2025 Yadavalli et al.
Immune evasion is a major mechanism responsible for tumor cell survival and dissemination. This study aims to explore key molecules involved in immunosuppression and metastasis of endometrial carcinoma (EC). Primary and metastatic tumors were collected from four patients with EC for array analysis. Metastatic tumors exhibited increased macrophage infiltration, while decreased CD8+ T cell infiltration, and aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like (ARNTL) was identified as a key factor involved. High ARNTL expression was linked to poor tumor differentiation, advanced stage, and increased metastasis in another cohort of 300 EC patients. ARNTL knockout (ARNTL-KO) in EC cells reduced cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and increased cell death in vitro, and it blocked the tumorigenicity and metastatic activity of cells in mice. The ARNTL-KO EC cells reduced the M2 polarization of macrophages and induced CD8+ T cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. ARNTL activated the transcription of INO80 complex ATPase subunit (INO80), a chromatin remodeler, which further promoted the transcription of DEAH-box helicase 15 (DHX15) through histone acetylation modifications. Overexpression of either INO80 or DHX15 increased glycolytic activity and immunosuppression in ARNTL-KO EC cells. Collectively, this study suggests that the ARNTL-mediated INO80-DHX15 axis induces glycolysis and immunosuppression during EC progression.© 2025. The Author(s).
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) contribute to host defense by trapping pathogens. However, excessive or dysregulated NET formation is implicated in the pathogenesis of various conditions, including thrombosis, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Despite their clinical significance, the specific intracellular signaling pathways underlying NET formation in response to proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), remain incompletely defined. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TNF-α-induced NET formation in human neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. TNF-α induced rapid, non-lytic NET formation in dHL-60 cells without compromising cell viability. Mechanistically, TNF-α activated a signaling cascade involving c-Raf, MEK1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This signaling cascade regulated the sequential caspase activation, with caspase-2 acting upstream of caspase-1 cleavage to promote NET formation. Collectively, these findings suggest that TNF-α induces non-lytic NET formation via a defined c-Raf-MEK1/2-p38 MAPK-caspase pathway and a distinct caspase hierarchy. This mechanism offers a valuable experimental model for studying NET-mediated pathologies in proinflammatory environments.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamilies comprise 47 proteins that regulate immune signaling and T cell costimulation. While TNF inhibitors are established therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs), their efficacy is limited by primary non-response and secondary loss of efficacy. Preclinical data suggest that the TNF/TNFR members exhibit redundant and synergistic signaling, motivating combination targeting strategies.We have systematically evaluated TNF/TNFR combinations as potential immunotolerance targets using integrated computational and experimental approaches. We applied a gene prioritization framework incorporating transcriptomics, genetics, druggability, and pathway regulation data to derive disease association scores for the TNF/TNFR genes in rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these scores and T cell expression profiling, ten targets were prioritized for a combinatorial screen using clinical-stage and preclinical pharmacological inhibitors in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. The effects of the most promising combinations were further characterized by RNA sequencing.The combinatorial screen identified four drug combinations that significantly suppressed T cell production of IL-2 and IFN-γ: TNF+CD40L, TNF+OX40L, CD40L+OX40L, and CD40L+LTβ/LIGHT. Transcriptional profiling revealed that these combinations broadly downregulated genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production that were induced during the allogeneic response. Notably, the co-inhibition of TNF and CD40L (Adalimumab+Dapirolizumab) produced the most robust suppression, uniquely downregulating 337 genes enriched for key T cell activation pathways, including NF-κB and ERK1/2.These findings demonstrate that the combinatorial antagonism of TNF/TNFR superfamily members can potently suppress allogeneic T cell responses, with the TNF+CD40L combination showing particularly strong and broad effects. The results support the continued preclinical evaluation of combinatorial TNF/TNFR inhibition as a potential tolerance-inducing therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory IMIDs.Copyright © 2026 Veerasubramanian, Zang, Amancha, Wynn, Quan and Karlsson.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563692 is a review article
Chronic pain is sustained by complex neuroimmune interplay within the spinal cord, yet how astrocytes constrain immune amplification remains poorly understood. Here we identified Src-homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP1; encoded by Ptpn6) as a key suppressor of spinal neuroinflammation and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Astrocyte-specific SHP1 deletion in the spinal dorsal horn induced profound astrocytic morphological changes, increased C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) expression, disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and facilitated the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes into the spinal parenchyma. These infiltrating T cells promoted microglial activation, enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission, increased the excitability of somatostatin (SOM)-positive neurons, and ultimately triggered nociceptive hypersensitivity. Mechanistically, T cell recruitment was governed by an SHP1-dependent regulatory circuit, in which SHP1-mediated Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dephosphorylation restrained Cxcl10 transcription. Blocking the STAT1-CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling axis alleviated T cell infiltration and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, we found that during the development of neuropathic pain, spinal SHP1 expression was significantly downregulated, accompanied by upregulation of CXCL10. Overexpression of SHP1 in astrocytes markedly attenuated astrocyte activation and alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by spared nerve injury (SNI). Collectively, our findings revealed an astrocyte-defined immune checkpoint that restrains neuroinflammatory escalation and pain persistence, emphasizing SHP1 as a promising therapeutic target for chronic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to investigate the ameliorative effects of the traditional Chinese herbal compound formula, Shenge Yifei Formula, on pulmonary inflammation and function in mice with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD) and to elucidate its underlying mechanism from the perspective of inhibiting T helper 1(Th1) immune responses. A COPD model was established in C57BL/6 mice by intratracheal instillation of lipopolysaccharide(LPS) combined with passive smoking exposure. The mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, a tiotropium bromide group, and low-and high-dose Shenge Yifei Formula groups. Following a 5-week intervention, pulmonary function tests and HE staining were performed to assess lung histopathological changes. Flow cytometry, multicolor immunofluorescence, and ELISA were employed to detect the proportion and distribution of CD4~+ C-X-C chemokine receptor 3(CXCR3)~+ Th1 cells in lung tissue, as well as the levels of interferon-γ(IFN-γ), interleukin-12(IL-12), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10(CXCL10) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid(BALF). Additionally, transcriptomic sequencing was conducted on lung tissue from the high-dose Shenge Yifei Formula group. The study demonstrated that, compared with the model group, Shenge Yifei Formula significantly improved pulmonary function in COPD mice and attenuated alveolar structural damage, airway remodeling, and inflammatory cell infiltration in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistic investigations revealed that the high dose of Shenge Yifei Formula markedly reduced the proportion and density of CD4~+CXCR3~+Th1 cells in lung tissue and decreased the levels of IFN-γ, IL-12, and CXCL10 in BALF. Transcriptomic analysis further confirmed that its mechanism of action is closely associated with the modulation of immune pathways such as T cell differentiation and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. In conclusion, Shenge Yifei Formula effectively ameliorates pulmonary inflammation and dysfunction in COPD mice by inhibiting Th1 cell differentiation, recruitment, and the associated cytokine network. Unlike tiotropium bromide, which primarily improves ventilatory function, Shenge Yifei Formula exerts a significant inhibitory effect on the Th1 axis, suggesting a distinct advantage complementary to bronchodilator therapy at the level of immune inflammation. This study provides modern experimental evidence for the clinical application of Shenge Yifei Formula and indicates its therapeutic potential in COPD by concurrently targeting anti-inflammatory and anti-remodeling processes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526787 is a review article
A case-control study was conducted in Basrah, Iraq, between September 2023 and December 2024. Stool samples from 110 symptomatic individuals were examined microscopically using direct wet mounts, concentration methods, and permanent staining techniques. Confirmed cases included 43 patients infected with Entamoeba spp. and 30 patients infected with Giardia duodenalis, while 50 apparently healthy individuals served as controls. Hemoglobin and leukocyte differential counts, serum total protein, albumin, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10), malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were evaluated. The results demonstrated significant hematological, biochemical, inflammatory, and oxidative stress alterations among infected individuals. Hemoglobin, serum total protein, and albumin levels were significantly reduced in both amoebiasis and giardiasis patients compared with healthy controls, with more pronounced alterations observed in amoebiasis. IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, CXCL10, MDA, and LDH levels were significantly elevated, whereas increased GSH levels may reflect a compensatory antioxidant response rather than antioxidant depletion, particularly among amoebiasis patients. Giardiasis patients exhibited inflammatory and oxidative stress changes, although these alterations were less pronounced than those observed in amoebiasis. Comparative analysis indicated that amoebiasis induced stronger inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue injury responses than giardiasis, due to the invasive nature of amoebic infection. Overall, Entamoeba spp. infection elicited stronger inflammatory, oxidative stress, and tissue injury responses than giardiasis, providing further insight into the distinct host-parasite interactions associated with these intestinal protozoan infections.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the protective effects and molecular mechanisms of thymosin β4 (Tβ4) on pyroptosis in BV2 microglial cells.BV2 cells were divided into three groups: control group (no treatment), pyroptosis group [stimulated with 1 μg/mL lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 12 hours, followed by 10 μmol/L nigericin (Nig) treatment for 1 hour], and Tβ4 treatment group (co-incubated with LPS and Nig, then treated with 1 μg/mL Tβ4 for 1 hour). An in vitro sepsis-associated encephalopathy model was established by LPS and Nig co-treatment. Viability of BV2 cells was assessed by CCK-8 assay. RT-qPCR was performed to detect mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-1β, interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1), and interferon-β (IFN-β). IL-1β levels in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Protein expression of NLRP3, GSDMD-N, cleaved caspase-1, phosphorylated stimulator of interferon genes (p-STING), and phosphorylated interferon regulatory factor 3 (p-IRF3) was analyzed by Western blot. Cell death rate and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were detected by flow cytometry using propidium iodide staining and MitoSOX indicator, respectively.Compared with the pyroptosis group, Tβ4 treatment alleviated morphological damage caused by pyroptosis in BV2 cells. Intracellular mRNA expression of IL-1β, IFIT1, and IFN-β; IL-1β concentration in supernatant; protein expression of NLRP3, GSDMD-N, cleaved caspase-1, p-STING, and p-IRF3; cell death rate; and mitochondrial ROS levels were significantly decreased (P0.05).Tβ4 protects BV2 microglial cells against LPS and Nig-induced pyroptosis by inhibiting oxidative stress and inflammatory responses, potentially through regulation of the cGAS-STING signaling pathway.
Persistent pruritus (itch) affects the quality of life, and many itch syndromes remain untreatable. Previously, we identified the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) playing a critical role in mediating histamine-independent itch signaling. In this study, we aimed to identify small-molecule GRPR antagonists to treat histamine-independent itch. Starting with the known small-molecule GRPR antagonist PD 176,252, we conducted systematical structure-activity relationship studies. This effort led to the discovery of antagonists that exhibit up to an 11-fold increase in binding affinity compared to PD 176,252. Compound 45 (MP-4222), a GRPR antagonist with a four-fold increased binding affinity and equal selectivity over the neuromedin B receptor (NMBR), significantly inhibited itch behavior in the chloroquine (CQ)-induced acute itch mouse model. Additionally, we attempted to reconcile the discrepancy between our in vitro experimental data and the computational docking outcome using the recently reported GRPR-PD176252 cryo-EM structure. Our studies also suggested several potential modifications to improve potency, as well as identified functional groups that have the potential in radiolabeling for targeted GRPR imaging.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intra-abdominal infection frequently progresses to sepsis, where the liver is an early and commonly injured organ. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mouse model combined with bulk and single‑cell RNA sequencings, we observed marked neutrophil infiltration in the liver that correlated with injury severity. Sepsis‑associated neutrophils displayed a pro‑inflammatory phenotype and specifically upregulated the divalent metal transporter solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1). Conditional knockout of Slc11a1 in neutrophils (Ly6G-Cre+ Slc11a1f/f) significantly alleviated liver injury and improved survival. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 drives intracellular Fe2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species production via the Fenton reaction, promoting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Hepatocytes were found to secrete C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) through nuclear factor kappa B (NF‑κB) activation, which both recruit neutrophils and stimulates the JAK/STAT1/SLC11A1 axis, thereby enhancing NETs‑mediated pro‑inflammatory macrophage polarization. Clinically, peripheral blood CXCL10 levels correlated with liver injury markers in sepsis patients. Neutralization of CXCL10 using an anti-CXCL10 antibody or liver-specific knockdown of CXCL10 via Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) reduced NETs formation and attenuated liver damage in CLP mice. This study delineates a "CXCL10-SLC11A1-NETs" signaling axis that exacerbates sepsis‑induced liver injury, offering a novel target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Although multi-omics studies have increasingly revealed molecular alterations associated with epilepsy, clinically accessible cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers that are stably detectable and biologically relevant remain scarce. This study aimed to identify measurable biomarkers associated with epilepsy-related molecular alterations. Kainic acid (KA)-induced mouse model, single-cell RNA sequencing, and public transcriptomic datasets identified secreted protein-coding genes associated with inflammation, glial activation, and metabolic dysregulation. Candidate biomarkers were validated across mouse and human datasets and quantified in CSF of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and non-epileptic controls using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Machine learning models were built to evaluate diagnostic performance and interpretability using SHAP analysis. Six proteins (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 [CXCL10], transthyretin [TTR], apolipoprotein E [APOE], apolipoprotein D [APOD], galectin-3-binding protein [LGALS3BP], and lysozyme [LYZ]) were dysregulated in human CSF. CSF levels of CXCL10, APOE, APOD, LGALS3BP, and LYZ were significantly elevated in TLE, whereas TTR was markedly reduced (all p < 0.001). Machine learning models demonstrated promising classification performance, with TTR and CXCL10 emerging as major contributing features. CSF CXCL10 levels positively correlated with preoperative seizure frequency (Spearman's ρ = 0.698, p < 0.0001). Multilevel evidence from animal models and clinical CSF samples indicates that microglial activation and glia-related molecular alterations are associated with TLE progression, and related secreted proteins may provide candidate biomarkers for future translational investigation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Post-resuscitation brain injury is the main contributor to the death and disability of cardiac arrest (CA) victims. Neuronal ferroptosis is involved in the pathogenesis of brain injury after resuscitation, which becomes an effective therapeutic target. Recent studies demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) were a promising approach for the alleviation of regional cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury; however, its effectiveness in post-resuscitation brain injury remains to be investigated. In this study, we investigated whether MSC-Exo could alleviate post-resuscitation brain injury by inhibiting neuronal ferroptosis and its regulatory mechanism.In vivo, a clinically relevant swine model of CA and resuscitation was established. In parallel, SH-SY5Y neuronal cells exposed to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) were used as the in vitro model. We found that MSC-Exo administration provided potent protection of neuronal cells against H/R injury in vitro, and effectively alleviated brain injury after CA and resuscitation in vivo. Furthermore, we showed that the protective effects of MSC-Exo administration were associated with the upregulation of protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1), solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression, and subsequent inhibition of neuronal ferroptosis in in vitro and in vivo studies. Mechanistically, MSC-Exo administration promoted the recovery of PRMT1 expression, and then the latter bound to the promoter of SLC7A11 and enhanced its transcriptional activity after H/R injury in neuronal cells. Additionally, the miR-320a-3p/tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21) axis was a possible mechanism by which MSC-Exo administration activated the PRMT1/SLC7A11/GPX4 pathway in vitro.MSC-Exo administration effectively alleviated post-resuscitation brain injury after CA and resuscitation, which was related to the inhibition of neuronal ferroptosis partly through the activation of PRMT1/SLC7A11/GPX4 pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mannose-binding lectin (MBL) is a critical component of the innate immune system, serving a vital role in the body's initial defense against pathogens. Sepsis, a severe condition triggered by an excessive immune response to infection, has been linked to variations in the MBL2 gene that affect MBL levels and functionality. Numerous studies across various populations have examined the role of MBL-2 promoter polymorphisms (H>L and Y>X), but their results have been conflicting. This study aims to investigate the genetic connection between MBL promoter polymorphisms and susceptibility to sepsis through a meta-analysis of previously published articles. A thorough literature search was conducted using PubMed, Scopus, and ScienceDirect to locate relevant articles for the meta-analysis. Rigorous inclusion and exclusion criteria were implemented to ensure data accuracy. All analyses were performed using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Software v4. Seven studies were included, examining the role of MBL-2 promoter genetic variants in sepsis (H>L: n=3, sepsis cases: 449, control: 687; Y>X: n=6, sepsis cases: 1211, control: 1694). Egger's regression analysis and funnel plots suggested no publication bias. Heterogeneity analysis indicated homogeneity among the data. The meta-analysis showed no association between MBL-2 promoter variants and susceptibility to sepsis. The trial sequential analysis highlighted the need for further studies on MBL-2 promoter variants in sepsis to draw a definitive conclusion. The promoter variants of the MBL-2 gene (H>L and Y>X) do not appear to increase the risk of sepsis. Further investigation is needed to confirm this conclusion, including more participants from diverse populations and larger sample sizes.
MALAT1 has been validated to favor the progression of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but its detailed mechanism remains obscure. This study explored the functional roles of ALL cells-derived exosomal MALAT1 in chemoresistance and malignant growth of ALL cells, as well as its underlying mechanisms.The expression of target molecules was evaluated by qRT-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemical staining. CCK-8, EdU staining and flow cytometry were conducted to determine cell proliferation and apoptosis. RIP, RNA-pull down, Co-IP, and MeRIP were used to investigate molecular mechanisms. ALL cells were injected into nude mice to evaluate in vivo tumor formation.MALAT1 and methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) were up-regulated in ALL, which exhibited a positive correlation. METTL14-mediated m6A modification raised MALAT1 stability and expression, and consequently facilitated ALL cell growth and apoptosis inhibition. Furthermore, MALAT1 was packaged into ALL cells-derived exosomes by hnRNPA2B1, and then transferred to NK92-MI cells. Exosomal MALAT1 suppressed tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27)-mediated ubiquitination of High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in NK92-MI cells, thereby leading to adriamycin resistance and malignant development of ALL cells.ALL cells-derived exosomal MALAT1 was up-regulated by METTL14-mediated m6A modification, and subsequently restrained HMGB1 ubiquitination and degradation in NK92-MI cells, which resulted in adriamycin resistance and malignant growth of ALL cells. Therefore, inhibition of METTL14/MALAT1/HMGB1 axis might be a therapeutic strategy for ALL patients.(1)METTL14 and MALAT1 were positively correlated in ALL samples.(2)METTL14 increased MALAT1 stability and expression in an IGF2BP1-mediated m6A manner.(3)ALL cells transferring exosomal MALAT1 suppressed TRIM27-mediated HMGB1 ubiquitination in NK92-MI cells.(4)HMGB1 silencing in NK92-MI cells enhanced adriamycin sensitivity of ALL cells.(5)MALAT1/HMGB1 axis inhibition delayed in vivo ALL growth via NK cell activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-Ro52 [Tripartite Motif Containing 21 (TRIM21)] antibodies are strongly associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD) in connective tissue diseases (CTDs), yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which TRIM21 autoimmunity drives ILD using an in vivo model.A murine model of TRIM21 autoimmunity was established by immunizing mice with full-length recombinant TRIM21 protein. Lung immune infiltration and antibody production were assessed. To mimic viral triggers, mice received poly(I:C). Immune cell subsets and transcriptional changes were analyzed using flow cytometry, RNA sequencing, and immunohistochemistry.TRIM21 immunization induced systemic autoantibody production and B cell activation, which were associated with selective pulmonary inflammation marked by IgG deposition. Upon poly(I:C) challenge, lung inflammation was markedly exacerbated, with increased infiltration of CD8+ cells and CD11b+ myeloid cells and enrichment of chemokine signaling pathways. RNA sequencing identified Ccl6 as a top upregulated gene, and its protein expression was spatially validated in inflamed lung tissue.These findings support a pathogenic role for anti-Ro52/TRIM21 autoimmunity in CTD-associated ILD. Our in vivo model reveals a lung-predominant inflammatory response associated with CD8+ cell that is amplified by viral mimicry and accompanied by CCL6 signaling, offering mechanistic insight and potential therapeutic targets in anti-Ro52 positive ILD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulation of cholesterol homeostasis is closely associated with the development of various cancers, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study found that the circadian clock gene Period 2 (PER2) is downregulated in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), promoting intracellular cholesterol synthesis and cell proliferation. Conversely, PER2 overexpression inhibits cell proliferation by suppressing intracellular cholesterol synthesis. Mechanistically, PER2 binds to Myosin Heavy Chain 9 (MYH9) and recruits Tripartite Motif Containing-21 (TRIM21) to promote ubiquitin-dependent degradation of MYH9, thereby inhibiting the cholesterol synthesis rate-limiting enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), reducing intracellular cholesterol synthesis, and suppressing OSCC proliferation. In OSCC xenograft models, overexpression of PER2 or treatment with the HMGCR inhibitor simvastatin significantly inhibited OSCC growth, with the combination showing markedly enhanced anti-OSCC efficacy compared to either approach alone. To explore the circadian regulatory role of PER2, overexpression or silencing experiments in OSCC demonstrated that PER2 modulates the circadian rhythms of HMGCR expression, intracellular cholesterol, and cell proliferation. Further investigations in subcutaneous OSCC mouse models revealed sex-specific circadian rhythms in PER2 and HMGCR expression, intracellular cholesterol, cell proliferation, and tumor growth in OSCC cells. Specifically, the acrophases of these indicators in OSCC of male mice were delayed relative to females, and the mesors of HMGCR expression, intracellular cholesterol, and cell proliferation were significantly higher than in females. The anticancer efficacy of simvastatin against OSCC in mice varied up to 2.5-fold across six different time points within 24 h, with broader time windows for optimal therapeutic efficacy and adverse effects in female mice than in males. This study identified a novel mechanism by which PER2 reprograms intracellular cholesterol, demonstrating that PER2 upregulation combined with simvastatin represents a potential novel strategy to improve the prognosis of OSCC patients, and clarifies that the anti-OSCC effect of simvastatin exhibits time-dependent and sex differences.© 2026. The Author(s).
Abnormal accumulation of Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) promotes cancer progression, yet its stabilization mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identify E3 ubiquitin ligase tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21) as a PARP1-binding partner. PARP1 interacts directly with TRIM21 via its 662-908 domain, while the PRY-SPRY domain of TRIM21 is essential for this binding. TRIM21 facilitates PARP1 polyubiquitination at residue K654, leading to its degradation. In small cell lung cancer (SCLC), TRIM21 is significantly downregulated, and its tumor-suppressive function is partly mediated through the degradation of PARP1, supporting genomic stability. Additionally, the PI3K/AKT pathway transcriptionally suppresses TRIM21 via transcription factor STAT5A, thereby stabilizing PARP1. Importantly, combining the PI3K/AKT inhibitor PKI-587 with the PARP inhibitor BMN673 synergistically inhibits tumor growth across multiple SCLC models, including cell lines, patient-derived organoids, and xenograft models. Collectively, our findings define a "PI3K/AKT-STAT5A-TRIM21-PARP1" axis critical for SCLC progression and propose its dual inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Melanoma-associated antigen D4 (MAGED4) belongs to the melanoma-associated antigen family and is upregulated in various cancer types. However, the functional role and molecular mechanisms of MAGED4 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain largely unknown. In this study, we observed that MAGED4 expression levels were significantly higher in HCC tissues than in non-cancerous tissues and elevated expression was associated with poor patient outcomes. Functional assays demonstrated that MAGED4 promoted proliferation and migration of HCC. We found that MAGED4 can activate the Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) signaling pathway. Mass spectrometry and co-immunoprecipitation assays revealed an interaction between MAGED4 and tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21). Confocal microscopy experiments confirmed the colocalization of MAGED4 with TRIM21. Mechanistically, MAGED4 can regulate the stability of TRIM21 by preventing its ubiquitination and degradation. Furthermore, MAGED4 contributes to the downregulation of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) via TRIM21, and this effect can be partially reversed by si-TRIM21 in MAGED4-overexpressing cells. These findings indicate that MAGED4 promotes HCC progression through the activation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway by stabilizing TRIM21, suggesting that targeting MAGED4 may provide new insights into HCC treatment strategies.
Abnormal syncytialization of cytotrophoblast (CTB) cells is known to be associated with preeclampsia (PE), however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive.In this study, proteomic analysis of placental tissues was performed to identify proteins involved in PE pathogenesis. NCK Adaptor Protein 1 (NCK1) was found to be downregulated in placental tissues from patients with early-onset PE. In vitro functional assays revealed that NCK1 was markedly increased during spontaneous syncytialization of CTB cells. NCK1 overexpression alleviated hypoxia-induced defects in CTB cell fusion. Mechanistically, NCK1 upregulated both the expression and stability of Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma (PPARG), accompanied by increased m6A modification of its mRNA. Overexpression of PPARG significantly rescued hypoxia-induced syncytialization impairment, whereas PPARG deficiency abolished the promotive effects of NCK1 on CTB syncytialization. Additionally, phosphorylation of Eukaryotic Translation Initiation Factor 3 Subunit (EIF3D) was significantly increased during spontaneous syncytialization, and NCK1 overexpression partially reversed hypoxia-induced suppression of EIF3D phosphorylation. EIF3D knockdown significantly reduced m6A levels on PPARG mRNA, likely due to impaired NCK1-mediated suppression of Alpha-Ketoglutarate-Dependent Homolog 5 (ALKBH5), an m6A demethylase. Furthermore, NCK1 enhanced EIF3D phosphorylation by inhibiting its O-GlcNAcylation.Our findings demonstrate that NCK1 stabilizes PPARG by modulating the crosstalk between O-GlcNAcylation and phosphorylation of EIF3D, thereby restoring hypoxia-impaired syncytialization in CTB cells. This study identifies the NCK1/EIF3D/PPARG axis as a molecular pathway potentially relevant to trophoblast fusion dysfunction in PE.© 2026. The Author(s).
Crosstalk between hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the tumor microenvironment (TME) is pivotal for the initiation and management of HCC. The infiltration and function of natural killer (NK) cells in the TME are frequently hindered. However, it is unclear whether a crucial regulatory factor originating from HCC cells directly modulates NK cell activity to evade immune surveillance. In this study, we found that mannose-binding lectin 2 (MBL2) expression was markedly decreased in HCC and positively correlated with HCC prognosis. MBL2 inhibited the proliferation and migration of HCC cells intracellularly. Human and murine co-culture systems of HCC and NK cells were established to demonstrate that secreted MBL2 recruited and activated NK cells in the TME, particularly upregulating the infiltration of NKp46+ NK cells. Furthermore, secreted MBL2 promoted the production of IL-13 and IL-25 by NK cells, resulting in a decrease in exhausted cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Mechanistically, MBL2 interacts with the integrin β1 receptor, activating the FAK/AKT pathway and increasing PD-L1 expression on NK cells. Our discovery identifies MBL2 as an NK cell-activating cytokine, initiating the integrin β1/FAK/AKT pathway in NK cells and reshaping an immune-activated microenvironment of HCC. Strategies to up-regulate MBL2 may enhance the anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy efficacy and serve as a potential therapeutic approach for HCC.Copyright: © 2026 Liao et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The nervous system is highly sensitive to alterations in the dosage of genes crucial for neurodevelopment, as exemplified by retinoic acid-induced 1 (RAI1). A 50% change in RAI1 gene copy number, resulting in either reduced or increased protein levels, leads to distinct neurodevelopmental disorders. RAI1 haploinsufficiency causes Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS), whereas RAI1 duplication underlies Potocki-Lupski syndrome. We recently demonstrated that restoring Rai1 levels can improve SMS-related disease phenotypes in mice. However, despite protein stability being a major determinant of protein abundance, there are currently no therapeutic approaches to modulate RAI1 protein stability. Here, we performed a forward CRISPR screen in human cells to identify post-translational regulators of RAI1 steady-state levels and identified tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27) as a destabilizer of RAI1. We show that RAI1 degradation occurs primarily through the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with TRIM27 interacting with RAI1 and enabling TRIM27-dependent lysine(K)48- and K63-linked RAI1 ubiquitination. Finally, in SMS mouse primary neurons, we demonstrate that knocking down TRIM27 partially rescues SMS-associated morphological phenotypes. Our findings provide the first mechanistic insight into RAI1 proteostasis and highlight TRIM27 as a potential therapeutic target for SMS, highlighting the potential of manipulating ubiquitin-mediated proteostasis to restore gene dosage altered by copy number variations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
Glioblastoma (GBM), a highly aggressive brain tumor, is characterized by poor treatment outcomes and a strong tendency to recur after therapy. Therapy-induced senescence (TIS) of GBM cells has emerged as a key driver of GBM progression and relapse. Temozolomide (TMZ), which serves as the standard chemotherapeutic agent for GBM, is known to induce senescence; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain largely unknown. In this work, we found that interferon regulatory factor-1 (IRF1) was downregulated in TMZ-induced senescent GBM cells. Functionally, knockdown of IRF1 increased the activity of senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal), reduced protein expression of Lamin B1, inhibited cell division, and enhanced senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) of GBM cells, indicating that downregulation of IRF1 promotes senescence of GBM cells. Conversely, overexpression of IRF1 partially reversed TMZ-induced senescence. Further exploration revealed that downregulation of IRF1 reduced the expression of 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 2 (OAS2), and overexpression of IRF1 increased the expression of OAS2. OAS2 was also downregulated in TMZ-induced senescent GBM cells, and knockdown of OAS2 induced senescence of GBM cells as well. Taken together, our study reveals that IRF1 inhibits TMZ-induced senescence of GBM cells through OAS2, highlighting a novel regulatory axis that may offer potential therapeutic targets for improving GBM treatment.
Early-life nutrition is critical for the development and health of dairy calves, necessitating alternatives to in-feed antibiotics. This study investigated whether dietary glycerol monolaurate (GML) enhances growth performance, reduces diarrhea incidence, improves systemic antioxidant and immune status, and modulates hepatic immunometabolic function in calves. Twenty-four Holstein bull calves (7 ± 0.5 d of age) were randomly assigned by body weight and age to a control group or a GML-supplemented group, both fed milk replacer with starter feed provided throughout the 45-day trial. Calves in the GML group received GML at a dosage of 100 mg/kg of body weight, mixed into the milk replacer prior to feeding. Calves in the GML group had significantly greater final body weight, average daily gain, and starter intake during the latter period (d 23-45) compared with the control group. GML supplementation also significantly reduced the incidence of diarrhea and fever, alongside lower fecal scores and fewer antibiotic treatments. Plasma analysis revealed enhanced antioxidant capacity, as indicated by increased total antioxidant capacity and glutathione peroxidase, along with an improved immune profile characterized by elevated immunoglobulin G and reduced interleukin-2. Transcriptomic analysis of the liver showed that GML upregulated genes and pathways related to innate antiviral immunity, such as radical S-adenosyl methionine domain containing 2, interferon-stimulated gene 15, and MX dynamin like GTPase 1. Lipidomics further indicated that GML induced a targeted remodeling of hepatic lipids, including increased diacylglycerols and triacylglycerols and decreased specific phospholipids and sphingolipids, suggesting a metabolic shift supportive of immune activation and inflammatory control. In conclusion, dietary GML enhances growth and health in suckling calves, which is mediated through a coordinated immunometabolic reprogramming in the liver. GML represents a promising functional fat additive for sustainable calf rearing.
Background/Objectives: Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is often overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), where it helps the tumor evade the immune system and promotes tumor growth. Interleukin-24 (IL-24) is recognized for its anti-tumor activity, although its role in immune regulation remains unclear. In this study, we examined the role of IL-24 in regulating PD-L1 and its anti-cancer activity in TNBC cells.The study used TNBC cell lines treated with IL-24, delivered via a non-replicating adenovirus vector expressing the IL-24 gene. Assays included MTT for cell viability, Annexin V for apoptosis, Western blot for protein analysis, and qRT-PCR for mRNA analysis.We found that the highly aggressive MDA-MB-231 cells had significantly higher PD-L1 levels. We discovered that treatment with IL-24 reduced cell growth, induced apoptosis, and significantly decreased PD-L1 protein levels in MDA-MB-231 cells. Mechanistically, we identified PKR, also known as eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 2, as a key mediator of IL-24-induced PD-L1 suppression. Additionally, doxorubicin, a primary chemotherapy drug used to treat triple-negative breast cancer, decreases PD-L1 expression and increases the sensitivity when combined with IL-24.In this study, we show that IL-24 decreases PD-L1 expression in MDA-MB-231 cells through PKR activation, enhances the anti-tumor effects of Doxorubicin, and may enable lower doses that reduce toxicity and further decrease PD-L1 levels. These findings suggest that IL-24 could serve as a valuable target for therapeutic intervention and suggest that it can improve doxorubicin's effectiveness against aggressive breast cancer.
This study evaluated the protective effects of naringin (NG) against intestinal injury in 7-day-old piglets infected with porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV). Eighteen piglets (Duroc × Landrace × Large, body weight = 2.58 ± 0.05 kg) were divided into three treatment groups based on similar body weights and equal numbers of males and females: the blank control group (CON group), the PEDV infection group (PEDV group), and the NG intervention + PEDV infection group (NG + PEDV group) (n = 6 per group). The experiment lasted for 11 days, comprising a pre-feeding period from days 0 to 3 and a formal experimental period from days 4 to 10. On days 4-10 of the experiment, piglets in the NG + PEDV group were orally administered NG (10 mg/kg). On Day 8 of the experiment, piglets in the PEDV and NG + PEDV groups were inoculated with PEDV (3 mL, 106 50% tissue culture infective dose (TCID50) per milliliter). On day 11 of the experiment, piglets were euthanized for sample collection. PEDV infection caused significant intestinal damage, including a decreased (p < 0.05) villus height in the duodenum and ileum and an increased (p < 0.05) crypt depth in all intestinal segments. This intestinal damage was accompanied by an impaired absorptive function, as indicated by reduced (p < 0.05) serum D-xylose. Further results showed that PEDV compromised the intestinal antioxidant capacity by decreasing (p < 0.05) glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities, and it stimulated the intestinal inflammatory response by upregulating (p < 0.05) the expression of key inflammatory genes, including regenerating family member 3 gamma (REG3G; duodenum, jejunum, colon), S100 calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9; ileum, colon), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β; ileum, colon), and S100 calcium binding protein A8 (S100A8; colon). PEDV also suppressed the intestinal lipid metabolism pathway by downregulating (p < 0.05) the ileal expression of Solute Carrier Family 27 Member 4 (SLC27A4), Microsomal Triglyceride Transfer Protein (MTTP), Apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), Apolipoprotein C3 (APOC3), Diacylglycerol O-Acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), and Cytochrome P450 Family 2 Subfamily J Member 34 (CYP2J34). Moreover, PEDV suppressed the intestinal antiviral ability by downregulating (p < 0.05) interferon (IFN) signaling pathway genes, including MX dynamin like GTPase 1 (MX1) and ISG15 ubiquitin like modifier (ISG15) in the duodenum; weakened intestinal water and ion transport by downregulating (p < 0.05) aquaporin 10 (AQP10) and potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 13 (KCNJ13) in the duodenum, aquaporin 7 (AQP7) and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6) in the ileum, and TRPV6 and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 6 (TRPM6) in the colon; and inhibited intestinal digestive and absorptive function by downregulating (p < 0.05) phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) in the duodenum and sucrase-isomaltase (SI) in the ileum. Notably, NG effectively counteracted these detrimental effects. Moreover, NG activated the IFN signaling pathway in the jejunum and suppressed PEDV replication in the colon. In conclusion, NG alleviates PEDV-induced intestinal injury by enhancing the antioxidant capacity, suppressing inflammation, normalizing the expression of metabolic and transport genes, and improving the antiviral ability.
This study aimed to investigate the impact of the RNA-binding protein eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 2 (EIF2AK2) gene, also known as PKR, on the condition of islet beta cells. In this study, EIF2AK2 was overexpressed in INS1 cells, and transcriptome data following EIF2AK2 overexpression were obtained using RNA-seq technology. Additionally, potential target genes that bind to EIF2AK2 were identified through iRIP-seq technology. The proteins interacting with EIF2AK2 were characterized using co-immunoprecipitation (CO-IP) combined with mass spectrometry to elucidate the molecular regulatory mechanisms of EIF2AK2 in INS1 cells. RNA-seq results indicated that in INS1 cells overexpressing EIF2AK2, 1171 genes were differentially expressed, and 2161 alternative splicing events were significantly altered. iRIP-seq data demonstrated that reads from the immunoprecipitated samples were significantly enriched in the intronic and coding sequence (CDS) regions. EIF2AK2 preferentially binds to the GCGGCGG motif in RNA. Comprehensive analysis suggests that EIF2AK2 may directly bind to and regulate the expression of Dusp8, Btg1, and Prkce, thereby affecting pancreatic islet cell functions. Furthermore, EIF2AK2 may influence islet cell function by modulating the alternative splicing of Zfr and Pias2. Additionally, combined with Co-IP mass spectrometry data, it was discovered that EIF2AK2 can interact with 649 proteins, including various differentially expressed RNA-binding proteins, transcription factors, and histones, which may be associated with diabetes. Our results indicate that EIF2AK2 may regulate the expression or alternative splicing of mRNA related to type 2 diabetes through direct or indirect binding. Additionally, it may influence the progression of type 2 diabetes by interacting with other proteins. We propose that EIF2AK2 plays a significant role in diabetic islet beta cells, and its aberrant regulatory pattern is closely associated with the onset and progression of type 2 diabetes.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Vascular aging, a central feature of organismal aging, involves endothelial cell (EC) structural and functional alterations. Methylglyoxal (MGO), a key advanced glycation end product precursor, pathologically accumulates during aging. While MGO induces EC apoptosis via mitochondrial pathways and endothelial dysfunction, its role in cellular senescence remains unclear. The integrated stress response (ISR) sensor Eukaryotic Translation Initiation Factor 2 Alpha Kinase 2 (EIF2AK2), also known as PKR, has emerged beyond its well-established antiviral role as a critical regulator of cellular senescence. This study explores the novel mechanism of berberine (BBR) on targeting EIF2AK2 dimerization to attenuate MGO-induced EC senescence and apoptosis. In vitro, MGO-treated HUVECs assessed EIF2AK2 dimerization/phosphorylation and senescence (p16, p21) and apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3) markers. In vivo, three aging models (MGO-induced aortic injury, D-gal-induced accelerated aging, natural aging) evaluated MGO accumulation and EIF2AK2 pathway activation (phospho-EIF2AK2, ATF4), demonstrating BBR's efficacy via EIF2AK2 axis modulation. Here, we present the first evidence demonstrating that EIF2AK2 dimerization and subsequent activation significantly exacerbate EC senescence and apoptosis in both in vivo and in vitro models, characterized by upregulation of pro-apoptotic markers (Cleaved caspase-3, Bax) and senescence-associated proteins (P53, P21, P16), along with downregulation of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. EIF2AK2 has been identified as a key cellular target of the natural isoquinoline alkaloid BBR. Our findings further establish that BBR ameliorates MGO-induced vascular EC senescence and apoptosis through selective inhibition of EIF2AK2 dimerization and subsequent eIF2α phosphorylation. Notably, pharmacological suppression of EIF2AK2 with C16 synergistically enhances BBR's protective effects against MGO-induced EC senescence and apoptosis. Collectively, this study reveals a novel mechanistic pathway by which MGO drives EC senescence/apoptosis via EIF2AK2 dimerization/activation and validates BBR's therapeutic potential for vascular pathologies. EIF2AK2 emerges as a promising target for developing novel vascular protection strategies.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Enhancing innate immunity through interferons (IFNs) and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) offers a promising strategy for preventing herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection. Prunella vulgaris L., a medicinal herb, has demonstrated significant anti-HSV activity; in particular, its derived polysaccharide complex (PVE30) effectively inhibits viral replication. In this study, we investigate whether PVE30 exerts an anti-HSV-1 activity through activation of the innate immune response.To determine the primary stage at which PVE30 exerts its effects during the HSV-1 life cycle, plaque reduction assays were conducted. Viral infection was further assessed by investigating the DNA copies, mRNA levels and protein expression of HSV-1 in infected cells using real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blotting. The activation of the innate immune response was evaluated by detecting mRNA levels of ISGs, including MX dynamin-like GTPase 1 (Mx1), Mx2, 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 1 (OAS1), ISG15 and IFN regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) using RT-PCR, and levels of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and IRF3 proteins using Western blotting. The translocation of phosphorylated IRF3 and stimulator of IFN genes (STING) was observed through fluorescence microscopy.PVE30 pre-treatment exerted protective effects against HSV-1 infection in human immortalized keratinocytes by enhancing the innate immune response. This was shown by increased transcriptional levels of IFN-β and antiviral ISGs, along with a significant reduction in HSV-1 DNA copies, mRNA expression and protein levels. Mechanistically, PVE30 promoted TBK1 phosphorylation, leading to nuclear translocation of IRF3 and subsequent IFN-β transcription; these effects were diminished by TBK1 inhibitor GSK8612. Additionally, STING was identified as a key mediator in PVE30-activated TBK1 signaling, as its inhibition induced by C-176 reduced PVE30's efficacy.This study elucidated the molecular mechanisms underlying the protective effects of PVE30 against HSV-1 infection. PVE30 exerted its protective role by enhancing STING-TBK1-IRF3 pathway-mediated innate immune response. Please cite this article as: Zhang YB, Xu L, Yuan M, Liu MF, Li Y, Zhong XL, Lin ZX, Xian YF, Lu P, Xi ZC, Xu HX. Protective effects of Prunella vulgaris polysaccharides against herpes simplex virus type 1 infection through the STING-TBK1-IRF3 pathway. J Integr Med. 2026; 24(3):454-465.Copyright © 2025 Shanghai Yueyang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Marek's disease virus (MDV) is a highly contagious oncogenic alphaherpesvirus that continues to threaten global poultry production, highlighting the need for next-generation vaccines. Although in ovo delivery of conventional MDV vaccines has been effective, vaccine leakiness has accelerated viral evolution by promoting the selection of more virulent, immune-evasive strains. mRNA vaccines offer a flexible and rapidly adaptable platform capable of inducing potent immune responses, yet their application against MDV remains unexplored in the in ovo context. Here, we report the first in ovo administration of a bivalent MDV mRNA vaccine encoding glycoprotein B (gB) and phosphoprotein 38 (pp38). RNA sequencing of the spleen and bursa of Fabricius at 12-, 24-, and 48-hours post-vaccination revealed distinct, time- and tissue-specific transcriptional programs. In the spleen, differential expression analysis (fold-change ≥ 2, padj < 0.05) demonstrated early activation of caudal-type homeobox 1 (CDX1) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1), together with interferon-stimulated antiviral genes MX dynamin-like GTPase 1 (MX1), 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase-like (OASL), and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 5 (IFIT5). In contrast, the bursa exhibited persistent modulation of colipase (CLPS), chymotrypsinogen B1 (CTRB1), and deoxyribonuclease I (DNASE1), indicating metabolic and apoptotic remodeling. These results demonstrate that in ovo mRNA vaccination against MDV rapidly activates organ-specific immune and metabolic pathways, providing a transcriptomic framework for the rational design of poultry mRNA vaccines.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Given the limited efficacy of existing therapies for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), there is an urgent need for novel strategies. Prohibitin 1 (PHB1) is significantly upregulated in CRC, where it plays a critical role in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to meet the heightened energy demands of rapid tumor growth and metastasis. Here, we discover that PHB1 interacts with NADH: ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit S1 (NDUFS1), a subunit of the OXPHOS complex, thereby modulating mitochondrial respiratory function. Based on these insights, we developed TD6, a highly potent and selective small-molecule inhibitor of PHB1. In a mouse model of colorectal cancer pulmonary metastasis (CRPM), TD6 treatment significantly prolonged animal survival. Mechanistically, TD6 binds to PHB1 and induces a conformational change in the PHB complex, which reduces PHB-mediated stabilization of NDUFS1. Disruption of the PHB-NDUFS1 interaction promotes NDUFS1 degradation via the lysosomal pathway, leading to impaired activity of mitochondrial complex I (MCI) and reduced OXPHOS function. In summary, PHB1 maintains MCI stability and OXPHOS activity through its interaction with NDUFS1. By targeting PHB1, TD6 effectively disrupts this regulatory axis, demonstrating therapeutic potential against CRPM. This study presents a novel drug candidate and a theoretical foundation for PHB1-based interventions targeting cancer energy metabolism.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Malignancies are the leading cause of global mortality, necessitating new biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Phenazine biosynthesis-like protein domain-containing protein (PBLD) has demonstrated tumor-suppressive activity in gastric and liver cancers, although its pan-cancer function remains elusive. In this study, we performed bioinformatics analysis of PBLD in pan-cancer and colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) to explore its potential role, aiming to provide new insights for cancer diagnosis and treatment.This study systematically investigated the expression of PBLD patterns, its prognostic value, genomic alterations, associations with the tumor microenvironment (TME), and drug sensitivity in cancers, with a focus on COAD. This study performed integrated database analyses using Human Protein Atlas (HPA), Genotype Tissue Expression (GTEx), and Tumor Immune Estimation Resource version 2.0 (TIMER2.0) for normal/tumor expression; Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA2) and Gene Set Cancer Analysis (GSCA) for survival and pathological staging; and cBioPortal for genetic alterations. Correlation analyses were performed to assess associations with tumor mutational burden (TMB)/microsatellite instability (MSI), immune infiltration (TIMER2.0, Spearman), and drug responsiveness [Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC)/Cancer Therapeutics Response Portal (CTRP) through GSCA]. Functional enrichment [Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)/Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA)], and protein-network analysis (STRING) were also conducted.PBLD was significantly downregulated in 14 cancers, notably in bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA), breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA), cholangiocarcinoma (CHOL), COAD, esophageal carcinoma (ESCA), kidney chromophobe (KICH), kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma (KIRP), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), and rectum adenocarcinoma (READ), and was associated with a poor prognosis. Its expression was correlated with TMB/MSI, immune cell infiltration, and drug sensitivity. Enrichment analyses revealed the important role of PBLD in the amino acid and lipid metabolism pathways. COAD-specific analyses further identified associations among suppressed PBLD expression, metabolic dysregulation, immune activation, and epigenetic silencing.These findings establish PBLD as a pan-cancer prognostic biomarker with mechanistic links to metabolism and immune modulation, supporting its potential role for precision cancer management.© AME Publishing Company.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) represents a major complication associated with diabetes mellitus, notably contributing to patient morbidity and mortality. However, early diagnosis of DKD remains challenging due to the lack of clear diagnostic biomarkers. Therefore, in the present study, microarray and RNA‑sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were systematically analyzed. Using differential expression and weighted gene co‑expression network analysis, 49 genes with marked expression changes in DKD were identified. Subsequent analyses, including functional enrichment, protein‑protein interaction network construction, machine learning techniques and assessment of immune cell infiltration, led to the identification of three hub genes: Spleen‑associated tyrosine kinase, apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1 and ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10, as promising diagnostic markers, which were further evaluated by receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Expression changes of the identified hub genes were validated in both DKD mouse models and clinical patient samples. Collectively, the present study provided a novel perspective on the molecular basis of DKD, and highlighted novel candidates for potential diagnostic and therapeutic applications.
Heart failure (HF) following myocardial infarction remains a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality, necessitating novel therapeutic strategies. Salvianolic acid B (SalB), one of the major active components of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge, has been shown to effectively reverse ischemia-induced myocardial infarction and improve cardiac function. Here, we report a novel mechanism by which SalB treats postmyocardial infarction heart failure by promoting cardiomyocyte re-entry into the cell cycle. A novel protein target of SalB, Prohibitin 1 (PHB1), was identified using chemical biology techniques. Experiments involving overexpression and knockdown of PHB1 have demonstrated that SalB promotes cardiomyocyte mitosis by acting on PHB1, which in turn upregulates the phosphorylation level of the Raf-ERK pathway. Molecular dynamics simulations provide a comprehensive explanation for the mechanism by which SalB enhances Raf phosphorylation. The findings reveal that SalB binds to the C-terminal of PHB1/2 heterodimer, inducing a conformational change that enhances Raf-ERK pathway activation via Akt-mediated phosphorylation, thereby promoting cardiomyocyte mitosis. The findings of this study propose a promising new molecular mechanism through which SalB can contribute to the preservation and restoration of cardiac function.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Hereditary optic neuropathies comprise a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders caused by pathogenic variants in mitochondrial and nuclear genes. Despite increasing diagnostic yields, many patients remain without a molecular diagnosis. We report a novel candidate heterozygous variant in the PHB1 (Prohibitin 1) gene in a large family affected by autosomal dominant optic atrophy. A three-generation family with slowly progressive visual acuity loss due to optic neuropathy and an apparent autosomal dominant pattern was clinically characterized and recruited for genetic counseling. Exome sequencing and genome-based linkage mapping were performed, alongside protein modeling and in vitro experiments to obtain functional evidence. Family-based whole-genome linkage mapping identified a heterozygous missense variant, c.440C>T (p.Ser147Phe), in PHB1 in all five affected individuals. The variant substitutes p.Ser147Phe within an evolutionarily conserved alpha-helix domain of PHB1, a mitochondrial protein with multiple roles. In silico modeling suggested that p.Ser147Phe may disrupt PHB1 stability and function through loss of hydrogen bonding, steric hindrance, and altered hydrophobic interactions. In vitro experiments suggested potential alterations in mitochondrial dynamics in variant carriers, including a changed ratio of L-OPA1 to S-OPA1 compared with non-carriers. We present initial evidence that PHB1 is a novel candidate gene potentially associated with dominant optic atrophy or a related mitochondrial disorder. This represents the first report implicating PHB1 in a Mendelian disease. Further studies are required to validate this association.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoarthritis (OA)-related meniscal degeneration involves complex interactions between oxidative stress and proteasomal dysfunction. However, the molecular drivers of regional meniscal vulnerability remain poorly defined. This study integrated multiple transcriptomic datasets from OA and control menisci to identify functional networks and hub genes by using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Human meniscal tissues from medial and lateral compartments were harvested during total knee arthroplasty and subjected to western blot analysis. In vitro assays on the basis of human chondrocytes were exposed to lipopolysaccharide or the proteasome inhibitor MG132 (carbobenzoxy-l-leucyl-l-leucyl-l-leucinal) to evaluate the stimulus-specific regulation of identified network and hub genes. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed microsomal glutathione S-transferase (MGST1) as the hub gene within a module enriched for ubiquitination and proteasome activity. Experimental validation in human meniscal tissues demonstrated pronounced upregulation of MGST1, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 N (UBE2N), and proteasome activator complex subunit alpha (PSMA) in mechanically overloaded medial compartments compared to lateral regions. In vitro studies demonstrated stimulus-specific modulation: lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory stress upregulated MGST1, whereas proteasome inhibition via MG132 led to its downregulation. These findings highlight a dynamic interplay between redox adaptation and proteostasis, where chronic mechanical stress drives MGST1-mediated antioxidant responses and compensatory ubiquitination. Together, these results suggest that joint tissues dynamically adapt to mechanical and inflammatory challenges by modulating oxidative stress defenses and protein quality control mechanisms, processes central to OA pathophysiology.© 2026 The Authors. FASEB BioAdvances published by The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Global warming and plastic pollution constitute interconnected environmental threats. However, their combined neurotoxic effects, particularly in the context of climate change-driven temperature rise, remain unexplored, posing a critical knowledge gap for environmental health risk assessment. To address this gap, we developed a mouse model subjected to coexposure to heat stress (36 °C, 4 h/day) and well-characterized polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs, 60 nm, 10 mg/kg/day) for 30 consecutive days. Multidisciplinary approaches, including behavioral testing, histopathological analysis and molecular profiling, were employed to assess cognitive dysfunction and its underlying mechanisms. Compared with the single-exposure groups, coexposure induced pronounced cognitive deficits in mice, which were concomitant with hippocampal neurodegeneration, bloodbrain barrier (BBB) compromise, and exacerbated hippocampal oxidative stress. Transcriptomic profiling and subsequent validation revealed a novel role for oxidative stress-induced NLR family pyrin domain containing 6 (NLRP6) inflammasome activation in driving microglial pyroptosis, which exacerbates neuroinflammation through a feedforward loop. The administration of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) attenuated these pathological alterations by suppressing oxidative damage, thereby rescuing cognitive performance. This study elucidates a novel mechanism whereby heat stress and PS-NP coexposure synergistically disrupt neurological homeostasis via redox-sensitive inflammatory pathways, offering critical insights for the development of preventive strategies against combined environmental neurotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs), as antimicrobial factors, load a variety of immune-related molecules, play a complex and critical role in host-pathogen interactions. The regulatory mechanism of how EVs respond to external stimuli by regulating immune regulatory elements in the innate immune response of marine invertebrates remains unresolved. To address this, we conducted a global transcriptomic analysis of hemocytes in Chlamys farreri stimulated by EVs derived from different sources. Transcriptomic analysis identified 892 specifically upregulated and 246 specifically downregulated genes in the group of scallops injected with EVs obtained after LPS stimulation (group S) relative to the group of scallops injected with PBS buffer (group P). Functional annotation analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) participate in critical immune signaling pathways, including the NOD-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor, and HIF-1 signaling pathways. Among the DEGs unique to the group S, we identified canonical genes linked to autophagy, apoptosis, and immune responses, such as cell division control protein 42 homolog (CDC42), dual specificity protein phosphatase 1 (DUSP1), TNF receptor-associated factor 3 (TRAF3), Caspase 3 (CASP3), serine/threonine-protein kinase ULK3 (ULK3), and Myeloid differentiation primary response protein MyD88-3 (MyD88-3). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis pointed to ADP-ribosylation factor (CDKN2A), phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase and dual-specificity protein phosphatase (PTEN), CDC42, CASP3, and the downregulated protein heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) as prominent hub DEGs involved in the regulation of innate immunity. Temporal analysis of selected immune DEGs further demonstrated the immunomodulatory role of EVs in Chlamys farreri. Our study establishes that EVs are essential for regulating innate immunity in marine invertebrates, offering novel insights for shellfish disease prevention and control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BR serine/threonine kinase 2 (BRSK2) plays critical roles in neuronal polarization, cell cycle progression, and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. However, its function in HCC remains unknown. Through bioinformatics analysis of public databases, we identified BRSK2 as a PCD-related gene with potential clinical diagnostic value in HCC. Functionally, BRSK2 knockdown significantly suppressed the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells and promoted apoptosis in vitro, as well as inhibited tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model in vivo. Mechanistically, we found that BRSK2 is associated with the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, and western blot analysis confirmed that BRSK2 silencing attenuates PI3K/AKT activation in HCC cells. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) analysis revealed that the elevated expression of BRSK2 in HCC is associated with post-translational regulation. Tripartite Motif Containing 28 (TRIM28) was identified as a BRSK2-interacting protein that upregulates BRSK2 protein levels. In vitro ubiquitination assays demonstrated that TRIM28 suppresses BRSK2 ubiquitination, leading to its accumulation in HCC cells. Finally, rescue experiments showed that BRSK2 silencing abrogates TRIM28 overexpression-induced enhancement of HCC cell proliferation, PI3K/AKT/mTOR activation, and resistance to apoptosis. Collectively, these findings uncover that TRIM28 prevents ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of BRSK2, thereby enhancing its protein stability and activating the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway to promote HCC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Viruses, lacking an intrinsic metabolic network, exploit host cell metabolism in order to hijack resources for their own replication. However, the regulatory relationship between foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) and energy metabolism remains incompletely elucidated. Here, metabolomic analysis was performed on PK-15 cells and tonsils infected with FMDV. Metabolites involved in glycolysis were significantly upregulated, whereas metabolites associated with the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle were markedly downregulated in vivo and in vitro, which indicated that FMDV induced reprogramming of host cell energy metabolism, shifting it from oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to glycolysis. Furthermore, FMDV infection promoted glucose uptake and its subsequent utilization in FMDV-infected PK-15 cells, facilitating viral replication. Mechanistically, on the one hand, FMDV infection activated the AKT-MTOR-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy pathway to suppress the expression of OTUD4 (OTU deubiquitinase 4), upregulating HK2 (hexokinase 2) to facilitate glycolysis. On the other hand, FMDV infection decreased the level of mitochondrial SIRT3 (sirtuin 3) through PINK1-PRKN-dependent mitophagy, leading to the increase of HIF1A (hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha), HK2, phosphofructokinase 1 (PFK1), and PKM/PKM2 (pyruvate kinases M1/2), promoting glycolysis. Overall, this study elucidates how FMDV modulates glycolysis through two different autophagic pathways, which would contribute to our understanding of how the autophagy-glycolysis axis regulates viral replication, providing new avenues for developing antiviral strategies targeting metabolism.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATG: autophagy related; CQ: chloroquine; dpi: days post-infection; EV71: enterovirus 71; FMDV: foot-and-mouth disease virus; HK2: hexokinase 2; HIF1A: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; hpt: hours post-transfection; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OTUD4: OTU deubiquitinase 4; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PFK1: phosphofructokinase 1; PFKFB3: 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 3; PKM/PKM2: pyruvate kinase M1/2; SIRT3: sirtuin 3; siRNA: small interfering RNA; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; TCA: tricarboxylic acid; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling; WT: wild type.
Influenza viruses represent a significant threat to global public health. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-coding RNA molecules, play pivotal roles in regulating gene expression and have emerged as critical modulators of host-virus interactions. To investigate the functions of miRNAs during influenza virus infection, a miRNA library was constructed and sequenced using DF1 cells infected with the H9N2 influenza virus. From the differentially expressed miRNAs, we identified miR-92 as a key antiviral host factor. Mechanistically, miR-92 inhibits viral replication by targeting TNFRSF1B, which, in turn, enhances type I interferon signaling responses. Promoter region analysis demonstrated that the transcription factor OCT1 binds to the miR-92 promoter and positively regulates its transcriptional activity. Additionally, our study revealed that TNFRSF1B interacts with TNF receptor-associated factor 3 (TRAF3) and mediates TRAF3 degradation via the autophagolysosomal pathway. Specifically, TNFRSF1B facilitates the removal of K63-linked polyubiquitin chains from TRAF3. Collectively, these findings indicate that TNFRSF1B negatively regulates IFN-I responses through autophagolysosomal-mediated TRAF3 degradation, while miR-92 counteracts this inhibitory effect to exert antiviral activity. In summary, our research delineates a novel regulatory axis that modulates the interferon pathway and H9N2 influenza virus replication, providing new insights into host antiviral defense mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets.IMPORTANCEThe miR-17-92 cluster is a well-established key regulator of viral infection. However, the specific role of miR-92, an essential member of this cluster, in modulating avian influenza virus infection remains poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that avian miR-92 exerts robust antiviral activity by directly inhibiting AIV replication. Critically, we report for the first time that the transcription factor OCT1 binds to the promoter region of miR-92 and transcriptionally regulates its expression. Mechanistically, miR-92 targets TNFRSF1B to enhance type I interferon production. Strikingly, TNFRSF1B mediates the degradation of TRAF3, thereby dampening IFN-I signaling. Together, our findings establish miR-92 as a pivotal antiviral effector during AIV infection. Beyond advancing our understanding of small RNA-mediated control of influenza virus replication, this work identifies miR-92 and its regulatory network as promising targets for the development of miRNA-based antiviral therapeutics.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
TRAF3 (TNF Receptor Associated Factor 3) is a regulator of NF-κB signaling, acting mainly as an inhibitor of the alternative NF-κB pathway. While TRAF3 has a well-established role in immune function, mainly via B- and T-lymphocyte regulation, its roles in cancer remain unclear. Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women and a neoplasm displaying high levels of intratumoral heterogeneity. Identifying and understanding key molecules at the interface of breast cancer cells and the immune system is crucial for advancing therapeutic strategies for breast cancer patients. Here, by employing publicly available breast cancer datasets, breast cancer cell lines stably expressing TRAF3, mass spectrometry analysis in combination with functional assays, co-culture systems, and signal pathway characterization, we sought to assess the specific role of TRAF3 in breast cancer cells and how TRAF3-expressing breast cancer cells affect their immune microenvironment. Our results indicate that TRAF3 protein overexpression inhibits colony formation through apoptosis regulation. Proteome analysis for TRAF3 interactors and over-representation analysis identified multiple protein complexes related to cell cycle, apoptosis, and immune responses. Furthermore, TRAF3-expressing breast cancer cells displayed reduced levels of PD-L1 and when co-cultured with PBMCs induced a pro-inflammatory profile with increased CD16-NK cells and higher levels of IFN-γ and TNF-α and lower IL-10 and Tregs in the culture. These findings further expand the role of TRAF3 in breast cancer, not only as a regulator of EMT and survival of cancer cells, but also as a modulator of the tumor-immune microenvironment.
Influenza A virus (IAV) is an important zoonotic pathogen responsible for substantial respiratory morbidity and mortality. Elucidating the mechanisms by which IAV evades host innate immunity is critical for developing novel antiviral strategies. Although the IAV non-structural protein 2 (NS2) is well-characterized for the export of viral ribonucleoproteins (vRNPs) from the host cell nucleus, the function of NS2 in evading host innate immunity, especially the NFKB/NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling pathway, remains poorly understood. The present study uncovered that NS2 is a novel viral inhibitor of the NFKB pathway. Mechanistically, NS2 interacted with and mediated the degradation of the NFKB essential modulator (IKBKG/NEMO), thereby suppressing downstream signal transduction. The macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) was exploited by NS2 to mediate the selective autophagic degradation. Furthermore, the K72 residue was critical for the NS2-mediated degradation of IKBKG/NEMO, as the K72R substitution in NS2 disrupted the IKBKG/NEMO-NS2 interaction and abrogated the autophagic degradation. In addition, NS2K72R mutant virus displayed less viral load and milder pathogenicity in mice. In conclusion, these findings highlighted the novel biological function of IAV NS2 in exploiting selective autophagy to evade host defenses, and offered a potential target for controlling IAV infections.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AIV: avian influenza virus; ATG7: autophagy related 7; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CHX: cycloheximide; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CHUK/IKKα: component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, dihydrochloride; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; dpi: days post-infection; EID50: 50% egg infective dose; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; hpi: hours post-infection; IAV: influenza A virus; IFN: interferon; IKBKB/IKKβ: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IFNG: interferon gamma; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit gamma; IKK: IκB kinase; IP: immunoprecipitation; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; IRF7: interferon regulatory factor 7; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP3K14/NIK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 14; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MLD50: 50% mouse lethal dose; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MRV/Sendai virus: murine respirovirus; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NEP: nuclear export protein; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKB2/p100: nuclear factor kappa B subunit 2; NFKBIA/IκBα: NFK inhibitor alpha; NP: nucleoprotein; NS1: non-structural protein 1; OPTN: optineurin; PB1: basic polymerase 1; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; poly(I:C): polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RELB: RELB proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RIGI: RNA sensor RIG-I; RIGI-IN: RIGI-CARD; RLR: RIGI-like-receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SIM: SUMO-interacting motif; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; TRAF6: TNF receptor associated factor 6; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; Vec: empty vector; vRNP: viral ribonucleoprotein.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is clinically characterized by recurrent and progressively worsening episodes; however, its underlying pathological mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Phenotypic changes and the specific migration of circulating monocytes may be key factors contributing to the recurrence and progressive exacerbation of synovial inflammation in KOA. In this study, we report a specific subtype of circulating monocytes in KOA that highly express interleukin 1A (IL1A), IL1R1, tumor necrosis factor, CXCL12, CXCL3, CXCL2, CCL20, and G0S2. These monocytes exhibit a trained immune phenotype, and their CXCR4-dependent migration to the synovium exacerbates synovial inflammation. HMGB1 (high mobility group protein B1) primes the trained immunity of this subtype, resulting in increased chromatin accessibility, and the transcriptional storage of multiple proinflammatory factors enables them to exhibit a more positive inflammatory response when restimulated by HMGB1. In addition, we find that MyD88, downstream of HMGB1, recruits cytoplasmic interferon regulatory factor 1 to the nucleus and then stabilizes interferon regulatory factor 1 in chromatin through SUMOylation of tripartite motif containing 28 to exert transcriptional activity and epigenetic enhancement of proinflammatory factor expression. Finally, we found that KOA inflammation was effectively attenuated by blocking HMGB1. Taken together, this study reveals the mechanism by which trained immunity of circulating monocytes promotes the progression of synovial inflammation, supporting a future therapeutic approach in the management of KOA.Copyright © 2026 Lishi Jie et al.
Neuroinflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of brain injury following cardiac arrest(CA), primarily mediated by microglial activation. The stimulator of interferon genes (STING) has been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in regulating anti-tumor immunity and inflammatory diseases. However, the functional impact and underlying mechanisms of STING in regulating microglial polarization following brain injury after cardiac arrest remain poorly understood.In this study, we employed an in vivo model of hyperkalemic cardiac arrest and an in vitro BV2 microglial oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) model to simulate brain injury following cardiac arrest (CA). STING was specifically inhibited using H151 or gene silencing. A range of techniques, including neurological function scoring, RNA sequencing, western blotting, immunofluorescence, FJB and TUNEL staining, HE and Nissl staining, ELISA, and flow cytometry, were applied in both in vivo and in vitro settings to evaluate the outcomes.We observed that STING expression in microglia was significantly upregulated following CA or OGD/R. Pharmacological inhibition of STING with H151 improves survival rate and neurological function in mice following CA and attenuates neuronal degeneration and apoptosis. Furthermore, H151 induces a phenotypic shift in microglia from the pro-inflammatory M1 state to the anti-inflammatory M2 state. These results are also associated with reduced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6 and TNF-α, as well as increased levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10 and TGF-β. Mechanistically, both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrate that STING activation promotes microglial polarization toward the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype while suppressing the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype through downstream signaling pathways involving interferon regulatory factor 3 and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB). Conversely, inhibition of STING-achieved either pharmacologically using the inhibitor H151 or genetically via gene silencing-results in the opposite effects.Inhibition of the cGAS/STING/NF-κB signaling pathway shifts microglial polarization toward the M2 phenotype, thereby attenuating neuroinflammation, as well as neuronal degeneration and apoptosis. These findings suggest that STING is a promising therapeutic target for reducing neuroinflammation and neuronal damage, ultimately contributing to the alleviation of brain injury after CA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are single-pass transmembrane proteins that initiate innate immune responses through recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns, including lipopolysaccharide, flagellin, and microbial nucleic acids. In mammals, TLRs are expressed in both immune and non-immune cells, where they activate cytokine expression through the myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) signaling pathway and subsequently engage the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) or interferon regulatory factor 3 / interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF3/IRF7) pathways. To enable optical control of TLR function, the extracellular domains of several homodimeric TLRs, including TLR3, TLR4, and TLR5, are replaced with the photosensory core module of the bacterial phytochrome DrBphP. The resulting chimeric receptors activate the NF-κB and IRF3/IRF7 pathways in mammalian cells in a far-red-light-dependent manner. The MyD88 pathway is further reprogrammed to induce caspase activation instead of cytokine production, thereby creating a synthetic system that links TLR stimulation to caspase signaling. This strategy establishes a versatile optogenetic platform for far-red-light control of innate immune and cell death pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lysine methylation is a critical post-translational modification (PTM) involved in diverse physiological and pathological processes. Interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) plays a pivotal role in antitumor immunity; however, the regulatory mechanisms and functional impact of IRF3 methylation within the tumor microenvironment remain incompletely understood. This study demonstrates that monomethylation of IRF3 at lysine 193(K193) suppresses its phosphorylation-dependent activation. Mass spectrometry-based protein interactome analysis identified lysine methyltransferase 5A (KMT5A) as the key enzyme responsible for IRF3 K193 monomethylation. In colorectal cancer (CRC), aberrantly high expression of KMT5A impaired in vivo antitumor immune responses. Mechanistically, KMT5A catalyzes IRF3 monomethylation at K193, which impedes IRF3 phosphorylation and subsequent activation, thereby suppressing the production of type I interferons (IFN-I). Collectively, these findings elucidate KMT5A-mediated IRF3 K193 methylation as a critical regulatory axis promoting tumor immune evasion and progression. Furthermore, IRF3 K193 methylation represents a promising therapeutic target for CRC intervention.© 2026 The Author(s).
Aortic aneurysm and dissection (AAD) is a life-threatening vascular disease that currently lacks effective pharmacological therapies. Clinical evidences suggest that aspirin may exert a protective effect on AAD, but the underlying molecular mechanism is still unclear at present.Three mouse animal models of AAD and H2O2-induced ferroptosis model in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells were established. On this basis, RNA sequencing was performed to investigate potential molecular mechanisms, and further experiments were conducted using STING (stimulator of interferon genes) agonist to confirm the mechanisms.Aspirin was found to ameliorate the progression of AAD in the β-aminopropionitrile and CaPO4 mouse models. Interestingly, aspirin reduced mortality in mice but did not reduce the incidence of AAD in the β-aminopropionitrile + angiotensin II model. Furthermore, aspirin inhibited H2O2-induced ferroptosis in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells and suppressed activation of cGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase)-STING signaling pathway. Activation of STING with STING agonist markedly increased STING, TBK1 (TANK-binding kinase 1), and IRF3 (interferon regulatory factor 3) phosphorylation and abolished the protective effect of aspirin against H2O2-induced ferroptosis in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells. Western blot and immunofluorescence results indicated significant activation of the cGAS-STING signaling pathway following treatment with STING agonist. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis revealed that cGAS acetylation was considerably enhanced in human aortic vascular smooth muscle cells after aspirin treatment. Additionally, administration of aspirin and dimeric amidobenzimidazole compound 3 showed that dimeric amidobenzimidazole abolished the protective effect of aspirin in the CaPO4 model. Coimmunoprecipitation results indicated that aspirin promoted cGAS acetylation in mouse aortic tissue. Western blot and immunohistochemistry results also confirmed that the dimeric amidobenzimidazole compound 3 activated phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3 and significantly negatively regulated the expression of GPX4. In the β-aminopropionitrile model, dimeric amidobenzimidazole also abolished the protective effect of aspirin.Aspirin confers a protective effect against AAD by promoting cGAS acetylation and inhibiting the cGAS-STING signaling pathway and ferroptosis in VSMC.
Therapy-induced senescence (TIS) is a common outcome of diverse anticancer treatments, including chemotherapy, radiation, and small-molecule inhibitors. Senescence is characterized by stable growth arrest and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), which includes various immune mediators. As the role of the immune system in controlling cancer becomes increasingly appreciated, understanding the impact of TIS on the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) is critically important. Here, we investigated how senescence can be leveraged to enhance antitumor immune responses.We investigated the effects of an Aurora kinase A inhibitor (AURKAi), a potent inducer of senescence in melanoma models, using transcriptome and secretome profiling. The role of the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway was investigated using imaging, inhibitors, and gene knockout. We also examined the effect of AURKAi on the surface expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), as well as on signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation. In vivo, the effects of AURKAi treatment on the TIME were investigated using spectral cytometry and cell depletion studies. Finally, we assessed combining AURKAi with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), adoptive cell therapy, and natural killer (NK) cell therapy in murine models.We observed significant gene expression rewiring and the secretion of immune-related mediators and chemokines associated with AURKAi-induced senescence, which was favorably modulated by a senolytic BCL-2/xL inhibitor navitoclax. Mechanistically, AURKAi induced the formation of micronuclei linked with the activation of the cGAS-STING pathway, which, in turn, initiated pro-inflammatory transcriptional programs. Senescent melanoma cells exhibited increased surface expression of MHC-I and PD-L1, along with interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) and STAT1 activation, indicating enhanced immunogenicity. In vivo, AURKAi treatment significantly enriched the TIME with activated CD8+ T cells and NK cells, with depletion studies confirming their critical role in antitumor effects. While combining AURKAi with immune checkpoint blockade was not beneficial, AURKAi pretreatment significantly augmented T and NK cell therapies in murine models, resulting in enhanced tumor control and prolonged survival.These findings suggest that senescence, specifically when induced by an AURKAi, can be harnessed to promote effector cell engagement in immune-cold tumors, thereby enhancing responsiveness to cell therapies.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) suppresses T-cell activation during antiviral immune responses, and its expression is increased in airway epithelial cells after viral infection. Because chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by excessive airway inflammation and frequent virus-triggered exacerbations, we investigated the regulation and possible functional relevance of PD-L1 in a COPD-like airway epithelial model in response to viral double-stranded ribonucleic acid (dsRNA) stimulation. Human bronchial epithelial 16HBE14o-cells and β/γ epithelial sodium channel (ENaC)-overexpressing 16HBE14o- (β/γENaC-16HBE14o-) cells were stimulated with polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)]. In β/γENaC-16HBE14o-cells, poly(I:C) markedly enhanced the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators, including Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), along with increased p38 phosphorylation and nuclear accumulation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) subunits. In contrast, antiviral signaling was attenuated, as shown by reduced interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) phosphorylation and weaker interferon-β (IFN-β) induction compared with parental cells. Notably, poly(I:C)-induced PD-L1 expression was significantly higher in β/γENaC-16HBE14o-cells than in normal airway epithelial cells. Pharmacological inhibition experiments showed that PD-L1 induction depended on p38 signaling rather than NF-κB. In a co-culture system, blockade of programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)/PD-L1 interaction with BMS202 tended to increase IL-2 production by Jurkat T cells exposed to poly(I:C)-stimulated β/γENaC-16HBE14o-cells, with a large effect size. These findings suggest that COPD-like airway epithelial cells display exaggerated inflammatory responses but impaired antiviral responses to viral dsRNA, accompanied by enhanced p38-dependent PD-L1 induction, which may contribute to reduced T-cell activation during COPD exacerbation.© 2026 The Authors.
Mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization is a pivotal event in programmed cell death by apoptosis, leading to the activation of the cysteine protease caspase-3 (CASP3) and the release of mitochondrial nucleic acids. This release triggers the activation of the Interferon Regulatory Factor 3 (IRF3) transcription factor and the subsequent IRF3-mediated type I interferon production and cell death. CASP3 ensures apoptosis remains immunologically silent, though the mechanisms are unclear. We report that CASP3 cleaves CYLD, a deubiquitinating enzyme crucial for cell fate and inflammatory signaling. This proteolysis occurs at a site distinct from the previously reported CASP8 site, which is involved in limiting cell lysis and inflammation during extrinsic apoptosis. Although cleaved CYLD retains its enzymatic activity in vitro, knocked-in cells expressing CASP3-resistant CYLD show increased interferon signaling and enhanced cell death. Thus, a proteolytic code regulates CYLD to balance inflammation during programmed cell death.© 2026. The Author(s).
Atherosclerosis (AS) and Alzheimer disease (AD) are globally prevalent chronic diseases with challenges of difficult early diagnosis and a lack of effective combined therapies. This study explored their shared molecular mechanisms, potential diagnostic biomarkers, and immune microenvironment disorders. Using AS dataset GSE100927 and AD dataset GSE97760, key differentially expressed genes (key DEGs) were identified via bioinformatics (differential expression analysis, protein-protein interaction network, machine learning). A risk prediction model was built and validated with receiver operating characteristic/area under the curve. Immune infiltration was compared between patient and control groups; miRNA-transcription factor-mRNA and key DEGs-chemical networks were predicted, and key DEGs-AS/AD causal relationships verified by Mendelian randomization. Venn analysis found 89 common DEGs (enriched in lipid metabolism, Wnt pathway, etc). Four key DEGs (early growth response 2 [EGR2], leukocyte-specific transcript 1 [LST1], membrane-spanning 4-domains subfamily A member 7 [MS4A7], and 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase like [OASL]) were confirmed. The model had high accuracy (C-index = 0.982, area under the curve > 0.9). Mendelian randomization showed EGR2 was an AS risk/AD protective factor; LST1 an AS risk factor; MS4A7 an AD risk factor; no clear OASL-AD causality. EGR2, LST1, MS4A7, and OASL are novel diagnostic biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for comorbid AS and AD.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emerging enteropathogenic coronavirus that causes severe diarrhea in swine industries worldwide. However, the interactions between PDCoV and host cells remain poorly understood. In this study, we employed transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to investigate host responses to PDCoV infection. Our results identified 1448 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at 1.5 h post-PDCoV infection and 11,753 DEGs, along with 898 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) at 18 h post-PDCoV infection. Furthermore, several signaling pathways, including innate immunity, autophagy, and ferroptosis, were primarily enriched following an integrated analysis of the transcriptome and proteome. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis indicated that proteins closely associated with these pathways, such as interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1), myxovirus resistance 2 (MX2), interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), radical S-adenosyl methionine domain containing 2 (RSAD2), 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase like (OASL), autophagy related 14 (ATG14), and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), were central to the interaction network. Importantly, we demonstrated that autophagy and ferroptosis were induced upon PDCoV infection, and that inhibition of autophagy significantly suppressed the induction of PDCoV-induced ferroptosis, which decreases the viral proliferation. Overall, our findings provide a comprehensive overview of transcriptomic and proteomic changes following PDCoV infection and enhance the understanding of PDCoV pathogenesis, which will be beneficial for improving strategies for the prevention and control of PDCoV infection.© 2026. The Author(s).
The treatment of oral submucosal fibrosis (OSF) is challenging owing to the complex pathogenesis. It is characterized by excessive collagen deposition in the subepithelium along with epithelial damage. Betel nut chewing is considered a major cause of OSF. We previously found that phosphodiesterase 12 (PDE12) was involved in the oral mucosal epithelial barrier damage, promoting the occurrence of OSF. Early growth response 1 (EGR1), a well-characterized transcription factor, has been implicated in the development of fibrotic diseases, including oral fibrosis. This study aimed to explore the effects and underlying mechanisms of PDE12 overexpression on oral epithelial cells in OSF. Overexpression of PDE12 was employed to verify its critical role in mitochondrial dysfunction and oral mucosal epithelial barrier disruption in HOKs. Subsequently, electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis were performed to demonstrate that EGR1 interacted with the promoter of the PDE12 gene, thereby upregulating its expression in HOKs. By combining EGR1 silencing and PDE12 overexpressing strategies, our study confirmed that PDE12-induced impairment of mitochondrial function and oral mucosal epithelial barrier was dependent on EGR1. These findings suggest that regulating the expression of PDE12 through EGR1 could alleviate arecoline-induced epithelial injury, thereby inhibiting the development of OSF and offering a potential therapeutic strategy to combat OSF.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis is a chronic immune-metabolic inflammatory disease characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism. Despite its recognized metabolic basis, biomarkers that reflect coordinated metabolic and immune features remain limited. This study aimed to identify diagnostic biomarkers that capture immune-metabolic features of atherosclerosis. METHODS: Transcriptomic data were obtained from the GEO database. GO and KEGG analyses were performed. WGCNA identified hub genes. ssGSEA was used to evaluate immune cell infiltration. Unsupervised clustering identified atherosclerosis subtypes. Feature genes were selected using machine learning algorithms. Their diagnostic performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. RESULTS: Integrated transcriptomic and metabolic analyses identified 17 metabolism-related hub genes associated with atherosclerosis. Based on their expression profiles, patients in the training set GSE100927 were stratified into two subtypes. Cluster 2 showed higher immune cell infiltration than Cluster 1. DGKZ and UAP1 were prioritized as feature genes and demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance in GSE100927 (DGKZ: AUC = 0.983, 95% CI: 0.961–1.000; UAP1: AUC = 0.949, 95% CI: 0.906–0.993), with validation in GSE57691 (DGKZ: AUC = 0.900, 95% CI: 0.780–1.000; UAP1: AUC = 0.822, 95% CI: 0.598–1.000) and moderate stage discrimination in GSE28829. Immune correlation analysis showed that DGKZ broadly positively correlated with immune infiltration (max r = 0.83 for MDSCs), whereas UAP1 exhibited predominantly negative correlations (max r = − 0.65 for immature B cells). DGKZ and UAP1 were also strongly negatively correlated in the training set (r = − 0.769), supporting their association with distinct immune-metabolic states. CONCLUSION: DGKZ and UAP1 are potential diagnostic biomarkers for atherosclerosis and reflect immune-metabolic heterogeneity across molecular subtypes.
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) infects various mammals and causes Aujeszky's disease, posing a significant threat to the pig industry. The interaction between PRV and the host's innate immune system, however, remains poorly understood. The interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene (ISG), 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase-like 1 (OASL1), possesses antiviral properties and modulates type I IFN production by inhibiting the translation of IFN regulatory factor 7 (IRF7). This study explored the role of OASL1 in the host's response to pseudorabies virus (PRV) infection using OASL1-deficient (Oasl1-/-) mice. The results showed that PRV infection significantly increased OASL1 expression in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells, macrophages, and various organs, including the spleen, lung, and brain, of wild-type (WT) mice. In contrast, Oasl1-/- mice showed significantly milder clinical symptoms and fewer histopathological lesions after PRV infection compared to WT mice, which suffered severe neurological symptoms and succumbed with 100% mortality. Additionally, Oasl1-/- mice had substantially lower PRV viral loads in the spleen and reduced levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in multiple organs. Notably, PRV-infected Oasl1-/- mice demonstrated significantly higher levels of IRF7 protein in the spleen, lung, and brain, accompanied by increased secretion of type I IFNs. Mechanistically, IRF7 knockdown in Oasl1-/- macrophages reversed the enhanced type I IFN response and restored viral replication, confirming that the antiviral phenotype conferred by OASL1 deficiency is functionally dependent on the IRF7 axis. These findings suggest that OASL1 negatively regulates antiviral immunity against PRV by suppressing IRF7-mediated type I IFN responses. Modulating OASL1 activity may thus represent a promising strategy to bolster host defense against PRV and related viral infections.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the protective effects of glyceryl monooleate (GM) against porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV)-induced intestinal injury in neonatal piglets. In vitro assays revealed that GM inhibited PEDV replication. Twenty-four seven-day-old piglets were assigned to four groups: control, GM, PEDV, and PEDV + GM. Piglets received 100 mg/kg GM from days 4–10 and were challenged with 10⁶ TCID50 PEDV on day 8. Samples collected on day 11 were analyzed for intestinal morphology, oxidative stress, inflammation, and microbiota composition. PEDV infection significantly impaired growth performance and disrupted intestinal integrity, as shown by reduced villus height, increased crypt depth, and decreased plasma D-xylose levels (P < 0.05). It also induced oxidative stress, elevated plasma malondialdehyde (MDA), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and myeloperoxidase (MPO) levels, and activated inflammatory responses through the TNF-α signaling pathway, increasing interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7), myxovirus resistance protein 1 (MX1), interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) expression (P < 0.05). Gut microbiota analysis revealed an increased abundance of Fusobacterium, Collinsella, and Campylobacter, and a reduction in Bacteroidetes and Allelobacterium (P < 0.05). GM supplementation alleviated PEDV-induced intestinal injury by improving villus height, reducing crypt depth, and enhancing antioxidant capacity through increased catalase (CAT) and total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) activities (P < 0.05). It also suppressed viral replication and inflammatory signaling, downregulating TNF-α–related genes and cytokines (IRF7, MX1, ISG15, 2’-5’-oligoadenylate synthetase like (OASL), TNF-α, and CXCligand2 (CXCL2) expression, and plasma interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and TNF-α concentrations), and restored microbial balance by reducing pathogenic bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Shigella (P < 0.05). Collectively, these results indicate that GM protects against PEDV-induced intestinal damage by inhibiting viral replication, enhancing antioxidant defenses, modulating inflammatory pathways, and maintaining gut microbial homeostasis.
Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally, underscoring the need for novel therapeutic strategies. The relationship between high glucose levels, N-linked glycosylation, and cancer progression has been observed across various cancers, but its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Recent studies using CRISPR-Cas9 screens have highlighted the roles of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), UDP-N-acetylglucosamine pyrophosphorylase 1 (UAP1), and UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase 2 (UGP2) in N-linked glycosylation. This study aims to elucidate how glucose influences lung cancer progression by examining its impact on aggressive phenotypes in A549 and PC-9 cell lines. The aggressive phenotypes-proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion- were investigated using MTT, and Boyden chamber assays. N-linked glycosylation status was monitored via lectin blot with Con A and PHA-E and molecular shift of GP130. Glucose dependently enhanced aggressive phenotypes in these cells through increased expression of GLUT1, UAP1, UGP2, and enhanced N-linked glycosylation. Conversely, inhibiting GLUT1 activity by selective inhibitors or knocking-out UAP1, and UGP2 expression using CRISPR-Cas9 significantly reduced aggressive behaviors and glycosylation levels. These observations were modulated through mediators of cell cycle (cyclin D1, p21, XIAP) and EMT (E-cadherin, vimentin, slug, snail). Notably, high expression of either GLUT1, UAP1, or UGP2, and the coordinated expression of these genes in tumor tissues correlated with poor survival outcomes in lung cancer patients. Our findings highlight the roles of GLUT1-UAP1-UGP2 axis and N-linked glycosylation in high glucose-induced progression of lung cancer cells. GLUT1, UAP1, and UGP2 may serve as prognostic markers and potential targets for future lung cancer treatments.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a life-threatening autoimmune disorder causing multi-organ damage. Current diagnostic methods are hindered by inadequate sensitivity and specificity of conventional biomarkers, which frequently delay diagnosis. Therefore, identifying reliable diagnostic biomarkers for SLE remains critically needed.SLE microarray datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus were preprocessed. Potential SLE diagnostic biomarkers were identified through differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and machine learning feature selection. Diagnostic models were constructed based on the candidate genes, optimized with nine machine learning algorithms. The expression levels of the candidate genes were further validated in clinical samples using real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), with their clinical relevance assessed statistically.Four candidate genes-HECT and RLD Domain Containing E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 5 (HERC5), Interferon Alpha Inducible Protein 6 (IFI6), Interferon Inducible Protein with Tetratricopeptide Repeats 3 (IFIT3), and 2'-5'-Oligoadenylate Synthetase Like (OASL)-showed potential as SLE diagnostic biomarkers, with significantly higher expression in SLE patients versus controls. Individual receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for the candidate genes showed area under the curve (AUC) values exceeding 0.8 (P < 0.001), while nomogram model achieved superior accuracy (AUC = 0.905, P < 0.001). Optimized diagnostic models demonstrated robust performance in different datasets (AUC > 0.85, P < 0.001), specifically distinguishing SLE from hepatitis C, multiple sclerosis, and tuberculosis. Clinical validation confirmed these findings, with the gene combination outperforming conventional biomarkers in assessing disease activity (AUC = 0.776, P < 0.001).HERC5, IFI6, IFIT3, and OASL can serve as potential diagnostic biomarkers for SLE. The combination of candidate genes demonstrates both differential diagnosis capability and quantitative assessment of disease activity. Key Points • This study integrated bioinformatics and machine learning to screen and identify four candidate genes HERC5, IFI6, IFIT3, and OASL as potential diagnostic biomarkers for SLE.. • Machine learning-optimized diagnostic models based on HERC5, IFI6, IFIT3, and OASL demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance and discriminative capability. • The expression levels and diagnostic potential of HERC5, IFI6, IFIT3, and OASL were further validated using clinical samples, and the results aligned with the findings of the bioinformatics analysis.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Chronic tissue inflammation causes progressive tissue damage, organ dysfunction, and increased susceptibility to inflammatory diseases. Viral infections are major drivers of this process, but the molecular mechanisms linking antiviral immune responses to persistent inflammation and tissue pathology remain poorly understood.The function of TRIM47 was examined using primary macrophages and mouse models of RNA virus infection. Alveolar macrophages, peritoneal macrophages, and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) from wild-type and Trim47-deficient (Trim47-KO) mice were treated with RNA viruses or RNA mimics, and antiviral cytokine production was quantified. Sublethal reovirus and influenza A virus infection mouse models were used to evaluate survival, cytokine responses, and viral titers in vivo. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was used to identify TRIM47-interacting proteins. Molecular and biochemical assays were used to examine post-translational modification, aggregation and activation of mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS).TRIM47 was highly expressed in macrophages, and TRIM47 deficiency in BMDM markedly reduced type I interferon (IFN-I) production following RNA virus infection or RNA mimics stimulation. In sublethal RNA virus infection mouse models, Trim47-KO mice exhibited reduced survival, impaired IFN-I responses, higher viral titers, increased inflammatory cell infiltration and tissue inflammation including myocarditis compared to wild-type mice. Mechanistically, TRIM47 interacted with MAVS and promoted SUMO1-mediated MAVS SUMOylation at K297 and K348, thereby enhancing MAVS aggregation and activation and driving robust IFN-I, IL-1β and IL-18 production in macrophages.These findings establish TRIM47 as a molecular switch of MAVS activation and antiviral cytokine responses in macrophages, highlighting its role in restricting RNA virus infection and mitigating inflammation. This study provides mechanistic insight into host pathways that may be therapeutically leveraged in chronic viral inflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gut microbiota is critical for host defense against influenza. Polysaccharides are known for their microbiota-modulating and immunomodulatory activities; however, the anti-influenza efficacy of homogeneous Abrus cantoniensis polysaccharides (ACP) remains unexplored.The present study seeks to clarify the protective role of ACP in influenza and explore its underlying molecular mechanisms.Initially, crude polysaccharides were extracted via ethanol precipitation and subsequently purified by gel chromatography. Systematic structural characterization of ACP was then performed using carbohydrate chemistry techniques, including scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The therapeutic efficacy of ACP was assessed by monitoring various indicators such as body weight, survival rate, viral load, and pulmonary pathological changes in mouse models. Furthermore, to elucidate the biological mechanism underlying ACP's anti-influenza activity via regulation of pulmonary interferon-beta (IFN-β) immune networks by intestinal acetate-producing microbiota, multi-omics analyses integrating metagenomics, metabolomics, gene knockout, immunofluorescence, and Western blot were conducted. Finally, the potential anti-influenza effects of ACP via the gut-lung axis were evaluated based on in vivo and in vitro detection of protein expression of IFN-β, free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), and mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), as well as antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs).In this study, we purified a novel polysaccharide, ACP-A1, with a backbone of→4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→,→4)-β-D-Galp-(1→, and →4,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1→ linkages and α-D-Glcp-(1→ branches at O-6. In H1N1-infected mice, oral ACP-A1 alleviated weight loss, increased survival, and reduced lung inflammation and viral load. Metagenomic and targeted metabolomic analyses showed that ACP-A1 enriched Limosilactobacillus reuteri and elevated acetate levels. Fecal microbiota transplantation, FFAR2 inhibition, and MAVS knockout experiments demonstrated that ACP-A1 enhances the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral pathway via microbial-derived acetate.Collectively, our findings elucidate that ACP mitigates influenza virus-induced lung dysfunction by promoting the proliferation of acetate-producing gut microbiota, particularly Limosilactobacillus reuteri, and activating the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral axis in pulmonary immune cells. These findings establish ACP-A1 as a natural polysaccharide regulating IFN-β homeostasis, highlighting its potential for influenza prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) forms prion-like aggregates to activate innate immunity against RNA viruses, but the metabolic regulation of MAVS remains poorly understood. Here, we show that viral infection induces the formation of lipid droplets (LDs), which physically interact with mitochondria to promote the assembly of MAVS prion-like aggregates. Mechanistically, the LD-resident protein PLIN3 binds to the mitochondrial fusion protein MFN2, thereby relieving MFN2-mediated inhibition of MAVS and enabling its oligomerization. Furthermore, LD-mitochondria contact sites facilitate fatty acid transfer, sustaining mitochondrial membrane potential required for MAVS signaling. Oleic acid (OA)-enriched diets enhance LD formation and boost antiviral immunity in vivo, while myeloid-specific Seipin (an LD biogenesis regulator) deficiency attenuates MAVS activation and exacerbates viral susceptibility. These findings establish LDs as metabolic platforms that bridge cellular lipid metabolism with innate antiviral defense through organelle crosstalk, suggesting LD induction as a novel therapeutic strategy against viruses.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial GTPase ERA G-protein-like 1 (ERAL1) is considered an antiviral host factor against RNA viruses. However, its role in driving DNA virus infection, particularly hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, and its relevance to human liver disease are unknown. This study aimed to define the function and molecular mechanism of ERAL1 in HBV pathogenesis.Complementary models, including HBV-replicating cell lines, an rAAV8-HBV hydrodynamic mouse model, and clinical samples from patients across the natural history of chronic HBV infection were employed and analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation, confocal immunofluorescence, RNA sequencing, qPCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry.ERAL1 expression was significantly suppressed in HBV patients, including an approximately 75% reduction in the livers of patients during the immune-reactive phase compared with those in healthy controls. ERAL1 overexpression resulted in notable antiviral activity, suppressed HBV replication and achieved nearly 60% HBsAg clearance in vivo. Mechanistically, ERAL1 interacts with mitochondrial adaptor MAVS, promoting its aggregation and subsequently activating the downstream Akt and MAPK signaling pathways, which are essential for its antiviral effect.ERAL1 is identified as a crucial HBV-restricting host factor and a novel mitochondria-centered defense mechanism in which ERAL1 reinforces MAVS-dependent antiviral signaling. The notable downregulation of ERAL1 in patient livers and its considerable antiviral effectiveness suggest that ERAL1 is a candidate host factor worthy of further therapeutic exploration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42260135 is a review article
The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway plays a key role in responding to viral genomes and endogenous DNA byproducts by inducing inflammatory pathways. Its roles in senescence and in the response to telomere shortening have also recently been proposed. To address its role in age-related pathologies and decreased longevity associated with short telomeres, we generated double-mutant mice deficient for STING and either the telomerase RNA component (TERC) or the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) component. In both telomerase-deficient mouse cohorts, STING deficiency did not rescue any major phenotypes, including decreased body weight, infertility, multiple degenerative pathologies and, importantly, the progressively decreased maximum and median lifespan of increasing generations of Terc- or Tert-deficient mice. These findings indicate that STING does not mediate aging phenotypes associated with short telomeres in mammals. Furthermore, they have potential relevance for therapeutic strategies based on STING inhibition in short-telomere-associated age-related diseases in mammalian organisms.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a progressive autoimmune disease characterized by fibrosis, vasculopathy, and immune dysregulation. Emerging evidence indicates that SSc shares multiple hallmarks of accelerated biological aging, including genomic instability, telomere attrition, mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular senescence, and chronic innate immune activation. This review summarizes recent advances published during the last 18 months supporting the concept of SSc as a disorder of maladaptive or 'hyper-aging'.Recent epigenetic clock studies, including DunedinPACE and other DNA methylation-based aging models, demonstrate accelerated biological aging in SSc, particularly in patients with interstitial lung disease and severe organ involvement. Gene expression meta-analysis has confirmed that aging and senescence signatures are markedly enriched in SSc-ILD lung tissue. Multiple aging-associated mechanisms contribute to disease progression, including telomere shortening, mitochondrial dysfunction, micronuclei formation, and chromosomal instability. Cytosolic DNA derived from damaged nuclei or mitochondria activates the cGAS-STING pathway, sustaining type I interferon signaling, inflammaging, and fibrotic remodeling. Recent transcriptomic and spatial studies further support a close relationship between metabolic collapse, mitochondrial stress, immune dysregulation, and tissue fibrosis in SSc.Current evidence supports the concept that SSc represents a state of accelerated and dysregulated biological aging involving persistent innate immune activation, mitochondrial stress, and defective genome surveillance. Therapeutic strategies targeting aging-associated pathways, particularly mitochondrial dysfunction, cGAS-STING signaling, and cellular senescence, may provide new opportunities to modulate fibrosis, inflammation, and immune imbalance in SSc.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556702 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42555410 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554889 is a review article
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a major clinical challenge, with most patients exhibiting primary resistance to anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (anti-PD-1) immunotherapy and a lack of effective predictive biomarkers. Most advanced GC presents as immune-excluded "cold" tumors that respond poorly to immune checkpoint blockade. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) "Yong (abscess)" syndrome and the "treating GC as Yong" theory are widely applied in clinical practice, yet lack clear molecular and immunological mechanisms. Here, by translating these clinical observations into modern biological terms, we present an original, testable hypothesis proposing the "Yong" syndrome-cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) axis as the central molecular bridge connecting TCM syndrome subtypes, GC histological subtypes, and TME reprogramming. We hypothesize that heat-clearing and blood-activating TCM monomers activate cGAS-STING in a subtype-selective manner to convert "cold" tumors to "hot" immunogenic phenotypes, directly addressing the critical clinical dilemmas of primary anti-PD-1 resistance and insufficient biomarkers in GC immunotherapy. This hypothesis translates universal cGAS-STING mechanisms into a clinically actionable, syndrome-based precision strategy for GC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The reprogramming of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) from a pro-tumoral M2 to an anti-tumoral M1 phenotype is an attractive therapeutic strategy whose clinical translation is undermined by the systemic toxicity of currently available pharmacological approaches. Here, we demonstrate that non-invasive and localizable pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMFs) induce macrophage reprogramming downstream of transient receptor potential canonical 1 (TRPC1) channel activation. Brief (10 min) PEMF exposure polarized macrophages toward an M1 phenotype by activating Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING)-dependent NF-κB inflammatory pathways that were abolished by TRPC1 knockdown or inhibition. PEMF exposure directly enhanced the immunogenicity of breast cancer cells and modified macrophage-cancer crosstalk to promote M1 macrophage polarization and the attraction of STING-activated macrophages to the cancer cells. In co-cultures, PEMF exposure stimulated macrophage-mediated phagocytosis of cancer cells in a STING- and TRPC1-dependent manner. In spheroids, PEMFs induced the reprogramming of TAMs to an M1 status and selectively enhanced infiltration of M1 macrophages, resulting in STING-mediated phagocytosis of cancer cells. In mice, 2 weeks of twice-weekly PEMF exposure resorbed engrafted tumors and selectively eliminated cancer cells within tumors while promoting immune cell recruitment. PEMFs offer a non-invasive manner to locally reprogram TAMs within the tumor microenvironment to preferentially eliminate cancer cells.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Medicine published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH on behalf of Wenzhou Institute, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Circadian rhythm disruption (CRD) is highly prevalent and has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the molecular mechanisms linking CRD to cardiac injury remain incompletely understood. In this study, a chronic light-induced CRD mouse model and an in vitro model were established using norepinephrine (NE)-treated neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) to investigate the progression of CRD-induced cardiac remodeling and the underlying mechanisms. CRD disrupted feeding rhythms, reduced cardiac Bmal1 and Clock mRNA expression, and altered body weight gain. Echocardiographic analysis revealed a progressive pattern of cardiac dysfunction characterized by early diastolic impairment, transient compensation, and subsequent pathological remodeling with systolic dysfunction. CRD was associated with sustained myocardial NE elevation, mitochondrial oxidative stress, cytosolic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) accumulation, and activation of the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) signaling pathway. Cardiac-specific STING knockdown significantly improved cardiac function and attenuated inflammation and hypertrophic remodeling in CRD mice. Consistently, NE-treated NRCMs exhibited mitochondrial dysfunction, cytosolic mtDNA accumulation, and activation of cGAS-STING signaling. Reducing mtDNA availability or pharmacologically inhibiting cGAS-STING signaling significantly attenuated NE-induced inflammatory and hypertrophic responses in vitro. These results indicate that chronic light-induced CRD promotes cardiac remodeling and dysfunction by inducing mitochondrial injury, activating mtDNA-dependent cGAS-STING signaling, and eliciting subsequent inflammatory responses. Targeting the mtDNA-cGAS-STING pathway may therefore represent a promising therapeutic strategy for CRD-associated cardiac injury.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mitophagy and xenophagy, two selective autophagy pathways sharing common E3 ligases, have been proposed to intersect in host defense against invading pathogens. Here, we show that mitochondrial damage, but not mitophagy, is essential for triggering xenophagy via the inner mitochondrial membrane protein prohibitin 2 (PHB2). Upon bacteria-induced disruption of the outer mitochondrial membrane, PHB2 bridges mitochondria to bacteria by binding bacterial surface proteins, while concurrently interacting with either auto-ubiquitinated E3 ligase ARIH1 or Parkin, two well-characterized mitophagy-associated E3 ligases. This interaction positions polyubiquitin chains near PHB2-targeted bacteria to recruit selective autophagy receptors for initiating xenophagy, leading to the co-autophagic degradation of bacteria and mitochondria, a process unaffected by mitophagy inhibition. Our findings establish an uncovered mechanism of mitochondria-dependent antibacterial autophagy, positioning mitochondrial PHB2 as both a bacterial sensor and an E3 ligase scaffold, and unveiling a previously unidentified process governing the recruitment of mitophagy-associated E3 ligases to intracellular bacteria.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cisplatin is an effective chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical use is limited by nephrotoxicity characterized by renal tubular epithelial injury. In this study, we found that carnosic acid (CA), a natural phenolic diterpene derived from rosemary and sage, significantly alleviated cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction and tubular epithelial damage. Mechanistically, CA suppressed mitochondria-dependent apoptosis and reduced mitochondrial damage by activating mitophagy. Further analysis revealed that CA upregulated prohibitin 2 (PHB2), a key mitophagy receptor involved in mitochondrial quality control. Importantly, inhibition or silencing of PHB2 abolished CA-induced mitophagy and cytoprotective effects. These findings indicate that CA protects against cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury by maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis through PHB2-dependent mitophagy, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic strategy for preventing cisplatin-associated nephrotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nitrite toxicity is recognized as a pervasive environmental stressor in aquaculture systems, however, the molecular mechanisms by which Litopenaeus vannamei adapts to this stress remain incompletely elucidated. In this study, transcriptome sequencing is utilized to uncover an autophagy-mediated stress response. Differential expression analysis identifies 1729 differentially expressed genes, including 991 up-regulated and 738 down-regulated. KEGG enrichment analysis places autophagy and peroxisome among the top-ranked transport and catabolic pathways. A previously uncharacterized autophagy regulator, LvBif-1, is subsequently identified. The open reading frame spans 1083 bp and encodes a 360-amino-acid protein containing conserved N-BAR and SH3 domains. Sequence alignment reveals high identity with invertebrate orthologues. Tissue-specific expression profiling indicates high transcript abundance in hepatopancreas, heart, and muscle, and expression is markedly up-regulated under nitrite stress. Functional analyses demonstrate that RNAi-mediated silencing of LvBif-1 reduces levels of the autophagic markers LC3-II and Beclin-1, increases p62 accumulation, stabilizes mitochondrial membrane potential, elevates reactive oxygen species (ROS), and decreases hemocyte viability, ultimately exacerbating shrimp mortality. These phenotypes are partially rescued by the autophagy activator Rapamycin. Mechanistic investigations reveal that LvPHB2 interacts with the C-terminal region of LvBif-1. Upon nitrite stress, LvBif-1 translocates from the cytoplasm to the mitochondria. His pull-down assays further confirm that the interaction between LvBif-1 and prohibitin 2 (LvPHB2) is stress-inducible. Collectively, this study provides the first evidence that LvBif-1 alleviates nitrite toxicity by modulating autophagy, mitochondrial function, and the LvPHB2 interaction network. These findings deepen the molecular understanding of crustacean stress adaptation and offer a prospective target for breeding stress-resistant strains in aquaculture.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are particularly vulnerable to damage during the early stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR). Emerging evidence indicates that dysregulated expression of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation regulators contributes to DR pathogenesis. In particular, the m6A reader protein YTHDF3 has been found to be highly expressed in human proliferative DR membranes although its functional role in DR progression remains unclear. In this study, diabetic rat models were established via streptozotocin injection. Subsequently, YTHDF3 expression was knocked down in the retina by intravitreal delivery of AAV-sh-YTHDF3. Additionally, high glucose (HG) conditions were used to induce injury in RGCs in vitro. Our results demonstrated that downregulation of YTHDF3 significantly mitigated HG-induced RGC damage both in vivo and in vitro. YTHDF3 silencing reduced HG-triggered RGC apoptosis by suppressing mitochondrial dysfunction and PINK1-Parkin-mediated excessive mitophagy. Moreover, YTHDF3 functioning as an m6A reader enhanced the translation of PHB2 in an m6A-dependent manner. Notably, PHB2 overexpression effectively counteracted the protective effects of YTHDF3 knockdown, reinstating HG-induced mitochondrial damage and mitophagy. In conclusion, our findings indicate that YTHDF3 exacerbates RGC injury under high glucose conditions by promoting m6A-dependent PHB2 translation, which in turn aggravates mitochondrial damage and PINK1-Parkin-driven mitophagy, thereby contributing to DR progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
BACKGROUND: Myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) is a chronic, debilitating condition increasingly linked to epigenetic changes. With its unclear pathophysiology and no validated diagnostic biomarkers, DNA methylation becomes of interest. Specifically, DNA methylation patterns in saliva, to study ME-related epigenetic changes. METHODS: Saliva samples from 54 ME patients and 21 sedentary healthy controls were analyzed by DNA methylation array. Symptom assessment was conducted using validated questionnaires (SF-36, MFI-20, and DSQ). RESULTS: A significant DNA hypomethylation at the CpG site cg19803194 (Bonferroni-corrected and adjusted for saliva composition, p = 2.14 × 10− 7) within the PTPRN2 gene body was identified. This hypomethylation was associated with cognitive impairments in both sexes, such as difficulties expressing thoughts and comprehension, commonly known as “brain fog,” and respiratory symptoms in male patients. The hypomethylation also corresponded with reduced circulating levels of miR-153-3p, an intronic microRNA of PTPRN2, which was associated with impaired memory recall in both sexes. Interestingly, the mitochondrial protein Prohibitin 2 (PHB2) was associated with reduced miR-153-3p activity. This association was consistent with a predominant cytoplasmic localization of PHB2 and selective reduction of mature miR-153-3p without changes in its immature forms, suggesting involvement at a post-transcriptional stage that may be attenuated in female patients due to increased extracellular export of PHB2. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest a potential epigenetic relationship in ME involving PTPRN2 body hypomethylation and PHB2-associated variation in miR-153-3p levels. While the directionality between gene-body methylation and expression remains a biological hypothesis, these results shed light on potential molecular pathways associated with symptom variability and sex differences in ME severity.
This study investigates the role of Tripartite motif containing 62 (TRIM62) in osteoarthritis (OA) progression, focusing on its regulation of Glutathione Peroxidase 4 (GPX4) ubiquitination and chondrocyte ferroptosis.An OA rat model was established via anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT) and then primary chondrocytes were stimulated with interleukin-1β (IL-1β) in vitro. TRIM62 expression was manipulated using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) or overexpression plasmids. Ferroptosis was assessed by measuring GPX4, solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), glutathione (GSH), reactive oxygen species (ROS), ferrous iron (Fe2+), and mitochondrial membrane potential. Protein interactions were evaluated by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP).RIM62 expression was significantly increased in osteoarthritic cartilage and in chondrocytes treated with IL-1β. TRIM62 knockdown restored GPX4 and collagen type II (COL II) expression, reduced disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 5 (ADAMTS5) levels, suppressed ferroptosis, and alleviated cartilage damage in vivo. Conversely, TRIM62 overexpression exacerbated chondrocyte injury and ferroptosis, effects specifically reversed by ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1). Mechanistically, TRIM62 directly interacted with GPX4 and promoted its proteasomal degradation.TRIM62 facilitates OA progression by inducing GPX4 ubiquitination and degradation, thereby promoting chondrocyte ferroptosis. The TRIM62-GPX4-ferroptosis axis represents a promising therapeutic target for OA.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
Erythroderma in the pediatric population is an uncommon yet challenging condition. The etiologies encompass a wide variety of illnesses, including seborrheic dermatitis, infections, inborn errors of immunity, ichthyosiform disorders and metabolic abnormalities. Hyper-immunoglobulin E syndrome (HIES) occurs due to various known genetic variants, e.g., STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription-3), IL6R (Interleukin-6 receptor) deficiency and others, with an extensive list of features including erythroderma in childhood. Our case describes association of a possible novel mutation in IFIH1 (interferon-induced with helicase C domain 1) gene with HIES, which may aid in deciphering the complex nature of this disorder.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Distal ischemic necrosis remains a major challenge in reconstructive surgery. Mitochondria and lysosomes interact via signaling and membrane contacts to maintain cellular homeostasis. Mitochondrial-derived peptide MOTS-c, encoded by the MT-RNR1/12S rRNA open reading frame, enhances mitochondrial function by reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and stabilizing the membrane potential, potentially preserving lysosomal integrity and reducing lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP). This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of MOTS-c in ischemic flaps. RNA sequencing explored MOTS-c mechanisms in ischemic flaps. Tissue clearing, laser speckle contrast imaging and Doppler analyses revealed improved blood flow perfusion following MOTS-c treatment. Histological staining (HE, Masson, F-CHP) demonstrated enhanced angiogenesis and collagen remodeling. Western blotting, ELISA, and immunofluorescence were used to assess pyroptosis, macroautophagy/autophagy, LMP, and MAPK1/ERK2-MAPK3/ERK1-NFKB/NF-κB pathway-related proteins. MOTS-c reduced endothelial pyroptosis, enhanced autophagy, and attenuated LMP in ischemic flaps. Mechanistically, in vivo overexpression of PLA2G4A/cPLA2 (phospholipase A2, group IVA (calcium, calcium dependent)) via AAV confirmed that MOTS-c enhances autophagy and reduces pyroptosis and LMP by suppressing PLA2G4A phosphorylation. Furthermore, MOTS-c inhibited PLA2G4A via the MAPK1-MAPK3-NFKB signaling cascade, thereby reducing LMP and enhancing flap survival. These findings suggest that MOTS-c restores cellular homeostasis by targeting the PLA2G4A-LMP axis, representing a promising therapeutic strategy for improving outcomes in ischemic flap surgery.Abbreviations: AA = arachidonic acid, AAV = adeno-associated virus, ACTA2/α-SMA = actin alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta, ALs = autolysosomes, BECN1 = beclin 1, CASP1 = caspase 1, CQ = chloroquine, CTSB = cathepsin B, CTSD = cathepsin D, CTSL = cathepsin L, Co-IP = co-immunoprecipitation, DEGs = differentially expressed genes, ELISA = enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, F-CHP = 5-FAM-conjugated collagen hybridizing peptide staining, GSDMD = gasdermin D, GO = gene Ontology, GPT/ALT = glutamic pyruvic transaminase, soluble, GOT1/AST = glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, soluble, HE = hematoxylin-eosin, HUVECs = human umbilical vein endothelial cells, IP/MS = immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, IL1B/IL-1β = interleukin 1 beta, IL18 = interleukin 18, IP = intraperitoneal injection, IV = intravenous injection, LDBF = laser Doppler blood flow, LMP = lysosomal membrane permeability, MAP1LC3/LC3 = microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3, MAPK = mitogen-activated protein kinase, NAGLU = alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB), NFKB/NF-κB = nuclear factor kappa B, NLRP1 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 1, NLRP3 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 3, PECAM1/CD31 = platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1, PLA2G4A/cPLA2 = phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium-dependent), PYCARD/ASC = PYD and CARD domain containing, PIK3C3/VPS34 = phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3, PMA = phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, ROS = reactive oxygen speciesSQSTM1/p62 = sequestosome 1, SPR = surface plasmon resonance, scRNA-seq = single-cell RNA sequencing, UMAP = uniform manifold approximation and projection, WB = western blotting.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41873699 is a review article
Hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (HPSCC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with a poor prognosis. This study elucidates the role of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tripartite Motif Containing 15 (Trim15) and its substrate, mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel 3 (VDAC3), in regulating autophagy, mitophagy, and chemoresistance in HPSCC. We found that Trim15 is significantly downregulated in HPSCC tissues and inhibits cell proliferation and migration in FaDu and Detroit 562 cells. Trim15 stabilizes VDAC3 via K6-linked ubiquitination, thereby suppressing autophagy and mitophagy while elevating reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. VDAC3 knockdown enhances autophagy and mitophagy, concomitantly reducing ROS and promoting cancer cell survival. High-concentration ethanol suppresses Trim15 and VDAC3 expression, suggesting an adaptive response to oxidative stress. Notably, chloroquine (CQ), an autophagy inhibitor, enhances HPSCC sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), with synergistic effects observed in xenograft models. These findings establish the Trim15-VDAC3-mitophagy axis as a critical regulator of HPSCC progression and chemoresistance, offering a novel therapeutic target for augmenting the efficacy of autophagy inhibitors in combination with standard chemotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
The advancement of novel pharmaceuticals and targeted therapeutic approaches is considerably obstructed by the insufficient comprehension of the intricate pathophysiology of colorectal cancer (CRC). The therapeutic effectiveness of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI)-based systemic treatment for advanced CRC is limited by medication resistance. Research has revealed that therapeutic strategies aimed at the myosin light chain kinase family member 4 (MYLK4) and its corresponding response element can suppress tumour proliferation and yield significant clinical advantages for cancer patients. This study reveals that MYLK4-mediated lipid metabolic reprogramming confers resistance to TKI-induced ferroptosis in CRC. MYLK4 directly interacts with tripartite motif containing 15 (TRIM15) in a way reliant on mouse double minute 2 homolog (MDM2), hence enhancing p53 ubiquitination and degradation. Significantly, p53 suppresses the transcription of stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1) through binding to its promoter. Elevated SCD1 levels correlate with increased MYLK4 levels, and their concurrent expression forecasts regorafenib resistance and poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. Regorafenib and SCD1 inhibitor (SCD1 inhibitor-3) co-treatment demonstrate promising anti-tumor efficacy in organoids and xenografted tumours derived from wild-type p53 colorectal cancer patients. Patients with colorectal cancer exhibiting elevated MYLK4 activity and wild-type p53 may derive clinical benefits from this combination therapy. These results suggest that MYLK4 may serve as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of colorectal cancer.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Inflammasome hyperactivation drives neuroinflammation following cerebral ischemia, yet pharmacological strategies inducing their selective clearance remain largely unexplored. Selective autophagy holds particular promise as a therapeutic strategy by eliminating detrimental substrates while avoiding the side effects of excessive autophagy. However, few compounds are currently available to achieve this selective regulation.Transient middle cerebral artery occlusion was used to screen the active compounds from Fritillaria, combined with TTC staining and neurological scores. Postischemic apoptosis, inflammation, and autophagy were evaluated via immunofluorescence and immunoblotting. RNA sequencing of the ischemic penumbra revealed transcriptomic changes. Cell-specific effects were confirmed using cell coculture and glial-deficient transgenic mice. Compound-inflammasome interactions were studied by biolayer interferometry and molecular dynamics.Peiminine demonstrates robust neuroprotection after cerebral ischemia. RNA sequencing and immunoblotting analyses revealed that peiminine markedly suppresses postischemic inflammation. Correspondingly, peiminine exerts its neuroprotective effect primarily through actions on microglia but not astrocytes, indicated by neuron-glia cocultures and transgenic mice models with targeted cell-type depletion. Biolayer interferometry and molecular dynamics simulations indicated that peiminine selectively binds to AIM2, showing no interaction with NLRP1 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 1) and approximately 100-fold higher affinity compared with NLRP3. Notably, peiminine specifically activates the selective autophagic clearance of AIM2 inflammasomes within microglia without increasing overall autophagic flux or affecting other inflammasomes. Selective blockage of autophagy in microglia abolished the neuroprotective effect of peiminine.Peiminine exhibited robust neuroprotection against cerebral ischemia by selectively promoting the autophagic clearance of AIM2 inflammasomes to mitigate neuroinflammation.
Mutations in ADAR1 (Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1) and IFIH1 (Interferon Induced With Helicase C Domain 1) are associated with Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS), a genetically determined inflammatory disorder particularly affecting the brain and skin. Here, we generated induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from one patient carrying compound heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in ADAR1 (PC138/AGS0788.1: c.577C > G p.(Pro193Ala) and c.1386_1390del p.(Asp462Glufs*2)), and one individual carrying a heterozygous gain-of-function mutation in IFIH1 (PC139/AGS2177.1: c.2336G > A p.(Arg779His)). Cells from these patients were reprogrammed by episomal transfection, had normal karyotype, expressed pluripotency markers and were able to differentiate into the three germ cell layers.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42493843 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42481848 is a review article
We previously performed a strain intercross between atherosclerosis resistant AKR Apoe -/- mice and atherosclerosis sensitive DBA/2 Apoe -/- mice and identified the Ath28 quantitative trait locus (QTL) on the distal end of chromosome 2. Congenic strain fine mapping identified the Ath28 . 1 QTL atherosclerosis modifying subregion, encompassing 217 Kb, containing for only three protein-coding genes, Zbp1, Pck1 , and Pmepa1 , encoding respectively, Z-DNA binding protein 1, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1, and prostate transmembrane protein androgen induced 1.The effect of macrophage-specific knockout of Pck1 (KO) was tested using the AAV2 transduced proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) overexpression mouse model of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis.Unexpectedly, macrophage Pck1 deficiency lowered body weight, liver weight, and HDL-cholesterol levels in both sexes, while total and non-HDL cholesterol levels were only decreased in male mice. Aortic root lesion area and necrotic lesion area were unchanged in KO mice of both sexes.Pck1 was not confirmed as an atherosclerosis modifier gene.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448011 is a review article
Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1) senses Z-form nucleic acids to trigger cell death and inflammation via RHIM domain-mediated interactions with RIPK1 and RIPK3. Here we show that compared to mouse ZBP1 (mZBP1), human ZBP1 (hZBP1) possesses a heightened sensitivity for inducing cell death in cells across different species and potent tumor-killing effects in vivo. In contrast to mZBP1, which signals primarily through RIPK3, hZBP1-induced cell death depends on RIPK1 in a RIPK3-independent manner. Specifically, while the scaffold function of RIPK1 is required for hZBP1-mediated apoptosis, its kinase activity is indispensable for the execution of necroptosis. Unlike mZBP1, which primarily uses only its RHIM1 domain, hZBP1 requires all three RHIM domains (RHIM1, RHIM2, and RHIM3) to trigger cell death. We further identify the C-terminal RHIM2 and RHIM3 regions as the key determinant that confers hZBP1 high sensitivity and confirm that endogenous hZBP1 promotes RIPK1-dependent cell death under pathological conditions. Together, our findings reveal an intrinsic mechanistic divergence between human and murine ZBP1 signaling and highlight the limitations of translating preclinical findings in animal models to human therapeutic strategies targeting this pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Influenza A virus (IAV) infection characteristically induces lung injury through acute inflammation and epithelial barrier breakdown. Among the pathogenic mechanisms involved, Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1)-dependent PANoptosis plays a central role. While Shashen Maidong decoction (SMD) demonstrates clinical efficacy in respiratory conditions, the molecular mechanisms by which it modulates this particular mode of cell death require further elucidation.This study was designed to evaluate the protective effects of SMD against IAV-induced lung injury and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms, with particular emphasis on the ZBP1-PANoptosis pathway.The protective effects of SMD were evaluated in an IAV-induced lung injury mouse model. The chemical profile and absorbed constituents of SMD were identified using UPLC-MS/MS. Key signaling pathways were predicted through an integrated analysis of network pharmacology and transcriptomics, followed by in silico assessment of the binding potential to ZBP1 using molecular docking and dynamics simulations. To systematically examine the mechanism, specifically the modulation of ZBP1-PANoptosome complex formation and cell death markers, we utilized a series of molecular assays including Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP).SMD treatment significantly ameliorated multiple IAV-induced pathologies, including body weight loss, pulmonary edema, histological injury, and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Unlike oseltamivir, which significantly reduced infectious viral titers, SMD did not markedly alter viral NP and M mRNA levels or viral titers under these experimental conditions. Nevertheless, SMD substantially improved alveolar barrier function, as demonstrated by reduced BALF protein content and enhanced expression of tight junction (TJ) proteins. Integrated analysis of network pharmacology and transcriptomics revealed significant enrichment of inflammation-, programmed cell death-, apoptosis-, and necroptosis-related pathways, while ZBP1 emerged as a convergent candidate target. Based on the established role of ZBP1 in IAV-induced PANoptosis, ZBP1-mediated PANoptosis signaling was therefore selected as a candidate mechanistic axis for subsequent experimental assessment. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations suggested a potential interaction between ZBP1 and 18β-glycyrrhetinic acid, a representative serum-absorbed candidate constituent of SMD. Mechanistic investigations revealed that SMD suppressed ZBP1 expression and attenuated downstream activation of pyroptotic, apoptotic, and necroptotic markers. Furthermore, Co-IP and triple-immunofluorescence analyses showed reduced association and colocalization among ZBP1, RIPK3, and Caspase-8, consistent with reduced PANoptosome assembly.SMD exerted protective effects against IAV-induced lung injury in association with ZBP1 downregulation, reduced association of PANoptosome-related components, preserved alveolar epithelial barrier function, and dampened inflammatory cascades. This study provides preliminary evidence for the molecular basis of SMD in modulating the ZBP1-PANoptosis pathway, providing scientific rationale for host-directed traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) strategies in severe influenza management.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cytotoxic T cells produce the cytokine interferon-γ (IFN-γ). We sought to determine whether IFN-γ directly kills target cells and found that T cells used IFN-γ to kill murine melanoma cells lacking the kinases TBK1 and IKKε. In the absence of both kinases, IFN-γ induced the production of TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1) and the sensor Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1) in the tumor cells to stimulate receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1)-dependent apoptosis in a cell-autonomous manner. IFN-γ also enhanced the activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling in a TNFR1-dependent manner in cells deficient in both TBK1 and IKKε. Because IFN-γ-induced apoptosis occurred in a transcription-dependent manner with slow kinetics, STAT1 and NF-κB cooperated to activate the expression of inflammatory genes in the dying cells. Thus, IFN-γ-induced cell death was accompanied by an inflammatory signature in the absence of TBK1 and IKKε. TBK1 and IKKε not only mediated the induction of type I IFN but also inhibited RIPK1-dependent death and NF-κB-dependent inflammation. Therefore, we propose that these kinases may have gained these intertwined functions so that cells infected by pathogens that produce antagonists of TBK1 and IKKε are eliminated by IFN-γ-secreting T cells in an inflammatory manner to compensate for the inhibition of type I IFN production.
Mitophagy is a conserved cellular process that removes dysfunctional or excess mitochondria. Increasing evidence suggests that impaired mitophagy plays a crucial role in AD development. Promoting mitophagy has been shown to be protective in models of AD, representing an important target of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying impaired mitophagy in AD are still elusive. Here, we provide evidence that highly expressed acylglycerol kinase (AGK), a mitochondrial lipid kinase associated with mitochondrial protein transport, glycolysis, and platelet formation, is a key mediator of mitophagy in AD. We found that AGK promoted the binding of ATPase family AAA domain containing 3A to translocase of the inner mitochondrial membrane 23 and sequentially increased mitochondrial import of PTEN-induced putative kinase 1, leading to the decrease of mitophagy. Further investigations revealed that the AGK downregulation in neuronal cells and APP/PS1 mice enhanced mitophagy, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, decreased pathological Tau/Aβ and neuroinflammation, and alleviated cognitive dysfunctions in the mice. Altogether our findings indicate that AGK plays a critical role in mediating mitophagy defects in AD; furthermore, downregulation of AGK promotes mitophagy and the decrease of Aβ and pathological Tau, providing an encouraging therapeutic treatment for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Emerging evidence suggests that G-protein-coupled receptor family C group 6 member A (GPRC6A) and Dual oxidase 1 (Duox1) mediate a non-classical testosterone signaling pathway. However, the molecular mechanism in which testosterone mediates the GPRC6A-Duox1 cascade in the hair cycle was unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to elucidate the molecular role of the testosterone-GPRC6A-Duox1 signaling axis in regulating hair cycle progression and testosterone-mediated hair loss.GPRC6A-deficient and Duox1-deficient keratinocytes were prepared and stimulated with testosterone to assess hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) generation. Apoptosis was evaluated in primary keratinocytes from GPRC6A knockout (KO), Duox1 KO, and wild-type (WT) mice. Hair growth cycle progression was examined by measuring anagen phase duration and hair length. Ki-67 expression was analyzed as a marker of the anagen phase. To validate the testosterone-GPRC6A-Duox1 signaling network in androgenetic alopecia, testosterone was topically applied for one week to the back skin of WT, Duox1 KO, and GPRC6A KO mice on postnatal day 31 (P31).GPRC6A-deficient and Duox1-deficient keratinocytes failed to induce H2O2 generation in response to testosterone. Testosterone-dependent apoptosis in primary keratinocytes from GPRC6A KO and Duox1 KO mice was suppressed compared to keratinocytes from WT. The anagen phase of the hair growth cycle and hair lengths in GPRC6A KO and Duox1 KO mice were longer than WT consistent with the GPRC6A-Duox1 axis stimulating the anagen-to-catagen transition. The expression of Ki-67, a hallmark of the anagen phase, in GPRC6A KO and Duox1 KO mice was higher than that in WT. Duox1 KO and GPRC6A KO mice were resistant to testosterone-mediated hair loss, unlike WT.Taken together, these results suggest that the GPRC6A-Duox1 axis regulates natural hair cycles and testosterone-mediated hair loss.© 2026. Korean Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine Society.
Equine piroplasmosis is a major disease affecting horses, and Theileria equi is one of its etiological agents. In Brazil, Rhipicephalus microplus is the only tick species with a confirmed vectorial capacity to transmit T. equi. However, the immunological mechanisms involved in this pathogen-vector interface are still unclear. The oxidative response is an important immunological tool for controlling infections. This study aimed to evaluate the differential expression of genes related to redox metabolism in R. microplus in response to T. equi infection in the larva and nymph stages and in the tissues (midgut and salivary glands) of engorged female ticks. The results suggest that the transcriptional profiles of genes involved in the redox metabolism of R. microplus in response to T. equi infection are tissue-specific. The genes dual oxidase-1, dual oxidase-2, and catalase were upregulated in response to T. equi infection in both the midgut and salivary glands, indicating that they may play a relevant role in regulating the oxidative balance during the colonization of the parasite in the adult stage. In the larval and nymph stages of R. microplus, infection with T. equi did not significantly stimulate the differential expression of the analyzed genes. The results obtained in this study highlight the molecular immunological mechanisms involved in the different evolutionary stages of R. microplus in response to T. equi infection and contribute to the identification of key molecules for the development of new tools for the prevention and control of equine piroplasmosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Our aim is to explore the combined effects and the potential mechanism between Huang-qin decoction (HQD) and epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in vitro and in vivo.Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) was done to detect the consistency of ingredients in different batches of HQD. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, colony formation assay and Annexin V-FITC/PI assay were performed to detect the anti-cancer effects of HQD and EGFR-TKIs (1st generation EGFR-TKI gefitinib or 3rd generation EGFR-TKI Osimertinib) in different NSCLC cell lines. ATP assay was applied to detect the effect of HQD and EGFR-TKIs in NSCLC cell lines and organoids in three-dimensional (3D) culture. The mRNA expression levels of lung cancer stem cell markers makers and redox related genes, such as sex determining region Y-box 2 (SOX2), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A1 (ALDH1A1), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), dual oxidase 1 (DUOX1) and dual oxidase 2 (DUOX2), were detected by using quantitative real-time PCR assay. Western blot methods were done to detect the effects of EGFR-TKIs and HQD on the protein expression levels of SOX2, ALDH1A1, GPX4, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (stat3) and p-stat3. Besides, the alteration of intracellular total reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels of NSCLC cells in 2D culture and 3D culture after the treatments were detected using DCFH-DA staining assay and fluorimetric intracellular total ROS activity assay, respectively. Femtosecond laser labeling free imaging (FLI) method was used to detect the redox ratio of NSCLC cells in 3D culture. In vivo experiments included subcutaneous mice xenografts of PC-9-PIK3CA-M cells to validate the anti-cancer effect, mechanism and safety of gefitinib and HQD in vivo.The consistency of ingredients in different batches of HQD was confirmed. HQD enhanced the anti-proliferation and pro-apoptosis effect of gefitinib or Osimertinib in NSCLC cell lines and organoids both in 2D culture and 3D culture in vitro. The combination of HQD and EGFR-TKIs could regulate stat3/GPX4 signal pathway to induce redox ratio, thus increasing ROS levels to inhibit CSC markers in vitro. Moreover, the drug safety, anti-cancer effect and potential mechanism of the therapy of HQD and EGFR-TKIs were confirmed in vivo.HQD enhances the anti-cancer effect of EGFR-TKIs in NSCLC through ROS-mediated CSC makers inhibition by suppressing stat3/GPX4 axis to induce redox ratio, providing a novel strategy for the treatment of NSCLC patients.© 2025 Center for Food and Biomolecules, National Taiwan University. Production and hosting by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.
Introduction. Oxidative stress and inflammation are biological processes crucial in developing chronic inflammatory diseases. Objective. This study aimed to identify the ancestry components and mitochondrial haplogroups of individuals from various regions of Colombia. We also compared relative frequencies of gen variants potentially associated with oxidative stress response and inflammation. Materials and methods. A structural genomic analysis was conducted on five genomes and 58 exomes from individuals across different regions of Colombia. Genetic ancestry components and mitochondrial haplogroups were evaluated with specific molecular markers. Additionally, we compared the frequencies of gene variants related to oxidative stress and inflammation. Results. Two main ancestry groups were identified: one group exhibited a predominantly African ancestry, having mitochondrial haplogroups L1, L2, L3, B2, and D1; the other group showed predominantly European and East Asian ancestry, having mitochondrial haplogroups H2, U2, B2, A2, C, D1, and D4. Furthermore, non-Afro-Colombian individuals revealed a higher frequency of the variants rs2458236 in the dual oxidase 1 gene (DUOX1), rs2536512 in superoxide dismutase 3 gene (SOD3), rs4073 in interleukin 8 gene (IL-8), and rs1143627 and rs1143634 in interleukin 1 beta gene (IL-1β). Conclusion. This study highlights significant differences in the allele frequencies of gene variants associated with oxidative stress and inflammation. These differences correspond to the primary genetic ancestry components of the individuals studied.
Astragalus polysaccharide (APS) is a biologically active water-soluble polysaccharide extracted from stems or roots, which has been proven to have antiaging effects. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of APS on cognitive function in d-galactose (d-gal)-induced aging rats and explore the potential underlying molecular mechanisms. The rats were induced to age by intraperitoneal injection with 400 mg/kg/d d-gal for 8 weeks. Aging of rats was assessed through the Morris water maze test, step-down test, open field test, and grip strength test. Pathological changes in the hippocampal CA3 and CA1 regions were determined by Hematoxylin and eosin and Nissl staining. The superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), malondialdehyde (MDA), and total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) in the serum were measured. Telomere length, dual oxidase 1 (Duox1), dual oxidase 2 (Duox2), peroxiredoxin 1 (Prdx1), p21, p16, p53, telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (AKT), nicotinamide phosphoribosyl transferase (NAMPT), and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) were detected via real-time PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. The results indicated that APS ameliorated the general status in d-gal-induced aging rats, mitigated neuronal degeneration in the CA3 and CA1 regions, reduced the oxidative stress levels, modulated senescence-related β-GAL and protein expression, and maintained telomere length. Furthermore, APS significantly reduced p53 expression and increased p-PI3K, p-AKT, NAMPT, SIRT1, and TERT expression. Therefore, d-gal-induced aging and cognitive impairment in rats can be prevented by APS, likely through regulation of the TERT/p53 signaling axis via the PI3K/Akt and NAMPT/SIRT1 signaling pathways.
Mitochondrial proteins assemble dynamically in high molecular weight complexes essential for their functions. We generated and validated two searchable compendia of these mitochondrial complexes. Following identification by mass spectrometry of proteins in complexes separated using blue-native gel electrophoresis from unperturbed, cristae-remodeled, and outer membrane-permeabilized mitochondria, we created MARIGOLD, a mitochondrial apoptotic remodeling complexome database of 627 proteins. MARIGOLD elucidates how dynamically proteins distribute in complexes upon mitochondrial membrane remodeling. From MARIGOLD, we developed MitoCIAO, a mitochondrial complexes interactome tool that, by statistical correlation, calculates the likelihood of protein cooccurrence in complexes. MitoCIAO correctly predicted biologically validated interactions among components of the mitochondrial cristae organization system (MICOS) and optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) complexes. We used MitoCIAO to functionalize two ATPase family AAA domain-containing 3A (ATAD3A) complexes: one with OPA1 that regulates mitochondrial ultrastructure and the second containing ribosomal proteins that is essential for mitoribosome stability. These compendia reveal the dynamic nature of mitochondrial complexes and enable their functionalization.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent cell death, which is distinct from the other types of regulated cell death. Considerable studies have demonstrated that ferroptosis is involved in the biological process of various cancers. However, the role of ferroptosis in cervical cancer (CC) remains unclear. This study aims to explore the ferroptosis-related prognostic genes (FRPGs) expression profiles and their prognostic values in CC.The ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and FerrDb databases. Core FRGs were determined by the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING) website. FRPGs were identified using univariate and multivariate Cox regressions, and the ferroptosis-related prognostic model was constructed. FRPGs were verified in clinical specimens. The relationship between FRPGs and tumor infiltrating immune cells were assessed through the CIBERSORT algorithm and the LM22 signature matrix. Bioinformatics functions of FRPGs were explored with the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery (DAVID).Thirty-three significantly up-regulated and 28 down-regulated FRGs were screened from databases [P<0.05; false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05; and |log2 fold change (FC)| ≥2]. Twenty-four genes were found closely interacting with each other and regarded as hub genes (degree ≥3). Solute carrier family 2 member 1 (SLC2A1), carbonic anhydrases IX (CA9), and dual oxidase 1 (DUOX1) were identified as independent prognostic signatures for overall survival (OS) in a Cox regression. Time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves showed the predictive ability of the ferroptosis-related prognostic model, especially for 1-year OS [area under the curve (AUC) =0.76]. Consistent with the public data, our experiments demonstrated that the mRNA levels of SLC2A1 and DUOX1, and the protein levels of SLC2A1, DUOX1, and CA9 were significantly higher in the tumor tissues. Further analysis showed that there was a significant difference in the proportion of tumor infiltrating immune cells between the low- and high-risk group based on our prognostic model. The function enrichment of FRPGs was explored by applying Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses.In this study, the features of FRPGs in CC were pictured. The results implicated that targeting ferroptosis may be a new reliable biomarker and an alternative therapy for CC.2024 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39113560 is a review article
Selective lipophagy requires cargo recognition and recruitment of autophagy receptors to lipid droplets (LDs), yet the molecular mechanisms that couple LDs to the core autophagy machinery remain poorly defined. Here, we identified the small GTPase RAB18 (RAB18, member RAS oncogene family) as an upstream initiator of lipophagy that directly recruited the macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) to LDs in osteoblasts. Lipid stress induced RAB18 activation and its localization to LDs, where RAB18 engaged OPTN enabling OPTN-LC3 bridging and lysosomal degradation of LDs. Loss of either RAB18 or OPTN impaired lipophagic flux, resulting in lipid accumulation and defective osteogenic differentiation, whereas OPTN overexpression partially rescued RAB18 deficiency, supporting a hierarchical RAB18-OPTN pathway. Thus, while OPTN acted as a critical effector downstream of RAB18, it did not feed back to promote RAB18 recruitment. In vivo, perturbation of this axis compromised bone regeneration under hyperlipidemic conditions. Together, these findings establish RAB18-dependent recruitment of OPTN as a molecular mechanism for selective lipophagy and reveal lipophagy as a critical metabolic adaptation that sustains osteoblast function during lipid stress.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ALP: alkaline phosphatase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CC domain 1: coiled-coil domain 1; CCK-8: cell counting Kit-8 kit; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; KD: knockdown; LDs: lipid droplets; Micro-CT: microscopic computerized tomography; OE: overexpression; OPTN: optineurin; qRT-PCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; RAB18: RAB18, member RAS oncogene family; ROI: region of interest; SD: standard deviations; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; WB: western blot.
Cellular senescence is accompanied by profound lysosomal alterations, yet whether lysosome-associated factors actively drive aging remains unclear. Through a focused CRISPR/Cas9 screen in human mesenchymal progenitor cells (hMPCs), we identified N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase subunits alpha and beta (GNPTAB), an enzyme responsible for lysosomal hydrolase targeting, as a potent regulator of cellular senescence. Genetic ablation of GNPTAB attenuated senescence, whereas its overexpression accelerated senescence. This pro-senescent function occurred independently of GNPTAB's canonical enzymatic role. Instead, GNPTAB binds to the innate immune adaptor stimulator of interferon genes (STING) via a specific interface (E1119), leading to activation of STING and its downstream TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), as well as pro-inflammatory gene expression. A STING-binding-deficient GNPTAB mutant (E1119A) preserved canonical lysosomal functions but failed to induce senescence, while STING depletion abolished GNPTAB-driven senescence. Together, these findings uncover a new signaling pathway wherein GNPTAB engages STING to facilitate its activation, nominating this interface as a potential target for mitigating age-related cellular dysfunction.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) is a key regulator of mitochondrial DNA transcription and replication. T cell-specific TFAM-deficient mice are immunocompromised, often succumbing to viral infection, and their T cells are unresponsive to T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) stimulation, suggesting that TFAM-mediated mitochondrial activity regulates T-cell activity, such as effector function and memory formation. In contrast to the attenuation of immune response, TFAM deficiency may also induce inflammatory responses, raising the possibility that TFAM deficiency results in inflammation-mediated autoimmune responses. Thus, besides regulating T-cell function, TFAM plays important roles in autoimmune responses. However, its role in autoimmune diseases remains uncertain. We aimed to investigate the role of TFAM in autoimmune diseases using T cell-specific TFAM-deficient mice. We detected anti-double-strand (ds) DNA antibody, and interferon alpha (IFNα) and IFNγ in the serum of TFAMfl/fl CD4Cre mice after 30 weeks of age. Mononuclear cell infiltration was observed in the kidneys. TFAM-deficient T cells exhibited leakage of mitochondrial DNA into the cytoplasm. Cytoplasmic mitochondrial DNA was associated with activation of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3)-the downstream molecules of the nucleic acid sensor cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase/stimulator of IFN genes (cGAS/STING) machinery. mRNA expression of type I IFN genes was elevated in T cells from TFAMfl/fl CD4Cre mice. The suppressive function of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells, which play a major role in establishment of peripheral tolerance, was reduced in the absence of TFAM. Our findings suggest that T cells in TFAM-deficient conditions may contribute to immune instability and autoimmune responses by inducing type I IFN-mediated inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026 Shuhei Mashimo et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic inflammation accounts for more than half of all global deaths, and is associated with many diseases including cancer, heart disease or diabetes. Here a novel series of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) inhibitors based on isoflavonoid derivatives was synthesised via the multicomponent Petasis reaction. TBK1 is a key mediator of several inflammatory pathways, and its inhibition shows great promise for overcoming autoimmune diseases, hyper-inflammatory diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, and cancer resistance. Molecular modelling and SAR studies were conducted on isoflavonoid derivatives with established anti-inflammatory activity to generate a library of novel analogues with improved biological activity. A series of TBK1 inhibitors were synthesised, with the lead compound 7a exhibiting potent inhibitory activity against NF-κB and type I IFN inflammatory signalling pathways (IC50 = 0.13 µM), representing a 6.7-fold improvement compared to the parent isoflavene compound.© 2026 The Author(s). ChemMedChem published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths globally, with smoking being the primary risk factor, though environmental exposures and genetic mutations also play significant roles. Lung cancer arises when abnormal lung cells grow uncontrollably, leading to over 2 million new cases and nearly 1.8 million deaths globally. Drug resistance, especially to targeted therapies, is a key challenge, as tumours often adapt and become unresponsive. Multitargeted drug design, which targets multiple pathways involved in tumour growth, offers a promising solution to overcome resistance and improve treatment efficacy. In this study, we identified several lung cancer-associated proteins: CK2, Ran-Importin β complex, HNGF, Human Survivin, CRK-II adaptor protein, AKR1B10, and tRNA dihydrouridine synthase 2, with respective PDB IDs 1JWH, 1IBR, 1SG1, 1XOX, 2DVJ, 4XZL, and 4XP7. We conducted molecular docking using DrugBank's library, employing HTVS, SP, and XP, followed by pose processing with MM/GBSA. Our multitarget docking analysis identified Quercetin-3-O-Phosphate as the top compound, a quercetin derivative found in fruits and vegetables such as onions, apples, berries, broccoli, and citrus. The compound showed docking and MM/GBSA scores ranging from -5.835 to -11.627 Kcal/mol and -14.28 to -47.07 Kcal/mol, respectively, and the key interacting residues with their counts include 10ASP, 9LEU, 9LYS, 7ALA, 7ARG, 7TYR, 6GLN, 5ASN, 5GLU, 5ILE, and 5VAL. We also performed and analysed DFT and pharmacokinetics in detail, which supported its further evaluation as it met all the required criteria. We conducted a 5 ns WaterMap simulation, which confirmed the interactions and highlighted key hydration sites that support the complex's stability. A 100 ns MD simulation using the TIP3P water model showed minimal deviation and fluctuations, indicating stable interactions and the trajectories used for MM/GBSA calculations, assessing binding free, which reinforced the stability of the complexes and helped rank the best candidates. All results indicate that Quercetin-3-O-Phosphate holds strong potential for lung cancer treatment, though experimental validation is needed for clinical confirmation.Copyright: © 2026 Alahdal et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Carboxyl terminus of HSC70-interacting protein (CHIP) serves as a quality control protein that involves in inflammation and immunity, bone remodeling and tumorigenesis. However, the role of CHIP in joint disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is less explored.Wild-type and Chip knockdown mice were used to establish a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model to assess arthritis progression through clinical index and histopathological markers (synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory infiltration and cartilage damage). SiRNA and lentivirus were respectively used to knockdown and overexpress CHIP in CIA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), investigating its regulatory effect on proliferation, migration, invasion and inflammation. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis were performed to assess the effect of CHIP on Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated delivery of Chip was used to evaluate its therapeutic effects in CIA mice.CHIP significantly decreased in the synovium of CIA mice and RA patients compare to control. CHIP deficiency exacerbated synovial inflammation, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion in CIA, further underscoring its protective role in joint homeostasis. Moreover, knockdown of CHIP promoted the proliferation, migration and expression of inflammatory cytokines in CIA-FLS, while CHIP overexpression in CIA-FLS showed the opposite results. Mechanistically, CHIP interacted with TRAF6 and promoted the degradation of TRAF6. CHIP inhibited the migration and pro-inflammatory phenotypes of CIA-FLS via TRAF6/p65 pathway. Further, AAV mediated CHIP gene therapy by intra-articular administration effectively attenuated the progression of CIA by inhibiting the synovial inflammation and expression of TRAF6.Collectively, these findings demonstrated the critical regulatory role of CHIP in RA. Therefore, exploiting the protective effects of CHIP may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for RA.These findings not only advance our understanding of CHIP's regulatory role in RA but also highlight the value of genetic animal models in orthopaedic drug discovery.© 2026 The Authors.
Corneal allograft rejection remains a leading cause of graft failure. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) may provide new options for modulating the immune response to allografts.This study aimed to determine whether miR-146a-enriched EVs could prolong corneal allograft survival by modulating local and systemic immune responses.After corneal allografting from C57BL/6 to BALB/c mice, recipients received subconjunctival injections of PBS, miR-NC-EVs, or miR-146a-EVs isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCSCs). Local inflammatory and regulatory factors in ocular tissues were assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to quantify the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3). Systemic cytokine profiles were assessed in recipient sera using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin (IL)-17, IL-10, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β.Clinical rejection scores were markedly reduced, with significant improvements in opacity, edema, and neovascularization. RT-PCR analysis of corneal tissue showed miR-146a overexpression, downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6, a significant reduction in TNF-α mRNA, and increased Foxp3 expression. ELISA analysis of systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 showed that treatment with miR-146a-EVs resulted in lower systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 levels and significantly higher levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and TGF-β.This study identifies miR-146a-EVs as a novel cell-free therapy that effectively prolongs corneal transplant survival. The treatment exerts dual immunomodulatory effects by regulating local inflammatory pathways and shifting systemic cytokine profiles toward an anti-inflammatory state, thereby offering a targeted strategy to prevent transplant rejection.Copyright © 2026, He.
Metabolic dysregulation is a hallmark of tumorigenesis and profoundly impacts immune surveillance; however, the underlying mechanisms and targeted treatments remain limited in colorectal cancer (CRC). Here, we utilize public databases, mouse models, and multi-omics analyses to identify N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) as a critical prognostic-associated gene that emerges as a significant modulator of tumor immunity in CRC. We demonstrate that NAT1 suppresses glycolysis and lactate production, thereby promoting an immune-activated tumor microenvironment (TME). Mechanistically, NAT1 interacts with enolase 1 (ENO1), a key glycolytic enzyme, acetylating it at lysine 343 (K343) and thereby inhibiting its activity. However, loss of NAT1 in tumor cells leads to enhanced ENO1 activation, which in turn drives glycolysis and lactate production. Lactate then binds to TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), promoting its oligomerization and activation, leading to K63-linked ubiquitination of PD-L1, which enhances PD-L1 stability and facilitates immune evasion. Importantly, low NAT1-expressing tumors from CRC patients show increased sensitivity to anti-PD-1 therapy, and NAT1 deficiency significantly improves the efficacy of anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment in preclinical mouse models. Collectively, our findings highlight the critical role of NAT1 in reshaping the TME and suggest that targeting the NAT1-ENO1-lactate axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance immunotherapy in CRC.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Prostate cancer remains a significant therapeutic challenge in male urologic oncology. Characterized by an immunosuppressive microenvironment, it is commonly described as an immunologically "cold" tumor. This study elucidates the role of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) within the immune landscape of prostate cancer. We observed marked downregulation of TRAF6 in both patient-derived tissues and cultured prostate cancer cell lines. Functional assays demonstrated that TRAF6 upregulation robustly suppresses cancer cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, we discovered that TRAF6 sensitizes prostate cancer cells to CD8+ T cell-mediated ferroptosis by targeting Lipocalin 2 (LCN2) for proteasomal degradation. The anti-tumor effects of TRAF6 overexpression were reversed upon LCN2 restoration. Further analyses showed that TRAF6 promotes LCN2 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Our results reveal a previously unrecognized pathway by which TRAF6 modulates tumor cell susceptibility to CD8+ T cell-associated ferroptosis, highlighting the translational potential of targeting the TRAF6-LCN2 signaling axis in prostate cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The NLRP3 (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat-containing receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) inflammasome plays a causal role in driving atherosclerosis. HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor) prolyl hydroxylase EGLN3 (Caenorhabditis elegans gene egl-9 [EGLN] 3) inhibits NFκB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling independently of its hydroxylase activity. This study determined the role and mechanism of EGLN3 prolyl hydroxylase in regulating NLRP3 inflammasome activation, vascular inflammation, and the development of atherosclerosis.ApoE-/- mice deficient for global EGLN3, macrophage EGLN3, or EGLN3 hydroxylase activity were used to explore the role of EGLN3 and its activity in atherosclerosis. MCC950 was applied to antagonize the NLRP3 inflammasome in mice. Various cellular and molecular methods were used for mechanistic studies.EGLN3 elimination promotes the production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and the release of mitochondrial DNA in macrophages. EGLN3 ablation enhances NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and promotes GSDMD (gasdermin D) cleavage, IL (interleukin) 1β production, and pyroptosis of macrophages. TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6) catalyzes lysine (K) 63-linked NLRP3 ubiquitination and potentiates NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation, which can be antagonized by EGLN3. EGLN3 also blunts K63-polyubiquitination of TRAF6. EGLN3 deficiency enhances lipid uptake through increasing CD36 expression and impedes cholesterol efflux by declining ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette transporter A1) expression, thereby boosting macrophage foam cell formation. EGLN3 depletion restrains MerTK expression and efferocytosis of macrophages. Inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome counteracts the impacts of EGLN3 deficiency on foam cell formation and efferocytosis. Global and macrophage-specific ablation of EGLN3 exacerbates vascular inflammation and instability of the atherosclerotic plaques in ApoE-/- mice. Pharmacological inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome ameliorates the detrimental effect of EGLN3 deficiency on vascular inflammation and the formation and stability of the plaques. Genetic inactivation of EGLN3 activity retains its ability to restrict NLRP3 inflammasome activation and atherosclerosis development.EGLN3 inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation through antagonizing TRAF6-induced NLRP3 ubiquitination and activation. EGLN3 suppresses vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis by modulating pyroptosis, foam cell formation, and efferocytosis of macrophages through targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome. EGLN3 protects against atherosclerosis independently of its hydroxylase activity.
This study was designed to comprehensively analyze the benefit effect and underlying mechanism of egg yolk-derived peptide VPF (Val-Pro-Phe) in bone development by integrating network pharmacology, molecular docking/dynamics simulation, and zebrafish in vivo experiments. Results demonstrated that VPF exhibited dose-dependent intervention effects within the concentration range of 0.2-10 μg/mL in normal and bone dysplasia zebrafish. Specifically, 0.2 μg/mL of VPF exhibited significant enhancements in total length (TL), mineralization, and swimming distance by 4.01%, 14.00% (P < 0.05), and 7.31% in normal zebrafish model, whereas 1 μg/mL of VPF led to significant increases in the aforementioned indexes by 6.30%, 45.26%, and 51.05% (P < 0.05) in bone dysplasia zebrafish model. Then, network pharmacology revealed that the highest correlation between VPF in improving bone development and osteoclast differentiation pathway, with osteoprotegerin (OPG) being the core node in this pathway. Molecular docking results showed that VPF exhibited the highest binding affinity for OPG, and this interaction was further validated by 200 ns molecular dynamics simulations, which demonstrated the stability of the VPF-OPG complex. Furthermore, VPF upregulated the gene expression of OPG, and downregulated the gene expression of the receptor activator of the NF-κB ligand (RANKL) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 Gene (TRAF6), and downregulated the RANKL/OPG ratio in zebrafish. These data indicate that VPF alleviates skeletal dysplasia primarily by OPG-mediated suppression of osteoclast differentiation within the OPG/RANKL/RANK axis, thereby supporting its potential value as a functional food ingredient for promoting bone development.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury remains a major clinical challenge characterized by cardiomyocyte loss and adverse remodeling after reperfusion. Ubiquitin-Specific Peptidase 20 (USP20), a deubiquitinase involved in cellular stress responses, has not been fully characterized in the ischemic heart. This study aimed to investigate the function and mechanism of cardiomyocyte-derived USP20 in myocardial I/R injury.Myocardial I/R models and hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-treated cardiomyocytes were used to evaluate USP20 expression and function. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis, cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 knockout, and USP20 overexpression models were applied. Co-immunoprecipitation, LC-MS/MS, ubiquitination assays, site-directed mutagenesis, and rescue experiments were performed to define the underlying mechanism.USP20 expression was markedly decreased in I/R-injured mouse hearts and H/R-treated cardiomyocytes, and USP20 was predominantly localized in cardiomyocytes. Cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 deletion aggravated myocardial injury, adverse cardiac remodeling, and cardiac dysfunction after I/R, whereas USP20 overexpression conferred significant cardioprotection. Mechanistically, USP20 directly interacted with glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) and removed K63-linked polyubiquitin chains from GRP78 at K602 through its C154 active site. This deubiquitination activated GRP78, promoted adaptive endoplasmic reticulum stress responses, and reduced myocardial injury.These findings identify a previously unrecognized USP20-GRP78 regulatory axis that regulates endoplasmic reticulum stress responses and limits myocardial damage during I/R. USP20 may represent a potential therapeutic target for myocardial I/R injury.© The author(s).
Serine protease cascades play a pivotal role in the innate defense of mosquitoes. These cascades consist of catalytic serine proteases and their non-catalytic homologs, collectively termed CLIPs, which are classified into five subfamilies. While the catalytically active CLIPB/Cs have been extensively studied, the biochemical functions of the CLIPA and CLIPE remain less explored. In vivo studies have demonstrated that CLIPAs in Anopheles gambiae are crucial for defense against a range of pathogens. At the functional level, however, some Anopheles CLIPA homologs exhibit properties that notably diverge from those of their counterparts in Aedes aegypti. Consequently, the functional landscape of CLIPA and CLIPE in Ae. aegypti remains largely uncharted. Our systematic investigation yielded several key findings. We first identified the CLIPA and CLIPE subfamily members in Ae. aegypti and characterized their distinct domain architectures. Subsequent screening revealed specific CLIPA/E members that are transcriptionally responsive to infection by S. aureus and E. coli. Functional RNAi assays demonstrated that CLIPA4, CLIPA5, CLIPA11, CLIPA14, CLIPE8, and CLIPE11 are critical for antibacterial defense, significantly impacting mosquito survival upon bacterial challenge. Mechanistic studies further showed that CLIPA4 and CLIPE8 regulate the expression of transcription factors Rel1 (Toll pathway) and Rel2 (IMD pathway), consequently altering the expression profiles of key antimicrobial peptides. Additionally, these two genes were found to be essential for maintaining normal phenoloxidase activity in the hemolymph, indicating their role in modulating the melanization response. Collectively, our RNAi-based approach establishes that specific CLIPA/E subfamily members are crucial components of the antibacterial innate immune response in Ae. aegypti, functioning through the regulation of humoral immune pathways.© 2026 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Wheat provides staple food and industrial raw material for humans and animals, but its production decreased due to leaf rust (Lr) disease caused by Puccinia triticina by up to 15%. It is challenging to identify Lr-associated genes due to the limited sample size and large genome, which hinders the breeding efforts for Lr disease. This study integrated RNA-seq data to mine the candidate genes using meta-analysis, WGCNA, and machine-learning approaches. As a result, 2153 upregulated and 1579 downregulated meta-differentially expressed genes (meta-DEGs) were identified, with four known genes (Lr13 and Lr67/Yr46/Sr55). The meta-DEGs were significantly enriched in antifungal innate immune response, glutathione metabolism, detoxification, phenylalanine, and flavonoid biosynthesis. Among these, 124 resistance (R) genes (~ 85.48% upregulated) were expressed differentially, and ~ 80% belonged to plant pattern recognition receptors (PPRs) that triggered immunity. Likewise, 162 transcription factors (TFs), including WRKY (43), ERF (30), and MYB (33), were associated with Lr disease, and 81 candidate hub genes were co-expressed for Lr. Finally, nine potential candidate genes, including TraesCS7A03G0388400 (BSP), TraesCS1A03G0869900 (PR4), TraesCS6B03G1228800 (AP2/ERF), TraesCS3B03G0088700 (MYB62), TraesCS5A03G1198800 (CYP96A10), and TraesCSU03G0129300 (LTP4), were mined via attribute weighting and machine learning model (XGBoost AUC = 0.97 and accuracy = 0.90) and validated via single-gene model, linear regression, and t-test at p ≤ 0.05. The relative expressions calculated via RT-qPCR assay of nine genes were significantly higher at different time points under Lr infection. Thus, this study reported genes under Lr infection using advanced bioinformatics and supervised machine-learning models, which provide fundamental insight and a solid foundation for understanding the molecular mechanisms of Lr resistance and offer an advanced pipeline for future breeding programs to develop superior cultivars with durable resistance.
This study focused on peroxiredoxin (Prx) as a core target to investigate its regulatory mechanism in the innate immunity of Procambarus clarkii (crayfish). We observed that a reduction in the expression of prx 4 via injection of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) induced early upregulation of H2O2 levels in the hepatopancreas of crayfish. When the crayfish were subsequently infected with Vibrio harveyi, the H2O2 levels further increased, and the antioxidant enzyme system was activated. After injecting dsPc-Prx 4 and subsequently stimulating the crayfish with V. harveyi, we observed upregulated expression of genes related to the melanization pathway, reactive oxygen species (ROS) pathway, apoptosis pathway, and Toll pathway. Furthermore, after the injection of dsPc-Prx 4 followed by V. harveyi and subsequent N-acetylcysteine (NAC) exposure, the expression of genes related to the melanization, apoptosis, and Toll pathways was downregulated; moreover, the melanization phenomenon was significantly weakened, and the survival rate of the crayfish decreased. The abovementioned experimental results demonstrate that Pc-Prx 4 is an important regulatory enzyme in the antioxidant system of crayfish. It can influence the antibacterial innate immune response of P. clarkii by modulating H2O2 levels. This study provides a significant addition to the fundamental theory of antibacterial innate immunity in invertebrates and offers a theoretical basis for the prevention and control of bacterial diseases in P. clarkii.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Streptococcus suis is a zoonotic pathogen of swine involved in arthritis, polyserositis, and meningitis. Colonization of piglets by S. suis is very common and occurs early in life. The clinical outcome of infection is influenced by the virulence of the S. suis strains and the immunity of the animals. Here, the role of innate immunity was studied in cesarean-derived colostrum-deprived piglets inoculated intranasally with either virulent S. suis strain 10 (S10) or non-virulent S. suis strain T15. Colonization of the inoculated piglets was confirmed at the end of the study by PCR and immunohistochemistry. Fever (≥40.5 °C) was more prevalent in piglets inoculated with S10 compared to T15 at 4 h after inoculation. During the 3 days of monitoring, no other major clinical signs were detected. Accordingly, only small changes in transcription of genes associated with the antibacterial innate immune response were observed at systemic sites, with S10 inducing an earlier response than T15 in blood. Local inflammatory response to the inoculation, evaluated by transcriptional analysis of selected genes in nasal swabs, was more sustained in piglets inoculated with the virulent S10, as demonstrated by transcription of inflammation-related genes, such as IL1B, IL1A, and IRF7. In contrast, most of the gene expression changes in trachea, lungs, and associated lymph nodes were observed in response to the non-virulent T15 strain. Thus, S. suis colonization in the absence of systemic infection induces an innate immune response in piglets that appears to be related to the virulence potential of the colonizing strain.© 2021. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 34392593 is a review article
RNF128, also known as GRAIL, is a well-studied E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in the induction and maintenance of T cell anergy. It contains PA_GRAIL_like domain, HRD1 domain and RING-H2_like domain. Recent studies have shown that RNF128 is involved in the regulation of innate immunity in mammals. It should be noted that zebrafish, possess two RNF128 paralogs, RNF128a and RNF128b. We focused on RNF128a, which shares the closest sequence homology with mammalian RNF128; however, its role in fish has not yet been elucidated. In this paper, we demonstrated that RNF128a acts as a positive regulator of innate immunity in Zebrafish. Zebrafish RNF128a responds to multiple stimuli including SVCV (Spring Viremia of Carp Virus), poly(I:C), B-DNA, LPS, and is characterized by the heightened sensitivity to SVCV. Notably, Zebrafish RNF128a up-regulates the expression of IFN1, ISG15, MX, as well as the inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 and TNFα in response to SVCV. Mechanistically, Zebrafish RNF128a interacts with TBK1 through its protease-associated (PA) domain. However, the subcellular localization of RNF128a is associated with its HRD1 domain. In addition, Zebrafish RNF128a is localized to both early endosome RAB5 and late endosome RAB7 but rarely in Golgi apparatus and endoplasmic reticulum. Structurally, only full-length RNF128a promotes the K63-linked ubiquitination of TBK1, while none of the truncation mutants retains this activity. Our study identified Zebrafish RNF128a as an E3 ligase that catalyzes K63-linked ubiquitination and activates TBK1, and delineated its essential role in the antiviral innate immune response in zebrafish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Activation of the angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2 receptor; encoded by AGTR2) has been shown to be beneficial during tissue injury and repair. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the expression of AT2 receptor in human alveolar type II (ATII) cells, a cell population responsible for lung repair and regeneration, and the effect of the AT2 receptor agonist buloxibutid (also known as C21), in an in vitro model of viral infection using primary ATII cells.We described the expression of AT2 receptor messenger RNA using publicly available lung single-cell RNA sequencing datasets. We evaluated the effects of buloxibutid on ATII cell biology at baseline and in response to treatment with double-stranded RNA (polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, a pathogen associated molecular pattern) using MTS cytotoxicity assay, transcriptomic analysis and ELISA.We found that buloxibutid was well tolerated by ATII cells under all conditions tested. RNA sequencing demonstrated that ATII cells responded to polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid with induction of a characteristic antiviral innate immune response. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that buloxibutid caused a significant suppression of polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid-induced proinflammatory responses, whereas it was without effect on the expression of antiviral genes.Our findings suggest that buloxibutid may have therapeutic potential for treatment of respiratory viral pneumonias by limiting excessive proinflammatory responses that have the potential to lead to a cytokine storm, while maintaining a protective antiviral response.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme variant 1A (UEV1A) is an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme and participates in several physiological processes. However, its role in teleost antiviral innate immune response remains unknown. In this study, we identified and characterized a black carp UEV1A homolog (bcUEV1A) as a novel regulator of black carp MDA5 (bcMDA5)-mediated antiviral signaling. bcUEV1A is composed of 164 amino acids containing a conserved ubiquitin-conjugation enzyme catalytic (UBCc) domain spanning residues 31-163. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that bcUEV1A gene transcription was dynamically regulated in host cells and immune-related tissues following viral infection or immunostimulant treatment. Immunoblot analysis indicated that bcUEV1A migrated at approximately 20 kDa, whereas immunofluorescence analysis revealed that it was localized in the cytoplasm and cell nucleus. Co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assay and immunofluorescence assays demonstrated that bcUEV1A specifically interacted with bcMDA5, and that both proteins were co-localized in the cytoplasm. Functional analyses further showed that bcUEV1A suppressed bcMDA5-mediated IFN promoter activation and antiviral activity. Mechanistically, bcUEV1A negatively regulated bcMDA5-mediated antiviral immunity by reducing bcMDA5 polyubiquitination, oligomerization, and dimerization. Collectively, these findings identify bcUEV1A as a critical negative regulator of bcMDA5-mediated antiviral immunity and provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms controlling MDA5-dependent antiviral immunity in teleost fish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42247521
Phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) biosynthesis is critical for membrane biology and cellular homeostasis. However, its specific role in antiviral innate immunity remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that inhibition of phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase 2 (PCYT2), a key enzyme in PE biosynthesis, promotes TBK1 activation to enhance the antiviral innate immune response. Mechanistically, PCYT2 deficiency leads to the accumulation of diacylglycerol, which activates protein kinase C-δ (PKCδ). We identify PKCδ as a direct kinase for TBK1 and demonstrate that it binds to and phosphorylates TBK1 at Ser716. This Ser716 phosphorylation facilitates the subsequent canonical phosphorylation of TBK1 at Ser172, resulting in hyperactivation of the TBK1-IRF3 axis. Our findings uncover a link between PE metabolism and antiviral innate immunity, suggesting that targeting the PE biosynthesis pathway could be a potential therapeutic strategy against viral infections.
In August 2024, mpox was declared a public health emergency. However, little is known about how the proteins of the mpox virus (MPXV) interact with host innate immunity. This study identified that the D8L protein of MPXV inhibited the interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral innate immune response and suppressed the mRNA transcription and protein expression of several IFN-stimulated genes, including Cig5, MX2, ISG56, IFITM1, OAS1, and ISG15. Mechanistically, D8L prevented antiviral immune responses by interacting with signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1). Furthermore, D8L interacted with the SH2 structural domain of the STAT1 protein but not with other regions. The point-mutant plasmids capable of binding STAT1 were D8L-9-11, D8L-13, and D8L-18. In addition, D8L attenuated IFN responses by inhibiting the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of STAT1. These findings provide valuable information for the development of novel antiviral therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hendra virus (HeV) is a highly pathogenic virus endemic to Australia that causes lethal infections in horses and humans following spillover from bat reservoirs. There are two known genotypes: genotype 1 and 2 (HeV-g1 and HeV-g2). Both have caused lethal disease in horses, but HeV-g1 causes a more severe disease than HeV-g2 in non-human primates. The molecular mechanisms underlying these differences are poorly understood. The capacity of viruses to evade the interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral innate immune response is important in infection and disease, and in HeV, the virulence factor V protein is a key mediator and one of the most divergent proteins between the genotypes. We compared the IFN antagonist functions of the V proteins of HeV-g1 and HeV-g2, finding that HeV-g1-V was more potent than HeV-g2-V in antagonizing the induction of type-I IFN; we further found that the proteins differ in nucleocytoplasmic localization. Consistent with these findings, HeV-g1 suppressed type-I IFN production more effectively than HeV-g2 during infection. These data reveal differences in the fundamental biology of HeV genotypes, which may be significant to pathogenesis.
Our previous clinical data showed that autologous mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) can be used as carriers for the systemic delivery of oncolytic adenoviruses in children with advanced cancers, a therapy known as Celyvir. Despite achieving clinical remissions, treatment responses have been heterogeneous. Here, we sought to determine whether intrinsic biological characteristics of carrier MSCs influence therapeutic outcomes. Transcriptomic profiling was performed on MSCs from responder and non-responder patients to identify pathways differentially regulated according to clinical response. Expression of MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling), NF-κB activation, and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines were analyzed in MSCs and Celyvir products both at baseline and after adenoviral infection. Among the pathways differentially regulated in MSCs according to treatment response, MAVS was identified as a relevant modulator, showing significantly lower expression in Celyvir products from responder patients. Consistently, MSCs and Celyvir products from responders exhibited reduced NF-κB activation and secreted significantly lower levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines at baseline and post-infection. To validate these findings, immunocompetent mice were treated with murine Celyvir prepared using MAVS-deficient (MAVS-/-) MSCs as a model of "silent cells". Accordingly, murine Celyvir treatment using MAVS-/- MSCs significantly enhanced antitumor efficacy compared to wild-type MSCs. Tumors from animals treated with murine Celyvir MAVS-/- displayed increased infiltration of T cells and NK cells. In summary, carrier MSCs with a diminished antiviral innate immune response-characterized by low MAVS expression and attenuated pro-inflammatory signaling-provide a therapeutic advantage for systemic delivery of oncolytic viruses. These findings support the incorporation of "silent" MSCs, spontaneous or induced, into next-generation clinical trials aiming to optimize cell-based oncolytic virotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 15032583 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 10719665 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15971105 is a review article
Hosts have developed diverse mechanisms to counter the pathogens they face in their natural environment. Throughout the plant and animal kingdoms, the up-regulation of antimicrobial peptides is a common response to infection. In C. elegans, infection with the natural pathogen Drechmeria coniospora leads to rapid induction of antimicrobial peptide gene expression in the epidermis. Through a large genetic screen we have isolated many new mutants that are incapable of upregulating the antimicrobial peptide nlp-29 in response to infection (i.e. with a Nipi or 'no induction of peptide after infection' phenotype). More than half of the newly isolated Nipi mutants do not correspond to genes previously associated with the regulation of antimicrobial peptides. One of these, nipi-4, encodes a member of a nematode-specific kinase family. NIPI-4 is predicted to be catalytically inactive, thus to be a pseudokinase. It acts in the epidermis downstream of the PKC∂ TPA-1, as a positive regulator of nlp antimicrobial peptide gene expression after infection. It also controls the constitutive expression of antimicrobial peptide genes of the cnc family that are targets of TGFß regulation. Our results open the way for a more detailed understanding of how host defense pathways can be molded by environmental pathogens.
Members of the pentraxin family, including PTX3 and serum amyloid P component (SAP), have been reported to play a role in innate host defence against a range of microbial pathogens, yet little is known regarding their antiviral activities. In this study, we demonstrate that human SAP binds to human influenza A virus (IAV) strains and mediates a range of antiviral activities, including inhibition of IAV-induced hemagglutination (HA), neutralization of virus infectivity and inhibition of the enzymatic activity of the viral neuraminidase (NA). Characterization of the anti-IAV activity of SAP after periodate or bacterial sialidase treatment demonstrated that α(2,6)-linked sialic acid residues on the glycosidic moiety of SAP are critical for recognition by the HA of susceptible IAV strains. Other proteins of the innate immune system, namely human surfactant protein A and porcine surfactant protein D, have been reported to express sialylated glycans which facilitate inhibition of particular IAV strains, yet the specific viral determinants for recognition of these inhibitors have not been defined. Herein, we have selected virus mutants in the presence of human SAP and identified specific residues in the receptor-binding pocket of the viral HA which are critical for recognition and therefore susceptibility to the antiviral activities of SAP. Given the widespread expression of α(2,6)-linked sialic acid in the human respiratory tract, we propose that SAP may act as an effective receptor mimic to limit IAV infection of airway epithelial cells.
The conventional view posits that E3 ligases function primarily through conjugating ubiquitin (Ub) to their substrate molecules. We report here that RIPLET, an essential E3 ligase in antiviral immunity, promotes the antiviral signaling activity of the viral RNA receptor RIG-I through both Ub-dependent and -independent manners. RIPLET uses its dimeric structure and a bivalent binding mode to preferentially recognize and ubiquitinate RIG-I pre-oligomerized on dsRNA. In addition, RIPLET can cross-bridge RIG-I filaments on longer dsRNAs, inducing aggregate-like RIG-I assemblies. The consequent receptor clustering synergizes with the Ub-dependent mechanism to amplify RIG-I-mediated antiviral signaling in an RNA-length dependent manner. These observations show the unexpected role of an E3 ligase as a co-receptor that directly participates in receptor oligomerization and ligand discrimination. It also highlights a previously unrecognized mechanism by which the innate immune system measures foreign nucleic acid length, a common criterion for self versus non-self nucleic acid discrimination.Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune defense at an interface with the external environment reflects the functions of physical and chemical barriers provided by epithelial and immune cells. Resident epithelial cells, such as keratinocytes, produce numerous peptides with direct antimicrobial activity but also provide a physical barrier against invading pathogens and signal the recruitment of circulating immune cells, such as neutrophils. Antimicrobial peptides such as cathelicidin are produced constitutively by neutrophils and are inducible in keratinocytes in response to infection. The multiplicity of antimicrobial peptides and their cellular sources has resulted in an incomplete understanding of the role of cathelicidin production by epithelial cells in cutaneous immune defense. Therefore, this study sought to evaluate keratinocyte antimicrobial activity and the potential contribution of keratinocyte cathelicidin to host protection against two leading human skin pathogens. Wild-type mice and those with a targeted deletion of the cathelicidin gene, Cnlp, were rendered neutropenic prior to cutaneous infection. Interestingly, Cnlp-deficient mice remained more susceptible to group A streptococcus infection than mice with Cnlp intact, suggesting the involvement of epithelial cell-derived cathelicidin in host immune defense. Keratinocytes were then isolated in culture and found to inhibit the growth of Staphylococcus aureus, an effect that was partially dependent on their ability to synthesize and activate cathelicidin. Further, lentivirus-mediated delivery of activated human cathelicidin enhanced keratinocyte antimicrobial activity. Combined, these data illustrate the potential contribution of keratinocyte cathelicidin to the innate immune defense of skin against bacterial pathogens and highlight the need to consider epithelial antimicrobial function in the diagnosis and therapy of skin infection.
Epithelial cells express antimicrobial proteins in response to invading pathogens, although little is known regarding epithelial defense mechanisms during healthy conditions. Here we report that epithelial cytokeratins have innate defense properties because they constitutively produce cytoprotective antimicrobial peptides. Glycine-rich C-terminal fragments derived from human cytokeratin 6A were identified in bactericidal lysate fractions of human corneal epithelial cells. Structural analysis revealed that these keratin-derived antimicrobial peptides (KDAMPs) exhibited coil structures with low α-helical content. Synthetic analogs of these KDAMPS showed rapid bactericidal activity against multiple pathogens and protected epithelial cells against bacterial virulence mechanisms, while a scrambled peptide showed no bactericidal activity. However, the bactericidal activity of a specific KDAMP was somewhat reduced by glycine-alanine substitutions. KDAMP activity involved bacterial binding and permeabilization, but the activity was unaffected by peptide charge or physiological salt concentration. Knockdown of cytokeratin 6A markedly reduced the bactericidal activity of epithelial cell lysates in vitro and increased the susceptibility of murine corneas to bacterial adherence in vivo. These data suggest that epithelial cytokeratins function as endogenous antimicrobial peptides in the host defense against infection and that keratin-derived antimicrobials may serve as effective therapeutic agents.
