Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Asthma is a heterogeneous inflammatory airway disease characterized by immune dysregulation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), and excessive immune activation. Although NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) has been extensively studied in asthma, its role remains controversial, and the contribution of DNA sensor AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) is less well defined. To assess AIM2's relevance in asthma, we analyzed public human datasets and found increased AIM2, but not NLRP3, expression in severe asthma and in neutrophilic compared with paucigranulocytic asthma. In allergic asthma models induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or house dust mite (HDM), AIM2 expression was increased in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells. Analysis of a published single-cell RNA-seq dataset from the HDM model further showed increased Aim2, but not Nlrp3, expression in T helper cells, with most Aim2-expressing cells coexpressing Gata3. In the OVA-LPS model, whole-body Aim2 deficiency reduced AHR, inflammatory cytokine production, airway smooth muscle actin, and γH2A.X, consistent with decreased airway remodeling and tissue stress. Unexpectedly, CD4-specific, but not Treg- or myeloid-specific, Aim2 deletion significantly attenuated disease, identifying AIM2 in CD4+ T cells as a major driver of pathogenesis. In the HDM model, Aim2 deficiency similarly reduced AHR. Cell-specific deletion showed that AIM2 in CD4+ T cells promotes AHR and cytokine production, whereas AIM2 in myeloid cells modulates IgG1, IL-13-producing CD4+ T cells, and alveolar macrophages. These findings identify AIM2 as a regulator of allergic asthma acting predominantly through T cells, with an additional context-dependent contribution from myeloid cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563993 is a review article
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554889 is a review article
Previous studies have highlighted the significance of the bile acid receptor TGR5 (also known as Takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5) in regulating inflammation and mitochondrial homeostasis in various diseases, whereas the specific involvement of TGR5 in spinal cord injury (SCI) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the effects of TGR5 on SCI, as well as the underlying mechanisms.The TGR5 agonist INT-777 was used to activate TGR5 in a mouse model of SCI, induced by contusion injury to T9-T10 vertebrae, and cultured cells. To determine the mechanism of TGR5 activation after SCI, public dataset analysis, behaviour assessment, histology and biochemical analysis relating to inflammation, pyroptosis and mitochondrial function were performed.TGR5 levels were increased in a mouse model of spinal cord injury (SCI), and in primary microglia and BV2 cells treated with tert-butyl hydroperoxide. Furthermore, TGR5 activation by INT-777 improved functional recovery and tissue repair in SCI mice. Mechanistically, INT-777-mediated TGR5 activation exerted a neuroprotective effect by regulating cAMP/AMPK signalling, resulted in suppression of mitochondrial dysfunction and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) release, which inhibited absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2)-driven pyroptosis and the inflammatory response. Notably, AIM2 overexpression partly blocked the neuroprotective effects of TGR5 activation in SCI mice. Additionally, AMPK inhibition by dorsomorphin aggravated neural injury and inflammation was alleviated in AIM2 deletion mice following SCI.INT-777 exerts anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects in the injured spinal cord by activating the TGR5/cAMP/AMPK pathway, thereby maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis and suppressing AIM2-mediated pyroptosis.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Radiation-induced brain injury (RIBI) is a serious complication of cranial radiotherapy and currently lacks effective disease-modifying treatment. Persistent neuroinflammation and neurovascular dysfunction are considered central to RIBI progression, making them attractive therapeutic targets for regenerative intervention. Multilineage-differentiating stress-enduring (Muse) cells are a non-tumorigenic pluripotent-like cell population with reported reparative and immunomodulatory properties, but their therapeutic potential in RIBI has not been defined. In this study, we evaluated the effects of Muse cell transplantation in experimental RIBI using in vitro neurovascular co-culture systems and in an vivo rat model. Irradiation induced marked activation of inflammasome-related signaling, endothelial injury, and neurological impairment. Muse cells suppressed the expression of NLRP3, AIM2, ASC, Caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18 in irradiated co-culture systems, while preserving endothelial proliferative and angiogenic responses. Transcriptomic analysis identified stress-related pathways associated with Muse cell-mediated protection, and PPAN emerged as a candidate regulator linked to the reparative phenotype. In vivo, intracarotid transplantation of Muse cells reduced [18F] DPA-714 uptake in irradiated brain tissue and was accompanied by supportive behavioral trends suggestive of functional improvement. These findings provide exploratory preclinical evidence that Muse cell transplantation attenuates neuroinflammatory activation and preserves endothelial reparative responses after radiation-induced brain injury. Muse cells may therefore represent a potential cell-based strategy for RIBI, although their therapeutic efficacy, neurovascular repair-related effects, and long-term functional benefits require further validation in larger and more comprehensive preclinical studies.
Autophagy is a key host defense mechanism against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). The autophagy‑regulating gene, immunity-related GTPase M (IRGM), may influence tuberculosis (TB) susceptibility.To investigate whether two IRGM single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), rs4958847 and rs72553867, are associated with TB disease and/or TB infection (TBI).An unmatched case-control study was conducted at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases L. Spallanzani-IRCCS, Italy. Logistic regression analyses evaluated the effects of individual SNPs and their diplotypes on TB status.Among 709 participants enrolled in Italy with diverse European ancestries, 644 individuals with complete data were included. Individual SNP analysis of 194 TB patients, 194 TBI individuals, and 256 TB-free controls revealed no significant associations with TB status. However, diplotype analysis identified an association between the rs4958847-rs72553867 GG-AC vs GG-CC diplotype with TB diseases with respect to TB-free group (OR=2.56, 95% CI:1.18-5.56).Although the individual IRGM variants were not associated with TB, combined diplotype analysis indicated a potential role for IRGM-mediated autophagy in TB disease within European populations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Aggressive behaviors typically vary between sexes, but the molecular mechanisms driving these disparities in neural coding remain unclear. We found that aggression selectively activates GABAergic neurons in the posterior substantia innominata (pSI), an extended amygdala region critical for aggression in both sexes, with male mice exhibiting elevated neuronal activity during attacks. Utilizing single-nucleus RNA sequencing, we characterized the diverse molecular landscape of pSI neurons, revealing significant differences in ion channels and hormone regulator genes that may underpin sex-specific aggression. Male pSIVgat neurons exhibited remarkable hyperexcitability driven by an elevated Ih. Strikingly, modulating HCN1 expression not only regulated this hyperexcitability but also influenced sexual dimorphism in aggression: silencing HCN1 in the pSIVgat neurons reduced male aggression, while its overexpression significantly heightened aggression in female mice. Furthermore, testosterone intensifies aggression by upregulating HCN1 expression and remodeling pSI circuits. These findings provide novel insights into sex-specific molecular mechanisms underlying social behaviors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Epilepsy is a neurological disorder characterized by excessive neuronal firing, frequently originating in the hippocampus. Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel-1 (HCN1) regulates neuronal excitability and resting membrane potential, yet its role in seizure progression remains unclear. Cannabidiol (CBD), an effective anticonvulsant, may exert part of its effects through HCN1. This study investigated the contribution of HCN1 to seizure progression, synaptic plasticity, and CBD-mediated neuroprotection. Rats were implanted with stimulation electrodes in the perforant path (PP) and recording electrodes with a guide cannula in the dentate gyrus (DG). One week later, lentiviral shRNA-HCN1 was injected into the DG, followed by PP electrical kindling. CBD (100 ng/2 μL) was administered every other day in shRNA-HCN1-treated or non-manipulated animals. Seizure severity was assessed using Racine's scale. Synaptic transmission, paired-pulse plasticity, and long-term potentiation (LTP) were evaluated by extracellular field recordings, HCN1 function by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of Ih (Hyperpolarization-activated current), HCN1 expression by RT-qPCR, and recognition memory using the novel object recognition (NOR) test. Kindling reduced HCN1 mRNA expression, which was further decreased by shRNA-HCN1. HCN1 knockdown accelerated seizure progression, prolonged after-discharge duration, increased spike activity, reduced the sag ratio, and impaired synaptic transmission, paired-pulse plasticity, LTP, and object recognition memory in fully kindled rats. CBD significantly attenuated these electrophysiological and recognition memory deficits, although its protective effects were partially reduced following HCN1 knockdown. These findings indicate that HCN1 contributes to seizure progression and hippocampal dysfunction, while CBD exerts anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effects through both HCN1-dependent and HCN1-independent mechanisms.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The oncoprotein MDM2 is widely recognized as the principal negative regulator of p53, thereby controlling the expression of numerous RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-dependent genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Beyond this canonical role, MDM2 also engages in transcriptional regulation independently of p53, for instance through interactions with polycomb repressor complexes. Here, we identify RNA polymerase III (Pol III) as an additional target of MDM2 function. Using two complementary chemical tools-a small-molecule MDM2 antagonist (MI-1061) that releases p53 and augments MDM2 expression, and a PROTAC degrader (MD-224) that simultaneously activates p53 and promotes MDM2 ubiquitination and proteasomal destruction-we dissected the role of MDM2 in cells with amplified MDM2. Elevated MDM2 suppressed the transcription of Pol III-dependent genes encoding tRNA or 5S ribosomal RNA. Mechanistically, we found the aminoterminal domain of MDM2 associated with the catalytic subunit of Pol III, revealing a molecular link between MDM2 and the Pol III machinery. Because Pol III also acts as a cytosolic DNA sensor that converts DNA into double-stranded RNA to trigger RIG-I-TBK1-IRF3-dependent signaling, we asked whether MDM2 modulates this pathway. Indeed, enhanced MDM2 expression markedly attenuated the induction of innate immunity genes such as CXCL10, OAS1, and MX1 following transfection with poly(dA:dT). Similarly, DNA damage induced by a radiomimetic agent activated Pol III-dependent innate signaling, and this was again blunted by high MDM2 levels, resulting in enhanced cell survival. Taken together, our findings establish MDM2 as a previously unrecognized suppressor of Pol III-dependent transcription in response to cytosolic DNA. This expands the repertoire of MDM2 functions beyond repression of p53 and Pol II activity, positioning MDM2 as a broad regulator of transcription and innate immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Germline gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) gene cause a dominantly inherited inborn error of immunity (IEI) characterized by chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, autoimmunity, severe opportunistic infections and an increased risk of malignancy. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation (HSCT) is curative but is associated with increased risk of morbidity and mortality in STAT1 GOF patients compared to other IEI. To develop a curative, autologous alternative to HSCT, we evaluated gene editing strategies in STAT1 GOF model cell lines, primary T cells, and patient-derived HSCs. Universal and mutation-specific strategies using CRISPR/Cas-mediated homology-directed repair (HDR) were limited by low efficacy (<25%), poor viability, and a lack of allele-specificity. In contrast, adenine base editing corrected the recurrent and highly pathogenic p.T385M mutation with upwards of 90% efficiency in patient T cells and HSCs without significant unintended on- or off-target genomic aberrations. Gene editing functionally restored total STAT1 expression (p<0.0217), STAT1 phosphorylation (p<0.0056), interferon-stimulated gene expression (OAS1; p=0.0005) and improved IL-17 production (p<0.0001). Edited HSCs retained multilineage differentiation capacity and sustained engraftment with persistence of the corrected allele at 16 weeks in humanized immunodeficient mice. These data demonstrate efficient and precise correction of STAT1 GOF mutations by base editing, with maintenance of the correction through long-term engraftment in vivo. This represents the first application of gene editing to correct a dominant gain-of-function mutation causing immunodeficiency, with potential applicability to other genetic disorders associated with heterozygous and gain-of-function mutations.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Intradermal injections of anti-canine immunoglobulin E (IgE) in healthy dogs have been utilized in preclinical drug testing to evaluate the efficacy of anti-allergic drugs used to treat canine atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the molecular effects of established canine anti-allergic drugs on this acute canine IgE-mediated atopic model remain largely uninvestigated. The objective of this study was to characterize the effect of proactive oclacitinib and prednisolone treatments on the immune and skin barrier transcriptome of IgE-mediated late-phase reactions (LPRs) in an acute model of canine AD. Sixteen healthy adult research-bred beagles were randomized to receive either oclacitinib or prednisolone orally for six days, followed by an intradermal anti-canine IgE injection. Biopsies were collected 24 h post-injection for RNA isolation and sequencing; previously analyzed transcriptomes (healthy skin, saline-injected skin, IgE lesions without drug modulation) from the same colony of dogs served as controls. Administration of prednisolone and oclacitinib prior to intradermal anti-IgE injections reduced the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in 24 h samples to 1251 and 1471, respectively. Both treatments resulted in a decrease in expression of several significantly upregulated T helper-(Th)1 (e.g., MX1, OAS1, STAT1), Th2 (e.g., CCL13, CCL8, IL13RA1, IL-33, IL5RA, OSM), chemokine and receptor (e.g., CCL19, CCL2, CCL3, CCR1, CCR3) genes in comparison to the untreated IgE-mediated lesions. Interestingly, only prednisolone treatment significantly reduced IL-13 upregulation, an important gene in the Th2 immune response. In conclusion, both prednisolone and oclacitinib reduced the transcriptomic changes observed in the acute lesions of the canine IgE-induced atopic dermatitis model, with prednisolone inducing a broader inhibitory immune response.
Realizing the full potential of human genetics requires identifying causal variants and genes underlying association signals. Molecular quantitative trait locus (molQTL) analyses, such as expression QTL (eQTL) and splicing QTL (sQTL), link genetic variants to intermediate molecular phenotypes, but pinpointing causal variants and their regulatory effects remains challenging. Here, we integrate sQTL analysis with deep learning-based splicing effect annotation to identify causal genetic variants and elucidate their functional effects on human phenotypes.Applying a single-cell GWAS method, scHi-HOST, across 96 lymphoblastoid cell lines with and without influenza A virus (IAV) infection, we identify approximately 43,000 sQTL SNP-junctions pairs associated with 217 genes during infection. Integrating sQTL mapping with AI based splice prediction and statistical fine-mapping, we prioritize 57 likely causal variants that affect cis-acting molecular splicing components, including 5' donor and 3' acceptor sites. We experimentally validate one such variant, rs2297616, in PARP2, encoding poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 2. This variant alters the 5' splice donor site in the second intron of PARP2, generating two protein isoforms differing by 13 amino acids. The derived A allele is associated with the longer protein isoform and increased IAV levels in lymphoblastoid cell lines. CRISPR mediated editing validates the causal effect of this variant on both protein length and IAV infection. Furthermore, these 57 putative causal sQTLs are linked to over 100 GWAS traits, including many variants associated with autoimmune diseases.Our work provides a catalog of causal sQTL with direct splicing impacts, providing causal mechanistic insights from genotype to disease susceptibility.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450260 is a review article
Aminoglycosides remain clinically important antibiotics, but their use is limited by nephrotoxicity. Although proximal tubular accumulation mediated by megalin is well established, the downstream cellular response is still incompletely understood. Here, we compared repeated-dose transcriptomic responses to gentamicin and tobramycin in a panel of human proximal tubular models comprising primary proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTEC; three donors), human iPSC-derived proximal tubular-like cells (PTL; three donors), RPTEC/TERT1 cells, and HK-2 cells. Cells were exposed daily for seven days to 12, 250, or 450 µg/mL gentamicin or tobramycin, and gene expression was assessed using the TempO-Seq EU-ToxRisk v2.1 panel followed by DESeq2 analysis. Primary PTEC and PTL showed the clearest and most coherent response, characterised by strong induction of interferon-stimulated genes including IFI27, IFI6, IFIT1-3, ISG15, MX1, OAS1, UBE2L6, USP18, IFI44L, HERC6, and RSAD2. Targeted regulator analysis showed strong enrichment of overlapping ISGF3, IRF7, and IRF1 target networks, consistent with a dominant interferon-stimulated gene program, together with a smaller NF-κB-associated inflammatory branch. In contrast, RPTEC/TERT1 and HK-2 cells showed weaker and less coherent responses. Tobramycin generally induced a stronger and more consistent transcriptional response than gentamicin across responsive models. These data identify a robust innate immune-like transcriptional signature in human proximal tubular models following repeated aminoglycoside exposure and support primary PTEC and PTL as more informative in vitro systems for mechanistic investigation of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung cancer (LC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related death globally. The methyltransferase METTL3, a core writer of RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, is a key regulator in cancer. However, its systematic regulatory network, particularly in contexts where it exerts tumor-suppressive functions, remains to be fully elucidated. In this study, we aimed to systematically investigate the transcriptomic and epitranscriptomic remodeling induced by METTL3 overexpression in A549 lung cancer cells to uncover its potential tumor-suppressive mechanisms.Bioinformatics analysis of public databases was performed to evaluate METTL3 expression and prognostic significance in LC. Cell biology assays were conducted to assess phenotypic changes (proliferation, migration/invasion apoptosis) induced by METTL3 overexpression (METTL3-OE). RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed for METTL3-OE and negative control (NC) A549 cells. Publicly available methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) datasets of LC cell line and tissues (GSE117299, GSE76367) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify m6A-modified targets and infer their potential function. Key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and alternative splicing events (ASEs) were validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Analysis of public databases indicated that METTL3 was downregulated in LC tissues and its higher expression correlated with better patient prognosis. Functionally, METTL3 overexpression in A549 cells inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion, while promoting apoptosis (P<0.05). RNA-seq identified 240 DEGs (227 up-/13 down-regulated). Upregulated DEGs were significantly enriched in antiviral response and antigen presentation pathways. METTL3-OE also altered 1,305 ASEs, with affected genes enriched in cell migration and apoptosis. Integrated analysis identified 22 genes (e.g., HLA-A/B/C, MYD88) that were upregulated by METTL3 overexpression and have been reported to harbor m6A modifications reported in LC tissues and A549 cells. Furthermore, analysis revealed an overlap of 222 genes between those undergoing METTL3-regulated splicing changes and genes documented as m6A-modified in the same LC datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the upregulation of the immune-related genes (MYD88, HLA-A/B/C, IFIT1, IFIT3, OAS1, ISG20) and the altered splicing of NCOR2 and SIRT7 and AURKB (P<0.05).Our study demonstrates that METTL3 overexpression exerts tumor-suppressive effects in A549 cells and suggests that METTL3 may be involved in a multi-layered transcriptional and post-transcriptional response. This response includes the upregulation of immune-related genes-many of which are known m6A targets in LC-and the modulation of splicing in genes controlling cell fate, collectively contributing to the suppression of malignant phenotypes.© AME Publishing Company.
In recent years, porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) has emerged as one of the most economically significant viral pathogens affecting the global swine industry, leading to substantial economic losses. Accumulating evidence indicates that oxidative stress facilitates PCV2 infection and replication, whereas alleviating oxidative stress can attenuate this process. Notably, glutathione and selenium play pivotal roles in the antioxidant response. Accordingly, we selected a glutathione-producing strain of Bacillus pumilus for selenium enrichment and investigated its inhibitory effects on PCV2 replication. This study aims to provide experimental evidence for the development of microecological preparations with antiviral activity.In this study, microbial colony counting, analysis of the biological characteristics of bacteria, histopathological analysis, biochemical indicator analysis, quantitative real-time PCR, and Western blotting were used to evaluate the effects of the selenium-enriched Bacillus pumilus composite probiotic on PCV2 replication in a mouse model. The results demonstrated that this Bacillus pumilus strain exhibited high glutathione production, favorable biological characteristics, and strong selenium-enriching capacity. The composite probiotic preparation modulated the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and elevated the phosphorylation levels of JAK1, STAT1, and STAT2. This further upregulated the expression of key antiviral effector genes Mx1 and Oas1 in the mouse spleen, thereby inhibiting PCV2 replication in vivo.In this study, selenium-enriched, glutathione-producing Bacillus pumilus exhibits antiviral potential. It suppresses in vivo PCV2 replication via alleviating oxidative stress, which provides the theoretical basis and experimental support for the development of novel antiviral microecological preparations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Applied Microbiology International. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Herpes simplex keratitis (HSK) is an ocular viral infectious disease with limited therapeutic options and increasing resistance, leading cause of infectious blindness worldwide. Bufalin is a cardiotonic steroid, more specifically a bufadienolide, which can be found in many plant or animal species, but their main sources are skin and parotid gland secretions of toads (such as Bufo bufo gargarizans Cantor), which constitutes the traditional Chinese medicine preparation known as Chan Su (Venenum Bufonis). Despite its broad pharmacological activities, the potential role of bufalin in controlling HSK progression remains to be systematically investigated.This study systematically evaluates the antiviral and anti-inflammatory activities of commercial bufalin standards along with the underlying mechanisms in an HSK mouse model, aiming to discover lead compounds for the treatment of drug-resistant HSK.In vivo studies were conducted using an HSK mouse model established via corneal infection with either HSV-1F or the clinically acyclovir (ACV)-resistant strain HSV-1/153. In vitro experiments were conducted in ARPE-19 and HCEC cell lines, commonly used in ophthalmic research. Plaque assay, RT-qPCR, Western blot, CCK-8, sodium fluorescein staining, H&E staining, and other related experiments were employed to evaluate the antiviral and anti-inflammatory activities of bufalin. The ocular and systemic toxicities of topical bufalin were evaluated using in vivo confocal microscopy, TUNEL staining, body weight monitoring, and organ index analysis.Bufalin and Chan Su alleviates corneal damage in HSK mice, due to its antiviral and anti‑inflammatory activities both in vitro and in vivo. Bufalin not only inhibits the replication of viruses including HSV-1F and HSV-1/153 strains but also reduces inflammatory infiltration and the expression of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and IL-6) in the corneas of HSK mice. RNA-seq analysis reveals that bufalin may act as a potential broad-spectrum antiviral agent by upregulating OAS1 and ISG15 expression, which may represent a distinct antiviral mechanism distinct from ACV. No systemic or ocular toxicity was observed with bufalin at therapeutic doses in this study.These findings identify the natural product bufalin as a potential candidate against drug-resistant HSK by modulating the expression of broad-spectrum antiviral factors OAS1 and ISG15. This study expands the pharmacological application scope of bufalin, and thereby establishes a novel strategic direction for developing plant-derived bufalin and its derivatives as anti‑herpesvirus agents.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
ObjectiveArthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis, gonarthrosis, and gouty arthritis, poses a substantial public health challenge. Regulatory T cells are critical for immune homeostasis, and their dysfunction contributes to arthritis pathogenesis; however, the specific gene regulatory programs causally influencing disease susceptibility remain elusive. We aimed to identify regulatory T cell-specific therapeutic targets using single-cell cis-expression quantitative trait locus and Mendelian randomization.MethodsWe integrated single-cell regulatory T cell cis-expression quantitative trait locus data with genome-wide association study results from FinnGen R12 (16,314 rheumatoid arthritis, 61,356 gonarthrosis, and 12,342 gouty arthritis cases). Two-sample Mendelian randomization was employed to infer causality, using the inverse-variance weighted method, with rigorous sensitivity analyses conducted to ensure robustness.ResultsThe analysis revealed distinct causal associations. In rheumatoid arthritis, upregulation of DexD/H-box helicase 60 like (DDX60L) significantly increased the disease risk (odds ratio = 2.10), whereas OAS1 expression served as a protective factor (odds ratio = 0.65). For gonarthrosis, OAS1 again demonstrated a protective effect (odds ratio = 0.897), whereas janus kinase and microtubule interacting protein 2 (JAKMIP2) was identified as a modest risk factor (odds ratio = 1.019). Conversely, no significant regulatory T cell-specific causal signals were observed for gouty arthritis.ConclusionsOAS1 is a cross-disease regulatory T cell protector, whereas DDX60L and JAKMIP2 are disease-specific risk amplifiers. Engineering high-OAS1/low-DDX60L/low-JAKMIP2 regulatory T cells offers a genetically grounded blueprint for rheumatoid arthritis and gonarthrosis but not for gouty arthritis.
Type-I interferons (IFN-I) and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) are central to antiviral defense, while dysregulation can drive autoimmunity. IFNB1 expression is controlled by a highly ordered multiprotein complex composed of IRF3/7, NFκB, and ATF2/c-Jun (AP-1) that recruit coactivators and chromatin-remodeling proteins to expose the IFNB1 promoter for the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) transcriptional machinery. Here, we identified the paraspeckle protein non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) as a critical facilitator of innate immune activation. Loss of NONO enhanced replication of multiple orthoflaviviruses including West Nile virus due to impaired induction of IFN-I and ISGs. NONO did not affect upstream signaling but instead promoted chromatin accessibility and promoter access for RNA Pol II to drive expression of IFNB1, ISGs, and proinflammatory cytokines. These findings position NONO as a key regulator of antiviral gene expression and reveal chromatin-levels of control that determine effective antiviral immunity.
The pathogenesis of Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been fully elucidated at present. While METTL14 is crucial in innate immunity, its specific role in HBV-related liver disease progression is unclear. We analyzed METTL14 expression in patient tissues and bioinformatics datasets. Mouse models of HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC were established to evaluate liver injury, fibrosis, and tumorigenesis. Mechanistic studies utilized MeRIPqPCR, RIP, and Actinomycin D assays, and hepatocyte-stellate cell co-cultures to investigate METTL14's impact on cGAS mRNA stability, the cGAS-STING pathway, and IFNB1 secretion. METTL14 was downregulated in HBV infection, cirrhosis, and HCC. METTL14 knockdown aggravated liver injury, fibrosis, and tumor formation in mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that METTL14 overexpression in HBV-infected hepatocytes promoted the degradation of cGAS mRNA by increasing its m6A modification, thereby suppressing the cGAS-STING pathway activation and IFNB1 release. Consequently, METTL14 overexpression inhibited stellate cell activation, which was reversed by cGAS-STING agonists. Downregulation of METTL14 reduces the degradation of cGAS mRNA through m6A modification, facilitates the cGAS-STING pathway activation and IFNB1 release, thereby accelerating HBV-related cirrhosis and HCC progressions.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains a clinical challenge characterized by an alarmingly low survival rate. Despite surgical advances and new chemotherapy combinations, currently available treatment fails to improve the overall survival of PDAC patients largely due to an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Radiation can induce cell death and reprogramme the tumor microenvironment by promoting anti-tumor immune response. The cGAS-STING and RIG-I-MAVS pathways are central components of the innate immune system that detect cytosolic nucleic acids and initiate type I interferon production. This study aims to leverage radiation-induced DNA damage together with inhibition of DNA repair and cell cycle checkpoints to potentiate type I interferon response and thereby enhance anti-tumor immunogenicity in PDAC.Two different PDAC cell lines (KRAS wild-type BxPC-3 and KRAS-mutated PANC-1) were used to test two different radiation modalities (X-rays and carbon ions) and regimens (single and hypofractionated dose) in combination with ATR and CHK1 inhibitors as well as the STING agonist diABZI. Cell survival, immunogenic cell death, accumulation of cytosolic dsDNA and micronuclei, gene expression profiles, and STING- and NF-κB-dependent immune signaling were assessed. Immune activation was evaluated by incubating immune cells with supernatants from PDAC cells, followed by analysis of activation markers using spectral flow cytometry.Here we demonstrate that ATR inhibition sensitizes BxPC-3 cells to the cytotoxic effects of radiation and potentiates the immunogenic effects of carbon ions and hypofractionated X-rays (3x8 Gy). Increased accumulation of cytosolic dsDNA and micronuclei was coupled with STING-dependent IFNB1 secretion and genome-wide induction of inflammatory gene expression programs, ultimately resulting in the activation of monocytes. This was not the case for PANC-1 cells, where radiation alone exerted immunosuppressive effects on monocytes.Our results support further evaluation of ATR inhibition in combination with radiotherapy in KRAS wild-type pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) is one of the most common fungal infections, affecting most women during their reproductive years. A core characteristic of VVC is the interplay between Candida albicans pathogenicity and dysregulated innate immune responses. While these inflammatory responses generally underlie VVC severity, epithelial type I interferon (IFN) responses have been associated with improved epithelial resistance to infection and dampened downstream neutrophil activation. Yet, the role of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in epithelial resistance to C. albicans infection remains unclear. Here, we investigated the threshold for mounting type I IFN responses in A-431 vulvovaginal epithelial cells (VECs), and the role of interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) in epithelial resistance and inflammation. We found that increasing C. albicans burdens corresponded to increasing epithelial cytotoxicity and the release of neutrophil chemoattractant IL-8. Further, expression of IFNB1 and ISGs, specifically ISG15 and MX2, was induced at fungal burdens, before the induction of significant cytotoxicity at later time points. We observed intracellular ISG15 accumulation following C. albicans infection, yet detected reduced unconjugated intracellular ISG15, suggesting its conjugation to other proteins. Mechanistically, we show that ISG15 silencing reduced epithelial cytotoxicity and IL-8 responses to C. albicans infection. Concurrently, a C. albicans infection-specific downregulation of the gene encoding the cell death regulator Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1) was observed. Accordingly, ZBP1 silencing, similar to ISG15, exhibited reduced tissue damage and IL-8 responses. Collectively, our data suggest that ISG15, expressed by VECs upon C. albicans infection, may exert negative feedback on epithelial resistance to infection induced by type I IFNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and its product nitric oxide (NO) were historically linked to poor melanoma outcomes, yet recent evidence shows NO supports anti-tumor immunity. This study examines how iNOS shapes anti-PD-1 efficacy, particularly through interferon signaling.B16-D5 melanoma tumors were implanted in wild-type (WT) and iNOS knockout (KO) mice to compare tumor growth and response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Flow cytometry, apoptosis assays, and RNA sequencing assessed NO production, PD-L1 expression, and interferon-related gene activation. In vitro, melanoma cells were treated with NO donors (DETA NONOate, SNAP) to assess proliferation and apoptosis. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 27 melanoma patients receiving anti-PD-1 therapy were analyzed with multiparameter flow cytometry to correlate NO-associated immune subsets with progression-free survival (PFS).Tumors grew significantly faster in iNOS KO mice, and anti-PD-1 therapy had no effect, demonstrating that iNOS-derived NO contributes to treatment efficacy. NO donors inhibited melanoma proliferation and induced apoptosis in vitro. Transcriptomic analysis showed anti-PD-1 upregulated interferon pathway genes (STAT1, IRF1, IFNB1) in WT but not iNOS KO mice. In patients, a NO-producing dendritic-cell subset (DAF-FM+CD11c+) was associated with improved PFS (hazard ratio 0.453; 95% CI = 0.270-0.992; p=0.048), indicating a NO-dependent enhancement of interferon-driven immune activity.iNOS-derived NO is necessary for effective anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in melanoma, promoting interferon signaling and immune activation. Loss of iNOS impairs tumor control and immune responsiveness, supporting NO as a potential biomarker and therapeutic adjunct to be explored while challenging assumptions about its deleterious role in melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Nguyen, Kim, Le, Garg, Balkaran, Bhathivi, Chamizo, Dukes, Ward, Brohl, Karapetyan, Khushalani, Eroglu, Tarhini, Mulé and Markowitz.
Maternal exposure to deoxynivalenol (DON) disrupts gut homeostasis and impairs offspring health, but the mechanism linking DON to lactation dysfunction remains unclear. Here we show that DON impairs lactation performance in mice, as evidenced by reduced offspring growth, decreased milk fat and milk protein contents, and defective mammary gland function. DON also disrupts intestinal barrier integrity and reshapes the maternal gut microbiota, including enrichment of Brachyspira hyodysenteriae (B. hyodysenteriae), whose abundance is negatively associated with milk quality. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from DON-exposed dams reproduced the lactation phenotype in recipient mice. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from DON-associated microbiota similarly transferred this defect. Among DON-enriched candidate bacteria, B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs accumulated in mammary tissue, induced mammary inflammation and were sufficient to impair lactation performance in vivo. Mechanistically, B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs acted through macrophages to suppress lactation-related programs in mammary epithelial cells. Pharmacological inhibition and genetic ablation experiments showed that NLRP3 and STING signaling contributed to this response, with EV-associated protein and DNA fractions preferentially linked to the NLRP3-IL-1β and STING-IFNB1 pathways, respectively. Together, these findings identify B. hyodysenteriae-derived EVs as microbial mediators of DON-induced gut-mammary communication and reveal a vesicle-dependent mechanism linking mycotoxin-induced dysbiosis to lactation dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Steatohepatitis integrates metabolic stress and mitochondrial damage, but single-node interventions often incompletely quell inflammation and fibrosis. We tested a dual-node strategy that reduces the trigger and blocks the adaptor of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING pathway in a high-fat diet plus streptozotocin mouse model. Male C57BL/6 J mice with steatohepatitis (SH) received urolithin A (UA; mitophagy enhancer), C176 (murine STING inhibitor), or their combination. Endpoints included liver injury (ALT/AST), lipids (serum and hepatic triglycerides, cholesterol), glycemia/insulin resistance (fasting glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR), cGAS-STING/type-I interferon signaling (Ifnb1, Cxcl10, IFN-β, CXCL10; p-STING, p-TBK1, p-IRF3), mitochondrial damage signals (cytosolic mtDNA, mtTFA), autophagy/mitophagy (LC3-II/I, cleaved-PINK1, p-PARKIN, p62), inflammasome/cytokines (NLRP3, IL-1β, TNF-α), and fibrosis (hydroxyproline, Col1a1, Tgfb1/TGF-β1). Compared with SH, UA or C176 monotherapy improved injury, lipid, interferon, and fibrotic readouts, with UA preferentially lowering mtDNA/mtTFA and C176 more strongly suppressing p-STING-TBK1-IRF3 and IFN-β/CXCL10. The combination produced the largest, pathway-concordant effects across domains, frequently approaching CTRL. Formal combination analysis on fractional inhibition showed predominant synergistic activity (ΔBliss and ΔHSA > 0 for most endpoints). A precision-weighted correlation map linked insulin resistance, mitochondrial stress, cGAS-STING activation, and fibrosis, while mitophagy restoration markers correlated inversely. By pairing a mitophagy enhancer with a STING inhibitor, we provide first evidence in this model that coordinated upstream and downstream targeting of the mtDNA-cGAS-STING axis yields superior, multi-domain control of disease biology and is immediately translatable via IFN-β/CXCL10, cell-free mtDNA, and imaging readouts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) produce robust type I interferons (IFN-I) within hours of viral sensing, while epithelial cells at mucosal surfaces mount a delayed response dominated by type III interferons (IFN-III). Both cell types express pattern recognition receptors that activate similar downstream transcription factors, yet they produce distinct subsets of IFNs. The mechanisms underlying these differences have remained unclear. Here, using Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) in primary human pDCs and intestinal epithelial cells, we show that IFN-I and IFN-III gene loci carry opposing, constitutively established chromatin accessibility landscapes that determine cell-type-specific interferon induction. The IFN-I locus is broadly open in pDCs and constitutively closed in epithelial cells, while the IFN-III locus displays the reciprocal pattern. Motif enrichment analysis of accessible regions at the IFN-I locus in pDCs revealed unexpected and significant enrichment of ETS family binding motifs alongside IRF motifs, which determines the cell-type-specific locus accessibility. The ETS factor PU.1 and IRF8 bind IFN-I promoters, at composite ETS-IRF elements positioned at the Positive Regulatory Domain IV (PRDIV) site of IFNB1 promoter and adjacent to the TATA-proximal IRF motif of IFNA promoters. IFNL gene promoters lack ETS recognition sequences. PU.1-IRF8 composite factor binding extends across intergenic regions of the IFN-I locus, where candidate enhancer elements marked by H3K4me1, H3K27ac, and RNA Pol II occupancy were identified. We propose that this network of ETS-IRF composite-element-anchored enhancers maintains the IFN-I locus in a constitutively poised state in pDCs, licensing the rapid and robust IFN-I response that defines pDCs. In epithelial cells, the absence of PU.1 and IRF8 renders the IFN-I locus epigenetically silent, while the IFN-III locus is constitutively open. Despite this, the delayed IFN-III gene expression in epithelial cells is due to intrinsically weaker promoter activity relative to IFN-I. These findings reveal that the divergent IFN induction of pDCs and epithelial cells is determined by the chromatin architecture prior to infection. Overall, these observations show that lineage-specific ETS-IRF regulatory factors and promoter strength determine the cell-type-specific IFN activation.
The gut microbiota plays a critical role in shaping host antiviral immunity, particularly through the regulation of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling. Infants are highly vulnerable to viral infections, largely due to their adaptive immune immaturity. Identifying specific commensal bacteria capable of enhancing IFN-I responses represents a promising strategy to boost antiviral defense in this vulnerable population.Forty-five bacterial strains were isolated from fecal samples of infants aged 0-3 years. Their ability to modulate virus-induced IFN-I expression was evaluated using qPCR-based assays in cell lines infected with Sendai virus (SeV). One strain, Escherichia coli JNL-EC1, was selected for further genomic analysis, virulence gene profiling, and hemolysis testing. We assessed IFN-I and ISGs expression, as well as the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3, under conditions of cGAS-STING activation, TBK1 or IRF3-5D overexpression, and HSV-1 or SeV infection. The active components of its metabolites were fractionated using ethanol and chloroform extraction. Antiviral effects were evaluated in HEK293T, INT407, and THP-1 cells, as well as in a SeV-infected mouse model.Among the 45 isolates, metabolites of E. coli JNL-EC1 significantly enhanced SeV- and HSV-1(herpes simplex virus 1)-induced IFN-I signaling activation. Genomic analysis confirmed that E. coli JNL-EC1 resembles a commensal strain, lacking typical pathogenic determinants and exhibiting a non-hemolytic phenotype. The metabolites potentiated cGAS/STING- and TBK1-mediated IFN-I signaling but did not further enhance IRF3-5D-induced gene expression. Moreover, the metabolites increased the phosphorylation of STING, TBK1, and IRF3 following HSV-1 or SeV infection. Active components were present in both water-soluble (0-60% ethanol) and chloroform-extracted fractions and were heat-stable, suggesting the involvement of multiple non-proteinaceous metabolites. Functionally, metabolite pretreatment reduced the replication of GFP-tagged HSV-1 and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) in vitro. E. coli JNL-EC1 significantly upregulated Ifnb1 expression in the spleen and modulated both the composition and activation status of immune cell populations.These findings identify E. coli JNL-EC1 as a gut commensal with broad antiviral-enhancing properties and reveal a microbiota-mediated mechanism that primes antiviral immunity through the IFN-I pathway.Copyright © 2026 Li, Pan, Wang, Zhang, Geng, Yu, Shi, Liu, Jin, Shang, Wu and Wu.
Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), containing homologous EZH1 or EZH2 as the catalytic subunit, is a conserved methyltransferase complex that represses gene transcription by transferring methyl group from SAM to H3K27. Gain-of-function mutations of EZH2 and aberrant H3K27 methylation have been linked to human cancers. SAM-competitive EZH1 and EZH2 dual inhibitors have been approved by the FDA for treating B-cell lymphoma and other cancers. Here, we characterized a small molecule C36, which potently inhibits EZH2/PRC2, but not EZH1/PRC2, with a novel SAM non-competitive mechanism. Cryo-EM structures revealed that C36 binds to a pocket at the interface of SET-Activation-Loop (SAL), stimulation-responsive motif (SRM), and I-SET domain of EZH2, and WD40 domain of EED. C36 binding induces conformational changes and disrupts allosteric communication between EZH2 and ligand-bound EED. C36 efficiently inhibits H3K27 trimethylation and PRC2 target gene expression in tumor cells and xenograft tumors with low hematotoxicity. Multi-omics analyses employing C36 uncovered the direct regulation of IFNB1 by EZH2/PRC2. The combined treatment of syngeneic LLC lung cancer with C36 and a PD-1 antibody significantly enhances anti-tumor efficacy. Our study identifies a new allosteric mechanism of PRC2 inhibition and paves the way for the development of highly selective EZH2/PRC2 inhibitors for combination therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The calcium (Ca2+) sensor calmodulin (CaM) genes CALM1, CALM2, and CALM3 were recently included in the American College Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) secondary findings (SF) list, given their significance in causing long QT syndrome (LQTS) and catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT). These three genes share identical protein sequences, posing potential challenges in variant interpretation. Using paralogue annotation (PA) to classify pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance (VUS) across these three paralogue genes, we performed a systematic, semi-automated curation of the CALM1, CALM2, and CALM3 variants. The analysis identified 173 unique CALM variants from ClinVar and Mastermind databases (75 CALM1, 59 CALM2, and 39 CALM3 variants). After paralogue annotation, we identified 126 unique variants in each of the three genes-378 cDNA variants in total. Out of 126 unique variants for each CALM gene, 63 were VUS, 62 were likely pathogenic/pathogenic (LP/P), and one was conflicting (192 VUS, 186 P/LP, and 3 C in total). Twelve unique variants in the CALM1, CALM2, or CALM3 genes had conflicting classifications between VUS and LP/P calls, which were resolved as LP/P. The application of paralogue annotation and variant curation resulted in an increased number of likely pathogenic/pathogenic variants (111% increase). Additionally, our analysis confirms that the majority of known pathogenic variants are predominantly located within the C-lobe of the CaM protein. This study highlights the benefits of paralogue annotation for accurate variant interpretation in CALM1, CALM2, and CALM3 genes, suggesting that a reduction in missed diagnoses is associated with calmodulinopathies.Copyright © 2026 Curry, Mujkic, Syverud, McGill, Beckwell, Wiley, Bissonnette, Kurtovic-Kozaric and Kiel.
Crohn's disease (CD) is characterized by transmural inflammation and intestinal fibrosis, in which metabolic reprogramming may contribute to fibrotic remodeling through lactate-associated epigenetic and transcriptional regulation, but key cellular states and candidate biomarkers remain unclear. Therefore, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) with a lactylation-associated transcriptional score to estimate lactate/lactylation-related transcriptional activity in CD intestinal tissues. High-dimensional weighted gene co-expression network analysis (hdWGCNA) and an integrated machine learning framework identified core lactylation-associated biomarkers, which were validated in clinical tissue and a TNBS-induced mouse model. Additionally, we evaluated the ability of these core genes to predict anti-TNF-α treatment response in an independent clinical cohort, and analyzed cellular communication and trajectories, using CellChat, Monocle 2, and spatial transcriptomics. In this study, an enterocyte state with high lactylation-associated transcriptional scores was identified. CALD1 and CALM1 were identified as core transcriptional biomarkers associated with this high-lactylation-score epithelial state. A diagnostic nomogram exhibited robust predictive performance (AUC > 0.75, p < 0.05). Notably, increased CALM1 expression was associated with favorable anti-TNF-α response (AUC > 0.70, p < 0.05). Mechanistically, CALD1/CALM1 dysregulation was associated with enhanced GDF15- and MIF-related signaling, potentially contributing to endothelial and macrophage-associated microenvironmental remodeling. Together, CALD1 and CALM1 represent lactylation-score-associated transcriptional biomarkers that may link metabolic reprogramming, epithelial dysfunction, and fibrotic remodeling in CD, serving as candidate diagnostic and treatment-response-associated biomarkers.
Olanzapine (OLZ), a commonly prescribed atypical antipsychotic, is strongly linked to cardiometabolic disorders (CMDs) such as obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and cardiac dysfunction. Garcinia indica Choisy (kokum), a nutrient-rich medicinal fruit with antioxidant, anti-obesity, antidiabetic, and cardioprotective properties, has not yet been investigated for its potential to counter OLZ-induced CMD(s). This study examined the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of G. indica hydroalcoholic extract (GIE) against OLZ-induced cardiometabolic alterations using in vitro and computational approaches. GIE significantly reduced OLZ-induced cytotoxicity in H9c2(2-1) cardiomyocytes by lowering lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), and nitric oxide (NO) levels, while enhancing glucose utilization. Gene expression analysis showed downregulation of IL6, BAX, CASP3, and CAMK2B, alongside upregulation of BCL2, indicating anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic modulation. Network pharmacology and in silico analyses identified thirteen phytocompounds targeting 35 CMD-related proteins, with gambogic acid- RAGE and amentoflavone- CALM1 interactions demonstrating the strongest binding affinities, supported by docking and molecular dynamics simulations. Overall, GIE exhibits multi-target regulatory effects on oxidative, inflammatory, and metabolic pathways, suggesting its therapeutic potential in mitigating OLZ-induced cardiometabolic disturbances. The current findings indicate promising mechanistic potential of GIE against OLZ- induced cardiometabolic alterations, warranting further validation through in vivo and clinical studies.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
The advent of third-generation sequencing, particularly Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT), has revolutionized epigenetic studies by enabling direct detection of DNA methylation modifications and single-base resolution profiling of methylation patterns. While this technology has been predominantly utilized in human and bacterial research, its applications in livestock and poultry remain limited. In this study, we employed ONT sequencing to construct comprehensive 5-methylcytosine modification maps for ten representative pig breeds, explored the mechanism of high altitude adaptive methylation and allele-specific methylation events in these pigs.Through genome-wide integration of sequencing data, we identified 27,857,021 CpG sites, with 71.5% (19,836,456) shared across pigs. Comparative differential methylation analysis between high-altitude and low-altitude pigs revealed four candidate genes (CALM1, HBB, PRKCQ and RAMP1) and the Sp1 transcription factor as potential key regulators of hypoxic adaptation. Notably, Tibetan pigs exhibited promoter hypomethylation patterns at the CALM1 locus, correlating with its consistently elevated expression confirmed by public transcriptomic databases. Allele-specific methylation (ASM) analysis integrated with transcriptomic profiles demonstrated significant enrichment of ASM events in promoters or exons of allele-specific expression (ASE) genes, suggesting synergistic regulatory mechanisms between epigenetic modifications and allelic expression patterns.Our results provided a high-resolution DNA methylation atlas based on long-read sequencing encompassing ten representative pigs across Eurasia, and identified hypoxic adaption-related genes (CALM1, etc.) and a transcription factor (Sp1) based on the unique physiological characteristics of Tibetan pigs. Further, combined with transcriptome data, it was demonstrated ASM and ASE events are synergistic and expressions of ASE genes may be regulated by ASM. This study offers valuable insights into the epigenetic mechanisms underlying adaptation and gene regulation in pigs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) has an extremely poor prognosis, and existing prognostic markers fail to fully capture the complex heterogeneity of the tumor microenvironment. This study aimed to integrate ligand-receptor (L-R) interactions, multi-omics data, and deep learning-based pathological images to construct an interpretable multimodal prognostic model and to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) microenvironment.Significant L-R interactions were identified using BulkSignalR, followed by sequential Cox, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-Cox, and random survival forest analyses to construct a prognostic model. Multi-omics profiling characterized molecular distinctions between risk groups. Key L-R pairs were evaluated with single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, validated in 39 paired clinical specimens via immunofluorescence, and linked to histopathological features through deep learning on hematoxylin and eosin-stained whole-slide images.We identified 236 significant L-R pairs, with 47 associated with prognosis. Integration of LASSO-Cox and random survival forest analyses yielded five key pairs: IL16_KCND1, PLAU_ITGA5, FN1_ITGB3, GNAS_ADCY1, and CALM1_PDE1B. The resulting risk model effectively stratified overall survival. The high-risk group showed higher tumor mutational burden, more frequent KRAS and TP53 mutations, and enrichment of extracellular matrix remodeling, transforming growth factor‑β signaling, and glycolysis pathways. Single-cell and spatial analyses revealed preferential enrichment of PLAU_ITGA5 and FN1_ITGB3 in fibroblast-related compartments. Immunofluorescence confirmed upregulation of these pairs in tumor tissues, and deep learning identified fibroblast-associated histopathological features with strong concordance to the risk axes.This study established the first multimodal prognostic framework integrating L-R interactions and histopathological features, revealing the central role of CAF-mediated L-R signaling in remodeling the PAAD microenvironment and providing a novel strategy for precise prognostic stratification and targeted microenvironmental therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Long-term regular exercise is effective against age-related cognitive decline. However, the mechanisms through which mind-body exercises such as Tai Chi produce these effects, and the involvement of exosome-mediated signaling between the periphery and the brain, are unknown. For this 1:1 matched observational study, cognitively normal participants aged 60 to 75 years, with a male-to-female ratio of 2:3, were recruited into the long-term regular Tai Chi group (n = 50) and long-term irregular exercise group (n = 50). N-back task functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed that the long-term regular Tai Chi group showed a better working memory performance than the long-term irregular exercise group. Moreover, the long-term regular Tai Chi group showed altered activation in the superior frontal gyrus and pre/postcentral gyri. By integrating microRNA sequencing and proteomic profiling of serum exosomes, we identified miR-625-5p as a significant differential factor targeting CALM1 and VDAC2, whose expression levels negatively correlated with 1-back task accuracy. To investigate causality, serum-derived exosomes from both groups were delivered intravenously to SAMP8 mice. Exosomes from the Tai Chi group improved working memory deficits and resulted in an increase in prefrontal dendritic spine density, while down-regulating miR-625-5p and up-regulating the synaptic plasticity-related proteins calmodulin 1 and voltage-dependent anion channel 2 in the prefrontal cortex. Collectively, our findings suggest that long-term Tai Chi exercise may improve cognitive function by remodeling circulating exosome cargo. The key mediator, miR-625-5p, may act via the calmodulin 1/voltage-dependent anion channel 2 pathway to orchestrate prefrontal synaptic remodeling. Exosomes derived from Tai Chi practitioners may be a potential therapy for age-related cognitive decline.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
1. Calcium (Ca) is essential for avian embryonic bone mineralisation, yet its metabolic dynamics during duck embryogenesis remain unclear. This study investigated Ca mobilisation in Muscovy duck embryos.2. Eggshell (ES) and yolk samples were collected from embryonic day (ED) 16 to ED31 for analysis of ES physical properties (thickness, strength, mass ratio) and Ca levels. Serum, yolk sac membrane (YSM) and liver tissues were collected from ED16 to the day of hatch (DOH) to assess serum biochemical parameters and relative mRNA expression of genes associated with Ca transport (PLCG1, PRKCA, CALM1) and absorption (CALB1, ARNT, EP300).3. Results showed ES quality and Ca levels decreased (p < 0.01) linearly with increasing incubation days. Yolk Ca levels decreased (p < 0.01) linearly and quadratically, reaching a minimum on ED25. Serum Ca levels and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity increased (p < 0.01) linearly and quadratically during ED16-DOH and achieved a plateau during ED28-DOH. Expression of Ca-related genes in YSM and liver increased quadratically (p < 0.01), peaking during ED25-28.4. In conclusion, ES quality declined with reduced Ca levels during embryogenesis. Concurrently, yolk Ca levels, along with serum Ca and ALP levels, increased significantly during ED25-28, indicating peak embryonic Ca mobilisation during this period. Additionally, relative mRNA expression of Ca mobilisation-related genes in the YSM and liver exhibited a similar increasing trend. This suggested enhanced Ca mobilisation during this phase to support bone mineralisation and growth in duck embryos.
Phosphorus (P) utilization is a complex trait influenced by numerous genetic variants. The jejunum is the primary site of P absorption in poultry. Therefore, identifying the genetics that regulate transcription in jejunum may help uncover key regulators of P homeostasis. We performed a genome-wide association study using the expression of jejunal mucosa transcripts (88 miRNAs, 65 mRNAs). These transcripts were selected from our previous studies due to their association with P utilization and related pathways. In total, the trial comprised 400 laying hens from two high-yielding strains, Lohmann Brown (LB) and Lohmann Selected Leghorn (LSL), fed a diet lacking mineral P supplements and exogenous microbial phytase to stimulate adaptive mechanisms.In total, 114 miR-eQTLs (microRNA expression quantitative trait loci) were detected at a false discovery rate (FDR) of less than 5%, including 56 miR-eQTLs in the LB strain and 58 miR-eQTLs in the LSL strain. Lohmann Brown contained 23 cis and 35 trans loci, with the most significant cis-eQTL targeting miR-146b. In the LSL strain, a cis-eQTL cluster for miR-203a was present on chromosome 5. Similarly, 123 mRNA-eQTLs (94 in LB and 29 in LSL) were identified at the 5% FDR threshold. The genetic regulation of key genes involved in mineral binding and mineral transport, including CALB1 and SLC34A2, in LB hens was predominantly driven by strong cis-eQTL. In contrast, gene expression in LSL hens was largely modulated by trans-eQTLs, with CALM1 being the only gene under significant cis-regulation. Furthermore, correlation analysis with the gut microbiome revealed that the expression of cis-regulated CALB1 is significantly positively associated with the abundance of Lactobacillus species.Our findings reveal that LB and LSL hens exhibit distinct genetic architectures contributing to maintain mineral homeostasis. Genetic differences between the two strains influence the transcriptional response of key mineral transporter genes and miRNAs under a low-P diet. These divergent host genetic strategies are also associated with distinct gut microbiota profiles, highlighting interactions between host genetics, gene expression, and the microbiome in P utilization.© 2026. The Author(s).
The optimal timing and therapeutic role of dexamethasone for neuroprotection in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury remain unclear. We investigated whether dexamethasone-mediated neuroprotection is time-dependent and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms in a neonatal HI mouse model. The Rice-Vannucci model (unilateral carotid artery ligation followed by 8% O2 for 90 min) was constructed utilizing postnatal day 7 mice who received vehicle (n = 5), dexamethasone pre-treatment (0.5 mg/kg, 6 h before HI; n = 6), or dexamethasone post-treatment (0.5 mg/kg, 6 h after HI; n = 6). Brain injury severity was evaluated by two blinded investigators 72 h after HI, who measured the whitish discoloration in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Transcriptomic analysis was performed using five representative brain samples from each group. Dexamethasone pre-treatment significantly reduced the area of whitish discoloration compared with the vehicle (p < 0.001); dexamethasone post-treatment exerted no significant protective effect. Transcriptomic profiling identified 962 (407 upregulated and 555 downregulated) differentially expressed genes. Genes with upregulated expressions were enriched in pathways related to central nervous system development, synaptic signaling, and calcium homeostasis; those with downregulated expressions were associated with cellular metabolic processes. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified Dlg4, Calm1, and Grin1 as hub genes. qRT-PCR validation confirmed significant upregulation of Grin1 and Calm1, whereas Dlg4 showed a concordant but non-significant trend. These findings suggest that dexamethasone pre-treatment may be associated with time-dependent changes in synaptic- and calcium-related gene expression following neonatal HI injury, providing insight into the optimal therapeutic window for neonatal HI brain injury.
Sepsis-induced ARDS demonstrated greater severity and higher mortality compared to ARDS triggered by other factors. In this article, we comprehensively explored the roles of cellular senescence (CS)-related genes in sepsis-induced ARDS, highlighting their hub molecules and upstream regulatory network via machine learning (ML) methods.RNA-sequencing data of sepsis-induced ARDS and CS-related genes were obtained from online accessible databases. A total of three machine learning methods were applied to identify CS-related hub molecules in sepsis-induced ARDS. The RegNetwork database was used to explore the upstream regulatory network of CS-related hub molecules. Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) data was also used to verify the expressions of these CS-related hub molecules. We further constructed a sepsis-induced ALI/ARDS mouse model and validated these hub molecules by qRT-PCR.A total of 40 CS-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in sepsis-induced ARDS. Based on these, consensus clustering identified two potential molecular subtypes (Cluster A and B), and a total of six intersected genes (UBE2C, RPS6KA2, CCNA2, EZH2, CALM1, and E2F2) were finally regarded as hub molecules in sepsis-induced ARDS via three machine learning methods. These CS-related hub molecules were verified for their expressions at scRNA-seq levels. Correlations between these six hub molecules and 23 immune infiltration cell types were further revealed, and we also established the mRNA regulatory network of the miRNA/TF-six CS-related hub molecules. Besides, qRT-PCR results showed that the E2f2, Ezh2, and Ube2c genes had a higher expression in the sepsis-induced ALI/ARDS subgroup than in the control subgroup, while others did not (P-value < 0.05).Our study highlighted the CS-related E2F2, EZH2, and UBE2C genes as hub molecules in sepsis-induced ARDS and their upstream regulatory network by means of machine learning methods.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Mitochondria activate immunity, but the role in cancer is unknown. Here, we report that transgenic expression of Parkin, a regulator of mitochondrial fitness, induces inflammation and interferon (IFN) gene signatures, suppresses prostate cancer formation and generates CD8+ and CD20+ intraprostatic immune aggregates. These had hallmarks of mature tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), expressing markers of B cell maturation (CXCL13, CCL21), germinal center formation (BCL6, GL7), mature dendritic cells (MHC-II/CD208) and high endothelial venules (LYVE-1). Parkin TLS showed high Ig gene expression, recruitment of CXCR5+ follicular T helper cells and expansion of CD69+/KLRG1+ effector T cells. Conditioned medium from Parkin-positive cells expanded memory B and plasma cells, increased IgG1 production, and sustained B and T cell migration. Finally, conditional expression of Parkin induced TLS formation, upregulated Ig chains and inhibited prostate cancer growth, in vivo, whereas Parkin reconstitution in IFNAR1, CD8 or CD20 knockout mice had no effect. Therefore, mitochondrial immunity orchestrates antitumor responses, and TLS formation contributes to tumor suppression.
Adaptive immune responses to primary Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) infection are poorly defined. To develop better small-animal models for understanding KSHV pathogenesis and immunity, we previously generated a chimeric virus in which the KSHV latency-associated nuclear antigen (kLANA), a conserved multifunctional protein critical for viral latency, was exchanged for the LANA homolog in murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68). Despite supporting comparable levels of latent infection between wild-type (WT) and KLKI MHV68, kLANA directly repressed MHV68 lytic replication and reactivation. We therefore hypothesized that suppression of lytic replication by kLANA dampens adaptive immune responses. To test this, mice were infected with equivalent doses of either WT or KLKI MHV68, and adaptive immune responses were evaluated over time. Compared to the WT virus, polyclonal B and T cell activation was starkly reduced following KLKI MHV68 infection, which correlated with reduced virus-specific humoral immunity and effector CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation. Immune activation phenotypes were independent of the inoculating dose, as a high-dose infection with KLKI MHV68 still resulted in comparatively reduced adaptive immune activation. In contrast, infection of Ifnar1-/- mice, which support enhanced KLKI MHV68 lytic replication, led to potent adaptive cellular and humoral immune activation by both WT and KLKI viruses, suggesting that a lytic replication threshold must be passed for viral antigen-driven adaptive immune engagement. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that kLANA-mediated suppression of lytic replication limits polyclonal lymphocyte activation and facilitates adaptive immune evasion by holding viral replication below an antigenic activation threshold.IMPORTANCEKSHV is a gammaherpesvirus that establishes lifelong, chronic infections in humans and increases the risk of virus-associated cancers. Currently, there is little information on how primary KSHV infection influences adaptive immune development in healthy individuals. Rodent models, such as murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68), provide a valuable laboratory system for studying gammaherpesvirus pathogenesis in vivo. In this study, we report that infection with a previously characterized chimeric KSHV-MHV68 virus expressing KSHV LANA represses lytic viral replication and elicits weak adaptive immune responses following primary infection, despite efficient latency establishment. By enhancing KLKI MHV68 replication in vivo, we restore adaptive immune activation, providing evidence that a viral replication threshold must be eclipsed for potent adaptive immune engagement. We propose that KSHV, through LANA, evades detection by repressing lytic viral replication to remain "below the radar" of adaptive immune defenses during host colonization.
Interferon (IFN)-resistant cell clones 3Cl8 and 3γR8, isolated from wild-type Friend erythroleukemia cells 745A were characterized to identify the resistance defect. The 3Cl8 cell clone is resistant to type I IFNs and sensitive to type II IFN, whereas 3γR8, derived from 3Cl8, is resistant to both type I and II IFNs. Here, we report that no activation of the JAK-STAT pathway is detected after IFN treatment of resistant cells. Interestingly, the absence of major transcripts of the IFNAR2 receptor chain has been observed in type I IFN-resistant cells, and a point mutation relative to the IFNGR2 receptor chain (β chain) has been identified in type II IFN-resistant cells, inducing a frameshift leading to premature termination of translation. In addition, we have identified a new polymorphism of the murine IFNAR1 chain and possibly the presence of a murine IFNAR2b transmembrane, non-transducing chain in 745A cells, similar to that observed in humans and differing from previous reports on other murine systems.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a highly prevalent malignancy with limited treatment options for advanced stages, and immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) efficacy is restricted by primary or acquired resistance. This study investigated the role of suppressor of cytokine signaling 5 (SOCS5) in CRC progression and immune evasion. We found SOCS5 is overexpressed in CRC tissues and correlates with poor patient prognosis. Functionally, SOCS5 does not affect CRC cell proliferation but impairs anti-tumor CD8+ T-cell immunity by negatively regulating type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling. Mechanistically, SOCS5 acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase to promote K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of IFNAR1, inhibiting IFN-I pathway activation. Furthermore, high SOCS5 expression is associated with reduced ICB response in CRC patients, and targeting SOCS5 enhances the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in preclinical models by boosting CD8+ T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. These findings identify SOCS5 as a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target to improve ICB outcomes in CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42439538 is a review article
Tumor cell PD-L1 represses IFN signaling to limit anti-tumor immunity, despite an IFN-responsive immunophenotype predicting colorectal cancer response to immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. Lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-encapsulated IFNα2-encoding nanoplasmid (LNP-mIFNα2) gene therapy suppresses tumor progression, however, the underlying mechanism and therapeutic trade-offs of the accompanying proinflammatory cytokine response triggered by nucleic acid delivery remain undefined. Here, we show that LNP-mIFNα2 selectively transfects tumor cells to restore local IFNα2 production in lung metastases, suppressing colon cancer lung metastasis in syngeneic and humanized mouse models and sensitizing tumors to ICI therapy. Efficacy required canonical IFNAR1 signaling, and was further enhanced by neutralizing co-induced IL6. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed coordinated tumor microenvironment reprogramming with SPP1 + macrophages underwent apoptosis while incoming monocytes acquired an IFN-responsive identity, Tpex cells lost their quiescence program and expanded, and tumor cells lost their high-cycling phenotype while increasing antigen presentation and immune-cell-recruiting chemokines. Tumor cells also shifted away from a hypoxia/HIF-1α-driven cuproptosis-resistance program, with increased Fdx1 and copper-importer expression and decreased metallothionein Mt1, suggesting sensitization to coproptosis pathway. The LNP-mIFNα2-treated tumor microenvironment transcriptionally recapitulated T cell and myeloid signatures of pembrolizumab-responsive patients. Our findings establish LNP-delivered IFNα2 as a multi-compartment TME regulator that reprograms myeloid suppression, reinvigorates exhausted T cells, and restores tumor immunogenicity.LNP-mIFNα2 eliminates SPP1+ TAMs and reprograms monocytes to an IFN-responsive stateLNP-mIFNα2 relieves Tpex quiescence to expand Tpex and contract Tex-term cellsTumor cells lose a high-cycling state and a HIF1α-driven cuproptosis-resistance phenotypeLNP-mIFNα2-reprogrammed mouse TME mirrors pembrolizumab-responsive human tumors.
While radiotherapy (RT) is effective for local tumor control, it rarely induces the regression of non-irradiated metastases, a phenomenon known as the abscopal effect. The mechanisms constraining this systemic immune response remain poorly understood. This study investigates galectin-9 (Gal-9), a ligand for the TIM-3 (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3) immune checkpoint, as a mediator of immune escape that limits RT systemic efficacy and evaluates combinatorial RT/Gal-9 blockade in preclinical models.METHODS: Multiplatform analysis (RNA sequencing, immunoblot, flow cytometry, ELISA, immunohistochemistry) characterized RT-induced Gal-9 regulation in human lung/colorectal cancer cell lines, murine tumors/serums, and paired patient tumors. Local and abscopal therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in homologous (CT26/CT26, LLC/LLC) and heterologous (CT26/4T1) two-tumor mouse models. Immune profiling of tumor microenvironment, tumor-draining lymph nodes (tdLNs), and splenic compartments was comprehensively assessed by flow cytometry. Mechanistic studies employed STING (Stimulator of Interferon Genes) inhibition (H151), CD8+ T-cell depletion (anti-CD8α), macrophage/monocyte depletion (PLX-3397), interferon-I (IFN-I) blockade (anti-IFNAR1), and lymphocyte egress inhibition (FTY720).RT upregulated Gal-9 predominantly within host myeloid compartments (dendritic cells, macrophages, monocytes, neutrophils) versus tumor cells, in both irradiated tumors and abscopal tumors. Mechanistically, RT-activated STING-IFN-I axis locally induced Gal-9+ myeloid cells that subsequently disseminated systemically. Clinically, elevated post-RT Gal-9 in patient biopsies correlated with poor therapeutic outcomes. Notably, combining Gal-9 blockade with RT elicited potent abscopal responses in homologous two-tumor mouse models. Furthermore, anti-Gal-9 markedly enhanced radio-immunotherapy efficacy in the poorly immunogenic Lewis lung carcinoma. Immunologically, Gal-9 blockade synergized with RT to activate the myeloid and T cell compartments, enhancing dendritic cell accumulation in tdLNs and boosting CD8+ T cell infiltration in abscopal tumors. Depletion of CD8+ T cells/monocytes or blocking lymphocyte egress from lymph nodes abrogated the abscopal efficacy, underscoring their essential roles.Our findings establish RT-induced Gal-9 as a novel dual myeloid/T-cell immune checkpoint restricting abscopal responses. Gal-9 blockade represents a promising strategy to potentiate radiotherapy against metastatic disease, defining a therapeutic paradigm distinct from conventional checkpoint inhibitors.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Mechanistic heterogeneity is a major obstacle to the development of effective treatment for Sjögren's disease, and there is a pressing need to stratify Sjögren's disease according to precision medicine principles. Aberrant activation of the type 1 interferon (IFN) pathway represents a leading candidate pathway, but a causal role of elevated IFNα in driving Sjögren's disease has yet to be established. We aimed to examine the role of IFNα in driving a Sjögren's disease endotype and relevance to precision medicine principles.We used data from the UK Primary Sjögren's Syndrome Registry (UKPSSR), a multicentre observational cohort of participants with Sjögren's disease, and UK Biobank, a large population-based cohort which includes people with and without Sjögren's disease, to study the role of IFNα in Sjögren's disease. Ultrasensitive single molecule ELISA and an oligoprotein IFN signature score derived from broad capture proteomics were used to analyse samples from UKPSSR and data from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (a subset of individuals from UK Biobank) to establish the timecourse and immune endotype associated with elevated IFNα. To address causality, we created a new transgenic mouse model of IFNα overexpression to establish whether chronically elevated IFNα drives this immune endotype. People with lived experience of Sjögren's disease were involved in the design of the UKPSSR and shaping of research questions.Between Aug 1, 2009, and March 31, 2012, we identified 177 people with Sjögren's disease in UKPSSR (mean age 57·5 years [IQR 46·0-65·0], 163 [92%] women, 14 [8%] men, and 162 [92%] White ethnicity). In addition, between March 13, 2006, to Oct 1, 2010, we identified 47 606 people without Sjögren's disease and 257 people with Sjögren's disease in the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project, including 137 individuals sampled before diagnosis. IFNα concentrations were elevated in 108 (61%) of 177 people with Sjögren's disease in the UKPSSR. Oligoprotein IFN signatures were detected up to 14 years before diagnosis of Sjögren's disease in the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project. Individuals in UKPSSR with elevated IFNα had a distinct immunological endotype characterised by cytopenia, hypergammaglobulinaemia, multiple autoantibodies, and autoimmunity against the Sjögren autoantigen TRIM21/Ro52. In a mouse model of systemic chronic IFNα elevation, in which IFNα4 was overexpressed by conventional dendritic cells, the key features of the endotype were recapitulated and could be partly reversed by type 1 interferon receptor (IFNAR1) blockade.We found that the elevation of IFNα drives an immune endotype of Sjögren's disease, and elevated IFNα can be detected over a decade before diagnosis. People with Sjögren's disease with elevated IFNα concentrations were broadly clinically similar to those with normal IFNα concentrations, yet were immunologically distinct. This highlights the mechanistic heterogeneity of Sjögren's disease and the need for immunological stratification along precision medicine principles, using high resolution biomarkers. In addition to demonstrating causal direction, biological modelling in a mouse model showed that chronic IFNα elevation over the lifecourse had the potential to establish persistent immune dysregulation, which responded only partly to IFNAR1 blockade. These findings provide insights into Sjögren's disease and other interferonopathic rheumatological disorders.Precision Medicine Alliance Scotland (Chief Scientist Office, Scottish Government), Wellcome Trust, Medical Research Council UKRI, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) is a major concern across orthoflavivirus infections, yet how multiple viral exposures shape enhancement risk remains incompletely understood. Here, we integrated serosurveillance from Saúde, Brazil with functional immunologic analyses to define how yellow fever virus (YFV)-associated orthoflavivirus immune histories influence ADE phenotypes. Using serocomplex-specific anti-premembrane antibody profiling validated by microneutralization assays, plasma samples were stratified into YFV-only, YFV+DENV, and YFV+DENV+ZIKV exposure groups. In Fcγ receptor-bearing U937 cells, YFV-only plasma demonstrated minimal enhancement activity, whereas cumulative orthoflavivirus exposure generated broader ADE phenotypes across heterologous viruses. In IFNAR1 -/- passive-transfer models, YFV-only plasma did not enhance ZIKV or DENV2 infection in vivo. In contrast, YFV+DENV plasma increased ZIKV viremia and accelerated mortality kinetics, while YFV+DENV+ZIKV plasma demonstrated concentration-dependent enhancement phenotypes. Collectively, these findings indicate that isolated YFV immunity does not predispose to ADE, whereas cumulative orthoflavivirus exposure generates antibody repertoires capable of producing concentration-dependent enhancement in vivo.
The high clinical recurrence rate of colorectal cancer (CRC) is driven by the survival of residual tumor cells that evade therapy-induced death by entering a dormant state. While dormancy is a recognized mechanism of treatment resistance, the molecular drivers governing this "quiescent reservoir" and its associated vulnerabilities remain poorly characterized, limiting the development of strategies to eradicate these dormant seeds.We developed a COAD-specific Dormancy Score (CADS) derived from NMF analysis of ~ 69,000 single cells to quantify and identify a dormant subpopulation at single-cell resolution. Mechanistically, the IFN-β/cDC1 axis and its downstream MEK/ERK dependency were validated using a GFP-p27K- dormancy reporter system, spatial transcriptomics, and CRISPR/Cas9-mediated Ifnar1 knockdown. Finally, the synergistic efficacy of anti-PD-1 combined with MEK inhibition (Trametinib) was evaluated in orthotopic CRC mouse models.The CADS effectively identified a distinct dormant subpopulation in CRC characterized by profound G0/G1 arrest, enhanced stemness, and multi-drug resistance. We uncovered a novel evasion mechanism mediated by the hijacking of IFN-β signaling. Conventionally recognized for its anti-proliferative roles, IFN-β signaling is exploited by surviving tumor cells to enter a deep quiescent state. This phenotype acts as a biological reservoir that fuels intratumoral heterogeneity and underpins the relapse of colorectal tumors by conferring resistance to conventional cytotoxic regimens. Effective anti-PD-1 therapy paradoxically enriches this dormant population via an enhanced IFN-β-conventional type 1 dendritic cell (cDC1) axis. Mechanistically, IFN-β-induced dormancy depends on MEK/ERK pathway activity, which sustains survival while suppressing apoptosis. This creates a synthetic lethal vulnerability: MEK inhibition (e.g., Trametinib) synergizes with IFN-β to re-sensitize dormant cells to apoptosis. Consequently, combining Trametinib with anti-PD-1 therapy overcomes this evasion mechanism, eliminates the dormant subpopulation, remodels the immune microenvironment, and shows strong synergistic efficacy in preclinical models.Our work redefines an immune-cell death paradox, revealing how tumors exploit IFN-β to evade therapy. We propose CADS as a translational biomarker for identifying tumors reliant on this pathway and validate a mechanism-based combination therapy that selectively targets dormancy-associated death resistance, offering a promising strategy to improve CRC outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulated calpains and cathepsins contribute to adverse cardiac remodeling following chronic pathological stress, but their interplay and the specific contributions of the classical calpain isoforms remain undefined. Here, we tested whether calpain-2 initiates a lysosome-cathepsin proteolytic axis that promotes pathological hypertrophy through mTORC1-dependent signaling.Calpain expression was analyzed in septal myocardium from patients with aortic stenosis and mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Calpain activity was modulated genetically by Capns1 deletion or pharmacologically with the calpain-2 inhibitor NA-184 in TAC mice. Cathepsins were inhibited with balicatib. In vitro, Capn2 was silenced by siRNA in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts stimulated with angiotensin II.TAC upregulated myocardial calpain-2 expression, which correlated with hypertrophy severity in septal tissue from patients. TAC induced lysosomal membrane permeabilization, evidenced by reduced cathepsin B-lysosome colocalization, and increased cytosolic cathepsin accumulation and activity. Mechanistically, calpain-2 cleaved the lysosomal protein LAMP2, generating a ~ 55 kDa fragment. Both Capns1 deletion and NA-184 preserved LAMP2 and lysosomal integrity, reduced autophagic dysregulation and the activation of the AKT/mTOR signaling, and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy. Capn2 silencing in H9c2 reproduced the effects by reducing LAMP2 proteolysis and hypertrophy. Balicatib produced comparable anti-hypertrophic effects, supporting a sequential calpain-cathepsin signaling cascade. When treatment was extended, NA-184 limited ventricular dilation and attenuated systolic dysfunction (30%, p < 0.001).These findings identify calpain-2-mediated LAMP2 proteolysis as an upstream trigger linking lysosomal dysfunction to pathological hypertrophy, and highlight selective calpain-2 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for heart failure treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are specialized sentinels of antiviral immunity and the dominant early source of interferon-α (IFN-α) during viral infection. While pDC-derived IFN-α restricts viral replication and provides a critical third signal for T cell activation, sustained type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling can drive immunopathology, and the physiological mechanisms that constrain this response remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify fever as a conserved host factor that selectively limits IFN-α production by pDCs. We show that febrile-range temperature does not impair early IFN-α induction but instead suppresses sustained IFN-α output in human and mouse pDCs. Mechanistically, elevated temperature attenuates signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation, thereby disrupting the IFN-I-dependent positive feedback loop required for IFN-I amplification following CpG-A stimulation. Pharmacological inhibition of protein phosphatase activity with okadaic acid (OA) restores STAT1 phosphorylation and rescues IFN-α production under febrile conditions. Together, these findings establish fever as a physiological regulator of pDC-derived IFN-I responses and reveal a temperature-dependent mechanism that constrains prolonged IFN-I production to prevent excessive immune activation.© 2026 The Authors.
Mutant C9orf72 has been extensively studied as a major genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, and is also known to generate Huntington's disease (HD)-like phenocopies. However, despite this strong disease association, the role of wild-type C9orf72 (wt-C9orf72) in neurodegeneration remains largely unexplored. HD is a neurodegenerative disease, and characterized by the accumulation of misfolded mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) and impaired proteostasis, yet the upstream mechanisms driving ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) dysfunction are not fully understood. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized modulatory role of wt-C9orf72 in regulating mHTT aggregation in experimental HD models. Analysis of public transcriptomic datasets reveal context-dependent C9ORF72 expression changes across HD-related human datasets, while C9orf72 levels are increased in R6/2 mouse brain lysates. Functional analyses reveal that overexpression of wt-C9orf72 increases mHTT aggregation and is accompanied by increased apoptotic signaling and reduced cell viability. Unbiased proteomic profiling identifies Stat1 as a key downstream effector. Mechanistically, wt-C9orf72 promotes Stat1 activation and nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional upregulation of Isg15, a ubiquitin-like modifier. Elevated Isg15 disrupts UPS function, resulting in accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins and impaired proteasomal degradation. Importantly, genetic suppression of Stat1 or Isg15 significantly attenuates C9orf72-associated mHTT aggregation, supporting a functional C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis. Consistent with these cell-based findings, Stat1, phosphorylated Stat1 and Isg15 levels are elevated in the cortex and striatum of R6/2 HD mouse brains. Collectively, our findings identify a novel wt-C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis that promotes proteasomal dysfunction and mHTT aggregation, providing new insights into wt-C9orf72-associated protein homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroinflammation and microglia M1/M2 polarization imbalance are among the core pathological mechanisms of epilepsy (EP), with the JAK1/STAT1 pathway being vital in neuroinflammation. β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), a ketone body metabolite, has anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective potential, but whether it can ameliorate EP-related neurological damage by modulating this pathway remains unclear. To investigate whether BHB regulates microglia polarization and phagocytosis through the JAK1/STAT1 pathway, attenuates neuroinflammation and neuronal injury, and thus exerts anti-EP effects. A rat primary neuronal EP model and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced M1-type microglia model were constructed, and microglia polarization, migration, phagocytosis, and neuronal damage were detected by scratch assay, flow cytometry, Hoechst 33,342/PI staining, Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, and ELISA kits. A rat model of Pentetrazol (PTZ)-induced EP was constructed to detect the effects of BHB on the symptoms of EP in rats by behavioral assessment, and to detect brain tissue damage by pathological staining. Western blot was conducted to detect microglia polarization markers, neuronal apoptosis, synapse-related proteins, and JAK1/STAT1 pathway-related proteins expression. Pathway specificity was verified using JAK1 overexpression plasmid (OE-JAK1) and STAT1 inhibitor (Fludarabine). BHB concentration-dependently increased EP neuron viability and suppressed M1 polarization induced by LPS, and promoted M2 polarization. BHB also enhanced the migration and phagocytosis of microglia, and reduced pro-inflammatory factor release, which in turn attenuated their pro-inflammatory damage to neurons and protected synaptic integrity, and this effect was linked to its suppression of JAK1/STAT1 pathway activation. Additionally, BHB extended seizure latency, decreased seizure duration, and reduced seizure severity in EP rats, and effectively attenuated brain histopathological damage and promoted neuronal regeneration and axonal repair. Furthermore, BHB was also effective in promoting microglia M2 polarization and enhancing their phagocytosis in vivo. Overexpression of JAK1 attenuated the neuroprotective effects of BHB, and Fludarabine attenuated the impacts of overexpression of JAK1. By inhibiting the JAK1/STAT1 pathway, BHB promotes microglia M2 polarization and enhances their phagocytosis, attenuates neuroinflammation and neuronal injury, and ultimately exerts anti-EP effects.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Treatment of NSCLC KRAS G12C mutant tumors with the allele-selective sotorasib and adagrasib inhibitors is invariably associated with acquired resistance. The MUC1-encoded oncogenic M1C protein is necessary for self-renewal of NSCLC KRAS mutant cells. We report that treatment of NSCLC KRAS G12C cells with sotorasib induces M1C expression by a STAT1-dependent pathway. In turn, M1C drives the sotorasib resistant phenotype by NF-κB-mediated induction of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and a mucinous gene program. Targeting M1C→NF-κB signaling (i) suppresses EMT and mucin genes, and (ii) reverses sotorasib resistance. Of translational relevance, treatment with a M1C antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) is effective against two sotorasib-resistant NSCLC KRAS G12C cell lines and two patient-derived tumor xenograft models. Analysis of patients with NSCLC KRAS G12C tumors treated with sotorasib/adagrasib and overexpressing MUC1 associates with decreases in overall survival. These findings identify M1C as a key effector of sotorasib resistance and as a target for treatment of patients with refractory NSCLC KRAS G12C mutant tumors.© 2026. The Author(s).
Maintaining a balanced immunity between pathogen defense and tolerance to environmental antigens in neonates is essential for survival and the establishment of life-long immune homeostasis. Instructed by environmental signals, type 1 conventional dendritic cells (cDC1) contribute to both processes but how the balance may be achieved is unclear. Here, we uncover an interferon (IFN)γ-driven regulatory circuit in early life that relays dietary cues to spleen cDC1. IFNγ-mediated STAT1-signaling induces an immunogenic maturation program in spleen cDC1 that enables them to shape the effector differentiation of antigen-experienced effector memory CD8⁺ T cells. This cDC1 program emerges during the transition from breastfeeding to solid food at weaning, occurs in germ-free mice, and remains operative to dietary intervention in adult mice. At weaning, this IFNγ signal enables spleen cDC1 to shape the effector phenotype of food-antigen-specific CD8+ T cells in a feedforward manner, thereby recalibrating the developing T cell pool. Our findings identify diet as a modifiable cue that can tune systemic cDC1-mediated immunity, opening new opportunities to steer immune responses during early life and beyond.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bone remodeling requires precise coordination between osteoblast-mediated bone formation and osteoclast-driven resorption. However, directly targetable and therapeutically actionable mediators that can coordinately modulate both processes during regeneration remain relatively limited. Here, we identify immunoglobulin superfamily member 10 (IGSF10) as a dual-function modulator of bone remodeling. Igsf10-deficient mice exhibit reduced bone mass, elevated osteoclast activity, and impaired osteogenesis. Recombinant IGSF10 protein restores osteogenic capacity and suppresses osteoclastogenesis in knockout cells, while exerting pro-osteogenic and anti-resorptive effects in wild-type mesenchymal and monocyte-derived cultures. Mechanistically, IGSF10 activates a noncanonical EGFR-STAT1 signaling pathway, distinct from BMP2-Smad signaling. Co-immunoprecipitation and molecular docking confirm IGSF10-EGFR interaction, and blockade of EGFR abrogates IGSF10-induced osteogenesis and its inhibitory effects on osteoclastogenesis. In vivo, IGSF10 promotes bone regeneration in both calvarial and periodontal defect models and exhibits synergy with subtherapeutic BMP2. These findings position IGSF10 as a previously unrecognized dual-acting regulator that coordinates bone formation and resorption in a context-dependent manner, with potential therapeutic value for craniofacial and skeletal regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immunotherapeutic strategies for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have yielded only modest response rates, severely limiting patients' clinical outcomes. Clarifying the underlying mechanisms to reverse immunotherapy resistance therefore represents a critical unmet need. In this study, we employed the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of human TNBC tissues to identify inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) as a central regulator governing cytotoxic T lymphocyte trafficking into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Ectopic expression of ITPKB robustly enhanced the secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), a critical chemokine required for effective anti-tumor immune responses. Mechanistically, elevated ITPKB activity accelerated the conversion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) to inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), thereby dampening IP3-driven endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release. Attenuated intracellular calcium ions (Ca2 +) flux, in turn, promoted the recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) to CXCL9 promoter, driving robust CXCL9 transcription. In addition, utilizing a stepwise virtual screening strategy of 3677 compounds, we identified amentoflavone (AMF) as a novel ITPKB agonist-like compound. AMF treatment could stabilize ITPKB by preventing Trim25-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, in 4T1 and EMT6 syngeneic TNBC murine models, ITPKB-overexpressing or AMF administration exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (αPD-1) immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these results position ITPKB as a therapeutically tractable molecular switch that remodels the tumor immune landscape via Ca2+-dependent transcriptional rewiring. Targeting ITPKB thus represents a promising strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance and expand the pool of TNBC patients who may benefit from αPD-1-based immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Genomic instability is increased in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), yet whether it contributes directly to disease pathogenesis remains unclear. Here, we identify RADX, a structural antagonist to RAD51 and a key regulator of replication fork stability, as a critical suppressor of intestinal inflammation by limiting innate immune sensing of replication-associated DNA damage. RADX deficiency exacerbates experimental colitis, with macrophages serving as the principal mediators of this phenotype. Mechanistically, RADX competes with the DNA sensor IFI16 for binding to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). Loss of RADX promotes ssDNA accumulation, triggering IFI16-dependent activation of NF-κB signaling and inflammasome assembly, thereby driving intestinal inflammation. Consistent with these findings, two RADX variants identified in patients with IBD associate with reduced RADX protein expression, increased DNA damage signaling, and elevated IL-1β levels. Pharmacological inhibition of RAD51 with RI-1 alleviated colitis in both wild-type and Radx-deficient mice. Together, these findings establish a mechanistic link between genome instability and intestinal inflammation, identify a RADX-IFI16 checkpoint that restrains pathogenic innate immune activation, and nominate modulation of replication stress as a therapeutic strategy for IBD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite significantly improving outcomes in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy (NCIT) fails to achieve a major pathological response (MPR) in over 40% of patients. Consequently, the early identification of non-responders prior to treatment initiation remains a critical unmet clinical need.In this study, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on pre-treatment NSCLC tissue samples and integrated data from two public databases to identify signaling pathways associated with poor treatment response. Key findings were subsequently validated using multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF), and the predictive value of identified molecules was finally assessed in our cohort and GEO datasets.Among the 83 patients, 23/57 (40.35%) of these radiological responders failed to achieve MPR. Data analysis revealed activation of stress-related signaling pathways in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and T cells from nMPR patients, with elevated expression of stress-related markers, including BAG3 and IFITM2. MIF confirmed that BAG3+IFITM2+ CAFs and BAG3+CD8+ T cells were spatially adjacent and significantly more abundant in nMPR patients. In our cohort and the two public databases, the BAG3+ CAF-T Cell Neighborhood was significantly more abundant in the nMPR group compared to the MPR group (p<0.05). In the MPR group, there was no significant difference in BAG3+ CAF-T Cell Neighborhood between the radiological PR and non-PR subgroups. The AUC values of BAG3+IFITM2+ CAFs, BAG3+CD8+ T cells, and the BAG3+ CAF-T Cell Neighborhood were 0.84 [95%CI: 0.746-0.931], 0.72 [95%CI: 0.603-0.835], and 0.87 [95%CI: 0.787-0.948], respectively. The OS and DFS of the BAG3+ CAF-T Cell Neighborhood high group are significantly decreased than that of the low group (p<0.05). The level of BAG3+ CAF-T Cell Neighborhood outperformed other two indicators in predicting non-response to NCIT. Consistent results were observed in GSE126044 and GSE135222.The BAG3+ CAF-T Cell Neighborhood may serve as a biomarker for predicting non-response to NCIT in NSCLC, with significant potential to inform clinical decision-making.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Cao, Jin, Wang, Lu, Chen, Shi, Xu, Ouyang, Tang, Meng and Li.
Ovarian cancer (OVCA) is a common and highly aggressive gynecologic malignancy often diagnosed at advanced stages. Approximately 30% of patients develop platinum resistance, resulting in disease recurrence and progression. Currently, no diagnostic or chemoresistance prediction model based on plasma cell-free RNA (cfRNA) profiling exists.We recruited 304 participants and performed plasma cfRNA sequencing. After quality control, 172 OVCA patients and 70 healthy controls were assigned to the training set, and 44 OVCA patients with 18 controls to the test set. A DenseNet-based deep learning model was developed to analyze cfRNA features.The model distinguished OVCA patients from healthy controls with AUCs of 0.9997 in the training set and 0.9747 (95% CI: 0.9437-0.9963) in the test set. For chemoresistance prediction, it yielded AUCs of 0.9442 and 0.8421 (95% CI: 0.7504-0.9147), respectively. Our model outperformed comparative models across both tasks, though the performance advantage in the chemoresistance prediction task should be interpreted cautiously given the limited sample size. Interpretability analyses combined with bioinformatics identified FLOT1, IFITM3, and IFITM2 as putative diagnostic cfRNA biomarkers.This plasma cfRNA-based deep learning model identifies OVCA patients and predicts chemoresistance, offering a non-invasive tool for early diagnosis and treatment stratification.This study was registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry under registration number ChiCTR2500099940.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) ranks among the most common autoimmune disorders globally. Adherence to a healthy lifestyle may substantially offset the risk conferred by a high transcriptomic risk profile.Immune-related differentially expressed genes (IRDEGs) were first identified based on data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (NAIT=13, Nnon-AIT=10) and a cross-sectional dataset from Anhui Province (NAIT=5, Nnon-AIT=5). Feature selection was then performed using LASSO regression and random forest algorithms to pinpoint key IRDEGs. These key genes were subsequently validated in a large, multi-province Chinese cross-sectional dataset (N = 902). Within this validation dataset, an RNA sequencing-based risk score (RSR score) was developed, and lifestyle factors were evaluated via structured questionnaires. The associations between the RSR score, lifestyle, and AIT were examined using multivariable logistic regression.Through a multi-stage screening and validation process, three key genes were identified: IFI16, CASP4, and BKT. The study included 902 participants with a mean age of 39.17 ± 10.70 years, 56.32% of whom were female. Among them, 126 cases of AIT were identified (13.97%). The prevalence of AIT showed significant differences across strata of gender, lifestyle, and the RSR score. Logistic regression identified a high RSR score (OR = 2.58, 95% CI: 1.72-3.89), along with intermediate (OR = 2.38, 95% CI: 1.18-4.79) and unfavorable (OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.43-5.62) lifestyles, as significant risk factors for AIT. The robustness of these associations was confirmed in stratified analyses by age and gender.This study suggests independent and interactive roles of transcriptomic risk and lifestyle in AIT etiology. Adherence to a healthy lifestyle may substantially offset the risk conferred by high transcriptomic susceptibility.Copyright © 2026 Li, Liu, Yue, Zeng, Zhang, Li, Liu, Li, Zhao and Liu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42412246 is a review article
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is an inflammatory bowel disease involving complex interactions between genetics, gut microbiota, metabolism, and immunity. This study aimed to systematically evaluate multi-omics factors potentially associated with UC susceptibility and identify reliable diagnostic biomarkers. A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) framework assessed potential causal associations between gut microbiome, circulating metabolites, immune cell phenotypes, and UC susceptibility. Significant MR findings were integrated with multiple transcriptomic datasets to identify differentially expressed candidate genes. Immune infiltration analysis, machine learning modeling, and external validation were subsequently performed. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics were used to localize key genes and to explore their potential cell type-specific functions within the tissue microenvironment, followed by qRT-PCR validation in independent clinical tissues and siRNA-mediated IFITM2 knockdown in THP-1-derived macrophages. MR analyses identified potential causal associations for specific microbiota, sphingomyelin-related metabolites, and immune cell phenotypes with UC susceptibility. Integrative analysis prioritized four core signature genes: SAG, WDR48, IFITM2, and SIRPA. A random forest model achieved an AUC of 0.964 and identified a four-gene signature with strong diagnostic performance. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics localized IFITM2 upregulation mainly to myeloid cells, particularly Neutrophil_IFITM2. CellChat suggested a potential CD4_Tem_IL7R-ANXA1-FPR1-Neutrophil_IFITM2 axis. qRT-PCR supported the expression directions of the four genes, and IFITM2 knockdown in THP-1-derived macrophages reduced TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β mRNA expression. This multi-omics framework supports the potential roles of specific microbiota, sphingolipid metabolism, and immune phenotypes in UC pathogenesis. The four-gene signature and characterization of Neutrophil_IFITM2, supported by independent qRT-PCR validation and preliminary IFITM2 knockdown experiments, may provide a framework for precision diagnosis and future mechanistic studies in UC.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Osteoporosis, a prevalent metabolic bone disease, often leads to pathological fractures. Identifying causative relationships between proteins, genetic loci, and osteoporosis can highlight potential therapeutic targets.This study employed Mendelian randomization (MR) and summary-data-based MR (SMR) to investigate the causal relationships between protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), and various forms of osteoporosis, including drug-induced osteoporosis. Data from large-scale proteomic and genomic studies were used. Sensitivity analyses included Bayesian colocalization and HEIDI testing. Potential therapeutic targets were prioritized using phenome-wide association studies (pheWAS), druggable target tests, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses.The MR and SMR analyses identified 17 targets potentially regulating osteoporosis and one specific to drug-induced osteoporosis. Bayesian colocalization confirmed these findings, supporting their validity as therapeutic targets.Our study found that SREBF1, TAS1R3, SPTBN1, and RSPO3 have potential for osteoporosis drug development. In addition, we found that GID4, CPTP, and UBE2Q2 have effects on regulating the genesis of osteoporosis. In our study, we also found that IFI16 has an effect on regulating drug-induced osteoporosis. We believe that basic research on osteoporosis drug development should focus on the above targets with sufficient evidence to further promote the progress and development of osteoporosis treatment.© 2026 Japan Geriatrics Society.
The transition period (- 21 to + 21 days relative to calving) in dairy cows is characterized by profound metabolic adaptations that often result in negative energy balance (NEB) and mobilization of body reserves. This study evaluated the association of postpartum body condition score (BCS) loss on the expression of skeletal muscle genes involved in protein metabolism and related biomarkers in blood. Two hundred high-yielding multiparous Holstein cows (≥ 30 kg milk/day) without postpartum disorders were grouped according to BCS loss between calving and + 42 days in milk (DIM): 0.00, - 0.25, - 0.50, and - 0.75 units. Muscle biopsies (n = 40) were collected on days 21 and 42 postpartum for quantification of mRNA abundance of ubiquitin-proteasome pathway genes (UBE2G1, UBE2G2, UBA1, MuRF1, Atrogin-1) and mTOR signaling genes (mTOR, EIF3K, 4EBP1). Cows losing - 0.50 or - 0.75 BCS units exhibited significantly higher expression of UBE2G1, UBE2G2, UBA1, MuRF1, and Atrogin-1, and lower expression of 4EBP1, compared with cows with no or mild BCS loss (P < 0.05). mTOR and EIF3K expression were unaffected. Cows with greater postpartum BCS loss (0.50 and 0.75 units) had significantly higher (P < 0.05) plasma concentrations of creatinine and 3-methylhistidine compared with cows that lost 0 to 0.25 BCS units. These increases were proportional to the extent of BCS loss, with the highest concentrations observed in the 0.75-unit group. These findings indicate that moderate to severe BCS loss is associated with activation of proteolytic pathways and suppression of key regulators of protein synthesis in skeletal muscle, underscoring the importance of maintaining optimal BCS during the transition period to preserve muscle integrity and metabolic health.© 2026. The Author(s).
The PYHIN (pyrin and HIN domain-containing) gene family encodes central cytosolic DNA sensors, including AIM2 and IFI16, that activate inflammasome and type I interferon pathways during infection. While these pathways are critical for antiviral and antimicrobial defense, how ecological pressures shape their evolution remain unclear. The PYHIN gene family varies across mammals, and bats have completely lost all PYHIN genes. Here, we integrate phylogenomic, comparative genomic, and phylogenetically controlled analyses across more than 150 mammalian species to investigate PYHIN evolutionary dynamics. We show that PYHIN genes form a tightly linked genomic cassette within a conserved chromosomal interval flanked by SPTA1 and CADM3, a pattern we describe as an Anchored Gene Cluster Pulsation mechanism characterized by coordinated expansion, contraction, and loss. Across mammals, the genomic distance between these anchor genes correlates with PYHIN copy number. In bats, phylogenetic logistic regression identifies powered flight and inverted roosting as traits statistically associated with PYHIN loss, whereas echolocation and hibernation show no association. Olfactory receptor genes within the same region are retained, indicating targeted loss of DNA-sensing immune genes rather than generalized genome contraction. These findings support a model in which bat immunity is associated with ecological specialization favoring immune tolerance and provide a framework for understanding immune gene family evolution as integrated genomic modules.Copyright © 2026 Ziemann, Streicher, Sicks, Zhang and Zhang.
Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDPs) affect 5%-10% of pregnant women and, in the absence of established therapies, remain a leading cause of maternal and perinatal mortality. HDPs have been associated with disruption of cytotrophoblast fusion into syncytiotrophoblasts, a process essential for placental development. Here, we identified altered expression of mitochondrial dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) and interferon-induced transmembrane proteins (IFITMs), using HDP placentas, and investigated their functional roles in trophoblast fusion and membrane dynamics. In trophoblast cells, the inhibition of DHODH led to upregulated expression of IFITM1-3 through transcription factor IRF1 and suppression of syncytialization. IFITMs also increased the proportion of saturated fatty acids, thereby decreasing plasma membrane fluidity. Furthermore, IFITM2 increased the soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1/placental growth factor (sFlt1/PlGF) ratio, a key biomarker of HDP severity. These results suggest that DHODH deficiency activates IRF1-mediated IFITM2 expression, leading to impaired trophoblast fusion via biophysical remodeling of the membrane and contributing to HDP pathogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s).
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Acyl-CoA binding domain containing protein 3 (ACBD3) is a Golgi protein implicated in multiple cellular processes. However, its function in negative-strand RNA virus infection and innate immune responses remains poorly understood. Here, we identify ACBD3 as a novel positive regulator of host defense that potently inhibits vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) replication in HeLa cells with ACBD3 overexpression or knockdown. Mechanistically, our investigation unveils a previously unknown ACBD3-TRIM21-MAVS axis. Co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry analysis reveals that ACBD3 interacts with the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21, and this interaction is crucial for stabilizing the mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS). During VSV infection, ACBD3 enhances TRIM21 protein levels, thereby promoting MAVS accumulation and facilitating the activation of type I interferon signaling. Collectively, our findings elucidate a novel mechanism by which ACBD3 sustains innate immunity via TRIM21 to restrict VSV replication, providing a potential therapeutic target and strategy for combating negative-strand RNA viruses.
Mammalian antiviral signaling adaptors, such as MAVS, MITA, and TRIF, have been shown to possess a conserved pLxIS motif (p, hydrophilic residue; L, leucine; x, any residue; I, isoleucine; S, serine, phosphorylation site), which has been identified as the key site leading to the transduction of antiviral signaling. But, the antiviral activity of the potential pLxIS motif in these homologous adaptors remains to be fully elucidated in fish. In this study, teleost TRIF, MAVS and MITA were found to contain conserved motifs with respective consensus sequences p[I/L]E[I/V]S, xLxbS and p[I/L]xbS (E, glutamic acid; V, valine, b, hydrophobic residue). Furthermore, these three adaptor proteins share a universal x[I/L]xbS structural motif, wherein the internal serine residue serves as an indispensable and highly conserved functional site. Functional assays revealed that the x[I/L]xbS motif promotes antiviral immune responses mediated by fish MAVS, MITA and TRIF, by inducing the expression of type I IFNs and ISGs as well as the activation of IRF3. Thus, the present study may shed light on the functional evolution of antiviral immune signaling of the conserved motif of these adaptors in teleost.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557414
Dysregulation of innate immunity during respiratory RNA virus infections drives systemic hyperinflammation and lung injury. Here, we show that importin β4 (IPO4) has a role in inhibiting antiviral innate immunity. Transcriptomics analysis illustrated a downregulation of IPO4 in alveolar macrophages, lung ciliated epithelium, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from severely ill patients with COVID-19 or influenza. We further identified CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (CEBPB) as the transcription factor for IPO4 reduction during RNA viral infections. Loss-of-function validation demonstrated that IPO4 dampens the innate antiviral and inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, IPO4 sequesters fatty acid synthase (FASN) to block palmitic acid production, thereby inhibiting mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) activation and the downstream innate immune signaling. Moreover, Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated pulmonary restoration of IPO4 significantly alleviated viral pneumonia in mice. These results indicate that the CEBPB-IPO4-FASN-MAVS axis preserves innate immune homeostasis to avoid inflammatory pathology, highlighting IPO4 as a potential therapeutic target for severe viral pneumonia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543035 is a review article
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
The Tom70-Hsp90 interaction is critical for MAVS-mediated interferon (IFN) production. Upon RNA virus infection, cytosolic Hsp90 recruits key innate immune signaling proteins to MAVS on mitochondria through its interaction with Tom70. To evade this innate immune response, SARS-CoV-2 Orf9b binds to Tom70, thereby disrupting the Tom70-Hsp90 interaction and suppressing IFN production. Despite its importance, the molecular mechanism underlying the Orf9b-mediated IFN antagonism has remained unclear. Here, using an integrative approach including cryo-electron microscopy and 19F NMR spectroscopy, we show that Orf9b inhibits the Tom70-Hsp90 interaction through a bipartite mechanism. Through comprehensive structural, thermodynamic, and kinetic analyses, we reveal a previously unrecognized interplay between the rigid and dynamically disordered regions of Orf9b that blocks Hsp90 access to Tom70. Collectively, our results provide a high-resolution mechanistic framework for understanding Orf9b-mediated suppression of the host innate immune response.
Herpes simplex keratitis (HSK) is a leading cause of infectious corneal blindness. Host antiviral responses, particularly type I interferon (IFN) signaling, are impaired during corneal herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection, partly due to viral immune evasion and metabolic reprogramming. This study investigated if topical glycolysis inhibition restores mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS)-associated innate antiviral signaling and improves HSK outcomes.In vitro and in vivo infection models were established using the HSV-1 McKrae strain. A stable hexokinase 2 (HK2)-knockdown human corneal epithelial cell (HCEC) line was generated using lentivirus. Protein/mRNA levels were analyzed via western blot (WB), immunofluorescence (IF), enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). Murine corneal pathology and viral proteins were assessed by slit-lamp imaging, IF, and WB.Elevated HK2 expression was detected in HSK models. HK2 knockdown or 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG)-mediated inhibition reduced HSV-1 replication (lower infected cell protein 0 [ICP0], higher interferon-stimulated gene 56 [ISG56]). Co-IP confirmed the interaction between HK2 and MAVS protein, and HK2 inhibition activated the TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)/interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) pathway. Topical application of 2-DG improved murine corneal epithelial integrity, reduced viral proteins (glycoprotein D, ICP0), and showed efficacy comparable to acyclovir.Topical glycolysis inhibition enhances corneal antiviral defenses via MAVS-mediated type I IFN signaling, controlling HSV-1 and alleviating disease. It reveals a novel corneal metabolism-antiviral immunity link, highlights HK2 as a therapeutic target for HSK, and supports metabolic therapies for HSK and ocular herpes virus infections.
Polynucleotide phosphorylase 1 (PNPT1) functions as a crucial mitochondrial enzyme; nevertheless, its potential genetic correlation with osteoporosis and its specific regulatory impact on osteoclastogenesis remain to be elucidated.We executed a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) strategy to interrogate the causal link connecting PNPT1 expression to osteoporosis risk. For in vivo substantiation, we utilized both an ovariectomized (OVX) murine model and an adeno-associated virus (AAV)-driven overexpression system. Extensive in vitro assays employing RANKL-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages were conducted to evaluate osteoclast differentiation, mitochondrial dynamics, autophagic flux, and intracellular oxidative stress through molecular and morphological analyses.MR evaluations pinpointed genetically predicted elevated PNPT1 expression as a potential genetic risk factor for osteoporosis. In vivo observations revealed a significant surge of PNPT1 within the osteoclast precursors of OVX subjects. In vitro, the ectopic overexpression of PNPT1 significantly enhanced osteoclastogenesis and bone degradation while simultaneously triggering severe mitochondrial depolarization alongside the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). On the contrary, targeted Pnpt1 silencing markedly suppressed osteoclast maturation. Mechanistic probes demonstrated that PNPT1 disrupted autophagic flux, marked by p62 accumulation. Notably, even with a compensatory transcriptional rise in Nrf2 mRNA, PNPT1 overexpression provoked a marked downregulation of Nrf2 and xCT proteins, suggesting a potent post-transcriptional suppression of the cellular antioxidant shield. This uncoupling invariably precipitated sub-lethal lipid peroxidation that amplifies osteoclastogenic signaling. Concordantly, AAV-mediated systemic PNPT1 amplification aggravated trabecular bone deterioration in vivo.Guided by our MR findings and validated through our functional models, PNPT1 emerges as a potential genetic risk factor for osteoporosis. By inciting mitochondrial damage, provoking ROS buildup, and decoupling the protective autophagy-Nrf2/xCT axis, PNPT1 promotes osteoclastogenesis, thereby introducing a promising immunopharmacological target for restraining pathological bone resorption.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening pulmonary disorder characterized by dysregulated inflammatory responses, excessive activation of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, severe oxidative stress, and potentially fatal cytokine storms. Conventional therapies are severely limited by poor targeting of the inflammatory microenvironment and insufficient cellular uptake by hyperactivated immune cells. To address these translational barriers, we developed a "cellular hitchhiking" nanoplatform by coating selenium-doped carbon quantum dots (SC) with bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) derived from the probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917. This biomimetic nanoparticle (SC@OMV) leverages pathogen-associated molecular patterns naturally present in OMVs to achieve precise targeted delivery and highly efficient internalization by pulmonary macrophages via pattern recognition receptors. Following cellular uptake, SC efficiently scavenges excessive reactive oxygen species and promotes macrophage repolarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype toward the tissue-reparative M2 phenotype. In vivo evaluations using an LPS-induced ALI mouse model demonstrated that intravenously administered SC@OMVs preferentially accumulate in inflamed lung tissues. Moreover, SC@OMVs effectively suppressed cytokine storms and promoted the repair of the alveolar-capillary barrier by modulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway. By synergistically integrating the targeted biological delivery capabilities of OMVs with the potent intracellular immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties of selenium, the use of SC@OMVs represents a highly promising, precise therapeutic strategy for the comprehensive management of ALI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564195 is a review article
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) can cause diarrheal disease in both humans and young livestock, posing substantial challenges to intestinal health. This study investigated the protective effects and mechanisms of encapsulated tannic acid (ETA) against ETEC-induced intestinal injury. ETA was successfully prepared, and in vitro digestion experiments showed that the release rate of tannic acid was 10.27% in simulated gastric fluid, with a cumulative release rate of 78.97% in simulated intestinal fluid after 360 min, indicating its excellent controlled-release property. In vivo, 500 mg/kg ETA was selected as the optimal dose and alleviated ETEC-induced growth inhibition, reduced the spleen weight ratio, and mitigated intestinal inflammation. Histologically, ETA improved intestinal morphology by increasing villus height and decreasing crypt depth, and its efficacy was better than that of TA. ETA also attenuated inflammation by downregulating TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8 and the TLR4/MYD88/TAK1 pathway, relieved oxidative stress by increasing SOD activity and decreasing MDA content, and restored intestinal barrier function. Additionally, In vitro, 0.6% ETA digestion supernatant alleviated ETEC-induced damage in IPEC-J2 cells. ETA also reshaped ETEC-induced cecal microbiota dysbiosis by reducing α-diversity, increasing the abundance of beneficial bacteria and decreasing pathogenic bacteria, and restored short-chain fatty acid levels. Mechanistically, antibiotic-induced gut microbiota depletion abolished the protective effects of ETA, while fecal microbiota transplantation from ETA-treated donors replicated these protective effects. These findings demonstrate that ETA attenuates ETEC-induced intestinal injury through gut microbiota modulation, providing a promising strategy for the prevention and treatment of bacterial enteritis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
Cannabis sativa L. produces a wide range of bioactive metabolites, including phytocannabinoids such as tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabigerol (CBG), which exhibit antiviral activity and modulate innate immune responses through Toll-like receptors (TLRs), particularly TLR4 and TLR7. The cross-regulation between cannabinoids and TLRs can influence the production of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides. Given their key role in orchestrating innate immunity, particularly inflammatory responses and antiviral activity, understanding these processes in bovine immune cells is essential. This study evaluated the immunomodulatory and antiviral effects of extracts from C. sativa chemotypes - THC-dominant (I), intermediate THC:CBD (II), CBD-dominant (III) and CBG-dominant (IV) - in bovine cells. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells, chemotype I induced an enhanced inflammatory response, increasing TLR4 and BMAP28 transcription and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression at both transcriptional and protein levels. Similarly, chemotype IV promoted a pro-inflammatory profile characterised by increased TLR4, BMAP28 and IFNβ expression, as well as elevated TNFα protein levels. In contrast, chemotypes II and III elicited anti-inflammatory effects. Chemotype III decreased TLR4, TLR7, BMAP28, TNFα and IFNβ transcription, although IFNγ protein levels increased. Chemotype II produced a comparable, although less pronounced, anti-inflammatory pattern, reducing TLR4, TLR7, TNFα and IFNβ while increasing BMAP28. Additionally, chemotypes II, III, and IV exhibited antiviral activity in BoAHV-1-infected MDBK cells, significantly reducing viral titres at 48 h post-infection. Overall, these findings demonstrate that C. sativa chemotypes differentially modulate bovine innate immune gene expression and may also exert antiviral effects, highlighting their potential as dual immunomodulatory and antiviral agents in bovine infectious contexts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study explored the regulatory effects of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) on the TLR4/NF-κB pathway and intestinal flora in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D).Twenty-eight Wistar rats were randomized into four groups: model (n = 13), blank control (n = 5), HIF-1α upregulation (n = 5), and HIF-1α downregulation (n = 5). The IBS-D model group received combined acute and chronic stress stimulation for disease induction. On the basis of identical stress intervention, the HIF‑1α upregulation group was additionally exposed to a hypobaric hypoxic chamber, while the HIF‑1α downregulation group underwent intraperitoneal administration of the HIF‑1α antagonist 2‑methoxyestradiol to achieve targeted modulation of HIF‑1α expression.the control group was fed conventionally. Two model rats were euthanized on days 0, 7, 14, 21 to analyze colonic HIF-1α, TLR4 and NF-κB, and feces from the remaining 5 model rats were gathered on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28 for 16S rRNA sequencing. Gastrointestinal symptoms, mucosal integrity and molecular expression were assessed after 28 days.An IBS-D model was successfully established. HIF-1α expression in the model group increased progressively, while TLR4/NF-κB levels fluctuated but showed an overall increase. The levels of all three markers were significantly higher than those in the control group(P < 0.05). The HIF-1α downregulation group exhibited more severe IBS-D symptoms and higher TLR4/NF-κB expressions than the upregulation group (P < 0.05). At the genus level, the abundance of Lachnospiraceae NK4A136 decreased, whereas the abundance of the Prevotellaceae NK3B31 group, Clostridia UCG - 014, UCG - 005, and Prevotellaceae UCG - 001 increased (P < 0.05).Under systemic hypobaric hypoxic stress, HIF-1α suppresses the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway and alleviates intestinal inflammatory responses. Concurrent intestinal hypoxia and inflammatory injury jointly interfere with normal commensal colonization, accompanied by altered gut microbial composition in IBS-D model rats. Changes in HIF-1α levels are biologically correlated with shifts in intestinal microbiota, though direct causal regulation of gut flora by HIF-1α remains to be verified in further experiments.Copyright: © 2026 He et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is characterized by diarrhea and is often accompanied by depression, abdominal symptoms, and emotional comorbidities. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that dysfunction of the brain-gut axis is a key pathogenic factor in IBS-D, yet the specific mechanisms remain unclear. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a major bioactive component of Bupleurum chinense DC., exhibits anti-inflammatory, antidepressant, and antitumor activities, with multi-target and multi-pathway interactions.Acetic acid and restraint stress induced an IBS-D mouse model. SSD (purity ≥ 98%, Macklin Inc.) was administered orally at low, medium, and high doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg). Visceral sensitivity, inflammatory status, intestinal barrier function, HPA axis activity, and gut microbiota composition were systematically evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing.SSD significantly alleviated visceral hypersensitivity and depression-like behavior, inhibited the peripheral HMGB1-TLR4/NF-κB inflammatory pathway, and restored intestinal barrier integrity. SSD also downregulated hypothalamic Nesfatin-1/CRH/p-CREB expression, suppressed hyperactivation of the stress-related HPA neuroendocrine axis, and reshaped the gut microbial community structure (β-diversity). Network pharmacology analysis suggested that SSD targets were significantly enriched in brain-gut axis-related pathways.The present results indicate that SSD could ameliorate IBS-D by synergistically regulating peripheral inflammation, central stress, and intestinal microbes via the brain-gut-microbiota axis, providing experimental evidence for its potential application in TCM-based treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of haematological malignancies triggered by a driver mutation, most commonly the JAK2 V617F mutation, which is acquired in a haematopoietic stem cell. The diseases are characterised by an overproduction of myeloid cells and may result in severe complications such as thrombosis, myelofibrotic transition, and potentially progression to acute myeloid leukaemia. Treatment with interferon-α (IFN-α) can potentially deplete the disease-driving malignant stem cell population, thereby leading to long-term remission. We extend a mechanistic compartmental differential equation model of MPN progression to account for the effects of IFN-α treatment. In agreement with experimental mouse studies, we assume that IFN-α acts through effects on malignant stem cell differentiation and malignant progenitor and precursor cell apoptosis. We use a hierarchical Bayesian inference procedure to infer the drug response parameters of the model based on measurements of the JAK2 V617F variant allele frequency (VAF) for N=56 patients from the Danish DALIAH study, both on the individual and the population level, with 14 patients left out for subsequent testing. The model estimates are found to agree with data. The drug response parameters are found to act synergistically on the reduction of JAK2 VAF, with the model being able to capture qualitatively different types of treatment responses. Using the inferred information about the population distribution of drug response parameters is found to improve predictions compared to predictions without prior knowledge on a testing cohort. Such predictions may aid clinical decision-making regarding IFN-α treatment in patients with MPNs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b, a novel monopegylated interferon with improved pharmacokinetics, has emerged as a promising cytoreductive agent for managing polycythemia vera (PV). Despite increasing adoption, evidence synthesis of its efficacy and safety compared to standard care remains limited. The manuscript aimed to evaluate the efficacy of ropeginterferon alfa-2b in comparison to standard treatment options, including hydroxyurea and phlebotomy, in achieving complete hematologic response, partial molecular response (PMR), and reducing JAK2V617F allele burden in patients with PV.A systematic search of 4 databases was conducted up to April 2025, following PRISMA 2020 guidelines. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ropeginterferon alfa-2b with standard therapies in PV patients were included. Meta-analyses were performed using random-effects models to derive odds ratios for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were conducted, and risk of bias was assessed using RoB 2.0.Three RCTs comprising 522 patients were analyzed. Ropeginterferon alfa-2b showed no statistically significant advantage overall or over hydroxyurea for complete hematological response (CHR), PMR, or JAK2 allele burden reduction. However, subgroup analyses revealed significant benefits over phlebotomy alone in all 3 outcomes: CHR (odds ratio [OR] 3.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.36-6.80; P = .007), PMR (OR 36.34; 95% CI: 2.11-625.93; P = .01), and allele burden reduction (MD -13.70; 95% CI: -19.24 to -8.16; P < .00001).Ropeginterferon alfa-2b demonstrates no statistically significant difference compared to hydroxyurea, but gives better outcomes over phlebotomy in short-term efficacy for PV management. Its favorable molecular and hematologic outcomes support its role as a disease-modifying therapy, particularly in low-risk patients. However, larger and longer-term trials are needed to confirm these benefits across broader populations.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a JAK2-associated clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by erythroid hyperplasia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of acute hyper-viscosity encephalopathy as the initial manifestation of suspected PV in a resident of extreme high altitude-a diagnosis frequently mistaken for altitude-induced secondary polycythemia in this population.A 37-year-old Tibetan man, lifelong resident at 4,100 m, presented with acute encephalopathy characterized by altered consciousness, gait ataxia, and headache. Neurological examination confirmed higher cortical dysfunction. Laboratory studies showed marked erythrocytosis (hemoglobin 229 g/L, hematocrit 77.4%) with paradoxically suppressed serum erythropoietin (EPO, 1.2 mIU/mL). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) revealed acute bilateral frontoparietal and centrum semiovale diffusion-restricted lesions. Neurological symptoms resolved rapidly after osmotic therapy for intracranial hypertension. These findings were consistent with suspected PV based on WHO diagnostic criteria.This case suggests that acute infection may trigger life-threatening hyper-viscosity syndrome in suspected PV at extreme altitudes. EPO assessment and JAK2 mutational analysis are recommended to be included in the diagnostic algorithm to distinguish malignant PV clones from compensatory polycythemia and to prevent catastrophic neurological outcomes in high-altitude residents.Copyright © 2026 Yao and Chen.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Shenqi Compound (SQC) is effective in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Preliminary clinical observations suggest that it may also improve pancreatic fibrosis in T2DM patients with comorbid chronic pancreatitis (CP), which prompted this mechanistic study.This study aimed to reveal the multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanism of SQC in pancreatic exocrine and endocrine diseases by integrating LC-MS/MS, network pharmacology, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and in vivo validation.Active components and targets of SQC were screened using network pharmacology and LC-MS/MS. Molecular docking and dynamics simulation validated key component target binding. A mouse model of comorbid CP and T2DM was established by feeding a 60% high-fat diet for six weeks, combined with intraperitoneal injection of caerulein (50 μg/kg, six times daily, three days per week, for six weeks) followed by streptozotocin (50 mg/kg daily for five consecutive days). Pancreatic function, histopathology, and protein expression were assessed.Network pharmacology identified 145 active components acting on 242 targets, with IL-6, JAK2, and STAT3 as core targets. Quercetin, kaempferol, and luteolin showed good binding to these proteins. The luteolin JAK2 complex remained stable over 100 ns. In animal experiments, SQC improved body weight and food intake, lowered fasting blood glucose, and increased serum glucagon, insulin, lipase, amylase, and fecal elastase 1. SQC also reduced pancreatic IL-6 and TNF-α, alleviated pathological damage and fibrosis, downregulated gp130 and JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation, and upregulated SOCS3.SQC treatment is associated with the suppression of the IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 pathway, accompanied by reduced inflammation, decreased fibrosis, and improvements in both exocrine and endocrine functions in model mice. These findings suggest that the formula potentially acts as a holistic regulator, though the direct causal relationship requires further verification through pathway blockade or genetic ablation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a global health challenge with limited efficacy of single-target therapies. Esculin and esculetin, the main coumarins of Cortex Fraxini, have been reported to exhibit anti-tumor activities in various cancer cell lines in preclinical studies. This study systematically elucidated the synergistic anti-CRC mechanisms of esculin and esculetin by integrating network pharmacology, bioinformatics, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro validation. Network pharmacology predicted 23 overlapping targets, with 10 core proteins significantly enriched in the PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 pathways, further supported by bioinformatics analysis. Molecular docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the esculin-esculetin complex exhibited stronger binding affinity and stable interaction with EGFR compared with each monomer. In vitro, the natural 5:1 combination synergistically inhibited HCT116 and HT29 cell proliferation, suppressed colony formation, migration, and invasion, downregulated the phosphorylation of PI3K, Akt, JAK2 and STAT3, reduced EGFR, TOP1 and CDK2 mRNA, decreased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, and increased cleaved caspase-3 levels. Quantitative validation by EdU, TUNEL, and flow cytometry confirmed concentration-dependent inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis. These findings demonstrate that esculin and esculetin co-target EGFR and simultaneously block downstream PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 dual pathways, providing a multi-component, multi-target, multi-pathway synergistic model for C. fraxini-based combination therapy against CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mycoplasma genitalium has emerged as a clinically significant etiology of sexually transmitted infections that often establishes persistent infections within the female reproductive tract. Although the recruitment of neutrophils is a characteristic feature of the cervicitis associated with M. genitalium, the molecular mechanisms that govern this response at the mucosal interface remain incompletely defined. In this study, the infection of endocervical epithelial cells with M. genitalium was observed to induce a robust increase in IL-33 protein that localized within the nucleus. The transcriptional induction of the gene encoding IL-33 was mediated by a signaling axis involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), which led to the nuclear translocation and promoter binding of Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1) and 7 (IRF7). Within the nucleus, IL-33 physically complexed with the p65 subunit of NF-κB. This interaction facilitated the recruitment and occupancy of p65 at the promoters of the genes encoding CXCL1 and IL-8, thereby specifically amplifying the secretion of these chemokines. Functional assays demonstrated that the secretion of chemokines dependent on nuclear IL-33 was required for the adhesion, chemotaxis, and oxidative activation of neutrophils. These findings identify a pathogenic mechanism whereby M. genitalium exploits the nuclear function of IL-33 to drive chronic neutrophilic inflammation and contribute to the immunopathology of the reproductive tract.Copyright © 2026 Tian, Li, Xie, Zhang, Hu, Huang, Du, Li and Xie.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) medical therapy is a major advancement for Crohn's disease (CD) management, yet many patients fail to respond. This study aims to develop and evaluate a multi-modal ensemble model to predict anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric patients with CD using pre-treatment magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) and non-imaging clinical data.This retrospective study included 92 pediatric CD patients (median [IQR] age, 14.6 [12.7, 16.6] years; 65.2% male; 37 responders and 55 non-responders) who underwent MRE within 3 months before initiating anti-TNF therapy between 2009 and 2021. Responders achieved mucosal healing within 36 months; non-responders did not, underwent surgery, or changed therapy. Four pre-treatment feature sets were used: (1) radiologist MRE assessment, (2) radiomic features from bowel regions, (3) deep learning features from representative bowel images, and (4) non-imaging clinical features. A 2-stage stacking ensemble model was trained and evaluated. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was the primary performance metric.The multi-modal ensemble model integrating all MRE-based features achieved an AUROC of 0.771 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.745, 0.797], outperforming models using individual feature types (radiologist assessment: 0.706 [0.691, 0.721]; radiomic: 0.710 [0.691, 0.729]; deep learning: 0.724 [0.700, 0.749]). Combining MRE and clinical features (0.739 [0.696, 0.781]) achieved the highest AUROC of 0.817 [0.793, 0.842], though not significantly (P = .10). Radiomic features reflecting intensity distribution and texture heterogeneity were most predictive of treatment response.A multi-modal ensemble model combining MRE-based radiologist assessment, radiomic, deep learning, and clinical features accurately predicted anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric CD patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Corneal neovascularization (CoNV) treatment via ocular drug delivery remains challenging because rapid ocular clearance and limited tissue penetration result in low bioavailability, reduced therapeutic efficacy, and the need for frequent administration. Although polymer-based delivery systems can provide sustained release, their clinical translation may be limited by low drug loading, suboptimal release kinetics, and potential toxicity associated with polymer degradation products. Here, we developed a carrier-free subconjunctival depot platform composed of pure regorafenib crystals, including microcrystals (∼5 µm) and nanocrystals (∼260 nm), to achieve sustained release through a dissolution/diffusion-controlled mechanism without the need for a polymer matrix. Both formulations maintained crystallinity and their initial particle size during 12 months of storage at 4 °C. Nanocrystals exhibited faster dissolution and clearance, whereas microcrystals provided prolonged local retention, maintaining detectable regorafenib levels through eight months after a single administration. In vivo imaging and histological analyses demonstrated the formation of dense monolithic depots within the subconjunctival space, supporting sustained release and local retention. In prophylactic CoNV models, nanocrystals enhanced tissue penetration and produced greater early inhibition of angiogenic sprouting than microcrystals (p < 0.05). In therapeutic models of established neovascularization, a single 2 mg subconjunctival injection of either formulation induced comparable and sustained regression of neovessels for up to eight months, with efficacy significantly greater than that of 0.5 mg bevacizumab administered at 2-month intervals (p < 0.01). In addition, the 1 mg microcrystal formulation reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, and VEGF expression relative to saline-treated controls and were associated with improved corneal epithelial healing compared with bevacizumab. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that carrier-free pure drug crystal depots can provide sustained ocular delivery for at least eight months following a single administration, while crystal size governs the balance between initial tissue exposure and long-term retention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid accumulation, immune activation, and plaque formation. This study investigated the anti-atherosclerotic effects of Lentinan (LNT) and explored its potential macrophage-associated mechanisms. In high-fat diet-fed ApoE⁻/⁻ mice, LNT markedly attenuated aortic plaque formation, lipid deposition, serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, and dyslipidemia, indicating a protective effect against AS progression. Integrated target screening and transcriptomic analyses identified HCK and GUSB as key candidate targets associated with the response to LNT. Both genes were upregulated in atherosclerotic tissues and were further assessed in an independent human dataset. Experimental validation in ApoE⁻/⁻ mouse aortic tissues showed that LNT reduced HCK and GUSB expression, while single-cell transcriptomic analysis indicated that both genes were predominantly enriched in macrophage populations within atherosclerotic lesions. In ox-LDL-induced RAW264.7 foam cells, LNT decreased intracellular lipid accumulation and downregulated HCK and GUSB expression, further supporting a macrophage-related protective mechanism. In addition, targeted metabolomic analysis suggested that LNT reshaped amino acid metabolism, which may contribute to improvement of the inflammatory and immunometabolic microenvironment in AS. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations further indicated potential interactions between LNT and HCK/GUSB. Overall, these findings suggest that LNT attenuates experimental atherosclerosis by regulating macrophage-associated HCK/GUSB expression, suppressing foam cell formation, and modulating amino acid metabolic remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
This study investigates the effect of mixed systems (suckling and machine milking) vs artificial rearing (only machine milking), on milk production, milk composition and the transcriptome of the mammary epithelium in Damascus goats. Thirty goats, in their first lactation period, were allocated into 2 experimental groups: artificial rearing (AR) and mixed rearing (MR). In the AR group, kids were separated from their mothers immediately after birth, whereas in the MR group, the goats suckled their kids until weaning (49 ± 3 d postpartum) while all goats were mechanically milked twice daily throughout the milking period. Commercial milk yield and milk fat, protein, lactose and total solid contents were recorded and milk fatty acid (FA) profile was analyzed. On the 42nd day postpartum, mammary epithelial biopsies were taken from 6 goats per experimental group for transcriptomic analysis by 3'mRNA sequencing. The results showed that while commercial milk yield before weaning was higher (P <0.05) in the AR (116.58L) compared with the MR group (73.16L), total commercial milk yield for the whole lactation period did not differ significantly between AR (351.3L) and MR groups (312.2L). Milk contents did not differ between groups (P >0.05) but total protein, lactose, solid nonfat yields were higher (P <0.05) in the AR group. Analysis of the FA profile revealed lower saturated, higher unsaturated and monosaturated FA contents in the MR group (P <0.05), while no differences were observed in the polyunsaturated FA content. The transcriptomic analysis revealed 9 differentially expressed (DE) genes (RBM8A, Clusterin, PPDPF, LOC108635834, BLMH, PINK1, PIM1, OSBPL7, and SMU1) and 12 genes showing a trend for DE. The genes which were differentially regulated in response to kid suckling are involved in developmental processes, RNA metabolism, nutrient and lipid transport and tissue regeneration. In conclusion, this study showed that kid suckling in Damascus goats does not adversely affect commercial milk production or milk composition, while it yields commercial milk with a nutritionally more favorable fatty acid profile. Furthermore, this is the first transcriptomic study addressing concurrent suckling and machine milking effects in mammary physiology in ruminants.Copyright © 2026 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cyanidin-3-O-galactoside(C3G) has a variety of biological activities. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease. To define its pathogenic networks, we performed transcriptomic sequencing of lung tissues from five mouse groups: WT_Control, WT_Model, WT_Model_C3G, Control_Ccl3-/-, Model_Ccl3-/-. Comprehensive assessment of immune infiltration, weighted gene co-expression network, and functional enrichment verified that PF is tightly linked to immune microenvironment dysregulation. Seven machine learning algorithms identified five core immune-related targets: Ccl3, Xcl1, Pyy, Il31ra, Ppbp. Subsequent analysis prioritized Ccl3 and Ppbp as the key core pathogenic genes. Molecular docking clarified their binding modes and key interaction sites with C3G. Histopathological and biochemical assessments showed that the WT_Model group exhibited elevated expressions of Ccl3 and Ppbp, accompanied by marked inflammatory infiltration and collagen deposition. C3G intervention significantly ameliorated these PF phenotypes. Ccl3 knockout improved survival and ameliorated fibrotic pathology. Interaction modeling and correlation analyses identified Slc2a3 as a key Ccl3 downstream target. WB and IHC validation revealed reduced expression of Ccl3, Slc2a3, and α-SMA proteins in Model_Ccl3-/- compared to WT_Model, which suggested Ccl3 may positively regulate the expression of Slc2a3. Through transcriptome and external metabolome verification, it was found that Slc2a3 can regulate PF through metabolic pathways. In conclusion, this study confirmed the potential role of C3G in regulating Ccl3-related inflammation and metabolic pathways in bleomycin-induced PF, which is expected to become a new strategy for targeted therapy of PF and provide a theoretical basis for the development of clinical treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy is often associated with immune-related adverse events including inflammatory arthritis (ICI-IA). However, the mechanisms underlying ICI-IA, especially its recurrence, are not well understood. In this study, we sought to elucidate mechanisms of recurrent ICI-IA by analyzing longitudinal synovial fluid (SF) samples from patients with ICI-IA. SF samples were collected from six ICI-IA patients at the first and second occurrences of ICI-IA and analyzed with single-cell RNA sequencing (n=3), single-cell TCR sequencing (n=3), single-cell BCR sequencing (n=3), and flow cytometry (n=6). SF samples from cancer-naïve osteoarthritis patients (n=6) were used as negative controls. Analysis revealed that effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13hiCD4+ T cells were enriched in the SF of ICI-IA patients. Ninety three percent and fifty percent of the top ten expanded clones of effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13hiCD4+ T cells, respectively, were shared between the first and second ICI-IA flare. These top clones were characterized by the production of pro-inflammatory type 1 cytokines including IFN, TNF, and IL-21, especially in the second flare, suggesting immune memory responses to cognate antigen. Cell-cell communication analysis suggested that effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13h CD4+ T cells interacted with each other and with myeloid cells and B cells through chemokines (CXCL9/10/11/13, CCL3) and cytokines (MIF, IL-2/7/15/21). Overall, longitudinal SF analysis from ICI-IA patients revealed the expansion of effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13hiCD4+ T cells with type 1 cytokine signatures that potentially contribute to development or recurrence of ICI-IA.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Although chromosome 14q deletion (14q-) is present in up to 40% of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) cases, its immunologic and molecular impact remains unclear. Because TRAF3 and NFΚBIA, key regulators of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling, are located on 14q, we hypothesize that 14q- in ccRCC promotes increased inflammation and unique determinants of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) response.We collected data from 825 patients with ccRCC from publicly available sources, our own independent retrospective study, and the Oncology Research Information Exchange Network. These data include bulk RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq), and whole exome sequencing (WES). We also include reverse phase protein array from DepMap cell lines (n=277). Next, we performed multiplex immunofluorescence for spatial analysis of immune cells on 23 patient slides with paired WES and ICB response. Finally, progression-free survival, 14q- status (assessed in bulk RNA-seq or whole exome sequencing), and kidney inflammatory marker EDNRB expression were assessed in two independent ICB immunotherapy trials.14q- status is associated with increased NF-κB-target transcription and p65 phosphorylation. Tumor scRNA-seq revealed increased expression of CCL20, an NF-κB target and lymphotactic protein. Simultaneously, single-cell and bulk RNA-seq demonstrated higher effector CD8+T cell infiltration in 14q- tumors compared with controls. We investigated myeloid panel mIF images from 14q- tumors and found dendritic cells (DCs) significantly aggregate with tumor cells in ICB responders compared with non-responders. Cell-cell communication analysis on DCs and tumor cells from a 14q- responder revealed tumor-derived EDN1 is uniquely interacting with EDNRB on DCs. In two ICB trials, 14q- combined with elevated EDNRB expression correlated with significantly improved progression-free survival.This is the first evidence that 14q- in ccRCC is associated with an antitumor inflammatory phenotype, possibly driven by aberrant NF-κB activation. Furthermore, 14q- with high EDNRB expression (EDNRB+) may serve as a predictive biomarker for ICB response in ccRCC. Finally, our results indicate patients with 14q-/EDNRB- may respond poorly to immunotherapy and new treatment options should be explored for this cohort.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is genetically heterogeneous. We aimed to define a compartment-aware driver mutation landscape of DLBCL by integrating tumor tissue and circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) sequencing, and to assess its biological and prognostic relevance.Somatic mutations were analyzed from targeted sequencing of tumor tissue or bone marrow and cfDNA from peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid, including paired tissue-liquid samples, together with whole-genome sequencing data from TCGA. Driver genes were identified using four complementary algorithms. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed. Prognostic relevance was evaluated using multigene expression-based modeling with Cox and LASSO regression in independent cohorts.Recurrent driver alterations converged on core pathogenic pathways, including B-cell receptor signaling, NF-κB activation, epigenetic regulation, and immune escape. Twenty-two high-confidence driver genes, including PIM1, KMT2D, CD79B, B2M, TP53, MYC, and EZH2, were consistently identified across clinical cohorts and supported by TCGA data. cfDNA profiling showed substantial concordance with tissue-derived drivers while revealing gene-specific differences in mutation burden and co-mutation patterns, indicating complementary capture of clinically relevant heterogeneity. Network analysis highlighted TP53, MYC, EP300, and CREBBP as central hubs. A four-gene expression-based model (MYC, PLCL1, IRF8, LNPEP) stratified patients by overall survival and modestly improved prognostic discrimination beyond the International Prognostic Index.Integrated analysis of tumor tissue and cfDNA sequencing defines a clinically relevant driver framework for DLBCL. cfDNA preserves core oncogenic signals while complementing tissue profiling, supporting refined genomic risk stratification.
CCR2+ monocytes are recruited to sites of acute myocardial injury, where they play a critical role in clearing necrotic debris and replenishing the depleted resident macrophage population. Although this response is necessary for early tissue repair, prolonged activation of inflammatory pathways and persistent recruitment of CCR2+ monocytes have been associated with accelerated ventricular remodeling and adverse outcomes. Inhibition of CCR2 has shown promise in preclinical models of myocardial injury and represents a potential therapeutic target. Cardiosphere-derived cell extracellular vesicles (CDC-EVs) have demonstrated cardioprotective effects partly through modulation of the immune response. We investigated whether CDC-EVs regulate inflammatory monocyte trafficking through effects on CCR2 signaling. We found that CDC-EVs reduce the surface availability of CCR2 on human monocytes through an miR-146a-dependent mechanism, resulting in decreased monocyte migration toward CCL2. These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism by which CDC-EVs modulate CCR2-dependent monocyte trafficking and provide new insight into how EVs regulate innate immune responses after myocardial injury.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566987 is a review article
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Repair of acutely injured skeletal muscle relies on an adequate inflammatory response predominated by monocyte/macrophage infiltration. The process requires injured muscles to produce C-C chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2). The present study identified fibro/adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) as the primary source of CCL2 in acutely injured muscle, where the pro-inflammatory subcluster of FAPs expanded rapidly and expressed the highest level of CCL2. FAP-specific deletion of Ccl2 largely abolished CCL2 production by acutely injured muscle, reducing monocyte/macrophage infiltration and impairing muscle regeneration. In vitro, the CCL2 expression by both mouse and human FAPs was induced by danger signal-containing muscle homogenates through Toll-like receptor signaling. The CCL2 expression by mouse FAPs was also induced by infiltrating neutrophils, partly through their secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our findings suggest an important immune sentinel role for FAPs, as they sense muscle damage, produce CCL2 to recruit inflammatory monocytes, and promote injury repair.© 2026 The Author(s).
In the current study, we genetically engineered Salmonella Typhimurium to serve a dual purpose in cancer immunotherapy, simultaneously inducing apoptosis and activating anti-cancer immune responses. Tumor-residing tryptophan auxotrophic Salmonella, featuring trpA and trpE deletions, selectively inhabits the tumor microenvironment, promoting tumor-targeted delivery of therapeutic antigens such as apoptin (an apoptosis inducer) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA; related to anti-cancer immunity), while minimizing off-target effects. The therapeutic strain had reduced endotoxic responses owing to a lack of pagL in its genome. Additionally, to enhance adaptation to the tumor microenvironment, the strain underwent consecutive passaging for over five generations, increasing its potency for tumor recognition and localization. A prokaryotic and eukaryotic dual-expression plasmid was developed by incorporating the complete apoptin open reading frame into the eukaryotic region and the CEA epitope collection associated with an MHC-II agonist peptide into the prokaryotic expression cassette. Each antigen was confirmed for successful expression at the intended sizes, with functional validation performed through in vitro cytotoxicity assessment. Mouse inoculation studies demonstrated that the Salmonella therapy significantly suppresses the progression of highly aggressive 4T1 breast cancer tumors as well as metastatic dispersion in lung, liver, and spleen tissues, fostering an anti-tumoral immune environment characterized by IFN-γ and CCL2 markers. This transformative approach to Salmonella-mediated cancer immunotherapy could pave the way for targeted treatments for immune-resistant cancers and hard-to-treat malignancies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
Neonatal acute respiratory distress syndrome (NARDS) is a life-threatening respiratory disorder characterized by high mortality and significant long-term morbidity. Increasing evidence suggests that pyroptosis contributes to pulmonary tissue injury in ARDS. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was utilized to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying pyroptosis within the NARDS microenvironment. Our analysis identified chemokine (C-C motif) ligand (CCL5) expression in M2 macrophages as a potential regulator of pyroptosis associated with impaired tissue repair. Mechanistically, CCL5 was linked to the activation of the pyroptotic pathway through interactions with inflammasome components, promoting caspase-11-dependent gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) release. Network pharmacology analysis identified artesunate, a clinically approved antimalarial drug, as a potential inhibitor of CCL5 expression in patients with NARDS. Functional validation showed that artesunate attenuated M2 macrophage pyroptosis, reduced pulmonary injury, and promoted tissue repair. Collectively, our findings identify CCL5 as a potential regulator of macrophage pyroptosis and support the therapeutic potential of artesunate for modulating pyroptosis-associated inflammation in NARDS. This study provides a mechanistic framework for the development of CCL5-targeted interventions and highlights the dual anti-inflammatory and pro-repair properties of artesunate in NARDS treatment.Copyright © 2026 Hai-Ran Ma et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Brain metastases (BrM) are a frequent and life-threatening complication of solid tumours, with lung cancer representing their most common source. While cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are well-established contributors to tumour progression in many extracranial malignancies, their presence and function within the brain tumour microenvironment, where fibroblasts have long been considered scarce or absent, remain poorly understood. Here, we isolated and characterised fibroblast-like cells from 13 human BrMs of diverse origins. These BrM-associated CAFs (BrM-CAFs) expressed canonical CAF markers and showed reduced proliferation and increased senescence compared to normal fibroblasts. Their transcriptome was enriched for extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes, including multiple collagens, fibronectin, and matrix-remodelling enzymes. In vitro, BrM-CAFs produced a fibrillar ECM, and in BrM tissues, their abundance was associated with collagen I and fibronectin deposition. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and secretome analyses further revealed that BrM-CAFs produce multiple cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote cell motility. BrM-CAF conditioned medium promoted both monocyte migration and the migration of cancer cells, including established cell lines and patient-derived lung cancer BrM cells; monocyte migration was partially reduced by inhibition of CCL2/CCR2 signalling, whereas blocking CXCL12, CXCL16, or CX3CL1 attenuated BrM-CAF-induced cancer cell migration. Beyond these effects on migration, exposure to BrM-CAFs increased cancer cell invasion in transwell and heterotypic 3D spheroid assays. In contrast, their effects on cancer cell proliferation were limited and did not indicate a growth-promoting role. Exposure to BrM-CAFs was also associated with increased expression of interferon-stimulated genes in cancer cells. Together, our findings support a role for BrM-CAFs in shaping the brain metastatic microenvironment through ECM remodelling and the secretion of pro-migratory mediators, promoting monocyte and cancer cell migration and enhancing cancer cell invasion. These data identify BrM-CAFs as active stromal participants in BrM biology and support further investigation of their biological, diagnostic, and therapeutic relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Qingxin Tongmai Yin (QXTMY), a classic traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula widely used for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, has unclear multitarget mechanisms against atherosclerosis (AS). This study integrated network pharmacology with experimental validation to investigate these mechanisms. Network pharmacology identified 128 bioactive compounds and 135 potential targets of QXTMY, highlighting key anti-AS targets such as TNF, IL6, insulin (INS), IL1B, MMP9, CCL2, and ALB, with the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway as a central mechanism; principal active ingredients included quercetin, kaempferol, luteolin, and cryptotanshinone. In vitro experiments using THP-1-derived macrophages induced with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) showed that QXTMY significantly suppressed inflammatory responses, inhibited foam cell formation, and downregulated the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway, as measured by Western blot, ELISA, cholesterol quantification, and Nile Red staining. These findings suggest that QXTMY may exert protective effects against AS, potentially via suppression of the AGE-RAGE-mediated inflammatory axis. However, in vivo validation is still required to support these preliminary conclusions.Copyright © 2026 Yangfan Huang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To investigate the genetic architecture of male genital lichen sclerosus (MGLSc) and to identify potential susceptibility loci, candidate genes, and biological pathways associated with disease pathogenesis by integrating genomic structural equation modeling (Genomic-SEM) with multi-omics analyses and experimental validation.Publicly available genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics of MGLSc-related traits were integrated to construct a Genomic-SEM framework. Linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlations and evaluate model stability. Functional mapping and annotation were performed using FUMA, and novel loci were further screened through a GWAS subtraction strategy. Fine-mapping was conducted using SuSIE and FINEMAP to prioritize candidate causal variants. Transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) and FOCUS were applied to identify candidate genes. MAGMA-based gene enrichment, partitioned heritability analysis, and polygenic risk score (PRS) analyses were further performed to characterize the biological relevance of associated loci. Finally, RT-qPCR was conducted in vitro to validate the expression of prioritized genes.The Genomic-SEM showed a good overall fit and generated an indirect GWAS framework comprising 2,451,318 SNPs for MGLSc. A total of 208 SNPs reached conventional genome-wide significance, and FUMA annotation identified 43 risk loci, 52 lead SNPs, and 14 candidate genes. Using the GWAS subtraction strategy, 13 novel SNPs were further identified, including rs715299 and rs10774625. Fine-mapping highlighted four high-confidence variants, namely rs3134608, rs3134952, rs3763307, and rs2076524, mainly clustered in the chromosome 6 major histocompatibility complex region. TWAS identified HLA-DPA1 as the most significant gene, and FOCUS further supported its likely causal role. MAGMA and enrichment analyses suggested that immune-related and regulatory regions contributed substantially to MGLSc heritability. PRS analysis demonstrated marked heterogeneity across chromosomes, with chromosome 6 showing the strongest SNP-level contribution. RT-qPCR confirmed that HLA-DPA1 expression was significantly decreased in MGLSc samples compared with controls (P < 0.0001), consistent with the bioinformatics prediction. In addition, several MAGMA-prioritized genes, including C4B, DDR1, BBS7, VARS1, PRRT1, PPT2, EGFL8, BTNL2, and EME1, were downregulated, whereas AGPAT1 and PBX2 were upregulated in MGLSc samples.This study provides a systematic view of the genetic basis of MGLSc by integrating Genomic-SEM, fine-mapping, transcriptomic prioritization, and experimental validation. Our findings indicate that MGLSc is influenced by a shared polygenic architecture enriched in immune-related loci, particularly within the HLA region. HLA-DPA1 emerged as a high-confidence susceptibility gene, and multiple novel loci and candidate genes were identified, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying MGLSc and potential targets for future mechanistic and translational studies.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Zhang, Fu, Hou, Xu, Li, Lu, Qiu, Wu, Gao, Zhang, Yang, Song and Zhang.
HLA-DPA1*01:49 is characterised by a single nucleotide substitution in codon 119 in exon 3.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
HLA diversity profiling is essential for transplant-typing practice, yet its interpretation is complicated by heterogeneous typing resolution and ambiguity in routine clinical datasets. We analysed eight-locus HLA genotyping results from 1388 individuals in an Eastern Chinese transplant-typing cohort (2021-2026) using a resolution-aware two-stage analytical framework-an approach that explicitly distinguishes first-field (allele-group) summaries from strict two-field allele-level analysis. HLA diversity profiling is defined as the systematic characterisation of allele/allele-group frequency distributions, heterozygosity and diversity metrics (Shannon entropy, evenness). Stage 1 summarised assay-derived first-field (allele-group) codes with complete coverage across all loci (2776 allele copies per locus), whereas Stage 2 evaluated strict two-field alleles restricted to loci achieving a > 45% two-field resolution threshold. Observed heterozygosity varied markedly across loci, ranging from 0.484 at HLA-DPA1 to 0.923 at HLA-B. At Stage 1, 43 rare allele-group codes (< 1%) were identified, disproportionately contributed by HLA-DPB1 (51.2%), consistent with resolution- and ambiguity-related inflation of apparent rare categories. At Stage 2, 68 rare two-field alleles (< 1% within locus-specific resolvable subsets) were identified; all were officially assigned and listed in the IPD-IMGT/HLA Database and documented in the Allele Frequency Net Database, with 97.1% having reported Chinese population records. Classification using the Common, Intermediate and Well-Documented (CIWD) catalogue showed that most cohort-defined 'rare' alleles were not globally rare. Together, these findings demonstrate that apparent rare allele burden in transplant-typing cohorts is strongly influenced by typing resolution and ambiguity handling. The resolution-aware framework presented here provides a transparent template for HLA diversity reporting and rare allele interpretation in heterogeneous clinical transplant-typing datasets.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Autoreactive CD4 T cells, recognizing liver-self-antigens such as SepSecS, are potentially main drivers of the chronic inflammatory response during autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). Previous studies have uncovered SepSecS epitopes often associated with HLA-DRB1*03 or HLA-DRB1*04 restriction, two alleles enriched in AIH population. However, HLA restriction of numerous SepSecS epitopes remains incomplete and it is still unclear if they could be presented by non-HLA-DR molecules. Here, we investigated epitope recognition and HLA restriction of SepSecS-specific CD4 T cells from AIH patients.Seventeen TCRαβ from top expanded SepSecS-specific CD4 T cells of five AIH patients from our previous studies were cloned into murine hybridoma T cell line. Epitope reactivity of each TCR cell line was identified thanks to its IL-2 secretion following culture with 20-mer overlapping peptides of SepSecS protein and immortalized B cell lines. HLA restriction was defined using HLA blocking antibodies. 484 SepSecS-specific TCRs from nine AIH patients were analyzed using GLIPH2 algorithm. CD154 activation-induced marker assay was used to evaluate SepSecS epitope reactivity in AIH patients (n=11).Six SepSecS amino acid regions were recognized in vitro by autoreactive TCRs with four distinct class II HLA restrictions, including non-HLA-DR restrictions. GLIPH2 algorithm clustered SepSecS-specific TCRs into six groups. 6% of total SepSecS-specific TCR clonotypes shared common CDR3β motifs linked to the recognition of HLA-DPA1*02:01/HLA-DPB1*01:01-restricted SepSecS152-179 epitope. Ex vivo peptide stimulation assay revealed that SepSecS152-179 epitope represents between 15% and 67% of total SepSecS CD4 T cell reactivity in HLA-DPA1*02:01∼HLA-DPB1*01:01 AIH patients (n=5).We highlighted that SepSecS epitopes could be presented by HLA-DR and non-HLA-DR molecules to autoreactive CD4 TCRs with potentially conserved CDR3 motifs for common epitope recognition.In AIH, SepSecS is a key autoantigen targeted by the adaptive immune system, but only few T cell epitopes are defined and associated with a precise HLA restriction. By reconstructing TCRs from top expanded SepSecS-specific CD4 T cells of AIH patients, we identified new T-cell epitopes and their specific class II HLA restriction, including peptides presented by non-HLA-DR molecules. From a clinical perspective, these findings could be used to develop tools to track the frequency of autoreactive T cells in patients. This work could also pave the way for self-antigen-specific immunotherapies, such as peptide-based desensitization or the development of HLA-multimer technologies to selectively deplete or reprogram pathogenic T cells without inducing systemic immunosuppression.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) system is the primary determinant of donor selection in allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and plays a central role in solid organ transplantation, immune-mediated disease studies, evolutionary population genetics, and immunotherapy. Large-scale sampling of registry participants reflecting major US ancestry groups allows for characterization of the complex landscape of HLA haplotype diversity for the classical HLA class I (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C) and HLA class II (HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRB3, HLA-DRB4, HLA-DRB5, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DPA1, and HLA-DPB1) genes. Here we present nine-locus classical HLA allele and haplotype frequency estimates for five broad (Black, White, Asian or Pacific Islander, Hispanic and Native American) and 21 detailed US populations based on 9,671,082 donors with targeted genotyping by DNA-based methods. Frequency estimation used an expectation-maximization (EM) framework specifically adapted to handle mixed-resolution and ambiguous HLA genotyping data. Advancements in next-generation sequencing provide extensive HLA genotyping, offering new insights into the haplotype structure and diversity of the human MHC complex, expanding knowledge especially for HLA class II haplotypes. Population analyses reveal that the most common haplotypes are predominantly population-specific, with only three haplotypes shared across the top 100 lists of all five broad population groups, and that Black populations exhibit the greatest nine-locus haplotypic diversity, a pattern that persists after controlling for differences in registry sample size. These frequencies, derived from the largest US cohort to date, support clinical decision-making and research in histocompatibility, immunogenetics, and transplantation and are publicly available at https://zenodo.org/records/17966993.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
HLA-DPA1*01:248 and -DPA1*02:01:41, two novel HLA-DPA1 alleles detected by next generation sequencing.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pediatric asthma (PA) is a prevalent chronic respiratory disease. Emerging evidence suggests that dysregulated macrophage heterogeneity and immune-metabolic crosstalk contribute to disease pathogenesis, yet specific molecular nodes linking innate immune dysfunction to PA remain unidentified. This study aimed to identify and characterize immune checkpoint-related candidate key genes in PA.Bulk RNA-sequencing data from airway epithelium of PA patients (training set GSE152004) were analyzed for differential expression, followed by intersection with immune checkpoint-related genes. Four machine learning algorithms (SVM-RFE, Boruta, LASSO, and XGBoost) were applied to screen candidate key genes, which were further validated in an independent dataset (GSE65204). A nomogram was constructed to evaluate diagnostic value. Functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and regulatory network analyses were performed. In vitro IL-13 stimulation of bronchial epithelial cells and patient peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples were used for experimental validation. Single-cell RNA-seq data (GSE254127) were analyzed for cell typing, macrophage subclustering, pseudotime trajectory, and cell-cell communication.HLA-DPA1 and HLA-DPB1 were identified as candidate key genes by consensus of all four algorithms. Both were significantly downregulated in PA and showed high diagnostic value (nomogram). Downregulation of HLA-DPA1/DPB1 correlated with attenuated antigen presentation and enhanced metabolic dysfunction. IL-13-treated bronchial epithelial cells and patient samples confirmed reduced mRNA and protein expression. Exploratory single-cell analysis revealed that HLA-DPA1/DPB1 were enriched in macrophages, specifically a Macro2 subset characterized by metabolic and stress-related functions-highlighting macrophage heterogeneity in innate immune regulation. Pseudotime trajectory suggested a shift from immune-activated toward metabolically stressed states. Cell-cell communication analysis identified epithelial cells as primary signal senders, with macrophages and dendritic cells as central receivers, and the MIF signaling axis as a key intercellular bridge.This multi-level integrated transcriptomic analysis identified HLA-DPA1 and HLA-DPB1 as candidate key genes in childhood asthma, and reveals their potential role in immune-metabolic dysregulation centered on macrophage functional heterogeneity. Our data are consistent with a potential role for these genes in immune-metabolic dysregulation centered on macrophage functional heterogeneity, although direct functional validation is required to establish causality. These findings provide new insights into innate immune circuits in childhood asthma and lay a foundation for potential molecular targets for future precision therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Wen, Du, Zhong, Yuan, Lin, Yao, He, Huang, Li, Ouyang, Huang, Liu and Chen.
HLA-DPA1*02:103 shows one nucleotide substitution in exon 3 when compared to HLA-DPA1*02:02:02:01.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The novel allele HLA-DPA1*02:174N differs from HLA-DPA1*02:01:01:02 by a 10-bp deletion in exon 2.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
HLA-DPA1*03:25 is characterised by a single nucleotide substitution in codon 96 in exon 3.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Deer antler is the only mammalian organ capable of periodic complete regeneration. Its astonishing growth rate-reaching several centimeters per day-provides a unique model for research in tissue regeneration and developmental biology. This rapid growth relies on the protective and signaling functions of the skin, as well as the vigorous proliferation and differentiation capacity of mesenchymal cells. Although previous studies have identified some key factors involved in antler growth, systematically comparing the transcriptomic profiles of these two core tissues (skin and mesenchyme) to identify candidate genes regulating their synergistic growth is crucial for deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying this "ultra-fast" growth.The Illumina NovaSeq 6000 sequencing platform was used to perform transcriptome sequencing on the antler tissues of the Cervus elaphus xanthopygus (Dongbei red deer) with a growth period of approximately 60 days. Bioinformatics methods were used to identify the transcriptional expression of genes in the antler tissues, and the expression levels of some genes were tested by fluorescence quantitative PCR.A total of 109.82 Gb of transcriptome data was generated from the skin and mesenchymal tissues of antlers, and 40,023 transcripts were obtained. There were 3,530 genes with differential expression between the skin and the mesenchymal tissues of antlers. Genes with upregulated expression levels in the mesenchymal layer were enriched in phosphate-containing compound metabolic processes and multiple biological processes related to bone development such as skeletal system development, cartilage development, regulation of ossification, and enamel mineralization. Among the genes enriched in the cancer pathway and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, those that may play an important role in the rapid growth process of deer antlers were screened, including MDM2, RPS6KB1, CASP3, BMP4, PTCH1, SOX-6, YWHAZ, and HSP90B1.The discovery of these genes provides a reference for a further in-depth understanding of the mechanism of the rapid growth of antlers.©2026 Bi et al.
KIF21A, a member of the Kinesin-4 family of motor proteins, is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics and intracellular transport, with emerging evidence suggesting its potential role in cancer progression. In this study, we performed an integrative analysis of over 3825 human phosphoproteomics studies to characterize site-specific phosphorylation of KIF21A. Three predominant phosphosites were identified in KIF21A (S853, S1212, and S1239) with the highest detection frequency across phosphoproteomics studies, and were analyzed for co-regulation patterns to identify potential kinase associations and functional networks. Phosphosite S853 showed a strong association with cytoskeletal organization and cortical microtubule stabilization complexes (CMSCs) components, including KANK1 (S186), PHLDB2 (S513, S42) and CLASP1 (S600, S572, S646), indicating its role in cytoskeletal organization. Upstream kinase analysis identified potential regulators, such as PAK2, RPS6KA1/A3, RPS6KB1, CHEK1/2 and CDK18/16 with site-specific variability in their associations with KIF21A predominant sites. Interestingly, phosphosite-specific correlation analysis between KIF21A and candidate kinases revealed that the KIF21A S1239 phosphosite exhibited tumor-specific correlations with CDK18 across multiple cancer types. Functional enrichment revealed that co-regulated phosphoproteins were involved in cytoskeleton regulation, cell cycle regulation, and carcinogenesis. Pan-cancer analysis demonstrated dysregulated expression of KIF21A in multiple tumor types, with stage-associated upregulation in selected cancers. Gene-level validation further supported these findings, showing consistent positive correlations between KIF21A and key regulators such as CTNND1 and PTK2, as well as other cytoskeleton and cancer-associated genes. Overall, this study highlights site-specific phosphorylation as a key regulatory mechanism of KIF21A and suggests its involvement in cytoskeleton-associated signaling networks in cancer.
Gambogic acid (GA), a natural xanthonoid compound, has attracted attention for its potential anticancer activity. This study investigated the molecular targets and anticancer effects of GA against lung cancer through computational and experimental approaches. Physicochemical and ADME analysis showed that gambogic acid is highly lipophilic (consensus LogP = 6.13) with poor aqueous solubility (ESOL LogS - 7.92) and predicted low gastrointestinal absorption, while acting as a P-glycoprotein substrate and potential inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Drug-likeness analysis indicated one Lipinski violation and a bioavailability score of 0.56. Bioinformatics analysis using GeneCards, GSE, and CTD databases identified six key targets involved in lung cancer progression: AKT, RPS6KB1, BCL2, BAX, CASPASE-3, and CASPASE-9. Molecular docking demonstrated strong interactions between GA and these targets, with the highest binding affinity observed for RPS6KB1 (- 8.7 kcal/mol), by hydrogen bonds with HIS1032 and ASN1098. In vitro experiments in A549 lung cancer cells revealed that GA exhibited significant cytotoxicity with an IC50 value of 90 µM. AO/EtBr staining showed increased apoptotic cells, while DAPI staining confirmed nuclear condensation and chromatin fragmentation following GA treatment. GA also significantly inhibited cell migration, reducing migration from 71% in control cells to 32.5% in treated cells. Furthermore, oxidative stress analysis showed decreased antioxidant enzyme levels (SOD and catalase) and increased lipid peroxidation (LPO) in treated cells. Our findings indicate that GA suppresses lung cancer cell proliferation and migration by inducing oxidative stress and apoptosis through modulation of the AKT-RPS6KB1 signalling pathway, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic candidate for lung cancer.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) devastates shrimp aquaculture, yet safe antivirals remain scarce. Here we identify a druggable host-directed pathway centered on hemocyanin (HMC). This pathway coordinates endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial crosstalk to promote WSSV replication, which could be counteracted by the natural anthraquinone emodin. In Litopenaeus vannamei, emodin suppressed viral replication with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 1.174 μM, improved survival in both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens, remained effective after per os administration, and retained antiviral activity in water for up to 4 d. Target fishing, orthogonal biophysics, and docking analyses show that emodin binds HMC (Kd = 4.49 μM) and interferes with HMC-HSPA5/BiP (heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5) association. Mechanistically, emodin weakens the ITPR/IP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor)-VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel)-MCU (mitochondrial calcium uniporter) conduit at ER-mitochondrial contact sites, thereby limiting Ca2+ transfer, restoring mitochondrial membrane potential and organelle spacing, and attenuating ER stress. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that WSSV induced phosphoinositide and amino acid dysregulation, whereas emodin selectively normalizes phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns[1,4,5]P3) signaling and rebalances amino acid, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) intermediates. Correspondingly, emodin inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT/protein kinase B-MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) signaling and restored lysosome-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy. HMC RNAi or ITPR and MCU inhibition phenocopied emodin, whereas exogenous HMC or ER stress activation exacerbated infection and was mitigated by emodin or MCU blockade. These findings establish HMC-anchored ER-mitochondrial contact as a central proviral vulnerability and position emodin as a practical scaffold for next-generation antivirals in aquaculture.Abbreviations: 2-APB: 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG1/ULK1: autophagy related 1; ATG13: autophagy related 13; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DDIT3/Chop: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EAS6B: epoxy-activated sepharose 6B; EGTA: ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EPC: epithelioma papulosum cyprini; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HMC: hemocyanin; HPLC-MS: high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA9/GRP75: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; ITPR/IP3R: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAMs: mitochondria-associated ER membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCU: mitochondrial calcium uniporter; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; OPLS-DA: orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PA: phosphatidic acid; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PCA: principal component analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PLS-DA: partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns(1,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2: phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate; RPS6KB1/S6K1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPR: unfolded protein response; VDAC: voltage dependent anion channel; WSSV: white spot syndrome virus; XBP1: X-box binding protein 1.
Pulmonary fibrosis is a severe, chronic, and often lethal interstitial lung disease characterized by a destructive cycle of alveolar injury and inflammation, culminating in irreversible lung scarring. Its complex and multifactorial pathogenesis contributes to a poor prognosis and susceptibility to recurrent lung damage. This study employed an integrated network pharmacology and molecular docking approach to investigate the therapeutic repurposing of cilostazol for pulmonary fibrosis. Cilostazol was selected as a highly promising candidate owing to its broad pharmacological profile, encompassing anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiapoptotic, and antifibrotic properties. Network pharmacology analysis identified 10 potential targets of cilostazol, of which eight emerged as key network regulators: phosphodiesterase 3 (PDE3), PIK3CA, PTK2, RPS6KB1, VEGFR, F2-thrombin, ULK3 kinase, and PI3K delta. Molecular docking demonstrated that cilostazol binds to these profibrotic and fibrotic target proteins with binding affinities comparable to those of established experimental inhibitors. Experimental validation was performed using a bleomycin (BLM)-induced rat model of pulmonary fibrosis, incorporating histopathological and biochemical analyses of lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Cilostazol exhibited significant antioxidant activity by reducing lipid peroxidation and restoring antioxidant enzyme levels. It exerted anti-inflammatory effects by downregulating proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, NO, and IL-6) and inflammatory markers (CRP, LDH, and MPO). Furthermore, cilostazol attenuated key indicators of fibrosis progression, including KL-6 and endothelin-1, alongside fibrotic markers such as TGF-β, α-SMA, and collagen I and III. At the molecular level, it significantly reduced the mRNA expression of fibrosis-associated genes, including TGF-β, fibronectin, α-SMA, collagen I, and MMP-7. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that cilostazol confers significant protection against bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis through the targeted inhibition of the TGF-β/Smad, PI3K/AKT, and Wnt/β-catenin signaling cascades, highlighting its potential as a viable repurposed therapeutic strategy for inflammation-driven pulmonary fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Breast cancer (BC) is a complex illness that affects millions of women globally. As its incidence rises, new treatment strategies are needed. Veratrum viride, a traditional medicinal herb, is known for its therapeutic potential, yet its molecular mechanism of action against BC remains unclear. The purpose of this preliminary investigation is to assess V. viride's anti-breast cancer potential by identifying its active compounds and using bioinformatics techniques to clarify their multi-target mechanisms.Initially, eleven compounds from V. viride were examined for pharmacokinetic and toxicity characteristics. Network pharmacology was used to predict and integrate compound-target interactions with genes linked to BC. Topological and drug-protein interaction (DPI) analyses were employed to identify important hub genes. KEGG pathway enrichment and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses were conducted to validate functional relevance. Target-compound interactions were verified through molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation analysis. Using ADMET profiling analysis and drug-likeness properties, three alkaloids namely jervine, veratramine, and rubijervine were identified as promising drug candidates. We identified six important hub genes: MTOR, INSR, FOXO1, FOXO3, RPS6KB1, and AKT1. According to GO and KEGG analyses, the compounds targeted pathways important in the regulation of BC, including AMPK, HIF-1, FOXO, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR. Moreover, jervine demonstrated robust binding stability and affinity with core targets in molecular docking and dynamics simulations.This work provides the first evidence that alkaloids derived from V. viride, especially jervine, may act as multi-target inhibitors against BC. However, further experimental validation is required to confirm their therapeutic efficacy.
Angiosarcomas are very rare, malignant tumors of the endothelial lining of blood vessels and most present cutaneously, while only 10% present as deep soft tissue angiosarcomas. Literature is sparse regarding secondary deep soft tissue angiosarcoma, especially in cases that have formed surrounding a foreign body such as orthopedic implants.A 59-year-old Caucasian male presented with a 1-year history of occasional headaches and non-intentional weight loss. One month prior to consult, he began to experience progressive pelvic pain on weight-bearing, up to 10/10 in severity, with associated swelling of the left leg. Further diagnostics revealed a hypervascular tumor on the anterior left hemipelvis, directly over his initial pelvic injury and orthopedic implants placed 33 years ago.Biopsy revealed a high-grade angiosarcoma surrounding a stainless-steel 316L reconstruction plate adjacent to a titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4 V) total hip arthroplasty. NextGen Genome sequence analysis done reveals tier II mutations (potential clinical significance) in the HOXB13 p.G84E and RPS6KB1 genes.Few published cases exist regarding secondary deep soft tissue angiosarcoma, and its peculiar presentation in our case arising at the juncture between two orthopedic implants of different compositions suggests a possible effect of galvanic corrosion, and warrants further study.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
To investigate whether the novel proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor Inclisiran exerts protective effects on the kidneys under high-glucose conditions, and to predict whether its mechanism involves the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) pathway using proteomic techniques, while constructing its regulatory network.Healthy male C57BL/6J mice were randomly assigned to four groups: Group A (control, n = 9), Group B (diabetes model, n = 9), Group C (diabetes + low-dose Inclisiran, n = 9), and Group D (diabetes + high-dose Inclisiran, n = 9). Groups B, C, and D were induced with type 2 diabetes using a high-fat diet combined with streptozotocin (STZ). Diabetes was confirmed by three consecutive days of fasting blood glucose levels > 16.7 mmol/L after modeling. The experiment ended 8 weeks after modeling. Renal tissue changes were evaluated using hematoxylin-eosin (HE) and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining. Serum creatinine, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), cholesterol, and PCSK9 levels were measured, along with 24 h urinary protein-to-creatinine ratios. Renal tissue samples from Groups A, B, and D (4 mice per group) underwent transcriptomic sequencing to identify differentially expressed proteins. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses were performed to assess the potential of Inclisiran to protect the kidneys via the TGF-β pathway.After modeling, blood glucose, urine protein/creatinine ratio, blood creatinine, cholesterol, and other indicators in groups B, C, and D were significantly higher than those in group A, with group B showing the highest values (P < 0.05). In the renal tissues of groups B, C, and D, focal tubular cell degeneration and mesangial proliferation were observed. The glomerular proliferation index in group B was significantly higher than in the other groups. Proteomics identified 1096 differentially expressed proteins (579 upregulated and 517 downregulated) between groups A and B, and 911 differentially expressed proteins (475 upregulated and 436 downregulated) between groups B and D. KEGG enrichment analysis showed that the TGF-β pathway was enriched in both the A-B and B-D group comparisons. There were 11 downregulated differentially expressed proteins (P45481: Crebbp, P70387: Hfe, Q61502: E2f5, Q62312: Tgfbr2, Q62432: Smad2, Q8BSK8: Rps6kb1, Q8BUN5: Smad3, Q8CG19: Ltbp1, Q9CUN6: Smurf1, Q9JKX3: Tfr2, Q9Z1M4: Rps6kb2) related to this pathway between groups B and D.Inclisiran may improve the lipid profile of type 2 diabetic mice and reduce the activity of the TGF-β pathway. Its mechanism of action may be related to effects such as extracellular matrix proliferation.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565910
Early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) often presents diagnostic challenges because of its clinical overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD). In clinical practice, we encountered a subset of patients with severe AD who fulfilled the MF diagnostic criteria yet remained clinically indistinguishable from AD and presented refractoriness to advanced therapies. We termed this ambiguous entity "mycosis fungoides-like AD" (mfAD) and sought to determine whether it represents malignant transformation or a distinct inflammatory endotype of AD.Skin biopsies were obtained from 7 patients with AD and 11 patients with mfAD. We performed paired single-cell RNA sequencing and single-cell T-cell receptor sequencing analyses. Publicly available MF and AD datasets were integrated for comparative analysis. Spatial transcriptomic profiling was used to contextualize single-cell findings within the tissue architecture.Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that T cells in mfAD were aligned with those in AD and lacked genomic instability. High-resolution profiling showed that mfAD was characterized by oligoclonal Th22 expansion rather than a single dominant malignant clone. Notably, all patients with mfAD achieved rapid clinical remission with selective JAK1 inhibition, indicating the therapeutic response characteristics of inflammatory dermatoses.Our findings demonstrate that mfAD is not a true malignancy, but rather a Th22-driven inflammatory endotype of AD. These results redefine mfAD as an inflammatory subtype within the AD spectrum, providing a mechanistic explanation for both the "pseudo-monoclonality" that leads to MF misdiagnosis and the failure of dupilumab. This study establishes a rationale for the use of JAK inhibitors in precision medicine for this patient population.© 2026 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557506 is a review article
To describe a case of reversible azoospermia temporally associated with abrocitinib treatment in a man with severe atopic dermatitis (AD) and discuss its potential implications for male reproductive safety.Case report.A 38-year-old normal-weight man with highly refractory AD, a history of neonatal orchidopexy, and primary infertility.Clinical, hormonal, and semen evaluation before and after discontinuation of abrocitinib therapy (200mg/day).Semen parameters and reproductive hormone profile.Two consecutive semen analyses performed during abrocitinib treatment demonstrated azoospermia. Baseline endocrine evaluation showed elevated follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH; 12.3 mIU/mL), suggestive of seminiferous tubule dysfunction. Abrocitinib was discontinued, and reassessment after 3 months revealed complete recovery of spermatogenesis, with a sperm concentration of 50 million/mL. Although isolated teratozoospermia persisted, FSH levels normalized (8.6 mIU/mL) and inhibin B increased markedly (from 58 to 135 pg/mL), consistent with improved Sertoli cell function. The temporal association between drug withdrawal and recovery supports a potential reversible effect on spermatogenesis.This is, to our knowledge, the first report describing reversible azoospermia temporally associated with abrocitinib therapy. Although causality cannot be established from a single observation, this case raises a potential safety signal regarding the effects of selective JAK1 inhibition on male reproductive function. Further preclinical studies, pharmacovigilance analyses, and prospective clinical investigations are warranted to determine whether prolonged or high-dose abrocitinib exposure may adversely affect spermatogenesis in susceptible individuals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Patients with chronic inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), carry an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. The 2022 ORAL Surveillance study reported that the pan-selective Janus kinase inhibitor (JAKi) tofacitinib was associated with increased risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) among patients with rheumatoid arthritis compared to anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) therapy. This prompted guideline changes regarding the use of all JAKis, including upadacitinib, a JAK1-selective drug approved for use in chronic inflammatory conditions, including IBD. However, the mechanism underlying JAKi-related MACE outcomes and the significance of JAK selectivity relative to TNF inhibition remain unclear. Microvascular dysfunction (MVD) is a predictor of MACE. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is a measure of MVD. Using an established ex vivo model of resistance arterioles isolated from adipose tissue, we performed the first mechanistic comparison of anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF; infliximab), pan-JAK inhibitor (tofacitinib), and JAK1-selective (upadacitinib) therapies on human microvascular endothelial function. Arterioles were obtained from low-cardiovascular-risk subjects of both sexes. Isolated microvessels were incubated with drugs of interest. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD), an assessment of MVD, was measured before and after nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibition or hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) scavenging. No therapy statistically altered FMD magnitude, yet underlying mechanisms differed. Control and infliximab-treated vessels maintained physiologic NO-mediated dilation. Tofacitinib induced a shift toward pathologic H₂O₂-mediated dilation. Upadacitinib impaired NO-dependent dilation without evidence of compensatory H₂O₂ signaling. In summary, anti-TNF therapy and selective versus non-selective JAKi differentially modulate endothelial mechanisms of vasodilation, suggesting unique microvascular phenotypes with potential implications for cardiovascular risk.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549219 is a review article
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) and atopic dermatitis (AD) are driven by distinct T cell programs, and safe long-term topical therapies remain limited. Dermal fibroblasts (dFBs) have emerged as active immunomodulators, but whether they can be therapeutically targeted remains unexplored.Here we developed MDI1228, a novel topical pan‑JAK inhibitor with nanomolar potency against JAK1/2/3/TYK2 (IC₅₀ 0.11-0.85 nM) and high selectivity. MDI1228 was evaluated in DNFB‑induced ACD and MC903‑induced AD mouse models, as well as in primary mouse and human cell‑based assays.Topical MDI1228 ameliorated both ACD and AD in mice, reducing T cell infiltration and cytokine production. Mechanistically, MDI1228 not only directly inhibited T cell activation and cytokine production but also disrupted fibroblast‑T cell crosstalk by reducing dFB‑derived chemokine expression. Single‑cell transcriptomics identified dFBs as the primary source of CXCL9/10 in ACD and CCL2 in AD. Conditioned medium and neutralization experiments demonstrated that CXCL9/10‑CXCR3 and CCL2‑CCR2 signaling axes contribute to T cell polarization in a context‑dependent manner. Compared with glucocorticoids, prolonged topical application of MDI1228 showed minimal systemic toxicity and preserved tissue homeostasis.These findings identify dFBs as a central therapeutic node and demonstrate that MDI1228, by directly targeting T cells and disrupting dFB‑derived chemokine axes via JAK inhibition, offers a potent and safe topical treatment for both ACD and AD.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Yin, Yang, Heng, Zhang, Song, Feng, Yang, Liu and Zhang.
Human norovirus (HuNoV) is a major cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. Although it can be replicated in vitro using human intestinal enteroids (HIEs), generating high-titer viral laboratory stocks remains challenging due to low infection and passage efficiencies. Interferon response and chemokine signaling may be key host pathways that restrict efficient HuNoV replication. Here, we evaluated the effect of their inhibitors, ruxolitinib-a Janus kinase (JAK) 1/JAK2 inhibitor-and TAK-779-a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3)/C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5/CCR2 antagonist-on HuNoV replication in wild-type jejunal HIEs. TAK-779 increased GII.17 HuNoV replication by 2.3- and 6.0-fold at 48 and 96 h postinfection (hpi), respectively, compared with the DMSO-treated control. In contrast, ruxolitinib alone did not affect viral replication. Notably, simultaneous treatment with these compounds further enhanced GII.17 replication by 6.0- and 10.7-fold at 48 and 96 hpi, respectively, which enabled serial passaging. These findings imply that the simultaneous suppression of these pathways potentially benefits GII.17 HuNoV replication.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Dedifferentiated endometrial carcinoma occurs when a prognostically favorable low-grade endometrial carcinoma transforms into a highly aggressive undifferentiated carcinoma following genomic inactivation of core SWItch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable (SWI/SNF) complex protein(s). This typically occurs in a microsatellite-instable molecular context. This study aims to identify the immune evasion mechanisms associated with dedifferentiation. Whole-slide immunohistochemistry-based image analysis was used to compare spatial cancer immunophenotypes and human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) expression between the differentiated and undifferentiated components of 14 SWI/SNF-inactivated dedifferentiated endometrial carcinomas. Flow cytometry and in vivo xenograft studies were performed to gain functional insights. Dedifferentiation was associated with changes in spatial cancer immunophenotypes, most frequently from an inflamed immunophenotype in the differentiated component to an excluded immunophenotype in the undifferentiated component, with loss of tumor HLA-I expression, decreased intraepithelial CD8+ T-cell, and increased stromal PD-L1+ immune infiltrates. Loss of tumor surface HLA-I expression was also observed in the undifferentiated carcinoma from two patient-derived models of dedifferentiated endometrial carcinomas - DDEC1 and DDEC2. By flow cytometry, IFN-γ treatment restored HLA-I expression in DDEC2 (3.5-fold increase, p < 0.05) but not in DDEC1, which harbored inactivating JAK1 mutations. In the in vivo xenograft model of DDEC2, intratumoral injection of IFN-γ restored HLA-I expression in the undifferentiated tumors. These findings implicate the loss of tumor HLA-I expression as an immune evasion mechanism acquired during dedifferentiation in a subset of dedifferentiated endometrial carcinomas. More importantly, IFN-γ can restore tumor HLA-I expression, providing a rationale for combining it with immune checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment of this clinically aggressive cancer type. © 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Although bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) causes massive losses of cattle, the transition from mucosal replication to neuroinvasion remains poorly understood. Using a controlled calf model, we integrated quantitative virology and transcriptomics to map its pathogenesis and define the role of promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML). Calves inoculated intranasally and ocularly (1.4 × 106 plaque-forming units/head) were sampled daily (1-14 days post-infection, dpi) for glycoprotein B (gB) qPCR. Tissues were analyzed at 4 and 14 dpi to measure viral DNA via gB-specific qPCR, and for mRNA-seq of trigeminal ganglia (TG). Shedding peaked at 3-6 dpi, being highest in nasal samples, lower in ocular samples, and substantially lower in rectal samples, and declined by 10-14 dpi. At 4 dpi, among the tissues sampled, the tonsils exhibited the highest viral burden. TG exhibited low viral levels at 4 dpi, although they remained detectable at 14 dpi, indicating neuroinvasion. The TG program shifted from early proteostasis priming (4 dpi) to immune/extracellular matrix activation with synaptic repression (14 dpi). In MDBK/Vero cells, IFN-α resulted in higher bovine PML (bPML) levels and enlarged PML nuclear bodies (PML-NBs), reducing very early viral DNA levels, whereas BoHV-1 disrupted PML-NB integrity. The different bPML isoforms exerted different effects on viral infection. STRING analysis revealed a conserved PML-SUMO1-UBE2I-DAXX-SP100 core. These findings delineate the mucosal-to-neuronal trajectory, establish PML as both an effector and viral target in complementary in vitro systems, and identify SUMO/ubiquitin-linked proteostasis as a tractable target for antiviral intervention.IMPORTANCEAlthough bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) remains a major challenge to cattle health, the early transition from mucosal replication to trigeminal neuroinvasion has not been clearly mapped in natural-host calves. By integrating daily shedding kinetics, tissue viral DNA profiling, and time-resolved trigeminal ganglion transcriptomics, we delineate when and how BoHV-1 reaches the sensory neurons. Promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) is identified as a key intrinsic antiviral factor that is upregulated by IFN-α and restricts very early viral genome accumulation, while viral BoHV-1-encoded infected cell protein 0 actively dismantles PML nuclear bodies. The discovery of opposing isoform-specific PML functions and a conserved PML-SUMO proteostasis hub provides mechanistic insight into BoHV-1 immune evasion. These findings refine our understanding of the mucosal-to-neuronal trajectory of infection and highlight proteostasis-linked antiviral pathways as promising targets for intervention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483731 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42214794 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42085445
Skipped: PubMed ID 41970282 is a review article
The Presence of autoantibodies plays a central role in Autoimmune Liver Diseases (AiLD) diagnosis and classification: such antibodies discriminate between distinct subtypes of the AiLD, including Primary Biliary Cholangitis (PBC) and Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH), and facilitate diagnosis of the overlap syndromes. This paper describes the optimization and validation of a novel procedure to quantify autoantibodies using a multiparametric test and a fully automated device.The CHORUS Macroarray Liver Diseases kit was optimized to detect the following biomarkers: autoantibodies anti-AMA-M2, anti-Sp100, and anti-gp210 for PBC and autoantibodies anti-LKM-1, anti-LC1, and anti-SLA/LP for AIH types 2 and 3. To validate the assay, the limit of detection, the limit of quantitation (LoQ), precision, specificity, and sensitivity were determined. The assay was also compared with a predicate ELISA that singularly determined each antigen.A total of 216 serum samples were used to validate the assay, including 91 samples from patients with AIH or PBC and 125 samples from age-matched blood donors serving as controls. The assay was linear in the range of concentrations between the LoQs determined for each autoantibody, accurate, and precise. When compared with the predicate ELISA, the assay was sensitive and specific, with excellent agreement for each autoantibody. PBC and AIH markers were correlated, and no interaction was present between the two groups.The CHORUS Macroarray Liver Diseases assay was accurate, sensitive, and specific for the detection of autoantibodies in AiLD and may become a useful tool for rapidly obtaining multiparametric information using a minimal sample volume.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Toxin-antidote (TA) systems are selfish genetic elements that bias their own inheritance by coupling a toxin that kills offspring with an antidote that specifically rescues carriers. Although widespread across bacteria, archaea, fungi, plants, and invertebrates, TA systems have not been described in vertebrates. Here we report the first vertebrate TA system, which sabotages mammalian embryogenesis. We define HEX (Homogenously staining region-mediated Embryo eXecution) as a selfish element that biases its transmission through the female mouse germline. Crosses between HEX heterozygous females and wild-type males result in selective lethality of wild-type embryos, yielding preferential survival of HEX-bearing progeny. Using mouse genetics, embryo transfer, and zygote micromanipulation, we show that HEX operates through a canonical TA mechanism: the maternally deposited toxin SP100 induces genotoxic stress in embryos, while the linked antidote SP110 selectively rescues HEX-positive embryos. Both components are core factors of the interferon signaling pathway, revealing that HEX co-opts innate immune machinery to drive transmission bias. These findings establish a vertebrate TA system and demonstrate that selfish elements can repurpose fundamental cellular pathways to violate Mendelian inheritance, with profound consequences for female fertility.
Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is an autoimmune epithelitis of small intrahepatic bile ducts that affects predominately females, and is characterized by chronic cholestasis, circulating PBC-related autoantibodies, and progressive disease at the histological level. Key manifestations include pruritus, fatigue, hyperpigmentation, dry-gland syndrome, xanthelasmas and frequent concurrent extrahepatic autoimmune diseases, although approximately half the patients are nowadays completely asymptomatic at diagnosis. The current Consensus Statements of the Hellenic Autoimmune Liver Diseases Study Group aim to provide updated and practical statements to clinicians for PBC diagnosis and management. The presence of antimitochondrial antibodies is a key diagnostic marker for PBC. PBC-specific antinuclear antibodies (anti-gp210 and anti-sp100) also bear diagnostic and prognostic significance. Following diagnosis, this document provides guidance on the comprehensive assessment and risk stratification of patients, using demographic factors, clinical and biochemical laboratory findings, liver autoimmune serology and fibrosis stage. After 6-12 months of therapy with first-line treatment (13-15 mg/kg/day ursodeoxycholic acid [UDCA]), a new risk-stratification procedure should be performed, based on the assessment of biochemical response using a continuous scoring system (either GLOBE or UK-PBC score). In non-responders, add-on treatment to UDCA with a second-line agent, a proliferator-activated receptor agonist (PPAR), either elafibranor (PPARα/δ agonist) or seladelpar (PPARδ agonist), is recommended. The treatment target-also known as deep response-should aim to achieve bilirubin within the normal range, specifically at values <0.6× upper limit of normal, along with normalization of alkaline phosphatase. The disease-associated major symptoms (pruritus, fatigue and cognitive dysfunction) should also be promptly recognized and managed in a holistic manner, as they negatively affect the patient's health-related quality of life.Copyright: © 2026 Hellenic Society of Gastroenterology.
Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)-related antibodies-including anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA), AMA-M2, anti-gp210, and anti-sp100-can occur in non-PBC liver diseases. We evaluated single and combined antibody positivity, focusing on dual positivity, using liver biopsy as the reference standard.This retrospective study included antibody-positive patients who underwent liver biopsy. Patients were classified into three groups: only AMA(s) positive group, only anti-gp210/sp100 positive group, and dual-antibody positive group. Clinical and biochemical characteristics were compared to evaluate diagnostic performance and disease severity. Antibody-positive patients who did not initially meet diagnostic criteria for PBC were followed to assess diagnostic conversion.Among 733 antibody-positive patients, 80.22% (588/733) were diagnosed with PBC, while 19.78% (145/733) were non-PBC. Diagnostic rates were 80.05% (313/391) in the only AMA(s) positive group, 53.85% (63/117) in the only anti-gp210/sp100 positive group, and 94.22% (212/225) in the dual antibody positive group (p < 0.05). Dual antibody positive patients showed the most severe cholestatic profile, with significantly higher alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, total bile acid, and immunoglobulin M levels. The only anti-gp210/sp100 positive group had the highest rate of gastrointestinal bleeding. Autoimmune hepatitis overlap was more common in the dual-positive group than the only AMA(s) positive group (p < 0.05). Among 145 non-PBC patients followed for a median of 39.10 months, 2.07% (3/145) progressed to PBC, with a cumulative incidence of 7.40%.Histopathology remains the definitive standard for diagnosing PBC. Dual positivity for AMA/AMA-M2 and anti-gp210/sp100 showed the highest diagnostic value in identifying PBC.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Stimulation of the innate immune system by foreign RNA elicits a potent interferon response and can trigger cell death. The mechanisms by which cells balance a robust response with cell-intrinsic lethality are still being uncovered. Here, using genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 genetic screens with triphosphorylated RNA stimulation, we discover that promyelocytic leukaemia (PML) nuclear body-localized speckled protein 110 (SP110) is a potent inhibitor of type 1 interferon-driven cell death. Death suppression by SP110 counteracts a toxic activity of SP100, a major constituent of PML bodies. Loss of SP110 leads to mitotic retention of SP100 and PML bodies, which associate with and perturb segregating chromosomes, leading to micronucleus formation, DNA damage and genotoxic cell death. A combination of cryo-electron microscopy, AlphaFold modelling and cellular biochemistry reveals that SP110 dissolves toxic SP100 oligomers via necessary and sufficient direct interactions between their caspase activation and recruitment domains. These data reveal the critical roles of SP100 and SP110 in governing the disassembly of PML bodies during mitosis, as well as the repercussions if this process is misregulated.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Lung cancer (LC), particularly lung adenocarcinoma, is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, while systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) is a chronic fibrotic autoimmune disorder. Growing evidence suggests shared molecular mechanisms between these conditions, although their genetic overlap remains insufficiently characterized. In this study, integrative bioinformatics approaches were applied to identify common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and regulatory networks linking LC and SSc-ILD. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed 72 shared DEGs, including 10 hub genes: MMP7, CXCL14, and CD79A (upregulated), and CXCR2, IL1A, FCAR, GRIA1, IL1R2, CSF3, and FFAR2 (downregulated). Regulatory network analysis identified key miRNAs (hsa-miR-34a-5p, hsa-miR-126-3p, hsa-miR-335-5p) and central transcription factors (FOS, JUN, NFKB1). Pathway enrichment highlighted interleukin-10 signaling as a critical shared pathway, implicating immune regulation and extracellular matrix remodeling. Molecular docking suggested a potential interaction between doxycycline and MMP7 (binding affinity -6.4 kcal/mol), while X-ray diffraction and Rietveld refinement confirmed its crystalline purity. Additionally, doxycycline demonstrated antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus via minimum inhibitory concentration assays. Overall, these findings provide preliminary insights into shared molecular features between LC and SSc-ILD and suggest doxycycline as a potential repurposed candidate warranting further experimental and clinical validation.
Delirium, acute confusion marked by fluctuations of attention and concentration, is associated with increased risk for poor long-term health outcomes, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), institutionalization, and mortality. Cardio-autonomic control is implicated in modulating response to acute stressors, and alteration is separately shown to predict mortality. Heart rate (HR) fluctuations display fractal correlations (similar temporal autocorrelation across different time scales) that reflect a dynamic interplay between sympathetic and vagal outflows, where disruption is thought to contribute to neuronal damage. We hypothesized that fractal cardiac activity regulation FCAR (α₁) correlations in HR predicts incident delirium.Prospective cohort study using UK Biobank data.Community-based participants undergoing ECG-monitored exercise testing.41,109 adults (mean age 58.0 years) free from delirium or AD at baseline who completed a 7-minute stationary bike test (2009-2010) and had ≥1 hospitalization by March 2021.Detrended fluctuation analysis was used to derive short-term fractal scaling exponents (α1) from ECG data. Cox proportional hazard models examined the association between FCAR (α1) and incident delirium, adjusting for demographics, lifestyle, comorbidities cognition, and exercise parameters.Over a median of 11.4 years (IQR 11.3-11.5), 442 cases (11 per 1000) developed delirium. FCAR (α1) was normally distributed, (mean 1.25 ± 0.35 (SD)). Compared to those in the highest FCAR (α1) quartile (>1.50), participants in the lowest quartile (<1.01) had a 40% increased risk of delirium (HR 1.40; 95% CI: 1.05-1.88; p = 0.02). This risk increase was equivalent to being 3.3 years older in the fully adjusted models.Lower FCAR (α₁) during exercise predicted higher long-term risk of delirium, suggesting a potential prognostic indicator associated with brain-heart resilience. Future research should examine its role in shared vulnerability to delirium and neurodegenerative disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The comorbid state of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and coronary artery disease (CAD) has emerged as a significant public health challenge. However, the underlying metabolic regulation and molecular biomarkers linking to the CAD and OSA comorbidity (CADOSA) remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify non-invasive biomarkers for the CADOSA comorbidity.We randomly recruited a total of 143 participants from a hospital-based setting, comprising four groups: healthy controls (n=38), patients with OSA-only (n=37), CAD-only (n=36), and comorbid CADOSA (n=32). Participants were predominantly male (69.2%), with a mean age of 59.44 years (SD 12.25) and 24.77±3.94 BMI index. Comprehensive clinical evaluation and blood metabolomic profiling were conducted. We integrated differential expression analysis, functional enrichment, machine learning, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, and matched transcriptomes association analysesto uncover key metabolites and potential molecular regulatory mechanisms associated with CADOSA.Baseline clinical data revealed that CADOSA comorbidity significantly exacerbates more severe cardiac dysfunction and sleep disordered breathing than two unique disease stages, despite no significant differences in age or BMI among the groups. Common disordered metabolites in patients with OSA-only or CAD-only were primarily associated with fatty acid, steroid, amino acid, and energy metabolism. While OSA-specific metabolic pathways included ascorbate and aldarate metabolism, alpha-linolenic acid metabolism, and primary bile acid biosynthesis. In contract, CAD specific pathways consisted of arginine biosynthesis, sphingolipid metabolism, pyruvate metabolism, and glycerophospholipid metabolism. Specifically, CADOSA patients exhibited unique metabolic pathways involving unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis. Machine learning analysis identified the newly discovered and top-ranking potential metabolomic biomarkers for each condition: upregulated D-glucuronolactone for OSA, increased 12-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid for CAD, and downregulated tryptophan for CADOSA. Matched transcriptome association analysis revealed highly expressed and strongly correlated metabolite-gene pairs in the CADOSA comorbidity, including tryptophan-DMXL2, (C12-AE1S)-ZDHHC11, and IBMX-FCAR, which acting as potential up- and down-stream regulatory relationships underlying progress of CADOSA.This study elucidates the distinct clinical features and metabolic profiles of OSA, CAD, and comorbid CADOSA. These newly identified metabolic biomarkers and associative gene-metabolite pairs highlight a distinct comorbidity-specific metabolic and transcriptional architectures, providing novel insights into the development of molecular biomarkers and therapeutic targets for CADOSA.© 2026 Chen et al.
Limited battery capacity poses a challenge for autonomous robots. We believe that instead of relying solely on electric motors and batteries, basically Conventional Autonomous Robots (CAR), one way to address this challenge may be to develop Biohybrid Autonomous Robots (BAR), based on current achievements of the field of biohybrid robotics. The BAR approach is based on the facts that fat store high amount of energy, that biological muscles generate decent force per unit of cross-sectional area and that biological muscles have capability for regeneration and adaptation compared to electric motors. To reach conclusions about the feasibility of BAR, this study uses data from the fields of muscle energetics, robotics, engineering, physiology, biomechanics and others to perform analysis and interdisciplinary calculations. Our calculations show that the BAR approach is up to 5.1 times more efficient in terms of the mass of energy substrate to useful energy transported than the Conventional Autonomous Robots (CAR) with mass-produced batteries in an ideal scenario. The study also presents the model for determining the point of the rational use of the BAR, taking into the account basal metabolism of living systems. The results of this study provide a preliminary basis for further research of the BAR, putting it into the context of the other possible solutions for energy autonomy problem: Generator-Powered Autonomous Robots (GPAR) and Fuell-Cell Autonomous Robots (FCAR).Copyright © 2025 Kuplinov.
This study aimed to investigate the diagnostic potential of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs)-related genes in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) through comprehensive bioinformatics analysis.Two GEO datasets (GSE37587 and GSE16561) were integrated to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between AIS patients and healthy controls. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was performed to explore functional pathways, while single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA) was used to evaluate immune cell infiltration patterns. NETs-related DEGs (NDEGs) were identified by intersecting the DEGs with previously reported NETS-related genes. Functional enrichment of NDEGs was performed using Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. Key genes were identified via machine learning algorithms, including least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and random forest (RF). A diagnostic model was constructed based on the identified hub genes and validated using an independent dataset (GSE58294). Potential regulatory miRNAs and candidate therapeutic compounds were predicted using the TargetScan and DSigDB databases, respectively.The discovery dataset included 73 AIS patients and 24 healthy controls, revealed 551 DEGs (225 upregulated, 326 downregulated). The analysis of ssGSEA revealed notable immune dysregulation in AIS patients, characterized by increased neutrophil infiltration and decreased level of Th17, Th1, and TFH cells. GSEA indicated that DEGs were enriched in neutrophil degranulation and innate immune system. NDEGs were significantly enriched in immune regulation and leukocyte apoptosis (GO) and NETs formation pathway (KEGG). Four hub genes-SRC, TLR8, FCAR, and HIF1A-were identified using LASSO and RF algorithms. A diagnostic model based on these genes yielded area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.880 in the training dataset and 0.936 in the validation dataset. Furthermore, three regulatory miRNAs (miR-146a-5p, miR-155-5p, and miR-21-5p) and 23 candidate therapeutic drugs were predicted.To our knowledge, this represents the first comprehensive investigation of NETs-related gene signatures in AIS patients compared with healthy controls. These findings deepen our understanding of immune cell infiltration and the underlying molecular mechanisms involved in stroke, offering novel insights that may enhance diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic strategies for AIS.Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Wu, Li, Liu, Wang and Cao.
Fc receptor-driven immune system activity typically reflects a balance of activating and inhibitory mechanisms, mediated by the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) or inhibition motif (ITIM) in the ligand-binding alpha chain (FcγRIIa - c) or the canonical ITAM in the associated Fc receptor γ-chain (FcRγ). A second role for the ITAM, an inhibitory role known as ITAMi, was initially recognized for the FcαRI-FcRγ signaling pair. We report an FcRγ-independent mechanism for inhibitory signaling by the IgA-binding receptor, FcαRI (CD89) in which the natural Ser248Gly variant in the cytoplasmic domain of the FcαRI α-chain alters the signaling capacity of FcαRI and constitutes a serine-based genetically determined switch for regulation of the anti- and proinflammatory potentials of human IgA. To elucidate the basis for this α-chain mechanism, we sought allele-specific FcαRI-associated molecules. Sab (SH3BP5), a trans-inhibitor for Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), is recruited by the more common Ser248 allele, whereas the src-family tyrosine kinase Lyn, a Btk activator, is reciprocally recruited by the Gly248 variant. Ser248 phosphorylation amplifies Sab association and disrupts Lyn binding through an overlapping region containing an unconventional SH3-domain binding motif. In contrast to FcαRI Gly248, recruitment of Sab by FcαRI Ser248 results in inhibition of Btk activation and suppression of IgA effector functions independent of FcRγ-pairing. Expression of a dominant-negative Sab construct releases FcαRI-mediated inhibition in a Ser248- allele-specific manner. These findings reveal a reversible serine-based phosphorylation-dependent molecular switch for regulation of receptor-mediated activation/inhibition that couples FcαRI α-chain to divergent inflammatory properties of human IgA.Copyright © 2025 Gibson, Wu, Hendrickson, Ptacek, Mobley, Edberg and Kimberly.
Excessive production of trimethylamine (TMA) by the gut microbiota leads to increased concentrations of TMA or trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) in the bloodstream, which is associated with health risks. High levels of TMAO have been linked to cardiovascular disease, inflammation and other health problems. In addition, people affected by a genetic deficiency of the liver enzyme FMO3, which oxidises TMA to TMAO, suffer from trimethylaminuria (TMAU), a rare disorder caused by mutations in the Fmo3 gene, in which the body odour resembles that of rotting fish, leading to significant discomfort and social isolation. We report here on (R)-N-fluoromethylcarnitine (FCAR), the first inhibitor of TMA production that acts without altering the microbiome and has favourable pharmacokinetic properties. We also tested FCAR in an animal model of trimethylaminuria (TMAU) using mice with a knock-out for the Fmo3 gene. We observed that FCAR reduced TMA levels in the blood and urine of these mice. No weight loss was observed in the animals, demonstrating the low toxicity of FCAR and making it a potential candidate for clinical development for the treatment of trimethylaminuria (TMAU) and other TMA-related disorders.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Sepsis biomarker research over the past 30 years has been plagued by the use of wrong animal models and inappropriate patient selections, leading to the failure of translating findings into precision medicine. Thousands of sepsis-related gene biomarkers have been published, but this excess hinders medical advancement because (1) an overwhelming number of genes make targeted drug development and precision medicine unfeasible; (2) many biomarkers lack cross-cohort validation, rendering them clinically unhelpful. Our goal is to identify a highly informative, single-digit set of sepsis biomarkers to advance precision medicine.We conducted large-scale research on heterogeneous populations, including patients with sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shocks, and collected plasma samples from 32 sepsis patients and 18 healthy controls at Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, China. RNA was isolated using the HYCEZMBIO Serum/Plasma RNA Kit, and RT-qPCR was performed on the Roche Light Cycler 480 platform. An AI-based max-logistic competing classifier was applied across 11 cohorts with thousands of samples, using both self-designed and public datasets to identify the most critical sepsis biomarkers.Our analysis highlights CKAP4, FCAR, and RNF4 as key genetic drivers in sepsis-related variations. In whole blood, NONO is crucial for immune response, while in plasma, PLEKHO1 and BMP6 reveal further genetic heterogeneities. Pediatric patients also exhibit significant contributions from RNASE2 and OGFOD3. These genes form the most effective miniature set of biomarkers.Achieving 99.42% accuracy across cohorts, this miniature set outperforms larger published gene sets. These findings provide critical insights for personalized risk assessment, targeted drug development, and tailored treatments for both adult and pediatric sepsis patients.Copyright © 2025 Su, Huang, Zhang, Liu, Lv, Zhang, Ling, Su, Zhan and Zhang.
This study aims to identify and validate key genes involved in the progression of myocardial infarction (MI) and to investigate their roles in inflammatory response, immune regulation, and myocardial remodeling. A systematic analysis will be conducted using bioinformatics and machine learning methods.Gene expression data of GSE60993, GSE61144, GSE66360 and GSE48060 from four datasets were collected from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between MI samples and normal samples were screened by the limma package. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was employed to identify genetic modules associated with MI. Core genes in key modules were screened using LASSO regression and support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE). These genes were then subjected to functional enrichment analysis, including Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), Gene Ontology (GO), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). The CIBERSORT algorithm was utilized to evaluate immune cell infiltration patterns. Finally, potential therapeutic targets were explored through drug-gene interaction analysis using the DGIdb database.After correcting for batch effects across datasets, we identified 687 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 405 upregulated and 282 downregulated genes. WGCNA analysis identified a highly correlated module with MI (turquoise module) containing 324 genes. Integrative machine learning (LASSO regression and SVM-RFE) and validation identified five key MI-associated genes: ANPEP, S100A9, MMP9, DAPK2, and FCAR. These genes were functionally enriched in inflammatory and immune-related pathways and correlated with immune cell infiltration, particularly neutrophils and macrophages. Notably, S100A9, FCAR, and MMP9 emerged as druggable targets.The five hub genes identified in this study (ANPEP, S100A9, MMP9, DAPK2, and FCAR) significantly contribute to MI development by modulating inflammatory responses and immune regulation. Their strong association with MI pathogenesis highlights their potential as diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets, which may lead to new clinical applications for MI management.Copyright © 2025 Yang, Li, Ma and Zhang.
Acute on chronic liver failure (ACLF) is a critical condition with a high mortality rate; however, the underlying mechanisms driving its progression remain poorly understood. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), a recently discovered mechanism of cell death, may play a significant role in this process. Although NETs has been found in a variety of liver diseases, its specific mechanism in regulating the development of ACLF is not clear. Here, we sought to identify key NETs-related genes associate with ACLF. In this study, gene expression data from 24 whole blood samples, including 7 healthy donors and 17 ACLF patients, were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Various bioinformatics analyses, including Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) and CIBERSORT, were performed to further analyse and compare the differential genes between patients with acute on chronic liver failure and healthy groups. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed on the differential genes. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed against 69 known NETs-related genes, and a genetic diagnostic model for ACLF patients was established based on the analysis results. In addition, we used an unsupervised clustering method to assess immune infiltration and biological differences based on NETs-related genes. Finally, mice peripheral blood was collected for RT-qPCR verification. A total of 1694 DEGs were identified, and the biological functions and signaling pathways closely related to ACLF were monocyte differentiation and immune-metabolic processes. Twenty-seven expression modules were obtained by WGCNA, among which the ME pink and ME cyan module had the highest correlation with ACLF. The intersection of the results from both analyses with 69 NETs-related genes identified 13 key genes (FCAR, MMP9, ITGAM, DYSF, ALPL, MPO, MGAM, TLR8, BST1, ELANE, TLR4, TLR2, PADI4). Subsequently, CIBERSORT analysis revealed that immune cells, such as M0-type macrophages, activated memory CD4 T cells, and plasma cells, might play an important role in ACLF. Additionally, NETs-related genes were closely associated with immune infiltration. TLR4, BST1, MGAM, DYSF, and ALPL were significantly associated with immune cells. The results of RT-qPCR on mice peripheral blood showed that BST1 expression increased significantly. BST1 may be reliable marker for the diagnosis of ACLF patients, and these results may contribute to a better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms of ACLF.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an independent risk factor for acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but the mechanisms underlying their comorbidity remain unclear. As a newly described inflammatory form of programmed cell death, PANoptosis may play a key role. This study aimed to identify shared pathogenic mechanisms and key targets linking the two diseases.Mendelian randomization analysis was performed to assess the causal relationship between CKD and coronary artery disease (CAD). Shared genes among AMI, CKD, and PANoptosis were identified, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Diagnostic performance of key genes was evaluated using independent cohorts. Single cell sequencing was applied to localize gene expression at the cellular level. In vivo animal experiments were conducted to validate the functional role of the candidate gene SOCS3 in post MI PANoptosis and cardiac function.Mendelian randomization confirmed that CKD is a significant risk factor for CAD. We identified 12 genes shared by AMI, CKD, and PANoptosis, and determined SOCS3 and HSPA1A as key diagnostic genes. Both genes displayed strong diagnostic performance (e.g., AUCs > 0.85 for AMI) in independent cohorts. Functional analysis showed enrichment in pathways including JAK STAT signaling and apoptosis. Single-cell sequencing localized high expression of these genes to monocytes and endothelial cells. Animal experiments demonstrated that knockdown of SOCS3 significantly inhibited expression of key PANoptosis molecules such as CASP1, CXCL10, and ZBP1 after MI, reduced inflammation, and improved cardiac function.PANoptosis was the central pathological link connecting CKD and AMI. As shared biomarkers and intervention targets, SOCS3 and HSPA1A provided new directions for precise diagnosis and treatment of cardiorenal comorbidities.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Xian, Xu, Ma, Huang and Ye.
Fibroblasts are linked to stress responses in a broad number of diseases. Here, we used immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts (iMEFs) to elucidate their signaling behavior in response to proinflammatory lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and angiotensin II (Ang-II). To test for the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), iMEFs were cultured in glucose- and galactose-containing media promoting glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively. In addition, we used alternative oxidase (AOX), a ubiquinol oxidoreductase that serves as a naturally evolved rescue mechanism in case of ETC disruption. We found that within 24 h of treatment, LPS upregulated a number of proinflammatory genes, namely Tlr4, Il6, Tgfb1, Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il1b; largely, the effect was more pronounced in galactose-containing media and attenuated by AOX. The increase in transcripts resulted partly in elevated cytokine secretion. Twenty-four hours of Ang-II treatment also induced these genes, albeit to a lesser degree and less sensitive to AOX. Cellular oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) were higher in galactose media but remained unaffected by either stimulus. Our results suggest that fibroblasts undergo a similar proinflammatory phenotypic shift in response to different stressors. This response is shaped by ETC activity, which, surprisingly, is not reflected in altered OCRs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Beiging of white adipose tissue (WAT) is a promising strategy to enhance energy expenditure and combat obesity, a growing global health burden. Here, we identify a non-canonical role of caspase-1, a cysteine protease, in regulating adipocyte thermogenesis. Caspase-1 expression in adipocytes of inguinal WAT is downregulated upon cold exposure but elevated in obesity. Adipocyte-specific caspase-1 deficiency promotes WAT beiging, increases whole-body energy expenditure, and ameliorates high-fat diet-induced obesity and metabolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, cAMP signaling suppresses Casp1 transcription via C/EBPβ. Proteomic and functional analyses reveal that caspase-1 interacts with and modulates the protein levels of COX7A2L, a subunit of mitochondrial complex IV. Loss of Casp1 stabilizes COX7A2L, thereby enhancing mitochondrial respiration. Moreover, CASP1 expression in human WAT significantly increases with obesity and metabolic dysfunction. Accordingly, we developed a sustained-release delivery system for the caspase-1 inhibitor Ac-YVAD-CHO, which effectively protects against diet-induced obesity and improves glucose tolerance in mice. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized inflammation-independent role of adipocyte-intrinsic caspase-1 in adipose beiging and highlight caspase-1 as a potential therapeutic target for obesity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cadmium (Cd) is a toxic heavy metal for plants, and although its mechanisms of toxicity are well characterized, the regulatory networks underlying plant responses remain incompletely understood. This study investigated membrane-associated molecular responses linked to RBOHC and RBOHF during Cd stress through a label-free proteomics of root microsomal membrane fractions from Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type (WT), rbohC and rbohF plants. Proteomic analysis revealed pronounced genotype-dependent responses, with most Cd-responsive differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) being genotype-specific. The rbohF mutant displayed broader proteomic reprogramming than rbohC, whereas rbohC exhibited a comparatively attenuated response. Functional analyses indicated that Cd stress altered proteins associated with detoxification, ion transport, membrane trafficking, redox regulation and stress signaling. WT plants showed coordinated accumulation of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), MATE/DTX transporters, ABC transporters and Ca²⁺-related proteins, whereas rbohC lacked GST accumulation and showed reduced abundance of the IRT1-CIPK23 module. In contrast, rbohF exhibited enhanced accumulation of several GSTs together with altered abundance of proteins associated with redox regulation, Casparian strip organization and ion homeostasis, including SBP1, CASP1 and PER64. Physiological analyses further revealed increased superoxide accumulation in rbohC roots under Cd stress, while GST activity differed among genotypes, supporting distinct antioxidant responses. Together with previous physiological evidence, these findings identify membrane-associated proteins and pathways associated with the contrasting Cd responses of rbohC and rbohF mutants. Overall, this work provides new insights into membrane-associated molecular responses linked to RBOHC and RBOHF during Cd stress and identifies candidate proteins for future functional studies on Cd tolerance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies among women worldwide; its incidence and mortality are expected to increase annually. Cancer is composed not only malignant cells but also a complex and dynamic network of interacting stromal cells, specifically immune cells, which contribute to tumor development and progression. Increasing evidence highlights the critical role of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and their inflammasome-driven signaling pathways in tumor progression and therapeutic resistance. Curcumin, a natural compound with anti-carcinogenic potential, has a role in the regulation of cancer development and progression. However, its specific effects on inflammasome activation in TAMs within the tumor microenvironment (TME) remain insufficiently characterized. THP-1 monocytes differentiated into macrophages acquire the TAM-like phenotype when treated with conditioned media from breast cancer cells. Our present study aimed to investigate the effects of curcumin on inflammasome activation in macrophages induced by breast cancer-derived conditioned media. Breast cancer-derived conditioned medium stimulation induced manifestation of a pro-inflammatory TAM-like phenotype, characterized by increased interleukin (IL)-1β secretion and upregulation of NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3), caspase-1, and IL-1β. Curcumin pretreatment significantly reduced IL-1β secretion as well as NLRP3 protein levels. Moreover, it also suppressed IL1B and CASP1 mRNA expression. In conclusion, curcumin attenuates tumor-induced inflammasome activation, highlighting its potential to modulate TME-driven breast cancer progression via the NLRP3/caspase-1/IL-1β axis.Copyright © 2026 Korean Society of Cancer Prevention.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42530063
The secondary injury cascade following spinal cord injury (SCI) drives severe inflammation and tissue destruction. Although the natural polyphenol Procyanidin B2 (PCB2) has well-documented neuroprotective properties, its specific therapeutic efficacy in SCI, as well as its precise therapeutic targets and immunomodulatory mechanisms, remain unclear.We applied an integrated bioinformatics and in vivo approach. Target predictions were cross-referenced with SCI transcriptomic profiles from GEO datasets. Four machine learning algorithms were used to isolate core regulatory genes. Single-cell RNA sequencing mapped the primary target's distribution, and molecular docking estimated binding affinities. Mechanistic predictions were validated in a rat T10 spinal cord contusion model via Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) scoring, histology, immunofluorescence, and Western blot.Network pharmacology initially yielded 59 shared targets, with functional enrichment pointing to PCB2's broad involvement in Toll-like receptor and p53 signaling, as well as tissue remodeling. This suggests its potential for multi-target anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic intervention. Machine learning algorithms then pinpointed Caspase-1 (CASP1) as the central regulatory node. Single-cell RNA sequencing showed that CASP1 expression surges specifically within macrophages and microglia following injury. Molecular docking supported a robust interaction (-7.2 kcal/mol) between PCB2 and the active pocket of CASP1. In our rat model, administering PCB2 notably hastened the return of bladder control and increased BBB locomotor scores. Histology confirmed that treated animals had smaller lesion volumes, better myelin integrity, and less inflammatory cell infiltration. At the molecular level, PCB2 significantly suppresses CASP1 expression, thereby blunting secondary damage.PCB2 demonstrates significant neuroprotective effects in SCI. Its mechanism primarily involves targeting CASP1 in myeloid cells, to lower its expression, thereby shifting the microenvironment toward repair, providing a translational basis for utilizing natural polyphenols like PCB2 in managing secondary spinal cord trauma and supporting overall central nervous system health.Copyright © 2026 Xiang, Liu, Gu, Liu and Shi.
This study aimed to investigate the selective anticancer activity of the curcumin analog PAC (3,5-Bis-4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzylidene)-N-methyl-4-piperidone). Normal gingival epithelial cells (GECs), cancerous gingival cells (Ca9-22) and tongue squamous carcinoma cells (CAL27) were exposed to increasing concentrations of PAC (0-10 µM) for 24 h. Cell viability and cytotoxicity were evaluated using MTT and LDH assays, while apoptosis and caspase activation were analyzed by Annexin V/PI staining and flow cytometry. Gene-expression profiling was performed using RT2 Profiler PCR arrays. PAC significantly inhibited Ca9-22 and CAL27 cell proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner, with an IC50 value of 5 µM, while exerting no noticeable cytotoxic effects on normal GEC. PAC treatment induced significant early and late apoptosis associated with increased caspase activity in both oral cancer cell lines. Transcriptomic analyses revealed extensive modulation of apoptosis-related genes. In Ca9-22 cells, PAC predominantly suppressed anti-apoptotic and survival-associated genes, including BCL2, BIRC3, BIRC5, XIAP, CFLAR, and NFKB1. In contrast, CAL27 cells exhibited a more pronounced pro-apoptotic transcriptional profile characterized by upregulation of TP53, APAF1, CASP1, BID, and TNF. Gene interaction network analyses further demonstrated that PAC targets highly interconnected apoptotic signaling pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PAC exerts potent selective anticancer activity against OSCC cells through modulation of intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. These results further support the therapeutic potential of PAC as a promising multitarget candidate for oral cancer treatment.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with loss of muscle quality and strength, but accessible quantitative tools for detecting these changes remain limited. We evaluated whether shear wave viscoelastic imaging (SWVI), acoustic attenuation imaging (AAI), and isokinetic strength testing could characterize rectus femoris muscle involvement in RA, and used public synovial transcriptomic data to provide hypothesis-generating biological context.Twenty-nine patients with RA (early RA, n = 7; active RA, n = 11; treated low/moderate-activity RA, n = 11) and 27 healthy controls underwent rectus femoris ultrasound and knee isokinetic strength testing. The main ultrasound variables were rectus femoris thickness and cross-sectional area, mean Young's modulus (Emean), viscosity (Vimean), speed of sound (SoS), and AAI. Group differences, Spearman correlations, receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curves, and exploratory logistic models were analyzed. Because the RA cohort was small and diabetes was more common in RA than in controls, ROC, nomogram, and multivariable results were interpreted as exploratory rather than confirmatory. Public GSE55235 synovial transcriptome data were reanalyzed to identify inflammatory and extracellular-matrix pathways that may plausibly link synovitis with systemic muscle impairment.Rectus femoris thickness and cross-sectional area showed limited between-group separation, whereas Emean, Vimean, SoS, AAI, and isokinetic strength differed across groups (all p < 0.001). AAI increased from controls to early, active, and treated low/moderate-activity RA groups and correlated with disease duration in the full cohort (Spearman rho = 0.864); this association remained strong in RA-only adjusted sensitivity analyses. SoS decreased across the same gradient (rho = - 0.875 with duration in the full cohort), whereas Vimean was highest in active RA and correlated with DAS28 in the full cohort (rho = 0.643). Extensor peak torque was lower in RA and correlated inversely with DAS28 in the full cohort (rho = - 0.844); the corresponding RA-only association was more moderate but remained significant (rho = - 0.642). In exploratory ROC analyses, AAI, SoS, and extensor peak torque showed high apparent discrimination between RA and controls; however, the small overall and subgroup samples, baseline differences in diabetes and height, and absence of external validation make these estimates potentially unstable and preclude conclusions about clinical applicability. Synovial transcriptomic analysis showed enrichment of TNF, NF-κB, JAK-STAT, cytokine-receptor, and extracellular-matrix remodeling pathways in RA synovium, supporting a plausible inflammatory background rather than direct evidence of muscle pathology.In this exploratory clinical-transcriptomic study, SWVI/AAI and isokinetic strength testing detected rectus femoris muscle-quality and functional differences associated with RA. AAI and SoS may be candidate ultrasound parameters for RA-associated muscle involvement, but their disease specificity, independence from diabetes, and tissue-level interpretation require confirmation in larger, externally validated studies with reference-standard muscle-composition assessment and reliability testing.• This study integrates meta-analysis, Mendelian randomization, and single-cell RNA sequencing to comprehensively evaluate treatment efficacy, genetic influences, and immune alterations in late-onset rheumatoid arthritis (LORA). • LORA patients exhibit distinct treatment responses compared with younger-onset RA, including lower clinical remission rates with biologics/tsDMARDs and higher residual disease activity (DAS28). • Genetic variants in the IL-6R and TYK2 pathways are identified as key modifiers of drug response and disease susceptibility in LORA. • The findings underscore the need for age- and genetics-informed personalized treatment strategies in elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
The randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 Program fOr Evaluation of TYK2 inhibitor Psoriatic Arthritis-1 (POETYK PsA-1) trial evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of deucravacitinib, an oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, in patients with PsA naïve to biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.Adults with active PsA, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein concentration ≥ 3 mg/L, and ≥ 1 PsA-related hand and/or foot erosion detectable via radiograph were randomised 1:1 to oral deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily or placebo through week (W) 16. At W16, patients continued receiving deucravacitinib or switched from placebo to deucravacitinib through W52. The primary endpoint was American College of Rheumatology 20% improvement in response (ACR20) at W16. Nonresponder imputation was used for missing data. Efficacy and safety were evaluated through W52. Post hoc rank analysis of covariance was used to evaluate structural damage with no missing data imputation.In 670 patients, a significantly greater proportion of those receiving deucravacitinib vs placebo achieved ACR20 at W16 (54.2% vs 34.1%, P < .001). Responses with deucravacitinib were increased at W52. Patients who switched from placebo to deucravacitinib achieved improvements similar to those in patients who received continuous deucravacitinib. Inhibition of structural damage was observed at W16 and W52. At W16, incidences of serious adverse events (AEs) (deucravacitinib, 1.8%; placebo, 2.4%) and discontinuations due to AEs (2.4%; 1.8%) were low and remained low through W52, without imbalances in cardiovascular events, malignancies, or opportunistic infections. No new safety signals were detected; no deaths occurred.Deucravacitinib demonstrated superiority vs placebo for clinical responses, patient-reported outcomes, and structural damage inhibition in patients with PsA, with favourable tolerability and safety.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552595 is a review article
The epidermis provides the body's outermost barrier, yet how G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling via the G12/13 family regulates epidermal homeostasis in vivo remains unclear. Here, we selectively activated G12 signaling in keratinocytes using a chemogenetic strategy. Activation of a G12-coupled designer receptor (G12D) in mouse epithelial cells induced pronounced epidermal thickening while preserving stratified architecture and avoiding overt inflammatory skin changes. This thickening was accompanied by increased Ki67-positive cells, expansion of keratin 10- and filaggrin-positive layers, and transcriptomic upregulation of genes related to keratinocyte differentiation, keratinization, and epidermal barrier function. Functionally, G12D activation strengthened barrier performance, as shown by blunted transepidermal water loss responses to mechanical barrier disruption. Although alarmin-related genes were upregulated, cytokine analyses indicated only modest inflammatory changes. Pharmacologic inhibition of TYK2 (deucravacitinib) partially reduced G12D-driven epidermal thickening, whereas mTORC1 inhibition (rapamycin) produced a stronger suppressive effect, suggesting that the mTORC1-dependent keratinocyte response is a major driver of this phenotype, with a moderate TYK2-dependent component. Together, these findings identify epidermal G12 signaling as a regulator that promotes "non-pathological" epidermal thickening coupled to enhanced barrier function, supporting G12-coupled GPCRs as potential therapeutic entry points for barrier-compromised skin disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). FASEB BioAdvances published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42532425 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522516 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522479 is a review article
Tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2), a key part of the inflammatory cascade responses, plays an integral role in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Socrodeucitinib, an oral, TYK2 allosteric inhibitor, selectively inhibits TYK2 cytokine signalling pathways in psoriasis pathogenesis.To evaluate the efficacy and safety of socrodeucitinib in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis.In this phase 2, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 125 patients were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to receive socrodeucitinib at 6 mg, 12 mg or placebo orally, once daily, for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with a 75% or greater reduction from the baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score at week 12.At week 12, significantly more patients treated with socrodeucitinib achieved a 75% reduction from baseline in PASI score compared with placebo (28.6% at 6 mg, 72.1% at 12 mg vs. 7.5% for placebo, p < 0.05 and p < 0.001, respectively). At the 12 mg dose, socrodeucitinib resulted in significantly higher response rates compared to placebo, with 46.5% of patients achieving PASI 90 (p < 0.001) and 11.6% achieving PASI 100 (p < 0.05). The treatment of socrodeucitinib also led to significantly higher proportions of patients achieving sPGA responses of 0 or 1 compared to placebo: 33.3% at 6 mg and 65.1% at 12 mg versus 10% for placebo (p < 0.05 and p < 0.001, respectively). Most common adverse events included upper respiratory tract infection which demonstrated a certain dose dependency. Most treatment-related adverse events were mild or moderate, and serious adverse events were infrequent, with no clinically meaningful abnormal trend in laboratory parameters.Socrodeucitinib demonstrated significantly greater clearing of psoriasis plaques compared to placebo in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis and illustrated a favourable safety and tolerability profile, warranting further investigation in longer-duration and larger trials.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.
Chilblain lupus erythematosus is a rare skin manifestation of lupus erythematosus (LE), which has proven particularly difficult to treat and therefore often presents a great challenge for patients and physicians. We treated two patients with cases of long-lasting, refractory chilblain LE with the selective, allosteric TYK2-inhibitor deucravacitinib. Both patients showed rapid improvement of their respective skin lesions and symptoms. The treatment was generally well tolerated with no severe adverse events. One of the patients experienced an intermittent occurrence of acne lesions. We therefore suggest deucravacitinib as a promising and safe off-label treatment option for chilblain LE.
Oral inflammatory diseases such as oral lichen planus are characterized by dysregulated chemokine production and persistent interferon-associated signaling, with JAK/STAT pathways playing a central role in epithelial-immune crosstalk. Here, we investigated whether Melissa officinalis extract (MOE), a widely used phytomedicine with incompletely defined mechanisms, modulates inflammatory signaling in oral epithelial cells. MOE composition was characterized by HPLC-HRMS, and transcriptomic, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, and cell-free kinase analyses were employed to define its biological effects in HSC2 and non-transformed epithelial cells. MOE was cytocompatible and selectively attenuated interferon-associated signaling rather than broadly suppressing inflammation. It markedly reduced interferon-stimulated gene expression, including MX1/2, IFIT and OAS family members, STAT1/2, CXCL10, and GBP1, while NF-κB-dependent CXCL8 expression remained unaffected. Mechanistically, MOE reduced JAK2 activity in a cell-free assay and suppressed STAT1 phosphorylation-associated nuclear translocation, supporting modulation of canonical interferon signaling. Consistently, MOE reduced CXCL10 expression at both mRNA and protein levels, and these effects occurred independently of reactive oxygen species modulation. Chemical profiling identified several phenolic acids, among which caffeic acid showed activity in suppressing CXCL10 production. These findings identify MOE as a pathway-selective modulator of interferon-driven inflammatory responses in oral epithelial cells, provide mechanistic insight into its clinical use, and support further investigation of Melissa officinalis-derived preparations as topical strategies for targeted modulation of mucosal inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Rasheed, Panahipour, Glabonjat and Gruber.
This study investigated immune cell distributions, cell-specific immune markers, and selected biomarker targets in pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) and extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB) using multiparametric flow cytometry (MFC). Whole blood was collected from 45 individuals, including healthy controls (HC), EPTB, and PTB patients (n = 15/group). Peripheral blood leukocytes were analysed by MFC to characterize CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, natural killer (NK), invariant NKT (iNKT) and NKT cells, classical (CM), intermediate (IM) and non-classical monocytes (NCM), and activated monocytes (AM). Expression of GBP1, CALCOCO2, IFIT3, SNX10, ARG1, PD-1, and PD-L1 was assessed across these immune subsets. Increased frequencies of NK, NKT, and monocytes were observed in PTB and EPTB compared with HC, while CD4+, CD8+, iNKT, and AM were reduced. Monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratios were incrementally elevated in EPTB and PTB compared with HC. Despite variability of expression within groups, median biomarker fold-change expression changes were found between HC, EPTB and PTB groups; (i) (>2.0FC) for ARG1 in CD4, CD8, CM and AM, for CALCOCO2 in AM, GBP1 in CD8 and NCM, PD-1 in CD4, CD8, NK, IM and AM, PD-L1 in CD4, CD8, iNKT and NKT, NK, IM and AM and SNX10 in CD4, CD8, NCM, IM and AM (ii) (<2.0FC) in TB vs HC for CALCOCO2 in iNKT and NKT, IFIT3 in NCM, PD-1 in NK and NCM, PD-L1 in NCM, IM and AM and SNX10 in AM. Statistical significance was achieved for ARG1 (P = 0.017) in CD4 cells. Our findings highlight distinct immune cell and biomarker signatures in PTB and EPTB.Copyright © 2026 UK Health Security Agency. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Interferons (IFNs) are potent antimicrobial cytokines. However, effector mechanisms mediating their function in humans are poorly understood, partly because IFNs can induce numerous effector molecules. While guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) are IFN-inducible, their role in cell-autonomous resistance to intracellular pathogens is incompletely understood. We demonstrate that human GBP1-5 significantly inhibits intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) survival, but only GBP4 mediates autophagy. GBP4 facilitates Mtb containment by promoting lysosomal acidification and autophagy via type Ⅰ IFN-dependent TFEB and FOXO3a activation. Mechanistically, GBP4 binds progranulin (GRN), reducing SORT1-mediated GRN lysosomal degradation. Moreover, GBP4 facilitates the GBP4-GRN-BIP-AKT complex assembly while inhibiting the GBP4-BIP-TRIM21 complex formation, thereby enhancing GRN-mediated BIP accumulation and AKT degradation. This leads to AKT inhibition, and concomitant TFEB and FOXO3a activation. GRN, BIP, AKT, and TRIM21 are essential for GBP4-mediated mycobactericidal activity. Our study uncovers a key role for GBP4 in regulating cell-autonomous resistance in human macrophages and may facilitate the development of host-directed therapies against tuberculosis (TB).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Severe asthma is a heterogeneous disease. The mechanisms driving airway pathology when type 2 (T2) cytokine activity is suppressed remain poorly understood. This study aimed to provide insight by identifying the airway molecular pathways of T2 biomarker-high and -low severe asthma. We analysed clinical and transcriptomic data from bronchial biopsies and brushes in the UK Refractory Asthma Stratification Programme multi-centre severe asthma cohort (18 corticosteroid-resistant T2 biomarker-high [T2-high], 23 T2 biomarker-intermediate [T2-intermediate], 11 T2 biomarker-low [T2-low]) plus 20 healthy controls pre- and post-treatment with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). Many genes dysregulated in asthma vs. health were concordantly dysregulated in healthy subjects receiving ICS. Severe asthma as a whole, independent of confounding by ICS, was characterised by upregulation of mucins, CEACAM5, typical T2-genes (POSTN, CLCA1, CCL26), epithelial mast cell genes, and CPA4. T2-high severe asthma demonstrated upregulated T2-dependent genes, epithelial barrier and keratin genes, adaptive immune responses, and impaired ciliary function. T2-low asthma showed upregulated Th1- and IL-17-associated genes (IDO1, CXCL10, GBP1, LAG3), interferon-γ signalling, neuroimmune pathways, airway smooth muscle-related genes, and neutrophil enrichment. T2-intermediate asthma exhibited a mixed molecular profile sharing features of T2-high and T2-low endotypes, with selective expression of the pathogen defence and antiviral response genes. The results were validated using bronchoscopy data from the U-BIOPRED Consortium. This study defines airway molecular endotypes of severe asthma associated with T2 biomarker high and low phenotypes, independent of corticosteroid effects. These findings offer insights for severe asthma management and the development of targeted biologic therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor-based chemoimmunotherapy has become a standard first-line treatment for HER2-negative advanced gastric or gastro-esophageal junction cancer. However, most patients eventually experience disease progression, and optimal post-progression strategies, particularly immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based retreatment, remain unclear. This study evaluated the real-world feasibility of ICI-based retreatment and developed an exploratory tumor microenvironment (TME)-oriented biomarker framework to stratify patients who may benefit from immunotherapy.This multicenter retrospective study included 144 patients with HER2-negative advanced gastric cancer who received ICI-based retreatment after progression on first-line ICI-containing therapy between January 2020 and February 2025. Retreatment was classified as cross-line ICI continuation or ICI rechallenge after an ICI-free interval. Clinical outcomes included objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), progression-free survival during retreatment (PFS2), overall survival, and safety. TCGA-STAD multi-omics data were used to infer HER2-negative status and identify immune/TME subtypes. Differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis in the PRJEB25780 gastric cancer immunotherapy cohort were used to identify candidate response-associated genes. Machine-learning models were then compared to construct an exploratory immunotherapy-response classifier, termed HNGCIscore. Protein-level validation of selected markers was performed by immunohistochemistry.Among 144 patients, 73 received cross-line ICI continuation and 71 received ICI rechallenge. In the cross-line group, ORR was 6.85%, DCR was 50.68%, and median PFS2 was 3.0 months. In the rechallenge group, ORR was 5.63%, DCR was 52.11%, and median PFS2 was 5.5 months. These findings were interpreted descriptively because the two groups represented distinct real-world retreatment scenarios rather than randomized comparative cohorts. Any-grade treatment-related adverse events occurred in 58.9% and 77.5% of patients in the cross-line and rechallenge groups, respectively, while grade 3-4 events occurred in 32.0% and 34.0%. No treatment-related deaths were observed. Transcriptomic analyses identified two immune/TME subtypes. Integration of subtype-associated differentially expressed genes with immunotherapy-response-related WGCNA modules yielded 35 candidate genes. Among 14 machine-learning algorithms, XGBoost showed the best overall discrimination, and a seven-gene signature was used to derive HNGCIscore. A simplified three-gene model based on GBP1, IDO1, and CD72 showed moderate internal performance in repeated stratified five-fold cross-validation. Immunohistochemistry further showed higher GBP1, IDO1, and CD72 protein expression in responders than in non-responders, supporting their association with immunotherapy sensitivity.ICI-based retreatment after first-line immunotherapy failure appears feasible in selected patients with HER2-negative advanced gastric cancer, with measurable disease control and manageable toxicity. The TME-oriented HNGCIscore framework, supported by preliminary protein-level validation of GBP1, IDO1, and CD72, may help identify patients more likely to benefit from immunotherapy. These findings remain exploratory and require validation in larger prospective cohorts with matched transcriptomic, biomarker, and clinical response data.Copyright © 2026 Song, Wu, Zhu, He, Shi, Ren and Gao.
Sweet syndrome (SS) is an autoinflammatory neutrophilic dermatosis characterized by abrupt-onset inflammatory skin lesions and systemic symptoms, yet its molecular pathogenesis remains incompletely defined. To delineate disease-specific inflammatory programmes, we performed NanoString-based transcriptomic analysis of SS skin lesions and compared them with healthy control skin and pyoderma gangrenosum, a related neutrophilic dermatosis. SS exhibited a distinct inflammatory transcriptional signature marked by robust upregulation of type I and II interferon-stimulated genes, including CXCL9, CXCL10, GBP1, GBP5, IFIT2 and IRF7, distinguishing SS from both control groups. Cell type deconvolution analysis revealed enrichment of dendritic cells, consistent with a prominent type I interferon-driven immune response. In parallel, SS lesions demonstrated altered immunoproteasome gene expression, with upregulation of immunoproteasome subunits PSMB8, PSMB9 and PSMB10 and downregulation of the constitutive subunit PSMB7 suggesting functional remodelling of proteasomal activity. Together, these findings support a model in which dendritic cell-driven interferon signalling promotes immunoproteasome remodelling and sustains neutrophilic inflammation in Sweet. This study identifies a prominent interferon signalling as a defining molecular feature of SS and highlights potential therapeutic opportunities within the interferon-JAK/STAT and proteasome pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex and heterogeneous systemic autoimmune disease associated with poor treatment outcomes. While previous studies have indicated a genetic predisposition to SLE, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood.This study aimed to identify diagnostic targets with potential genetic associations to SLE by leveraging bioinformatics and the Mendelian randomization (MR) approach.Six datasets (GSE30153, GSE39088, GSE50635, GSE50772, GSE61635, and GSE110169) were obtained from the GEO database for differential expression analysis to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was then performed, and the most relevant module was intersected with the DEGs to identify candidate genes with potential diagnostic value. Subsequently, machine learning algorithms were applied to screen diagnostic genes, and their performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and confusion matrices. MR analysis was conducted to identify diagnostic genes with genetic associations. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core genes. Finally, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), gene set variation analysis (GSVA), and immune infiltration analysis were performed.Differential expression analysis identified 244 DEGs, and WGCNA revealed a highly relevant module. Intersecting this module with the DEGs produced 136 candidate genes. Machine learning algorithms and MR analysis further refined the selection, identifying five diagnostic genes: GBP1, IFI6, KLHDC8B, OAS3, and ZCCHC2, all of which were shown to be well-aligned with their respective drugs. The PPI network highlighted GBP1, IFI6, and OAS3 as core genes, which showed significant correlations with immune cell infiltration.Our study identified GBP1, IFI6, and OAS3 as core genes implicated in SLE pathogenesis, providing novel insights into its molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Qianqian Liu et al. Genetics Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The IFNγ-induced GTPase guanylate-binding protein 1 (GBP1) binds to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on cytosolic gram-negative bacteria and promotes pyroptosis via the recruitment and activation of caspase-4 on the bacterial outer membrane. Enteropathogenic and enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EPEC and EHEC, respectively) are extracellular pathogens that adhere to host cells and stimulate dense actin polymerisation underneath their attachment sites, generating structures described as actin-rich pedestals. Here, we show that GBP1 traffics to actin-rich pedestals in human cells infected with EPEC or EHEC in vitro and mouse colonocytes infected with the EPEC-like murine pathogen Citrobacter rodentium in vivo. GBP1 promotes caspase-4 recruitment to actin-rich pedestals, leading to pyroptosis and IL-18 release. GBP1 mutants defective in LPS coatomer formation also localise to EPEC pedestals. A novel assay that mimics pathogenic effector activity reveals GBP1 recruitment to sterile actin polymerisation sites. We conclude that cytosolic GBP1 is mobilised to sites of pathogen-induced actin remodelling independently of LPS. Our study establishes that GBP1 not only operates as a pattern-recognition receptor but also orchestrates effector-triggered immunity against pathogens that hijack the actin cytoskeleton.© 2026. The Author(s).
Granuloma annulare (GA) and cutaneous sarcoidosis (cSAR) have an overlapping immunopathology, in which the aberrant activation of macrophages by IFN-γ constitutes a central driver. Nevertheless, the molecular understanding in GA and cSAR macrophages remains limited. We reanalyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data of GA and cSAR and performed in vitro experiments with primary human cells showing that oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is a dominant metabolic pathway in IFN-γ-activated macrophages. Furthermore, we identify an IFN-γ-induced response network in GA and cSAR macrophages, sensitive to electron transport chain (ETC) inhibitors. Guanylate-binding protein 1 (GBP1) was central in controlling IFN-γ-mediated macrophage activation. Meanwhile, inhibition of IFN-γ signaling, ETC complexes, and GBP1 reduced granuloma formation in a human in vitro model. Metformin, a clinically used ETC complex I inhibitor, suppressed IFN-γ activation of macrophages and in vitro granulomas. Together, we suggest that OXPHOS and GBP1 represent druggable targets in granulomatous diseases and that drug repurposing of metformin is a possible strategy.
The immunological composition of the microenvironment has shown relevance for diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy in solid tumors but remains underexplored in acute leukemias. We investigated the significance of the acute myeloid leukemia (AML) bone marrow microenvironment in predicting chemosensitivity and long-term remission in pediatric patients. We analyzed 32 non-promyelocytic pediatric AML patients at diagnosis using a NanoString PanCancer IO 360 assay, RNA sequencing, and deep-phenotype flow cytometry analyses. The findings were validated using the pediatric TARGET AML dataset. A short signature of three interferon (IFN)-related genes (GBP1, PARP12, and TRAT1) distinguished patients with chemosensitive disease and reduced minimal residual disease after induction chemotherapy. The signature stratified patients overall, and within the clinically defined "standard-risk" group, patients with high gene expression at diagnosis had significantly longer overall survival. The leukemia microenvironment associated with this signature showed enrichment of non-exhausted CD4+ and CD8+ T cytotoxic lymphocytes and expansion of CD8+ T effector memory cells re-expressing CD45RA (TEMRA) in patients with a favorable prognosis. Our results show the importance of the bone marrow microenvironment in pediatric AML and provide tools for a refined stratification of "standard-risk" patients, lacking adequate risk-oriented therapies. They also offer a promising guide for tackling immune pathways and exploiting immune-targeted therapies.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a fatal urological malignancy with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. Emerging evidence has shown that a number of circular RNAs (circRNAs) exert crucial effects on carcinogenesis. Nevertheless, the biological role of circEVI5 in RCC remains poorly clarified. This study aimed to elucidate the clinical significance, biological functions, and molecular mechanisms of circEVI5 in RCC pathogenesis.The expression profile of circEVI5 was first screened based on GEO and TCGA-KIRC datasets, and further verified in RCC cell lines (A498, 786-O, ACHN, CAKI-1, OSRC-2) and normal renal tubular epithelial HK-2 cells using qRT-PCR. Functional assays (CCK-8, Transwell) and a subcutaneous xenograft model were employed to assess circEVI5's role in proliferation, migration, and invasion. RNA pull-down, RIP, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were conducted to validate interactions among circEVI5, miR-433, and GBP2. Clinical correlations were further analyzed based on TCGA datasets and immunohistochemical staining results.CircEVI5 was significantly upregulated in RCC tissues (median FC=6.619; P<0.05) and cell lines, correlating with advanced tumor stage (median FC=7.691; P<0.05) and poor survival (P=0.035). Knockdown of circEVI5 via small interfering RNA inhibited cell viability, migration, and invasion in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, circEVI5 acted as a cytoplasmic molecular sponge for miR-433, which was downregulated in RCC and inversely correlated with GBP2 expression. RNA pull-down and RIP assays confirmed direct binding between circEVI5 and miR-433, while luciferase assays identified GBP2 as a miR-433 target. Rescue experiments demonstrated that miR-433 inhibition or recombinant GBP2 reversed the anti-tumor effects of circEVI5 knockdown. Clinically, GBP2 overexpression in RCC tissues predicted reduced survival, and miR-433 levels were inversely correlated with both circEVI5 (P<0.0001) and GBP2 (P=0.0003).Our findings establish circEVI5 as a novel oncogenic driver that facilitates RCC progression through the miR-433/GBP2 regulatory axis. The circEVI5/miR-433/GBP2 network represents a potential therapeutic target, and circEVI5 may serve as a prognostic biomarker for RCC patients. This study highlights the critical role of circRNA-mediated miRNA sponging in RCC pathogenesis and provides a framework for developing RNA-based therapies.Copyright © 2026 Xiong, Li, Tang, Xie and Liang.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) represents a breast cancer subtype lacking three essential biomarkers: estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). This biological signature differentiates TNBC from other breast cancer subtypes and acts as an essential diagnostic criterion for clinical identification and constitutes essential diagnostic criteria for clinical identification. Among all subtypes of breast cancer, TNBC exhibits an exceptionally high level of aggressiveness. Its aggressive behavior and paucity of effective treatment options contribute to its notoriously poor prognosis. The immunogenic cell death (ICD) emergence has raised hopes to create fresh treatment approaches to strengthen TNBC patients' immune responses against tumors. However, the correlation between ICD and TNBC prognosis is still unclear.By analyzing transcriptomic data through the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we discovered the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and linked to ICD in TNBC. A prognostic model utilizing ICD was developed through LASSO regression. Then, we conducted multivariate Cox proportional hazards analysis on the identified DEGs. We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and Kaplan-Meier (KM) analysis to evaluate the model's predictive accuracy. To comprehensively evaluate the clinical relevance of the ICD signature, we investigated its associations with genomic alterations, tumor microenvironment (TME) characteristics, and therapeutic responses to both chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Furthermore, functional validation was performed using MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 through various in vitro assays, including CCK-8 proliferation tests, colony formation assays, and Transwell migration experiments to assess HEYL's biological role.A 4-gene ICD signature (HEYL, CXCL13, GBP2, and IL22RA2) was developed and stratified TNBC patients into two categories, showing major distinctions in overall survival (OS). We found that higher-risk patients had less favorable results. Meanwhile, they usually had different TMEs with less immune cell infiltration. By contrast, the low-risk group appeared to react better to immunotherapy, as evidenced by their increased immune cell infiltration level and more favorable outcomes. Analysis via the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) uncovered that DEGs were predominantly involved in immune-related pathways, for example, the receptors on the plasma membrane. Additionally, a lower immunological phenotype score (IPS) and increased susceptibility to various chemotherapeutic medicines, including A-443,654, BAY 61-3606, and CP466722, were detected in the low-risk category. Additionally, HEYL knockdown markedly suppressed TNBC cell growth and metastatic capability, whereas its overexpression produced the opposite outcome, promoting both traits.The prognosis and responsiveness to treatment for TNBC can be anticipated by the ICD-related gene profile, highlighting the significance of the immune microenvironment. It might provide insight into the design of tailored immunotherapies for TNBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Using ovarian cancer datasets from public databases, identify copper death-related genes in ovarian cancer tissues and construct a clinical prognostic risk scoring model for ovarian cancer patients based on these genes.We downloaded the OC data of TCGA, the GSE26193, GSE63885 dataset from GEO and retrieved 10 cuproptosis related genes (CRGs) and analyzed their chromosomal localization, expression correlation, and mutation patterns based on the datasets. Using these genes, we clustered the OC samples to identify different molecular subtypes of copper induced death. We analyzed the differential genes and functional enrichment between different subtypes and obtained feature genes with predictive ability for prognosis through survival regression analyses. Based on these feature genes, we constructed a risk scoring model and incorporated the clinical characteristics ofpatients to jointly predict their survival rate.In ovarian cancer samples, 10 copper death-related genes can stably divide the samples into two molecular subtypes, and there are significant differences in clinical and immune characteristics and drug sensitivity between them. After further screening, seven prognostic genes (RARRES1、CXCL10、PI3、CXCL11、THEMIS2、GBP2、RPL39L) were obtained, and the risk model based on them combined with age predicted that the AUC of patients' 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival rates were all greater than 0.7, showing good clinical application prospects.The mechanism of cuproptosis and its key genes might become therapeutic targets for ovarian cancer. The subtypes of cuproptosis provide a theoretical basis for personalized clinical treatment. The predictive model constructed by key prognostic genes has promising clinical application effects.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
To investigate whether SIRT4 protects the optic nerve by regulating mitochondrial function and lipid metabolism in neurotoxic reactive astrocytes in the retinal ischemia-reperfusion injury.Using SIRT4 knockout, wild-type, and overexpressing mouse ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) models, we assessed retinal ganglion cell loss, protein expression (SIRT4, APOL6, GBP2, mitochondrial dynamics), and conducted metabolomic/transcriptomic analyses. In vitro, primary astrocytes were treated with TIC cytokines; SIRT4 was knocked down via lentivirus, followed by measurement of ATP, lipid secretion, and mitochondrial morphology/function.SIRT4 was highly expressed in astrocytes. Its knockdown exacerbated I/R injury, promoting a neurotoxic astrocyte phenotype with increased APOL6 expression, and elevated secretion of long-chain fatty acids and phosphatidylcholines and mitochondrial damage. SIRT4 deficiency enhanced astrocyte susceptibility to injury, further reducing ATP production and worsening lipid accumulation and optic nerve damage.SIRT4 plays a protective role in retinal ischemia-reperfusion injury model by regulating astrocyte lipid metabolism and mitochondrial function, offering a potential therapeutic target for neuroprotection.
Neospora caninum is a major cause of abortion in cattle worldwide, leading to substantial economic losses in the livestock industry. As no effective drug or vaccine is currently available, a deeper understanding of the host immune response against N. caninum is essential for developing effective control strategies. The absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2) inflammasome is involved in host defense and regulation of disease pathology, while its role in N. caninum infection remains unclear. This study shows that N. caninum activates the AIM2 inflammasome in wild-type (WT) murine peritoneal macrophage (PMϕs), characterized by increased expression of AIM2, pro-IL-1β, caspase-1 p20, and IL-1β p17, along with elevated IL-1β secretion and cell death rates. Guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) are involved in regulating AIM2 inflammasome activation. Here, we observed that both GBP2 and GBP5 were upregulated by N. caninum, but only GBP5 overexpression played a functional role, as its overexpression enhanced, whereas its knockdown significantly attenuated AIM2 inflammasome in WT PMϕs, suggesting N. caninum activates the AIM2 inflammasome in a GBP5-dependent manner. To further investigate the role of AIM2 in parasite infection, AIM2-/- mice were used. In AIM2-/- PMϕs, inflammasome activation was reduced, accompanied by increased parasite proliferation. In vivo, N. caninum-infected AIM2-/- mice exhibited higher parasite loads but showed increased survival rates, reduced macrophage recruitment, decreased levels of IFN-γ, and IL-18, and alleviated pathological damage. In summary, our findings demonstrate that the AIM2 inflammasome is activated by N. caninum in a GBP5-dependent manner and plays a dual role by restricting parasite proliferation while exacerbating disease pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Near Oceanic populations harbor substantial cultural, phenotypic, and genetic diversity yet are drastically underrepresented in human genomics. We generated 177 high-coverage Near Oceanian whole genomes and analyzed them alongside 1284 worldwide genomes, revealing major distinctions among and within islands, including long-term isolation and strong population bottlenecks. We reconstructed 1.897 billion base pairs of the archaic genome, including 831.9 million base pairs of Denisovan sequence, and found evidence for introgression from three Denisovan-like groups in Near Oceanians and adaptive Denisovan introgression at TRPS1, a skeletal development gene also under selection in central African rainforest hunter-gatherers and highland Ecuadorians. We then performed a massively parallel reporter assay and discovered 3127 high-frequency introgressed expression-modulating variants, finding an enrichment of functional impacts on genes in the interferon-γ signaling pathway including JAK1, GBP2, and OAS1.
Injury of the optic nerve leads to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) apoptosis and irreversible vision loss, in which reactive astrocytes play a central role. The aim of this study is to modulate pathological reactive astrocytes to reduce the progression of optic nerve degeneration.Given the therapeutic potential of small molecules to modulate astrocyte reactivity, we used a drug-screening platform to identify small molecules, and evaluated their capacity to regulate astrocyte phenotypes and preserve RGCs after optic nerve crush (ONC). The primary astrocytes from neonatal C57BL/6J mouse cortices, A1 astrocytes, are induced by TNF, IL-1α, and C1q (TIC), both of them are confirmed at transcript and protein levels. High-throughput screening using SiPer, a computational screening platform, together with DRUG-seq2, yielding candidate small molecules, whose effects on A1/A2 transitions were assessed by RT-qPCR, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), Western blotting, and immunofluorescence. In vivo, an ONC model received intravitreal compound delivery. RGC survival and astrocyte phenotypes were evaluated by retinal flat-mounts and immunofluorescence.Primary astrocytes exposed to TIC acquired A1 phenotype, characterized by upregulated C3, GBP2, H2-d1, and H2-t23, and induced RGC cytotoxicity. Transcriptomic drug screening identified proteasome inhibition as a potential strategy to suppress pathological reactive astrocytes. Marizomib, a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-permeable proteasome inhibitor, downregulated A1 markers and upregulated A2 neuroprotective genes. In an ONC model, Marizomib reduced GBP2-positive astrocytes and, at a lower dose, a modest increase in RGC survival was observed at 14 days post-ONC.We developed a small-scale drug-screening platform and identified Marizomib as a modulator of astrocyte phenotypes. Its therapeutic potential was validated both in vitro and in vivo, providing a new chemical tool to modulate astrocyte reactivity for future therapeutic exploration.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has become the third most common cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and its incidence is steadily increasing. Notably, many patients with PDAC develop type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) months or even years prior to cancer diagnosis. This study employed weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify shared genes between PDAC and T2DM that may contribute to the pathogenesis and progression of PDAC.WGCNA was applied to screen for genes at the intersection of PDAC-related apoptotic and necrotic pathways and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in T2DM. A weighted gene co-expression network was developed using genes with the greatest variance. Multiple analytical approaches were then used to further characterize key genes, including functional enrichment analysis, random survival forest analysis, immune cell infiltration profiling, regulatory network analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), gene set variation analysis (GSVA), nomogram development, and single-cell RNA sequencing analysis.Seventeen genes were identified as commonly expressed in both conditions and were enriched in apoptosis-related pathways, suggesting shared molecular mechanisms. Among them, GBP2 and LY6E emerged as central hub genes in both the test and validation cohorts. Further analysis revealed that GBP2 was positively associated with parainflammation and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I expression, while LY6E was correlated with type I interferon response and parainflammation, indicating their significant roles in immune cell recruitment and the tumor immune microenvironment. Regulatory network analysis showed that both genes were influenced by common transcription factors, and drug sensitivity analysis, using Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer data, suggested potential correlations between gene expression and chemotherapy response. GSEA revealed that GBP2 was enriched in B cell receptor and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways, while LY6E was related to interleukin (IL)-17 and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor signaling pathways. A prognostic nomogram incorporating GBP2 and LY6E expression demonstrated strong predictive performance for overall survival (OS) in PDAC patients.In conclusion, GBP2 and LY6E are promising biomarkers for the early detection of PDAC in patients with T2DM. Their involvement in immune modulation and drug sensitivity highlights their potential as therapeutic targets, shedding light on both the pathogenesis and clinical management of PDAC.© AME Publishing Company.
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) remains ineffective in most colorectal cancers (CRC) due to intrinsic immune resistance. We identify guanylate-binding protein 2 (GBP2) as a key enhancer of ICB response through modulation of the gasdermin D (GSDMD)-Yes-associated protein (YAP) axis. Analyses of CRC cohorts, patient samples, organoids, and mouse models revealed that GBP2 directly binds GSDMD, inhibiting its cleavage-dependent activation and preventing YAP nuclear translocation. Activated GSDMD facilitates YAP nuclear accumulation, which represses CXCL9/10/11 transcription and limits CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Mechanistically, GBP2 disrupts this process by restraining non-pyroptotic GSDMD activity and maintaining YAP in its inactive cytoplasmic state. Genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of GSDMD restored YAP inactivation and sensitized tumors to anti-PD-L1 therapy. These findings define a GBP2-GSDMD-YAP signaling axis that inhibits immune evasion and represents a therapeutic target to overcome ICB resistance in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), long-lasting inflammation triggered by activated glial cells has adverse effects on neurological recovery. As an α2 adrenoceptor agonist commonly utilized for sedative purposes, dexmedetomidine (DEX) has demonstrated the ability to confer neuroprotective effects across diverse physiological or pathological conditions. This study was designed to determine whether DEX protects against SAH by altering astrocytic reactivity.Eight-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to experimental SAH. They were treated with DEX in the presence or absence of the α2 adrenoceptor antagonist atipamezole (ATI) via intraperitoneal injection. Neurological function was evaluated on the basis of a modified Garcia score and beam balance test. TUNEL staining was conducted to assess neuronal apoptosis. Western blotting was carried out to determine the expression of Bcl-2, Bax, and cleaved caspase-3 in the hippocampus and ZO-1 and occludin in the cortex, and ELISA was conducted to measure TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and HMGB1 expression. The wet‒dry method was employed to measure the water content in the brain tissue. The permeability of the blood‒brain barrier (BBB) was assessed via Evans blue staining. Primary astrocytes were treated with S100A4 and/or DEX. The expression levels of GFAP, C3, GBP2, Serping 1, PTX3, S100A10, S100A4, and the NF-κB pathway were also determined.DEX improved early neurological deficits in SAH mice, mitigated the permeability of the BBB, and reduced the brain water content. DEX attenuated neuronal apoptosis and proinflammatory cytokine (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β and HMGB1) expression in the cortex. However, DEX-mediated protective effects were attenuated by ATI administration. Additionally, DEX attenuated GFAP, C3, Serping1, S100A4, and NF-κB pathway activation in the brain and in S100A4-treated primary astrocytes, whereas ATI reversed the effects of DEX.DEX has neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects in SAH through the inhibition of S100A4-mediated astrocytic "A1" polarization via the activation of the α2A adrenoceptor.© The Author(s) 2026.
Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is a standard treatment for rectal cancer, yet patients show marked variability in response. Identifying reliable biomarkers that predict CRT response remains an unmet clinical need.Pretreatment biopsy samples from patients who received neoadjuvant CRT were analyzed using RNA sequencing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between responders and nonresponders, followed by functional enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases. To complement DEG-based results, gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to assess pathway activity across the ranked transcriptome and to prioritize biologically relevant pathways. Pathway-derived gene signatures were evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves and validated in three independent data sets.A total of 1,477 DEGs were detected, including 729 upregulated and 748 downregulated genes in responders. Functional enrichment analysis indicated immune activation and epithelial polarity in responders, whereas nonresponders showed enrichment of extracellular matrix organization, focal adhesion, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B signaling. GSEA further identified four pathways associated with CRT response: antigen presentation, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, and drug metabolism. Among these, the antigen presentation pathway consistently predicted treatment response across data sets. Elastic net regression defined a six-gene signature (KLRC1, CTSS, HLA-DMA, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DQB2, and CIITA) with strong predictive performance, with area under the curve values ranging from 0.76 to 0.81.These genes participate in major histocompatibility complex class II antigen-processing and immune-regulatory pathways that enhance CD4 T-cell activation. Overall, the findings indicate that an immune-active, antigen presentation phenotype underlies radiosensitivity in rectal cancer and that the six-gene signature may serve as a biomarker to guide personalized treatment strategies.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive blood cancer with a 5-year overall survival rate of ~30%. Although immunotherapies engaging T cells demonstrate remarkable success in treating many solid tumors and blood cancers, they show little to no efficacy in treating AML. Therefore, immunotherapies are traditionally underappreciated and underdeveloped in AML. Through a drug re-purpose screen, we identified and validated that combined MEK and HDAC inhibitions via trametinib and quisinostat (TQ) potently inhibited the growth of mouse and human NRAS;ASXL1-AML (NA-AML), MLLr, and NPM1 mutated AML cells in vitro. In NA-AML mice, TQ drastically slowed down AML progression and prolonged their survival. The survival benefits of TQ largely relied on T cell functions. We show that TQ synergized to downregulate immune checkpoint ligands and upregulate STAT1- and CIITA-mediated expression of MHC-I and MHC-II in NA-AML cells. In addition, TQ treatment significantly reprogrammed transcriptome and epigenetic landscape of T cells, activated STAT1 signaling, and upregulated genes and pathways promoting activation, survival, and cytotoxicity of CD4 and CD8 T cells. A cytotoxic cluster was thus expanded in central memory and effector memory T cells in TQ-treated NA-AML mice. More importantly, TQ directly acted on AML-associated mouse and human T cells, reverting them from a dysfunctional state to an active state. In leukemia:T cell co-cultures, TQ-treated T cells demonstrated greatly improved MHC-dependent leukemia killing. Our findings suggest that the dual actions of TQ on NA-AML and T cells enhance leukemia recognition and anti-leukemia killing of endogenous T cells, leading to effective AML clearance.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Severe thrombocytopenia and impaired platelet function remain major clinical challenges in hematologic diseases, chemotherapy, bone marrow failure, surgery and obstetric haemorrhage. Conventional platelet transfusions are limited by donor dependency, short shelf life, storage constraints, and immune-mediated platelet refractoriness caused primarily by HLA incompatibility. Here, we present a scalable, donor-independent platform to generate universally compatible, low-immunogenic megakaryocytes (MKs) from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Human iPSCs were genetically engineered by shRNA-mediated silencing of β2-microglobulin (β2M) and/or class II transactivator (CIITA). Differentiation of HLA-silenced iPSCs resulted in MKs with reduced HLA class I and II expression, capable to release functional platelets in vitro and sustain platelet production in humanised mice with physiological distribution. To enhance product safety, gamma irradiation effectively eliminated proliferative contaminants while preserving MK function. This platform integrates immune engineering with scalable iPSC-based manufacturing and safety optimization, addressing key limitations of conventional donor-derived platelet products. Together, these findings demonstrate that HLA-silenced iPSC-derived MKs represent a promising off-the-shelf source of functional platelets with reduced immunogenicity. By combining donor-independent production, targeted immune engineering, and scalable manufacturing, this promising approach has the potential to improve transfusion support, overcome platelet refractoriness associated with HLA incompatibility, and expand access to readily available platelet therapies across diverse clinical settings.© 2026 The Author(s). HLA: Immune Response Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Children with Down syndrome (DS) frequently develop transient abnormal myelopoiesis that can evolve to the myeloid leukemia of DS (ML-DS). TAM spontaneously resolves in most cases but progresses to ML-DS with additional mutations, most commonly in the cohesin complex. However, the mechanisms by which these alterations promote leukemia are unknown. We leveraged the RAD21-mutant CMY cell line and RAD21-corrected CMY isogenic clones, as well as patient data, to investigate the effect of cohesin mutations during leukemia progression. RNA-sequencing revealed that HLA-class II genes were significantly down-regulated with cohesin mutations. Furthermore, HLA-DR was found to be lower in ML-DS relative to TAM, and these decreased levels were associated with increased risk of leukemia progression. Multi-omic analyses revealed that haploinsufficiency of RAD21 altered chromatin accessibility and impaired the occupancy of GATA1s and CIITA, the master regulator of HLA-class II gene expression. Chromatin binding of CIITA was increased with RAD21 correction, providing a mechanism by which restoration of cohesin improves HLA-class II expression. Finally, decreased levels of RAD21 or STAG2 expression in other subtypes of AML also exhibited reduced expression of HLA-class II genes. Thus, cohesin may contribute to leukemia by altering HLA-class II gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer remains a major cause of cancer mortality, and most microsatellite stable tumors derive little benefit from immune checkpoint blockade. Here, we identify a microbiome-dependent mechanism that converts immune-refractory colorectal cancer into a more immunologically responsive state. Using orthotopic mouse models spanning distinct genetic and immunologic contexts, we show that a Helicobacter-containing microbiome suppresses primary tumor growth and limits metastasis. This protective state is associated with increased intratumoral lymphocyte infiltration and stronger effector programs. Mechanistically, microbial exposure induces MHC class II expression in colon cancer cells to promote anti-tumor immunity. Tumor-intrinsic loss of CIITA abrogates microbial protection, whereas enforced CIITA expression is sufficient to increase intratumoral T cell accumulation, restrict progression and metastasis, and sensitize microsatellite-stable tumors to PD-1 and CTLA-4 blockade. In human microsatellite-stable patient-derived organoids, increased cancer-cell MHC-II enhanced interactions with autologous immune cells and increased tumor cell apoptosis. Together, these findings define a microbiome-cancer cell antigen presentation axis that restrains metastasis and overcomes immunotherapy resistance in colorectal cancer.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality, with most cases refractory to immunotherapy. Distinguishing tumor-induced from steady-state mucosal T cell responses has been a critical barrier to understanding antitumor immunity in CRC. Using orthotopic transplantation of CRC organoids with and without metastatic potential, combined with temporal T cell fate-mapping, we show that non-metastatic tumors elicit early recruitment of CD8αβ+ and CD4+ T cells that acquired cytotoxic and Th1-like programs, whereas pro-metastatic tumors induce a naïve-like, hypoactivated state. Tumor-infiltrating CD4+ T cells underwent clonal expansion, including clones recognizing microbial and dietary antigens. T cells in physical contact with tumor cells, identified by uLIPSTIC, were enriched for expanded and cytotoxic clones. Fate-mapped T cells from non-metastatic tumors suppressed tumor growth in an IFN-γ-dependent manner, whereas pro-metastatic tumor-derived T cells failed to do so. Mechanistically, pro-metastatic tumors downregulated MHCII, and Ciita targeting in non-metastatic organoids reduced CD4+ clonal expansion and led to tumor progression. Together, these findings define divergent early T cell trajectories associated with CRC metastatic potential, indicating that ineffective local immune engagement precedes metastatic dissemination.
Cancer vaccines offer a promising strategy to initiate de novo T cell responses or enhance existing ones, either functioning independently or synergizing with T cell-modulating therapeutics to reduce tumor burden. The clinical development of cancer vaccines faces challenges such as limited antigen coverage, insufficient antigen presentation, immune suppressive microenvironment, and the availability of personalized vaccines. In this study, we developed a universal "all-in-one" cancer cell-derived vaccine (UniCVac) with comprehensive antigen spectrum coverage by programming tumor cells into antigen-presenting cells (APCs) through the codelivery of CIITA, NLRC5, CD80, and IL-2. This reprogramming mimics the professional APC phenotype, providing simultaneous HLA-I and HLA-II antigen presentation, costimulation, and T cell proliferation signals. These tumor-derived UniCVac can directly activate both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in vitro, independent of APCs. In addition, their costimulation and T cell growth-stimulating capabilities result in superior CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation and proliferation comparable to traditional APCs, with enhanced PI3K-AKT pathways activation. Single-cell transcriptome analysis confirmed the similarity in cellular subtypes between UniCVac-activated and traditional APC-activated T cells. In mouse models, the UniCVac vaccination reprogramed the tumor microenvironment from immunosuppressive to immune-permissive, induced robust CD4+ and CD8+ T cell expansion in both preventive and therapeutic tumor models, and achieved complete tumor regression in vivo. Our approach provides a platform for the development of universal cancer vaccines with full antigen spectrum coverage and the ability to directly activate both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, offering potential combinatorial opportunities with existing T cell-based immunotherapies against cancer.
In human melanoma, tumor cell-specific MHC class II expression is associated with improved response to programmed death 1 and programmed death-ligand 1 blockade; yet the direct effect of melanoma cell-specific MHC class II expression on anti-melanoma T cell responses remains largely unknown. In the clinically relevant Yale University Mouse Melanoma Exposed to Radiation (YUMMER) cell lines, MHC class II expression was IFN-γ-inducible in a subset of cells. Transduction of melanoma cells with CIITA resulted in uniformly high, constitutive expression of MHC class II. YUMMER.G cells transduced with CIITA vector had increased in vivo tumor growth in wild-type mice compared to melanoma cells transduced with empty vector. YUMMER.G cells transduced with empty or CIITA vectors had the same in vivo tumor growth in RAG-/- mice, indicating that the difference in tumor growth between CIITA- and empty-transduced cells was dependent on an intact adaptive immune system. CIITA-transduced YUMMER.G tumors exhibited an increased frequency and infiltration depth of CD4+ T cells, an increased frequency of T regulatory cells, and a decreased frequency and infiltration depth of CD8+ T cells, compared to empty-transduced tumors. Antibody depletion revealed that CIITA- and empty-transduced YUMMER.G tumors were constrained by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, but only tumor growth of CIITA-transduced cells was decreased by CD25 blockade, which primarily blocks T regulatory cell function. Overall, this work reveals a potential pro-tumorigenic role of melanoma cell-specific overexpression of MHC class II.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists 2026.
Obesity is increasingly implicated in hematopoietic malignancies, yet its role in mutation-driven myeloid leukemias remains unclear. Using UK Biobank data from over 440,000 individuals, we found obesity traits including elevated BMI and waist-to-hip ratio were associated with type 2 diabetes, increased plasma IL-17A levels, reduced glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1R) expression, and heightened risk of myeloid malignancies. Transplantation of protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor type 11 (PTPN11) (Shp2E76K/+) mutant hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells into obese mice demonstrated that metabolic inflammation accelerated leukemogenesis via myeloid cell expansion, lipid metabolic rewiring, IL-17A activation, and accumulation of M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), accompanied by T cell exhaustion and impaired antigen presentation. Notably, dual therapy with an anti-IL-17A antibody and a GLP-1R agonist reversed these effects by reducing M2-like TAMs, restoring Ciita-dependent antigen presentation and Tyk2-mediated IFN-γ signaling, reactivating T cell responses, and reducing leukemic burden. These findings establish IL-17A-driven, metabolism-coupled immunosuppression as a mechanistic link between obesity and protein tyrosine phosphatase 2-mutant (SHP2-mutant) myeloid leukemias, highlighting a tractable therapeutic strategy for patients with obesity at high risk for other diseases and their complications.
Tumors downregulate NLRC5 expression to reduce MHC-I and evade CD8+ T cell-mediated killing. Introducing full-length NLRC5 (N5FL) or NLRC5-CIITA chimeric protein (N5CA) can restore tumor immunogenicity. Here, we elucidated the underlying mechanisms and also evaluated the requirement of NLRC5 expression in antigen-presenting cells (APCs) of the host for tumor control.Nlrc5-/- and Nlrc5+/+ mice were implanted with B16-F10 melanoma expressing N5FL or NC5A. Tumor growth, activation of lymphoid cells, their infiltration into tumors and the requirement for tumor control were assessed. The proteomes of B16-F10 cells expressing N5FL or N5CA were analyzed.NLRC5-expressing tumors were efficiently controlled in both Nlrc5+/+ and Nlrc5-/- mice, characterized by infiltration of CD8+ and CD4+ cells, natural killer (NK) cells, NK T (NKT) cells and invariant NKT (iNKT) cells, increased tumor vascularization and upregulation of Ccl4 and Cxcl9 genes. Both CD8+ and NK1.1+ cells contribute to NLRC5-dependent tumor control. NLRC5 expression in the Tumor Cancer Genome Atlas-skin cutaneous melanoma correlated with NK cell markers and nonclassical MHC-Ib expression. Proteomes of NLRC5-expressing tumor cells showed downmodulation of dominant tumor antigens, but displayed significant changes in the lysosome and the proteasome pathways, upregulated the protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum pathway, and downregulated the autophagy pathway, all of which could impact processing and presentation of subdominant tumor antigens.NLRC5 expression in APCs is dispensable for NLRC5-dependent antitumor immunity. NLRC5-dependent tumor control requires both CD8+ and NK1.1+ cells. Tumor-intrinsic NLRC5 promotes vasculature that is permissive to infiltration by antitumor immune cells. In addition to upregulating MHC-I, NLRC5 may enhance alternative antigen-processing pathways and attenuate autophagic degradation of MHC-I, thereby augmenting tumor immunogenicity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Immunology.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study investigated the heterogeneity and molecular alterations of trabecular meshwork (TM) in glaucomatous non-human primates, aiming to identify potential pathogenic genes and signaling pathways involved in glaucoma.TM tissues were analyzed using 10x Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing on the Illumina platform. After quality control, dimensionality reduction and clustering were performed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using Seurat and DESeq2. Functional enrichment analyses were conducted via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Protein expression was assessed by Western blotting, mRNA levels by RT-PCR, protein localization and fluorescence intensity by immunofluorescence, and mitochondrial morphology by transmission electron microscopy.We classified the outflow tissue into 10 cell subtypes, and TM cells were further classified into three subtypes: Beam A, Beam B, and JCT. Beam A cells exhibited the most significant proportional changes, and GO analysis indicated their strong association with extracellular matrix regulation. MGP emerged as the most significantly upregulated gene in both the overall TM population and the Beam A subcluster. Dexamethasone (DEX) treatment induced MGP expression in human primary TM cells, while MGP knockdown partially restored Wnt/β-catenin signaling, decreased Wnt5a levels, and reduced ECM deposition.This study generated a transcriptional atlas of TM in glaucoma. MGP may contribute to TM dysfunction via the Wnt/β-catenin-Wnt5a-ECM signaling pathway, offering novel insights into potential therapeutic targets for glaucoma intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Bone remodeling depends on coordinated signaling between bone-resorbing osteoclasts and bone-forming osteoblasts through locally secreted coupling factors. Disruption of this balance leads to decreased bone mass, resulting in conditions such as osteoporosis. Osteoclast-derived anabolic factors, or clastokines, have emerged as attractive therapeutic candidates with the potential of selectively enhancing bone formation without suppressing resorption. Osteoblast-derived WNT5A is an established coupling factor promoting osteoclastogenesis; however, osteoclast-derived WNT5A specific contribution to bone homeostasis and the downstream mechanism by which it acts on osteoblasts remains undefined.This study aimed to address this gap using a myeloid-specific conditional knockout mouse that selectively targets osteoclast-derived WNT5A while leaving osteoblast-derived WNT5A intact. Wnt5a was conditionally deleted in osteoclast precursors and their progeny using LysM-Cre; Wnt5aF/F mice and both male and female knockout mice were characterized by μCT, histomorphometry, serum bone turnover markers, transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells, and in vitro focal adhesion and migration assays.Both male and female knockout mice displayed significantly reduced trabecular volume compared with controls. This low bone mass phenotype was driven by decreased osteoblast number and activity, with no significant changes in osteoclast number or resorptive function. Transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells revealed dysregulation of genes involved in focal adhesion, integrin binding, and cell communication, alongside upregulation of stress-related gene networks. Histological and functional analyses demonstrated that loss of osteoclast-derived WNT5A impaired extracellular matrix maturation and disrupted osteoblast focal adhesion assembly and migration.Together, our study establishes osteoclast-derived WNT5A as a clastokine that promotes bone formation in vivo by regulating osteoblast migration and adhesion dynamics. These findings establish a mechanistic link between osteoclast secretory activity and osteoblast function and highlight the context-dependent and cell-of-origin specific roles of WNT5A in skeletal homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Daponte, Gavva, Kapfhamer, Roberts, Henke and Drissi.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552162
While IL12RB1 deficiency is classically associated with susceptibility to mycobacterial and Salmonella infections, its clinical spectrum may be broader than currently documented literature. Timely recognition of atypical pleiotropic presentations can contribute to earlier diagnosis, more tailored interventions, and eventually better patient outcome. However, current literature lacks reports of hepatic involvement such as biliary strictures or intrahepatic cholestasis in IL12RB1-deficient patients. This case exemplifies the diagnostic odyssey of a child with a rare genetic anomaly manifesting as two seemingly unrelated pathophysiologies; the diagnosis was established through genetic testing after exhaustive evaluation excluded infectious, metabolic, and autoimmune etiologies. This case raises the possibility of atypical hepatobiliary manifestations associated with IL12RB1 deficiency. Early genetic testing should be integrated into the diagnostic pathways with undiagnosed cholestasis, and clinicians should remain vigilant for systemic manifestations beyond the classical infectious profile.Copyright © 2026 Nabeel Ahmad et al. Case Reports in Pediatrics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are natural mediators of intercellular communication through the transfer of cytoplasmic material from donor to recipient cells. The molecular mechanisms governing EV uptake and cargo delivery in recipient cells remain largely elusive. To address this gap, we performed a genetic screening interrogating 300 genes of the dynamic surfaceome for their involvement in EV uptake. Activators found in the screening establish a previously unknown connection between EV uptake and Wnt pathways. We then observed that, unlike WNT-naïve EVs that are primarily trafficked to lysosomes in recipient cells, WNT5A-bearing EVs linger in early endocytic structures. This rerouting is dependent on the expression of RYK, an established co-receptor for WNT5A. Our results depict a mechanism underlying EV functional heterogeneity as well as reveal a potential regulation system for noncanonical WNT signaling.
In the osteoarthritic joint, activated macrophages release pro-inflammatory factors that promote cartilage degeneration. The CD200:CD200R immune checkpoint pathway is a promising therapeutic target that inhibits classical macrophage activation. We hypothesized that the presentation of CD200 to macrophages would shift their cytokine profile from pro-inflammatory to pro-regenerative, thereby reducing chondrocyte catabolism. CD200 encapsulated in poly(lactide-co-glycolide) microparticles (MPs) were incubated with murine bone marrow-derived macrophages. CD200 MP treatment reduced protein and gene expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in M1 macrophages and increased protein and gene expression of anti-inflammatory mediators in M2 and M1/2 macrophages. Conditioned media from CD200 MP-treated M1 macrophages reduced the expression of catabolic enzyme genes in chondrocytes. This study is the first to demonstrate that delivery of CD200 alters the inflammatory cascade and paracrine signaling to chondrocytes. There is significant potential for the CD200:CD200R inhibitory signaling pathway to be leveraged as an intra-articular treatment of OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundIncreasing evidence shows that, compared with the general population, the prevalence of coronavirus disease 2019 is significantly higher in patients with psoriasis treated with immunosuppressive therapy. However, the underlying mechanisms have not yet been clarified.Materials and methodsThe aim of this study was to further investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying these two diseases. Gene expression profiles for coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis were downloaded from the gene expression omnibus database (GSE150316 and GSE30999). After identifying the common differentially expressed genes between coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis, functional annotation, protein-protein interaction network analysis, module construction, and hub gene identification were performed. Finally, transcription factor-gene regulatory and transcription factor-miRNA regulatory networks of the hub genes were constructed.ResultsA total of 306 common differentially expressed genes, including 168 upregulated genes and 138 downregulated genes, were identified and used for subsequent analysis. According to Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis, the Rap1 signaling pathway, axon guidance, and focal adhesion contribute to the occurrence and development of coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis. Finally, five hub genes, namely EGF, IL1B, SERPINA1, CD8A, and WNT5A, were identified using the CytoHubba plug-in. Among them, three hub genes (EGF, SERPINA1, and CD8A) showed good diagnostic marker value for coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis.ConclusionOur findings suggest that coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis share common molecular mechanisms that are driven by several specific hub genes. This study provides new insights into the relationship between coronavirus disease 2019 and psoriasis.
Zearalenone is a common mycotoxin that impairs reproductive function, particularly by damaging ovarian granulosa cells. This study investigated the protective effect and underlying mechanism of scutellarin against zearalenone-induced injury in porcine ovarian granulosa cells. Cells were isolated and identified by follicle-stimulating hormone receptor immunofluorescence. Cell viability, cell-cycle distribution, and related molecular changes were evaluated using the MTT assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Scutellarin showed no obvious cytotoxicity within the tested range and attenuated the zearalenone-induced reduction in cell viability. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that scutellarin alleviated zearalenone-induced cell-cycle disturbance. At the molecular level, scutellarin upregulated the expression of cell-cycle-related factors, including CDK1, CDK2, CDK4, and PCNA, and increased the expression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling-related proteins, including WNT5A, β-catenin, c-MYC, and CCND1. WNT5A knockdown further indicated that scutellarin-mediated regulation of PCNA, CDK1, and CDK4 is WNT5A-dependent, whereas its effect on CDK2 may involve a WNT5A-independent mechanism. These findings indicate that scutellarin alleviates zearalenone-induced granulosa cell injury partly through WNT5A-associated modulation of cell-cycle-related proteins, providing mechanistic insights for its protective effects.
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) is a rare multifocal inflammatory disease that primarily affects the optic nerve and spinal cord, leading to visual loss and paralysis. Although current research has identified numerous biomarker changes in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), the causal relationships between these changes and NMOSD are not yet fully understood, and they are susceptible to confounding factors. In this study, Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were conducted to estimate the role of CSF metabolites in aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-IgG positive and AQP4-IgG negative NMOSD. We strictly adhered to the 3 principles of MR when selecting instrumental variables, effectively reducing the impact of confounding variables. Additionally, we conducted a comprehensive and meticulous sensitivity analysis to ensure the robustness of positive outcomes. We have elucidated the roles of several CSF metabolites in NMOSD, with specific glycerophosphocholine species showing risk associations in AQP4-IgG positive and AQP4-IgG negative subtypes, while ascorbate and N-acetylhexosamines demonstrate protective effects across both subtypes, thereby providing valuable insights. No evidence of heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy was observed in MR analyses. These metabolites hold the potential to inform pathogenesis and guide the development of therapeutic strategies for these conditions.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565211
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder is an autoimmune demyelinating disease that usually targets the spinal cord and optic nerves, though occasionally other central nervous system structures are involved. There are variants of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder that can mimic metabolic or osmotic demyelinating diseases on imaging. A 54-year-old female with a history of hypertension and Roux-en-Y bypass presented with numbness, weakness, dizziness, and blurred vision and concurrent severe hyponatremia (serum sodium 115 mmol/L). She was admitted and treated for monitored correction of her symptomatic hyponatremia and was discharged after stabilization. Weeks following discharge, she had onset of new neurological symptoms and brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased fluid-attenuated inversion recovery signal in the bilateral mammillary bodies and dorsal columns of the upper cervical spinal cord, patchy enhancement at the cervicomedullary junction, and a lesion at C2-C3. Cerebrospinal fluid studies were unremarkable. While osmotic demyelination was suspected initially based on the history of profound hyponatremia and distribution of lesions, further neurologic assessment confirmed neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder. To our knowledge, only 1 other case of mammillary body involvement in AQP4-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder presenting in the setting of severe hyponatremia and with close radiographic resemblance to osmotic demyelination syndrome has been reported. In summary, our case demonstrates radiographic mimicry of osmotic demyelination syndrome by neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder. Consideration of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder should be maintained on the differential diagnosis of patients with mammillary body and cervicomedullary lesions following hyponatremia, especially with regard to the presence of enhancement and progression of lesions.© 2026 The Author(s).
The neurohypophysis (NH) is a specialized neuro-glial interface where neuronal, glial, and vascular elements coordinate neuroendocrine secretion and immune signalling. Its intrinsic plasticity supports adaptation to osmotic and inflammatory stress. Osmotic challenges, such as salt loading, induce structural and functional remodelling within the NH, engaging both microglia and pituicytes. To determine these adaptive processes, we examined the effects of 4 and 8 days of salt loading (2% NaCl) on cellular plasticity in the mouse NH. Pituicyte morpho-functional remodelling was assessed by immunohistochemistry using specific markers (GFAP, AQP4), while microglial activation and polarization were evaluated using Iba1 and CD206. These analyses were complemented by Western blot experiments, including the measurement of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β. Physiological parameters such as fluid intake, body weight, plasma osmolality and haematocrit were also evaluated. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked morphological transformation of microglia from a ramified to an amoeboid phenotype following osmotic stimulation. Western blot analysis showed stable Iba1 expression, indicating that this activation occurred without microglial proliferation. After 8 days of salt loading, CD206 expression significantly increased, accompanied by a decrease in IL-1β, suggesting polarization of microglia toward an anti-inflammatory M2 profile. Additionally, GFAP expression decreased, whereas AQP4 expression increased, particularly in the perivascular region. Physiologically, salt loading increased fluid intake and haematocrit, reduced body weight, while plasma osmolality remained unchanged. Together, these findings indicate coordinated neuroimmune remodelling in the NH. The shift toward an anti-inflammatory glial profile and increased AQP4 expression likely represents an adaptive mechanism that supports tissue homeostasis during hyperosmotic stress.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558877 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552197
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
In patients with acute ischemic stroke, reperfusion therapy can compromise the blood-brain barrier, resulting in secondary cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI). This study investigated the involvement of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) demethylase FTO in the pathogenesis of CIRI and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms.We established a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) mouse model in vivo and an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) model in primary astrocytes in vitro.FTO expression was significantly downregulated in both the in vivo and in vitro CIRI models. Upregulation of FTO via plasmid transfection significantly attenuated cellular damage and enhanced astrocyte viability. At the molecular level, m6A-modified transcripts were enriched in the MAPK signaling pathway during cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. Notably, Heat Shock Protein Family A (Hsp70) Member 1A (Hspa1a) was identified as a key target. The reduction in FTO expression led to increased m6A methylation levels on Hspa1a mRNA, thereby promoting its degradation. Furthermore, the cellular damage induced by FTO silencing was alleviated by Hspa1a overexpression or the silencing of Aquaporin-4 (AQP4).This study demonstrates that FTO mitigates CIRI by stabilizing Hspa1a mRNA, which in turn suppresses AQP4 expression. Consequently, FTO represents a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of ischemic stroke.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Impaired bile secretion disrupts the gut microbiome and perpetuates cholestatic liver injury. Vancomycin (VCM) has been shown to improve cholestasis in human patients, but its biological effects remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects of VCM on microbiome modulation and the restoration of liver function. VCM was administered in a modified Abcb11 knockout (KO) mice model with pre-existing cholestasis to examine its therapeutic effects and microbiome changes. After 2 weeks of treatment, VCM significantly decreased serum bilirubin while maintaining stable transaminase in the KO mice. Three-dimensional imaging of pan-CK expression by immunofluorescence revealed improvement of the disrupted biliary epithelium and interconnected bile duct network, as evidenced by increased coverage and cumulative duct length in the liver. Gene expression and hepatic bile acid profiling demonstrated that VCM enhanced canalicular/sinusoidal bile acid export while repressing bile acid synthesis, with a reduction in tauro-β-muricholic acid, the predominant bile acid in mice, in KO livers. Fecal microbial analysis using next-generation sequencing identified Parabacteroides goldsteinii (PG) as the predominant species after VCM treatment. KO mice fed PG demonstrated improved cholestasis, with significantly reduced direct bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, total bile acids in serum, as well as fewer reactive ductules in the liver. In vitro culture of ductal organoids suggested that PG directly promoted the growth of cholangiocytes. RNA sequencing results suggested that PG suppressed pro-inflammatory Lyz1 (mouse orthologous gene of human LYZ) and Aqp4 and increased pro-proliferative Muc6 and Chrm3. This study highlights the therapeutic potential of VCM in cholestasis by enriching PG in the gut and improving biliary structures in the liver, identifying PG as a potential probiotic with beneficial effects in cholestasis. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
We present a 69-year-old female patient who initially manifested with depression and anhedonia, initially misdiagnosed as primary psychiatric illness. She subsequently developed progressive gait instability and cognitive decline. After comprehensive clinical and laboratory evaluation, she was finally diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) complicated by neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (NPSLE). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multifocal white matter lesions consistent with demyelination. Serologic testing demonstrated positivity for antinuclear antibody (ANA), anti-double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), anti-SS-A/Ro, anti-histone, anti-nucleosome, and anti-centromere antibodies. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination confirmed intrathecal synthesis of immunoglobulin G (IgG), as evidenced by CSF-restricted oligoclonal bands (OCBs). Serum myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein immunoglobulin G (MOG-IgG) was positive at a titer of 1:32, whereas aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibodies were negative. Based on the clinical manifestations, laboratory results and disease progression, the final diagnosis was established as coexisting MS and NPSLE. The patient achieved clinical improvement after treatment with glucocorticoids and hydroxychloroquine. This case highlights the diagnostic challenges posed by overlapping autoimmune central nervous system (CNS) disorders and underscores the importance of longitudinal assessment in differentiating MS from MOG-IgG-associated disorder (MOGAD) and NPSLE.Copyright © 2026 Wei, Jin, Zhang, Sun, Xu and Hong.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare, life-threatening thrombotic microangiopathy caused by severe ADAMTS13 deficiency, usually due to autoantibody-mediated inhibition. Its presentation is heterogeneous and often lacks the classic pentad, leading to diagnostic delays. Neurological symptoms may predominate, masking the underlying hematologic emergency. In our case, a 37-year-old previously healthy woman presented with acute headache, speech disturbance, and altered mental status. Despite normal neuroimaging, laboratory tests revealed severe thrombocytopenia and normocytic anemia. Lack of response to erythrocyte and platelet transfusions prompted further evaluation, revealing microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with elevated lactate dehydrogenase, undetectable haptoglobin, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, reticulocytosis, and normal coagulation parameters. A PLASMIC score of 6/7 indicated a high probability of severe ADAMTS13 deficiency. Treatment with high-dose corticosteroids was initiated immediately, followed by plasma exchange and rituximab. ADAMTS13 activity confirmed severe deficiency at 0.3%, supporting the diagnosis of acquired TTP in the clinical context. The patient achieved rapid remission and complete neurological recovery. This case highlights the importance of early recognition of microangiopathic hemolysis and prompt treatment without waiting for confirmatory ADAMTS13 results to reduce morbidity and mortality.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563454 is a review article
Human babesiosis is an emerging disease in North America caused by the red blood cell (RBC)-infecting parasite Babesia microti. Despite a rise in clinical cases in recent years, the pathogenesis and host immune response to B. microti infection remain unclear. CD47 is a 'marker of self' transmembrane glycoprotein expressed on cell membranes that inhibits phagocytosis through interactions with macrophage signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα). We posit that disruption of CD47-SIRPα signalling will induce macrophage uptake of Babesia-infected RBCs and reduce parasitaemia in susceptible hosts. To evaluate this, we compared the in vivo clearance of B. microti in CD47 knockout (CD47-/-) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Our results showed pronounced differences in infection kinetics between the two mouse strains. C57BL/6J mice showed steadily increasing parasitaemia that peaked at an average of 12%, whereas CD47-/- mice exhibited parasitaemia that never exceeded 1.5% throughout infection. Parasitaemia became undetectable by Day 21 in C57BL/6J and by Day 16 in CD47-/- mice, indicating resolution of infection. These results imply that, in the absence of CD47, growth of B. microti is diminished due to more efficient phagocytosis of infected RBCs by macrophages. We propose that CD47-SIRPα signalling plays a key role in the innate response to Babesia and suggest CD47 modulation as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of babesiosis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558673 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558597 is a review article
During glioma progression, monocytes abundantly infiltrate but primarily differentiate into immunosuppressive macrophages to promote tumor growth. Redirecting monocyte differentiation offers a compelling yet underexplored therapeutic opportunity. In this work, we found M1-polarized macrophage-derived extracellular vesicles (M1-EVs) efficiently induced monocytes to differentiate into anti-tumor macrophages via tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)-mediated signaling. Despite promising, the therapeutic efficacy of M1-EVs was constrained by insufficient glioma accumulation and CD47-mediated phagocytic inhibition. To address this challenge, we further engineered M1-EVs with dual-targeting specificity by genetically incorporating a tumor-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) against IL13Rα2 or EGFRvIII together with CD47-blocking SIRPα variants. The resulting dual-targeting EVs (M1-CS-EVs) exhibited enhanced blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration and glioma accumulation while locally disrupting CD47-SIRPα interactions. In three orthotopic glioma models, M1-CS-EVs elicited a potent anti-tumor immune response and enhanced tumor phagocytosis, significantly suppressing tumor growth while prolonging animal survival. Our findings establish a platform technology for directing monocyte differentiation toward anti-tumor phenotypes, offering a broadly applicable strategy for glioma treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553329 is a review article
Ontorpacept, a recombinant signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα)-blocking fusion protein, has antitumour activity by disrupting CD47-SIRPα signalling. This Phase 1/2 study examined ontorpacept with doxorubicin in patients with leiomyosarcoma.Eligible patients were ≥18 years with metastatic or locally advanced high-grade soft-tissue sarcomas (high-grade leiomyosarcoma in Phase 2). In Phase 1, patients received escalating doses of ontorpacept plus doxorubicin. Phase 2 dose expansion evaluated ontorpacept doses 0.2, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg plus doxorubicin. The primary endpoints were safety (Phase 1); and objective response rate (ORR) (Phase 1/2).Seventy-six patients were enrolled (Phase 1, n = 9; Phase 2, n = 67). No dose-limiting toxicities occurred in Phase 1. The most common treatment-related adverse events were neutrophil count decreased/neutropenia (grade ≥3 in 66% of patients). In Phase 1, one patient receiving ontorpacept 2.0 mg/kg had a confirmed partial response. In Phase 2, six patients receiving ontorpacept 0.2 mg/kg (ORR, 18.8%; 95% CI, 7.2-36.4) and one patient receiving 2.0 mg/kg (ORR, 4.5%; 95% CI, 0.1-22.8) had confirmed partial responses.This first study of CD47 inhibition with chemotherapy in leiomyosarcomas shows manageable safety, supporting further investigation of ontorpacept dosing and schedule, in combination with doxorubicin and as monotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Large vWF (von Willebrand Factor) multimers are associated with ischemic stroke, and itsthrombogenicity is controlled by ADAMTS13 (a Disintegrin and Metalloprotease with repetitions in the ThromboSpond in motif). ADAMTS13 can cleave large vWF multimers into smaller, less procoagulant forms, preventing spontaneous platelet-thrombus formation. Extensive research has been conducted on the connection between ischemic stroke and ADAMTS13 activity as well as antigen levels, but got inconsistent conclusions. More recently, contradictory findings have been reported regarding the relationship between ADAMTS13 antigen levels or activity and recanalization therapy such as intravenous thrombolysis and mechanical thrombectomy.A thorough literature search was conducted from July 2th, 2001 to April 7th, 2025, utilizing various online databases including PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, and EMBASE. This meta-analysis aimed to synthesize observational evidence on the association between ADAMTS13 antigen or activity and stroke, and to evaluate its potential influence on recanalization outcomes following intravenous thrombolysis or mechanical thrombectomy. The pooled relative risk (RR) of stroke and the standardized mean difference (SMD) of the ADAMTS13 for stroke versus control subjects, as well as their corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated. Eighteen studies with a total of 8,993 participants were included into this meta-analysis.(1) ADAMTS13 activity was lower in patients with ischemic stroke when compared with controls, the SMD was -1.12 (95%CI: -1.20, -1.03, P < 0.001). Patients with ischemic stroke had decreased ADAMTS13 plasma antigen levels when compared to controls, the SMD was -1.32 (95%CI: -1.49, -1.15, P < 0.001). (2) The multivariable-adjusted relative risk (RR) indicated that lower ADAMTS13 levels were associated with an elevated risk of ischemic stroke, the RR was 1.75 (95%CI: 1.4, 2.19, P < 0.001). (3) Ischemic stroke patients who achieved unfavorable outcomes following recanalization therapy exhibited lower baseline ADAMTS13 antigen levels compared to those with favorable outcomes, the SMD was -0.26 (95%CI: -0.51, -0.01, P = 0.04). No significant difference in baseline ADAMTS13 activity was observed between patients with favorable and unfavorable outcomes following recanalization therapy, the SMD was -0.05 (95%CI: -0.36, 0.26, P = 0.75). (4) The multivariable-adjusted relative risk (RR) indicated that lower baseline ADAMTS13 levels were significantly associated with unfavorable early neurological outcome following recanalization therapy in ischemic stroke. However, no significant association was observed between baseline ADAMTS13 levels and 90-day functional outcomes in ischemic stroke patients without recanalization therapies, with a risk ratio (RR) of 0.92 (95%CI: 0.75, 1.12, P = 0.009).ADAMTS13 activity and ADAMTS13 plasma antigen levels were lower in patients with ischemic stroke. Reduced ADAMTS13 levels were significantly correlated with an increased risk of ischemic stroke. Meanwhile, baseline ADAMTS13 antigen levels were lower in patients with unfavorable outcomes in ischemic stroke patients who undergoing recanalization therapy. Notably, lower ADAMTS13 levels are associated with unfavorable early neurological outcome after recanalization therapy in acute ischemic stroke rather than 90-day prognosis.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251229650, Identifier: CRD420251229650.Copyright © 2026 Li, Ding, Gao, Liu, Pei and Piao.
Immune evasion remains a major barrier to effective immunotherapy in cancer. Coordinated activation of different immune cell types shapes immune responses within the tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, we uncovered a spatiotemporal synergy between cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells in tumors with low T-cell infiltration. An integrative multiomics approach combining spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and high-dimensional flow cytometry demonstrated that vaccination, capable of activating both innate and adaptive immunity, rapidly reshapes the TME. Early infiltration of IRF8+KLRG1+ NK cells established a chemokine-rich niche together with myeloid cells that promoted the recruitment of antigen-primed CXCR3+ CTLs. The accompanying inflammatory monocyte recruitment and dendritic cell activation led to the coordinated structural and chemotactic remodeling of the TME. Functionally, NK-CTL clustering at the tumor margin was associated with enhanced cytotoxic activity and sustained immune engagement. These spatially organized immune interactions involved CCR5-CCL5 and CXCR3-CXCL9 signaling pathways that coordinate communication between innate and adaptive immune compartments. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized NK-CTL cooperative program that promotes the transition of poorly infiltrated tumors toward an inflamed, immune-responsive state. More broadly, this study illustrates how spatially resolved multiomics approaches can uncover immune interactions and provides a conceptual framework for designing next-generation immunotherapies that mobilize coordinated innate and adaptive immunity.Early infiltration of NK cells followed by T cell accumulation reshapes the tumor microenvironment to promote antitumor immunity following vaccination, providing a mechanistic rationale for the development of effective vaccine-based immunotherapy strategies.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the loss of insulin-producing beta cells and has no cure. The role of cell-cell interactions in T1D disease progression remains poorly understood. Beta cells develop adjacent to ductal cells and both cell types undergo changes during T1D progression, suggesting a potential intercellular communication. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are established mediators of intercellular communication, but whether human ductal cells secrete EVs that influence beta cells remains unknown. We hypothesize that exposure of human ductal cells to T1D-associated cytokines alters their EV cargo and that EVs produced by cytokine-exposed human ductal cells modulate gene and protein expression in beta cells.Human exocrine tissues from non-diabetic cadaveric donors were cultured in a 3D suspension to support ductal cell survival. Cells were treated with TNF-α, IL-1β, and IFN-γ or vehicle control for 48 hours and analyzed for proinflammatory-related gene expression and viability by qRT-PCR and Trypan blue exclusion, respectively. EVs from cytokine- and vehicle-treated ductal cells were isolated using size exclusion chromatography and characterized by dot blot, transmission electron microscopy, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The effects of EVs on EndoC-βH1 human beta cells were assessed with qRT-PCR, RNA-sequencing, and flow cytometry; the effects of EVs on primary human beta cells were assessed with immunofluorescence microscopy. EV cargo was analyzed by proteomics and transcriptomics.EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells were internalized by EndoC-βH1 beta cells, and compared to control ductal EVs, increased HLA Class I gene and protein expression in EndoC-βH1 cells. In primary human beta cells, EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells, compared to control ductal EVs, also increased expression of HLA Class I. EV cargo from cytokine-treated versus control ductal cells was enriched for transcripts associated with inflammatory and antigen-presentation-related pathways, including CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, and GBP4.Exposure of T1D-associated cytokines to primary human ductal cells altered cargo of secreted EVs. EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells upregulated HLA Class I expression in EndoC-βH1 and primary human beta cells. Our results suggest a previously unknown ductal cell communication pathway with a potential implication for modulating beta cells during T1D progression.Copyright © 2026 Erdem, Zook, Quijano, Hansen, Palade, Oh, Mares, Donohue, Ortiz, Jou, Talley, Guthalu Kondegowda, Arribas-Layton, Vasavada, Montero, Reijonen, Thurmond, Pirrotte, Jovanovic-Talisman and Ku.
The toxic mechanisms of norgestrel (NGT), an emerging marine pollutant, on the sperm from externally fertilized invertebrates remain elusive. This study employed an integrated physiological and multi-omics framework to elucidate how NGT (10 and 1000 ng/L) disrupts acrosome reaction (AR) signaling machinery, thereby impairing the functional integrity of Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas, also known as Magallana gigas) sperm. Exposure to NGT triggered a significant, dose-dependent premature AR, characterized by elevated acrosin activity and a loss of acrosomal integrity. Multi-omics integration supports a model in which this premature exocytosis is linked to signaling disturbances, including disruption of calcium signaling and reduced transcript abundance of calmodulin (CaM) and the primary recognition protein zonadhesin (Zan). This signaling interference induced an premature AR, subsequently driving a cascade of bioenergetic and structural failures. At the mitochondrial level, NGT induced abnormal mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening and elevated the transcript levels of antioxidant defense genes (e.g., peroxiredoxin-5, PRDX5). These alterations indicate the occurrence of mitochondrial collapse. Concurrently, scanning electron microscopy verified localized plasma membrane wrinkling and pore formation in sperm. In addition, NGT exposure decreased the transcript abundance of cytoskeleton-related genes, including solute carrier family 26 member 6 (SLC26A6), actin (ACT), and tubulin polymerization promoting protein family member 3 (TPPP3). These molecular changes further disrupted membrane phospholipid homeostasis, as represented by altered glycerophospholipid metabolism. At the same time, cumulative cellular stress was associated with decreased transcript abundance of cytoprotective factors (e.g., baculoviral IAP repeat-containing proteins, birc2) and changes in apoptosis-related genes consistent with activation of a caspase-8-mediated apoptotic programme. In conclusion, NGT, as a representative synthetic progestin, exerts reproductive toxicity by interfering with signaling mediators to induce premature AR, which subsequently exhausts metabolic energy and triggers plasma membrane impairment. These findings provide a critical mechanistic basis for the aquatic ecological risk assessment of synthetic progestins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease that destroys insulin-producing β-cells. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes, are now recognized as important mediators of intercellular communication in immune regulation and metabolic homeostasis. Yet how immune cell-derived circulating EVs contribute to metabolic dysfunction across the disease spectrum-from preclinical to clinical T1D-has not been systematically examined.We integrated four publicly available GEO datasets: GSE97123 (plasma-derived exosome miRNA profiling in long-duration T1D patients, n = 24), GSE92439 (T lymphocyte-derived exosome effects on pancreatic islets, n = 6), GSE316823 (ductal cell EV-mediated β-cell alterations, n = 8), and GSE160391 (cytokine-stressed islet and EV miRNA profiles, n = 48). Differential expression analysis was performed using Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Pathway enrichment, EV marker characterization, and cross-dataset integration were carried out to identify convergent mechanisms.In GSE97123, 292 differentially expressed miRNAs (p < 0.05) were identified in circulating exosomes from T1D patients compared with controls, with upregulation of pro-inflammatory mediators including miR-155-5p and miR-146a-5p. In GSE92439, T lymphocyte-derived exosomes altered 8,189 genes in pancreatic islets, with changes in insulin secretion, apoptosis, and immune recognition pathways. In GSE316823, cytokine-stimulated ductal cell EVs induced 599 differentially expressed genes in β-cells, with notable upregulation of HLA class I molecules (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C) and inflammatory chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, GBP4). In GSE160391, cytokine stress caused distinct miRNA packaging into EVs versus islet fractions, with miR-155-5p and miR-146a-5p as the only two miRNAs consistently upregulated in both compartments across sexes. Cross-dataset integration showed convergent dysregulation of antigen presentation, insulin signaling, and apoptotic pathways.Immune cell-derived EVs appear to transfer pro-inflammatory and metabolic-disruptive cargo to β-cells, supporting a pathogenic axis in T1D that has received limited attention. These findings suggest that EV-mediated communication could be a therapeutic target and that circulating EV miRNAs may serve as biomarkers for T1D progression.© 2026. Associazione Medici Diabetologi / Association of Diabetologists (AMD), Societa Italiana di Diabetologia / Italian Society of Diabetology (SID).
Blood-based biomarkers discovered by machine learning often lack disease specificity and cross-population robustness for clinical applications. We describe a biomarker discovery strategy that exploits monocytes as circulating sentinels to amplify disease-perturbed signals in blood. This strategy leverages monocyteMINER, a mechanistic transcriptional regulatory network inferred from monocyte transcriptomes of 1,202 healthy individuals. As proof-of-concept, we uncovered a 31-gene atherosclerosis-perturbed network that underpins disease etiology, identifying diagnostic signatures for coronary artery disease (ARAP2, P2RY14, FKBP15) and acute myocardial infarction (SERPINA1, ASGR2). For tuberculosis (TB), monocyteMINER uncovered a 5-gene signature (MAS_TB_META5: ANKRD22, AIM2, VAMP5, GBP5, TGM2) from just 438 samples. MAS_TB_META5 outperformed 77 existing signatures across 18 cohorts (>4,400 patients, 12 countries), achieving WHO target product profile for high-sensitivity screening (including in advanced HIV patients), and predicting TB progression up to 5 years before diagnosis. Thus, our findings show that monocyteMINER offers a generalizable platform for discovering clinically actionable biomarkers for diverse diseases.
Human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived cerebral organoids have been increasingly used as a brain model for studying various neurological disorders and neurotropic virus infections, including HIV-1. However, it is unclear whether iPSC-derived cerebral organoids possess functional innate antiviral immunity against HIV-1. In this study, we examined Toll-Like Receptor 3 (TLR3) activation and its role in the induction of IFNs and interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) against HIV-1 in human iPSC-derived microglia containing cerebral organoids (MCOs). We observed that MCOs possess functional TLR3, which could be effectively activated by poly I:C. TLR3 activation of MCOs resulted in HIV-1 inhibition and induction of IFN-β/IFN-λ, antiviral ISGs (MX1, MX2, GBP5, SAMHD1, Viperin, and ISG56), and CC chemokines (MIP-1α, MIP-1β, and RANTES), the ligands for HIV entry coreceptor CCR5. This TLR3 activation-mediated anti-HIV-1 effects could be blocked by a specific TLR3 inhibitor. These findings indicate that human iPSC-derived MCOs are a suitable model for investigation of brain immunity and HIV-1 infection.Copyright © 2026 Xiao, Wang, Sarkar, Wang, Song, Ling, Hu and Ho.
Accurate diagnosis and effective treatment response monitoring (TRM) remain major challenges in tuberculosis (TB) control. Most existing tools are sputum based, yet many patients are unable to produce sputum at diagnosis or during treatment. We evaluated blood-based host transcriptional markers (HTM) for active TB diagnosis and TRM.Presumptive TB patients presenting to healthcare centres in Blantyre, Malawi and community healthy controls were enrolled. Active TB (ATB) was confirmed using Xpert MTB/RIF and Mycobacterial Growth Indicator Tube (MGIT) culture. Participants negative by both MGIT and Xpert were classified as having other respiratory diseases (ORDs). Confirmed ATB cases initiating treatment were followed for 8 months with serial sputum bacteriology (MGIT time to positivity (TTP) and TB Molecular Bacterial Load Assay (TB-MBLA) and HTM measurement. HTM expression was quantified in whole blood using reverse-transcriptase quantitative PCR.Before treatment, CD64, BATF2, GBP5 and C1QB best discriminated ATB from ORDs, with areas under the curve of 96.3%, 94.4%, 93.9% and 93.7%, respectively. All participants responded clinically by 2 months of therapy. Median MGIT TTP increased from 7 days (IQR 5-12) at baseline to 42 days, while mean bacterial load declined from 3.87 (SD 1.4) to 1.4 (SD 0.5) log10 eCFU/mL by month 8. HTM expression declined in a pattern consistent with bacteriological markers and normalised to levels observed in TB-free individuals by end of follow-up, irrespective of HIV status (P < 0.0001).Blood-based HTM closely track bacteriological response and offer a promising sputum-independent adjunctive approach for diagnosis and treatment monitoring of pulmonary TB.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Neonatal meningitis-causing Escherichia coli (NMEC) is a primary etiological agent of neonatal meningitis. Inflammatory cell death triggered by NMEC infection has been implicated as a critical determinant of blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption and neuroinflammation. However, the mechanisms underlying inflammatory BBB breakdown and the propagation of inflammation within the neuroinflammatory milieu remain poorly understood. Here, we show that brain endothelial cells (ECs) undergo GSDMD-dependent pyroptosis in response to NMEC infection. Through integrated spatiotemporal single-cell transcriptomic, epigenomic, and proteomic analyses, we identify Gbp5 as a key regulator of pyroptosis in brain ECs. Moreover, we uncovered a homeostasis-to-inflammation transition in both ECs and microglia (MG), whereby pyroptotic ECs promote microglial pyroptosis via Angptl4-Sdc4 signaling. This intercellular communication establishes a "pyroptosis cascade" between BBB ECs and microglia in the central nervous system (CNS), providing mechanistic insight into inflammatory BBB disruption and revealing potential therapeutic targets within the CNS immune microenvironment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) preserves endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis through coordinated signaling pathways, including the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which promotes adaptive transcriptional programs via noncanonical XBP1 mRNA splicing. However, upstream mechanisms regulating this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we apply CRASP-seq, a scalable RNA-coupled CRISPR screening platform, to systematically identify regulators of XBP1 splicing. We uncovered the U2 snRNP auxiliary factor RBM39 as a critical positive regulator of this process. Perturbation of RBM39 or U2 snRNP components induces alternative splicing of ERN1, leading to exon-18 skipping and the production of an unstable transcript subject to nonsense-mediated decay, as well as a truncated IRE1α isoform that acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress XBP1 splicing. Mechanistically, we show that heat shock reduces RBM39 functional activity and promotes ERN1 exon-18 skipping, thereby attenuating IRE1α-XBP1 signaling. Functionally, hyperactivation of this pathway is detrimental under proteotoxic stress, suggesting that exon-18 skipping serves as a stress-adaptive mechanism to limit UPR output. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory axis linking the canonical splicing machinery to UPR signaling and establish alternative splicing of ERN1 as a key modulator of cellular stress responses.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Microglia contribute to central nervous system homeostasis and neuroprotection partly through the release of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) carrying regulatory cargoes such as microRNAs. Interleukin-4 (IL-4) alters microglial state and secretory output; however, whether sEVs released from IL-4-treated microglia protect neurons against toxic injury, and which cargoes mediate these effects, remains unclear. Here, we investigated the protective effects of sEVs derived from the IL-4-treated HMC3 human microglial cell line in a rotenone-induced injury model in the SH-SY5Y cell line and examined the contribution of microRNA-191-5p to neuroprotection. Small RNA sequencing revealed a distinct miRNA profile in IL-4-sEVs, with microRNA-191-5p emerging as the most statistically significant upregulated candidate. Its enrichment was confirmed by RT-qPCR. PKH67-labeled sEV-associated fluorescence was detected in SH-SY5Y cells, indicating uptake of microglia-derived sEVs by recipient cells. Functionally, pretreatment with IL-4-sEVs significantly reduced rotenone-induced cell death and preserved cell morphology compared with untreated and control sEV-treated cells. To assess the contribution of microRNA-191-5p, IL-4-sEVs were loaded with a microRNA-191-5p antagomir, which reduced microRNA-191-5p levels and partially attenuated the protective effect of IL-4-sEVs. Together, these findings suggest that sEVs derived from the IL-4-treated HMC3 microglial cell line mitigate rotenone-induced injury in the SH-SY5Y cell line in vitro and that microRNA-191-5p contributes, at least in part, to this effect.
Treatment of septic patients is confronted with complex immune dysregulation: excessive pro-inflammatory responses trigger cytokine storm leading to organ damage and high mortality, while concurrent and persistent immune dysfunction manifesting as T cell exhaustion, monocyte and macrophage functional suppression, and impaired antigen presentation significantly increases the risk of secondary infections. Current clinical therapeutic strategies can effectively control infection and cytokine storm, but fail to resolve persistent T cell exhaustion, which is a critical determinant of poor long-term survival in sepsis patients. This study reported a multifunctional engineered macrophage therapeutic strategy based on in situ LNP delivery of IL-6/4 fusion protein and LL37 antimicrobial peptide mRNA. The IL-6/4 fusion blocks IL-6 mediated pro-inflammatory signaling and activates IL-4 mediated anti-inflammatory pathways, reducing inflammatory injury and promoting tissue repair. LL37 antimicrobial peptide disrupts bacterial membranes to reduce bacterial burden while modulating immune responses. In sepsis mouse models, engineered macrophages significantly improved survival rates, reduced histopathological damage and organ bacterial burden, and effectively restored T cell and macrophage functions, achieving infection control, inflammation modulation, and immune reconstitution. These findings demonstrate the substantial clinical translational potential of this engineered macrophage approach for precision sepsis treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564247 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is the diagnostic surrogate for the NAB2::STAT6 fusion of solitary fibrous tumour (SFT); its sensitivity is established, but specificity varies for unexamined reasons. This review quantified pooled accuracy and tested whether antibody clone and nuclear threshold govern specificity. PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science were searched to 29 June 2026 for studies reporting nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry against a reference standard (NAB2::STAT6 confirmation and/or expert consensus) in SFT and comparators, with extractable two-by-two data. Two reviewers screened, extracted data and applied QUADAS-2. A bivariate generalised linear mixed model gave summary sensitivity and specificity, and exploratory subgroup analysis and meta-regression tested antibody clone, anatomical site and reference-standard type. Twenty-three studies (1216 SFT and 4715 comparators) were included. Summary sensitivity was 98.7% (95% confidence interval 96.7-99.5) and specificity 99.1% (97.8-99.6); the diagnostic odds ratio was approximately 8656. The monoclonal YE361 subgroup (8 studies) reached specificity 99.9% (99.3-100), with one false positive among 861 comparators, versus 98.1% (96.0-99.1) for polyclonal and other antibodies. False positives concentrated in dedifferentiated liposarcoma and prostatic stromal tumours. Estimates were stable after removing studies at higher risk of bias (98.9%/99.1%) and on leave-one-out analysis; the Deeks test was non-significant (p = 0.08). Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is therefore highly sensitive and specific for SFT, and the residual specificity loss is structured and largely avoidable: the monoclonal YE361 read at a strict nuclear threshold is preferred, with MDM2 and CDK4 applied to exclude dedifferentiated liposarcoma when nuclear STAT6 is unexpectedly positive.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
STAT5A is unique in its diverse expression in different cells. Here, we show that STAT5A deficiency results in reduced expression of the actin-bundling protein α-actinin-1, which alters cytoskeletal reorganization, including loss of actin bundles, reduction of cellular motility, and clustering of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum in the perinuclear region. These changes in cellular architecture led to production of ROS by the mitochondria, which may be explained by reduced peroxisome abundance. This, in turn, results in dsDNA breaks and formation of cytoplasmic micronuclei, and activating the cGAS-STING pathway, and mediating type I IFN production and the expression of IFN-stimulated genes. The ectopic expression of α-actinin-1 or STAT5A in STAT5A knockout cells is sufficient to restore actin bundle formation and nullifies all downstream effects. Conversely, inhibiting downstream steps suppresses only subsequent events in the pathway. STAT5A knockout results in a similar phenotype as seen with cytochalasin B, an inhibitor of actin polymerization. Overall, we show that STAT5A-α-actinin-1 links cytoskeleton integrity to mitochondrial immune regulation.© 2026 Sun et al.
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
Central nervous system solitary fibrous tumors (CNS SFTs) are rare mesenchymal neoplasms. The 2021 World Health Organization (WHO) classification recognizes a single SFT entity characterized by NAB2::STAT6-associated biology. This study evaluated clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical features, with particular emphasis on STAT6, CD34, and p16 expression.We retrospectively reviewed 25 CNS SFTs identified between 2004 and 2024. Clinical, radiologic, histologic, immunohistochemical, treatment, and outcome data were collected. Histologic slides were reviewed by two neuropathologists. Immunohistochemistry for STAT6, CD34, and p16 was performed; molecular testing was unavailable.The cohort included 13 men and 12 women, with a mean age of 51 years. Among tumors with available site data, most were intracranial. WHO grades were grade 1 in 40%, grade 2 in 24%, and grade 3 in 36%. Nuclear STAT6 expression was present in all cases. CD34 expression was greatest in grade 1 tumors, whereas p16 expression was numerically highest in grade 3 tumors; neither marker showed a statistically significant association with recurrence. Tumor size increased across WHO grades. Outcome analyses were limited by few events and heterogeneous follow-up.CNS SFTs are clinicopathologically heterogeneous. STAT6 was a consistent diagnostic marker in this cohort. CD34 and p16 showed grade-related numerical patterns, but their prognostic value was not established. Larger, molecularly confirmed cohorts with standardized long-term follow-up are required.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remains a highly aggressive malignancy with limited responsiveness to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy. Recent neoadjuvant studies combining VEGFR-2 inhibition (VEGFR2i) with anti-PD-1 (aPD-1) have yielded markedly improved pathological responses, suggesting a VEGFR-2-dependent immunoregulatory mechanism. Here, we identify a PD-L1-expressing CD66b+ neutrophil-enriched tumor-associated population as a critical immunosuppressive population enriched in VEGFR-2-high OSCC tumors and associated with increased metastatic propensity and inferior patient outcomes. Using multiplex immunohistochemistry, scRNA-seq, and flow cytometry, we demonstrate that VEGFR-2-overexpressing OSCC cells drive robust GM-CSF secretion, which in turn induces PD-L1 upregulation in neutrophils. Mechanistically, VEGFR-2 activation promotes STAT6 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, enabling direct transcriptional activation of CSF2. GM-CSF subsequently activates STAT5 and mTOR/S6K signaling in neutrophils, thereby enhancing PD-L1 protein synthesis. Functionally, these PD-L1+ TANs suppress CD8+ T-cell proliferation, augment T-cell exhaustion, and diminish cytotoxicity. Importantly, VEGFR-2 inhibition or GM-CSF neutralization restored CD8+ T-cell function and improved responsiveness to anti-PD-1 therapy in vivo, whereas exogenous GM-CSF impaired VEGFR2i/aPD-1 efficacy. Collectively, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized VEGFR-2/STAT6/CSF2 axis that licenses neutrophil-mediated immune suppression in OSCC. These data provide mechanistic rationale and preclinical support for targeting the VEGFR-2/GM-CSF-neutrophil axis to improve the efficacy of PD-1 blockade in OSCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Solitary fibrous tumours (SFT) of the central nervous system (CNS) are rare mesenchymal neoplasms. Challenges arise at the time of diagnosis due to their overlapping clinical, radiological, and histopathological features with other spindle cell tumours. We present four cases of SFTs arising at different anatomical locations across the CNS. The patients presented with varied clinical symptoms and radiological findings, leading to an initial diagnosis of other mimickers, such as fibrous meningioma, neurofibroma, and other spindle cell tumours. Histopathological examination revealed tumours composed of spindle cells and branching, staghorn-like vasculature. Immunohistochemical evaluation with STAT6 was performed in all the cases to distinguish SFT from its histological mimickers. It demonstrated diffuse nuclear staining of tumour cells in all four cases. Based on the histology, mitotic activity, and necrosis, the tumours were classified as CNS WHO Grades 1, 2, and 3. These cases highlight the varied clinical and radiological presentations of CNS SFTs. They also emphasise the importance of careful histopathological assessment with appropriate immunohistochemical workup for accurate diagnosis. Awareness of this entity and its mimickers is essential to avoid misdiagnosis and ensure appropriate patient management.Copyright © 2026, M et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557044 is a review article
A man in his early 50s presented with complaints of a painless, slow-growing mass in his right eye (OD) for 4 months. Examination of OD showed a well-demarcated, firm, subepithelial lesion on the temporal bulbar conjunctiva. Anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) revealed a compact-appearing, mildly reflective subepithelial lesion with back shadowing. Clinical differentials of benign reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and conjunctival lymphoma were considered and an excisional biopsy was performed. Histopathology revealed a cellular stromal tumour comprising spindle cells arranged in short fascicles. The Ki-67 index was 6%. Immunohistochemistry with signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT-6) showed moderate nuclear expression in lesional cells and giant cells. Correlating the histomorphology and STAT-6 positivity, a final diagnosis of conjunctival solitary fibrous tumour was made. Subsequent Ru-106 plaque radiotherapy was administered at a dose of 50 Gy to the site of the lesion. The patient was doing well with no signs of tumour recurrence at the 18-month follow-up. The novelty of this report lies in the illustration of AS-OCT findings, CD34-negative phenotype and the use of adjuvant Ru-106 plaque brachytherapy.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
To investigate the clinicopathological features, diagnosis, differential diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of a patient with follicular lymphoma with predominantly diffuse growth pattern (DFL), in order to enhance understanding of this rare lymphoma variant.Clinical and pathological data of one patient with DFL were collected. A retrospective analysis was conducted on the patient's clinical manifestations, pathological morphological features, immunophenotype, molecular genetic changes, treatment, and follow-up outcomes. Relevant literature was also reviewed.The patient was a 43-year-old female, presenting with a right inguinal area of more than four years' duration. Gross pathological examination revealed a single lymph node measuring 4.0 cm×3.0 cm×2.0 cm, with a gray-white, solid, and soft cut surface. Microscopic evaluation demonstrated architectural effacement and diffuse proliferation with focal residual indistinct follicular structures. Under high magnification, the tumor cells were predominantly centrocytes with a few scattered centroblasts in a heterogeneous background. Immunohistochemistry showed positive expression of CD10, BCL-6, and CD23 in tumor cells, but negative for BCL-2. STAT6 showed weak staining in <1% of tumor cells and was interpreted as negative. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showed neither 1p36 deletion nor BCL2 rearrangement. Clonality analysis demonstrated clonal rearrangement of immunoglobulin genes, while T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangement showed a polyclonal pattern. The patient underwent radiotherapy (24 Gy/12 fractions) to the right inguinal area, and has achieved complete remission to date.DFL is a rare subtype of follicular lymphoma with unique clinicopathological features and molecular genetic alterations, which may lead to diagnostic confusion with T-cell lymphomas. Accurate recognition of this subtype helps avoid misdiagnosis and inappropriate treatment. DFL is generally characterized by low histological grade, early clinical stage, and a favorable prognosis.
Dengue virus (DENV) infection has emerged as a critical global public health challenge, particularly in tropical and subtropical regions, where it continues to cause high morbidity rates and severe disease risks. Given the current lack of specific antiviral therapies in clinical practice, the development of novel anti-DENV agents represents an urgent medical need. In this study, the antiviral activity of a novel compound, TXD-174, was systematically evaluated. It was found that TXD-174 exhibited significant inhibitory effects against DENV2 in vitro. Notably, viral replication was effectively blocked by TXD-174, while cytotoxicity assessments revealed a favorable therapeutic window. Furthermore, the compound demonstrated inhibitory activity against all four DENV serotypes, highlighting its potential as a broad-spectrum anti-dengue agent. Meanwhile, RNA-seq analysis indicated that level of IL-24 was significantly upregulated. Knockdown of IL-24 gene reduced the antiviral effect of TXD-174, while overexpression of IL-24 gene also exhibited good antiviral effects. In virus-infected AG-129 models, TXD-174 was also found to have good in vivo antiviral effects. These findings establish a foundation for further exploration of targeted therapeutic strategies against DENV infections.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Chemokine and chemokine receptors (CKRs) regulate cell growth, tumor immunity, migration, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We evaluated associations of inherited chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent primary melanomas among patients with a previous melanoma. Our population-based cohort included 2458 incident single primary and 1205 multiple primary melanoma (MPM) cases. We examined 215 a priori candidate polymorphisms selected based on prior evidence and predicted functional relevance, along with nine haplotype blocks. Logistic regression estimated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals, adjusting for age at diagnosis, sex, age-by-sex interaction, and study center. Thirty variants across 14 genes were nominally associated with MPM (P < 0.05), with effect sizes ranging from 16 to 80%. Five haplotypes in CXCL12, CCL18, CXCR2, and CCR9 were significantly associated with MPM (Pglobal < 0.03) with stronger effects than individual-effect alleles. Functional annotation identified 160 associated index variants and linkage disequilibrium proxies acting as skin expression quantitative trait loci for CXCR2, XCR1, BCL9L, FYCO1, PNKD, RUFY4, and RP11-378A13.1 (P < 1.06E-05 to 4.3E-34). These variants were classified functionally as candidate causal variants based on convergent regulatory annotation and skin‑specific expression quantitative trait locus evidence, linking chemokine/CKR variants and haplotypes to downstream genes involved in epithelial-mesenchymal-like transition, matrix remodeling, and other tumorigenic processes, thereby implicating immune regulatory mechanisms in melanoma development. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate an association of a priori chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent melanoma risk. Validation and evaluation of associations with tumor characteristics and survival are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Plasma inflammatory protein biomarkers associated with clinical milestone heterogeneity in Parkinson's disease (PD) remain undefined. We measured 92 inflammation-related plasma proteins in 82 PD patients using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay. No proteins differed significantly between fallers and non-fallers. However, among fallers, plasma interleukin-24 showed the strongest correlation with observed time to first fall (unadjusted r = 0.752, q = 0.071), and this signal was also observed in an exploratory covariate-adjusted model (q = 0.030). Colony-stimulating factor 1 showed a comparable but non-significant correlation. In group comparisons for symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, CCL11 differed significantly between patients with and without symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (q = 0.0004). These exploratory findings highlight candidate inflammatory protein profiles related to milestone heterogeneity in PD, warranting validation in longitudinal cohorts.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Interleukin-22 (IL-22) is a cytokine that regulates tissue inflammation and repair, primarily through activation of STAT3 signaling. Although its protective effects in acute pancreatitis (AP) are well established, the specific contribution of its receptor, IL-22Ra1, and the underlying signaling mechanisms remain incompletely defined. Notably, the C-terminal region of IL-22Ra1, although devoid of tyrosine residues, has been reported to promote STAT3 activation through unconventional mechanisms. Here, we investigated the role of IL-22Ra1 and its C-terminal (STAT3-associated) domain in a mouse model of caerulein-induced AP. We show that deletion of the C-terminal region of IL-22Ra1 markedly reduces STAT3 activation in the pancreas, confirming its role in amplifying canonical signaling. Unexpectedly, this reduction does not worsen pancreatic injury. In contrast, both IL-22- and IL-22Ra1-deficient mice develop more severe pancreatitis, characterized by increased serum amylase levels, exacerbated inflammatory responses, and enhanced tissue damage. Notably, IL-22Ra1 deficiency results in a more severe phenotype than IL-22 deficiency alone, indicating that IL-22Ra1 mediates protective effects beyond IL-22 signaling. Consistently, acinar-to-ductal metaplasia during the regenerative phase is impaired in both IL-22- and IL-22Ra1-deficient mice but preserved upon C-terminal truncation. Together, these findings identify IL-22Ra1 as a central regulator of pancreatic protection through mechanisms that are independent of maximal STAT3 activation and extend beyond IL-22 itself, suggesting the involvement of additional IL-22Ra1 ligands. These results support the exploration of receptor-activating strategies, such as agonistic antibodies, to promote tissue protection and regeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Traditional Chinese medicines are based on complex mixtures of natural products and their multi-target mechanism of action. Therefore the discovery and validation of targets and mechanisms have always been challenging. In previous studies, using transcriptomic methods and Compound Kushen Injection (CKI) as a model drug, we identified multiple pathways and candidate target genes for validation, through which CKI exerts its pharmacological effects.This study aimed to demonstrate the involvement of multiple genetic targets in different pharmacological activities for natural products in Compound Kushen Injection.In this study, we selected eight key genes from four candidate pathways and used CRISPR/CAS technology to knock out these genes in four cell lines, validating their role in CKI activity.Although the sensitivity of different cell lines to gene knockout varied, overall, it led to reductions in various cellular activities. After the addition of CKI, we observed that, except for the minor impact of CDKN1A gene knockout on the effect of CKI, knocking out the other genes significantly affected the pharmacological efficacy of CKI in different assays. Among them, knockout of MYD88 and NFkB genes enhanced the efficacy of CKI. At the same time, we found that the genes IL24 and CYP1B1 play a crucial role in CKI inhibition of tumour cell migration, and the CYP1A1 gene is critical for the cell cycle arrest induced by CKI.These findings validate the results of our previous transcriptomic analysis and further demonstrate the complexity of pharmacological mechanisms of multi-target synergistic action of natural product mixtures.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
To assess the involvement of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) Antisense Noncoding RNA in the INK4 Locus (ANRIL) in subconjunctival fibrosis after glaucoma filtration surgery (GFS).Experimental.Primary human Tenon's capsule fibroblasts (HTFs) were isolated from glaucoma patients during GFS and then treated with human recombinant protein transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) to mimic the glaucoma condition in vitro. HTFs were pre-transfected with ANRIL-specific pcDNA3.1 overexpression vector (ANRIL-OE) for 48 h and then treated with TGF-β1 (10 ng/mL) for 48 h, followed by the detection of cell viability, proliferation, and migration by CCK-8 assay, EdU staining, and wound healing assay. The expression of fibrosis markers alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), fibronectin, and collagen I was determined by RT-qPCR and western blotting. The interaction between ANRIL and interleukin-22 receptor alpha 1 (IL-22-RA1) was verified through RNA pull-down, RNA Immunoprecipitation (RIP), and ubiquitination assays.Our data revealed that TGF-β1 downregulated ANRIL expression in HTFs. ANRIL overexpression suppressed TGF-β1-induced enhancement in cell viability, proliferation, migration, and extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition in HTFs. Mechanically, ANRIL negatively regulated the stability and expression of IL-22-RA1 by increasing IL-22-RA1 ubiquitination. IL-22-RA1 overexpression antagonized the repressive effects of ANRIL on the proliferation, migration, and fibrosis of TGF-β1-stimulated HTFs.Collectively, ANRIL curbs TGF-β1-induced HTF activation and fibrosis by downregulating IL-22-RA1, which provides the rationale for developing strategies based on the ANRIL/IL-22-RA1 axis to prevent scar formation following GFS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Interleukins (ILs) are pleiotropic mediators of immune signaling and represent promising targets for antiviral intervention. Among them, IL-19 is upregulated in response to viral infections, yet its functional significance and mechanistic basis have been poorly defined. This study identifies an unforeseen antiviral activity of IL-19. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that IL-19 signals through the IL-20RB receptor to drive STAT3 phosphorylation, and this activated IL-20RB/STAT3 pathway then induces TRIM22 expression, culminating in enhanced IFN-λ secretion and the direct suppression of viral replication. Importantly, despite significantly curtailing HSV-1 replication in murine brain and lung tissues, IL-19 administration failed to confer a survival benefit, an effect attributable to aggravated pulmonary inflammation. These findings clarify IL-19 as a dual-function cytokine with both protective antiviral and detrimental proinflammatory properties, illustrating the intricate immunomodulatory functions of cytokines during viral infections.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy is a principal treatment for colon cancer, but drug resistance hinders its efficacy. Cancer cell dormancy is reportedly a crucial driver of chemoresistance. IL-24 functions vitally in tumor chemoresistance, yet its role in colon cancer dormancy and oxaliplatin resistance remains unexplored.IL-24 expression was assessed in colon cancer tissues and cells via RT-qPCR, western blotting, or immunohistochemistry. The functions of IL-24 in colon cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis, dormancy, and oxaliplatin resistance were evaluated by CCK-8, flow cytometry, and western blotting. The downstream mechanism of IL-24 was predicted using RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analyses and verified in vitro. A tumor xenograft mouse model was built to further verify the role of IL-24 in colon cancer. IL-24 was overexpressed in oxaliplatin-resistant colon cancer tissues and cells. Furthermore, IL-24 treatment reversed the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of oxaliplatin on colon cancer cells. Regarding cell dormancy, IL-24 treatment triggered G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and upregulated dormancy markers (CDKN1A, CDKN1B, TGFB2, and MSK1). Bioinformatics analyses revealed that IL-24 might function in colon cancer mainly through NF-κB pathway, and IL-24 activated the NF-κB axis in tumor cells. Importantly, treatment with NF-κB inhibitor reversed IL-24-induced colon cancer cell dormancy and oxaliplatin resistance. In vivo, IL-24 treatment abolished the anti-tumor effects of oxaliplatin, promoted cell dormancy, and activated NF-κB signaling in tumor tissues. IL-24 induces colon cancer cell dormancy and oxaliplatin resistance by activating NF-κB signaling. The IL-24/NF-κB axis may serve as a likely target to alleviate oxaliplatin resistance in colon cancer.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory condition of the gastrointestinal tract, where oxidative stress is a significant contributing factor to its pathogenesis. This study utilized multi-omics data, including RNA sequencing from the GSE216447 dataset and three genome-wide association studies (GWAS) datasets (ieu-a-10, ieu-a-11, ieu-a-13), to investigate the molecular networks related to oxidative stress in CD. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2, followed by pathway enrichment analysis with clusterProfiler. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using the STRING database. Mendelian Randomization (MR) analysis was conducted using TwoSampleMR and MRMix to identify causal relationships between genetic variants and CD. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was further applied to verify key differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including FASN, HMGCR, ASCC3, CD101, ELOVL6, PHLDA2, PHLDA3, and SCPEP1, in intestinal mucosal samples from both inactive and active CD patients. The analysis identified 64 up-regulated and 46 down-regulated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in response to H2O2 intervention. Key pathways related to oxidative stress, including the p53 signalling pathway and steroid biosynthesis, were significantly enriched. Consistent with transcriptomic data, qPCR confirmed that FASN and HMGCR were significantly upregulated in inactive CD, while ASCC3, CD101, ELOVL6, PHLDA2, PHLDA3, and SCPEP1 were markedly increased in active CD (all p < 0.05). The MR analysis revealed that in the dataset ieu-a-10, ABCB9 and OSGIN1 were identified as having a significant causal relationship with CD using TwoSampleMR, while only OSGIN1 was significant in MRMix. In dataset ieu-a-11, ARL4C, CD101, HMGCR, and IL24 were found to be significantly associated with CD, with overlapping findings between TwoSampleMR and MRMix. For dataset ieu-a-13, ACTA2 and CD101 were consistently identified as significant, suggesting their potential roles in CD pathogenesis. The findings highlight the crucial involvement of oxidative stress-related molecular networks in CD and underscore the utility of Mendelian Randomization in elucidating causal genetic factors. qPCR validation confirmed persistent upregulation of lipid metabolism genes in inactive CD and significant elevation of inflammation-related genes in active CD, reinforcing the link between oxidative stress and disease activity.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bone regeneration requires coordinated interactions between multiple cell types responding to biochemical and biomechanical cues from the extracellular matrix (ECM). Gingival fibroblasts (GFs) and periodontal ligament fibroblasts (PDLFs) contribute to the regeneration of lost alveolar bone, as they can differentiate into osteoblast-like cells and regulate osteoclastogenesis. However, it remains unclear whether these two fibroblast populations contribute similarly to bone regeneration and how ECM properties modulate their osteogenic differentiation and subsequent osteoclast-inducing capacity. Here, we compared the osteogenic potential of GFs and PDLFs from 12 donors, cultured in 2D monolayers or 3D fibrin hydrogels under normal or osteogenic conditions, and assessed how fibroblast-conditioned media regulates osteoclast formation from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Both fibroblast populations underwent osteogenic differentiation, as evidenced by increased alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, calcium deposition, and robust mineral nodule formation in 3D fibrin hydrogels. Osteogenic stimulation reduced macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) secretion and increased osteoprotegerin (OPG) release. Functionally, conditioned media from non-osteogenic cultures promoted formation of multinucleated TRAcP-positive osteoclasts and upregulated osteoclast-associated genes, including TRACP, RANK, Cathepsin K, and the fusion marker DC-STAMP. In contrast, osteogenic differentiation attenuated the osteoclast-inducing capacity of both fibroblast populations. Across all parameters, GFs and PDLFs displayed largely comparable osteogenic and osteoclast-modulating phenotypes, irrespective of culture dimensionality. These findings indicate that osteogenic differentiation functions as a regulatory switch that diminishes the osteoclast-inductive potential of oral fibroblasts and support the interchangeable use of GFs and PDLFs in periodontal regenerative strategies.© 2026 The Authors.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response caused by pathogen infection, leading tomultiple organ failure. This study aims to identify potential sepsis biomarkers.Differentially expressed genes in sepsis-related datasets GSE57065 and GSE95233 were analyzed, and sepsis-associated genes were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Protein-protein interaction network was further analyzed to screen the core genes, which were verified using external datasets GSE65682 and GSE9960. An in vitro septic cardiomyopathy model was constructed by inducing H9c2 cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS).TCF7, LEF1, FYN, IL7R, CD3E, SKAP1 and FCER1G showed significant differences between sepsis and the control samples, and were related with immune cells infiltration. Sepsis patients with high expression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E had better prognosis. Overexpression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E could significantly inhibit the levels of inflammatory counterfactors TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-8 induced by LPS, and reduce the apoptosis rate of H9c2 cardiomyocytes, the ratio of cleaved caspase 3 and Bax/Bcl-2. Additionally, SKAP1 and FYN exerted these biological functions partially via activating PI3K/Akt pathway.SKAP1, FYN and CD3E are potential sepsis biomarkers associsted with favorable prognosis, protecting against inflammation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
Supernumerary teeth are common congenital dental anomalies resulting from disrupted epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during tooth development. Although Hedgehog signaling is known to regulate tooth development, its temporal requirement for tooth number determination remains elusive. To investigate the role of early epithelial Hedgehog signaling, we conditionally deleted Smo in the dental epithelium using Pitx2-Cre, which initiates recombination at E10.5, prior to the onset of K14-Cre activity. SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice developed two supernumerary mandibular incisors together with defective ameloblast differentiation and disrupted enamel formation. BrdU labeling revealed significantly increased cell proliferation in the lingual cervical loop, with no changes in apoptosis. In situ hybridization showed reduced expression of Wnt inhibitors Dkk1 and Sostdc1, accompanied by upregulation of the Wnt target gene Lef1, indicating aberrant activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in SmoPitx2Cre incisors. Treatment with SHH in vitro upregulated Dkk1 and Sostdc1 expression, confirming that Hedgehog signaling positively regulates these Wnt inhibitors. Moreover, the SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice exhibited decreased expression of Fgf3, Sp6, Dlx2, and Msx2, genes implicated in ameloblast differentiation and dental patterning. Together, these findings demonstrate that epithelial Hedgehog signaling is required during early odontogenesis to establish normal tooth patterning through coordinated regulation of Wnt signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal communication, while simultaneously promoting ameloblast differentiation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease involves interconnected failures in epithelial integrity, immune cell migration, and inflammatory homeostasis in the system, making multifunctional therapeutic approaches a promising option. In this study, we developed a Bacillus licheniformis-templated nano-silver (Nano-Ag) composite within a tannic acid-iron (TA-Fe) metal-phenolic network and evaluated its therapeutic effects in TNBS-induced colitis. The composite exhibited favorable physicochemical properties, including a stable surface architecture and uniform nanosilver deposition, supporting its potential application as a biohybrid nanotherapeutic platform. In vivo treatment produced a dose-responsive protective effect, with the 1 mg formulation showing the most consistent response. This treatment regimen improved survival, reduced morbidity, alleviated diarrhea and fecal bleeding, lowered disease activity, preserved colon length, and significantly restored colonic histoarchitecture. Further histological examination revealed reduced inflammatory infiltration and improved hepatic morphology, indicating protective effects beyond the intestine. At the molecular level, therapeutic efficacy was associated with LEF-1 suppression, axin restoration, CXCR2 and CCR7 attenuation, and CCR5 recovery, consistent with coordinated normalization of Wnt-associated epithelial signaling and chemokine-guided immune trafficking. Serum profiling further revealed broad modulation of dysregulated chemokine networks and partial correction of biochemical disturbances associated with gut-liver and gut-kidney axis dysfunction. Collectively, these findings indicate that the engineered biohybrid nano-Ag platform does not act through a single anti-inflammatory mechanism, but rather through integrated remodeling of epithelial repair, inflammatory signaling, and systemic metabolic stress. Our study identifies TA-Fe-stabilized probiotic nano-Ag therapy as a promising multifunctional strategy for experimental colitis and provides a mechanistic framework for developing next-generation nanomedicines for inflammatory bowel disease.
Recent progress in statistical and experimental fine mapping of disease risk variants prompts us to focus on specific target loci for functional investigation. However, current genetics is hindered by a limited toolbox for target-loci analysis. To address this, we present UNIChro-seq, a method that digitally counts accessible chromatin molecules at target loci. UNIChro-seq allows for accurate, sensitive, and efficient quantification of allelic effects compared to conventional methods. Using UNIChro-seq, we investigate the effects of 57 autoimmunity risk alleles on chromatin accessibility and estimate the causal effects of 20 artificial variants generated through genome editing. As a caveat, a non-negligible fraction of the edited alleles exhibits a falsely positive effect on chromatin accessibility, which can be effectively distinguished from the true causal effect through bi-directional genome editing. Finally, functional dissection of a fine-mapped risk variant at the LEF1 locus illuminates its relevance to T cell dysregulation in rheumatoid arthritis. Together, these findings underscore the utility of combining UNIChro-seq with genome editing technology to enable precise and scalable functional analysis of disease-associated loci.© 2026. The Author(s).
Kidney stones and sepsis have a complex pathological association. Urinary obstruction and infection caused by kidney stones can easily induce sepsis, leading to increased mortality and poor prognosis. However, the molecular mechanism underlying their comorbidity remains unclear, and there is a lack of specific biomarkers for early prediction and targeted therapy. This study aims to explore the molecular regulatory network of their comorbidity, screen key genes, and clarify their roles in disease progression. Transcriptome, single-cell ribonucleic acid sequencing (scRNA-seq), and spatial transcriptome data of kidney stones and sepsis were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differential expression analysis was performed using the Limma package to screen for shared differentially expressed genes between the 2 diseases. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression and random forest algorithms were applied for feature selection to identify key regulatory genes. Functional enrichment analyses (Gene Ontology, KEGG) were conducted to explore biological processes and signaling pathways associated with these genes. ScRNA-seq was used to determine cell-type-specific expression patterns, while spatial transcriptome combined with robust cell-type decomposition was employed to validate their spatial distribution. Additionally, transcriptional regulation analysis, drug-gene interaction prediction (via DGIdb), and molecular docking were performed to investigate potential regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic targets. Five key genes (FCER1A, LEF1, NELL2, SBK1, ZC3H8) were identified through integrative analysis. Functional enrichment showed these genes are primarily involved in bacterial response, immune effector processes, and inflammation-related pathways such as IL6-JAK-STAT3 signaling. ScRNA-seq revealed cell-type specificity: FCER1A was enriched in immune cells, LEF1 localized to T cells, and NELL2 was highly expressed in renal tubular epithelial cells. Spatial transcriptome and robust cell-type decomposition confirmed their spatial distribution - NELL2 was overexpressed in epithelial-damaged regions of kidney stones, while FCER1A accumulated around blood vessels in sepsis. Transcriptional regulation analysis indicated FCER1A is regulated by the cisbp__M2925 motif. DGIdb predicted 14 potential drugs targeting FCER1A, and molecular docking showed a binding energy of -5.0 kcal/mol between FCER1A (1j88) and ROME. This study identified 5 key genes and their regulatory networks in the comorbidity of kidney stones and sepsis, revealing their roles in immune regulation and inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTL) and primary Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive nodal T/NK-cell lymphoma (nodal-TNKL) are aggressive lymphomas with overlapping clinicopathologic features but distinct underlying biology. While their genomic landscapes have been increasingly defined, comparative epigenetic characterization remains limited. We performed methylated DNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeDIP-seq) on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples from ENKTL, nodal-TNKL, ENKTL cell lines, and control tissues. ENKTL displayed extensive promoter hypermethylation associated with repression of tumor suppressor genes, lineage regulators, and lymphoid signaling genes, including LEF1 and BANK1, together with focal hypomethylation of immune- and interferon-responsive genes such as IFITM1. In contrast, nodal-TNKL showed global hypomethylation, particularly affecting cytotoxicity, immune-response, and antigen-presentation pathways; TET2-mutated nodal-TNKL cases exhibited locus-specific methylation changes. Across all samples, global DNA methylation levels correlated with genomic instability. Unsupervised clustering identified two epigenetically distinct ENKTL subgroups, one characterized by higher global methylation, TP53 loss, increased copy number alterations and loss of heterozygosity and significantly poorer overall survival. Together, this study defines fundamental epigenetic differences between ENKTL and nodal-TNKL and links DNA methylation dynamics to genomic instability and clinical outcome, highlighting the value of methylation profiling for refined classification, risk stratification and therapeutic guidance.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42446940
Microplastic (MP) pollution has become a global aquatic environmental issue, yet its long-term toxic effects on aquatic organisms remain poorly understood. In this study, grass carps (Ctenopharyngodon idella) were subjected to thirty-week dietary exposure to polystyrene microplastics (PS-MPs) to systematically evaluate the effects on histology, immune signaling, and intestinal microbiota. Histopathological examination revealed that PS-MPs exposure induced focal necrosis, increased melanomacrophage centers, and sinusoidal congestion in the spleen, while the intestine exhibited villus fusion, disordered arrangement, epithelial edema, and lymphocyte infiltration. Transcriptomic analysis further identified 2975 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the spleen. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these DEGs were significantly associated with cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, Toll-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Notably, the MAPK-associated gene mapkapk3 was significantly upregulated, whereas the immune-regulatory receptor gene IL20RA was downregulated, suggesting disruption of immune homeostasis and remodeling of innate immune signaling. Gut microbiota analysis revealed marked dysbiosis characterized by increased relative abundances of Fusobacteriota (57%) and Proteobacteria (35%), accompanied by pronounced reductions in Bacteroidota and Firmicutes. All alpha diversity indices (Chao1, Ace, Shannon, Simpson) were significantly decreased, and beta diversity analyses (PCA, PCoA, NMDS) demonstrated clear separation between groups. The opportunistic pathogen Aeromonas veronii was significantly enriched and identified as a key biomarker in the PS-MPs group. Collectively, long-term PS-MPs exposure induced structural tissue damage, altered immune-related transcriptional profiles involving mapkapk3 and IL20RA, and promoted gut microbial dysbiosis with enrichment of opportunistic pathogens, thereby potentially increasing host susceptibility to environmental stressors. These findings provide mechanistic insight into the ecological health risks posed by chronic MP exposure in freshwater fish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The restoration of liver mass after partial hepatectomy (PH) and split liver transplantation (SLT) relies on efficient liver regeneration, a process highly susceptible to metabolic dysregulation. Although remodeling of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is commonly observed during liver injury and regeneration, the specific role of succinic acid remains unclear. Here, we integrated radiomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and functional assays to systematically evaluate the association between succinic acid and liver regeneration. Multi-omics analysis of 20 SLT patients demonstrated that elevated succinic acid levels were strongly associated with impaired regenerative outcomes, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified the TCA cycle as a key regeneration-associated metabolic module. In a 70% PH mouse model, succinic acid administration was associated with reduced survival and decreased hepatocyte proliferation, consistent with impaired liver regeneration. Mechanistically, succinic acid exhibited distinct effects in different cell types: in macrophages, it enhanced inflammatory activation and increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, whereas in hepatocytes it reduced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and downstream regenerative signaling. Furthermore, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance assays supported an interaction between succinic acid and the STAT3 SH2 domain, providing structural evidence consistent with modulation of STAT3 signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that succinic acid may function as an immunometabolic regulator that contributes to impaired liver regeneration by altering macrophage-derived IL-6 signaling and hepatocyte STAT3 activation. These findings also support further investigation of the succinic acid-STAT3 axis as a potential therapeutic target for promoting liver regeneration following hepatic injury or resection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567782 is a review article
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uvaria micrantha remains insufficiently characterized in terms of its phytochemical diversity and pharmacological potential. In this study, branches and leaves were extracted and subjected to chromatographic isolation, yielding a new metabolite, uvarisinyicone, along with twenty-two known compounds, including chalcones, dihydrochalcones, flavonoids, and benzenoids. LC-MS/MS profiling combined with GNPS-FBMN enabled dereplication and visualization of metabolite clusters, revealing chemical networks consistent with isolated scaffolds. Bioassays demonstrated two major functional classes of metabolites, exhibiting anti-inflammatory and anti-neuroinflammatory activity, and regulators of osteogenesis. Differential bioactivities were observed, with certain compounds selectively suppressing IL-6, others exerting dual cytokine inhibition, and several promoting osteoblast differentiations. The discovery of uvarisinyicone, together with bioactive flavonoid and chalcone derivatives, expands the chemical diversity of the genus and identifies osteogenesis activity as a novel property. These findings suggest therapeutic potential for osteoporosis and inflammatory disorders while bridging natural product chemistry with modern pharmacological applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exophthalmia is an important but poorly documented complication of tropical theileriosis caused by Theileria annulata, especially in neonatal and young calves. It involves forward displacement of the eyeball, periorbital swelling, conjunctival congestion, excessive tearing, and enlarged regional lymph nodes. Systemic signs like fever, anaemia, depression, and weakness often occur. The condition arises through complex pathogenetic mechanisms linked to the schizont stage of the parasite, where infected leukocytes transform into rapidly dividing, invasive cells. These cells infiltrate retro-orbital tissues, creating inflammatory masses that pressure the orbital cavity, resulting in globe protrusion. Simultaneously, inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, and IFN-γ are released excessively, causing endothelial damage, increased vascular permeability, and oedema. Enlarged lymph nodes block venous and lymphatic drainage, worsening fluid build-up and infraorbital pressure, which all contribute to the development of exophthalmia in tropical theileriosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The expansion and pathogenic differentiation of intermediate monocytes (IMs) are critical yet poorly understood events in psoriasis pathogenesis. Here, we identify the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) as a master regulator driving IM-mediated psoriasiform inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed expansion of IMs in psoriasis patients, with PU.1 uncovered as its specific regulator. Myeloid-specific ablation of Spi1 in mice ameliorated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis. Mechanistically, PU.1 promoted IMs differentiation into pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages by transcriptionally upregulating Dectin-1, thereby activating the SYK/NF-κB pathway. We further discovered that the clinical-stage bromodomain and extra-terminal domain inhibitor NHWD-870 effectively suppressed PU.1 expression. Oral administration of NHWD-870 demonstrated potent efficacy in murine psoriasis models by disrupting this PU.1-dependent IMs differentiation. Our findings establish PU.1 as a novel therapeutic target for psoriasis and propose that pharmacologic inhibition of PU.1 represents a promising treatment strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Using single-cell transcriptomics of bronchoalveolar lavage cells from Mtb/SIV co-infected rhesus macaques on cART, we reveal profound immune dysregulation during early SIV co-infection of latent tuberculosis. SIV induces a sharp decline in CD4+ T cells, NK, and NKT cells, with incomplete recovery of Mtb-specific TH1 effector responses despite viral suppression. Instead, a persistent TH17-skewed environment emerges, alongside sustained myeloid inflammation driven by Type I interferon signaling and pro-inflammatory regulators such as KLF6 and NFKB1. Ligand-receptor network analyses demonstrate expanded CD4+ T cell-macrophage crosstalk and loss of immune homeostasis that cART fails to fully restore. These findings expose how SIV remodels the pulmonary immune landscape to impair protective immunity against Mtb, providing a transcriptomic framework to explain TB reactivation in HIV infection. Our work highlights the urgent need for adjunctive immunotherapies to complement cART, aiming to rebalance immune responses and improve TB control in co-infected individuals.© 2026 The Author(s).
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Hantavirus infection triggers life-threatening hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) and hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS), driven by severe endothelial barrier breakdown and systemic capillary leakage. Clinical severity varies widely with undefined host regulators, and no targeted endothelial-protective treatments exist. Recent data link hantaviruses to gut microbiome remodeling, while bile acid (BA) receptors FXR and TGR5 potently inhibit NF-κB-mediated endothelial inflammation. We synthesize four core lines of evidence. First, metagenomic reports confirm hantavirus reshapes gut/lung microbiota in rodent reservoirs. Second, we re-analyzed three public GEO datasets via standardized RNA-seq/microarray pipelines: (i) GSE245916: SEOV-infected human/rat lung ECs show conserved VCAM1/ICAM1 upregulation (human VCAM1 log2FC=+1.17, P = 0.023; rat Icam1 log2FC=+0.32, padj=0.016) with unaltered FXR; (ii) GSE7271: SEOV-infected rat lung displays sustained Nfkb1 suppression (all timepoints, P<0.05) and day-15 Slc10a2 downregulation (P = 0.028); (iii) GSE270172: PUUV 3D vessel chips feature robust IL6 elevation (log2FC=+1.22, P = 3.1×10-8) and disrupted BA transporters (ABCC3 log2FC=-1.44, P = 7.4×10-¹²). TGR5 (GPBAR1) was undetectable in endothelial cells across all datasets. Third, FXR/TGR5 agonists repress NF-κB inflammation and mitigate lung vascular injury. Fourth, HTNV upregulates CH25H to block HMGCR-dependent cholesterol synthesis, depleting BA precursor substrates. We propose a unified pathogenic model: hantavirus-triggered gut dysbiosis plus virus-impaired cholesterol metabolism deplete circulating FXR/TGR5 agonistic BAs, relieving constitutive inhibition of endothelial NF-κB and monocyte NLRP3 inflammasomes to exacerbate capillary leakage. We define tiered testable predictions covering clinical multi-omics cohorts, in vitro receptor modulation assays and in vivo pharmacological interventions. This gut microbiota-BA-FXR/TGR5 axis represents a repurposable therapeutic target for hantavirus diseases, though direct causal evidence connecting BA signaling to viral vascular damage remains absent; our framework offers a rigorous testable roadmap for subsequent validation.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Lin, Sang, Lai, Huang, Zhong, Liu and Chen.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Microglia are key players in Alzheimer's disease, but the transcriptional control of their phagocytic function remains unclear. Kim et al. show that mouse microglial Spi1 deletion worsens amyloid pathology by impairing Aβ clearance through Syk, Lyn, and Fcgr1, providing new insight into PU.1-dependent regulatory networks and microglial functions in neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide analyses of transcription factor (TF) motif binding sites have largely emphasized individual high-affinity sites, while overlooking the regulatory importance of locally repetitive motif clusters. Such clusters, including combinations of weak and strong binding sites, can collectively enhance TF occupancy and regulatory activity. Here we present Motif-Cluster, an open-source framework for motif-driven prioritization and visualization of TF binding clusters using sequence information alone. Motif-Cluster integrates a density-based clustering strategy with flexible modeling of binding-site gaps and affinity signals, enabling the identification and ranking of candidate regulatory regions without requiring experimental binding data. Through simulations and multiple real-data analyses, we show that combining gap distributions with binding affinity effectively balances cluster size and signal strength while reducing noise from weak sites. Application to ZNF410 successfully recovers the previously characterized binding clusters in the CHD4 promoter, which are conserved between human and mouse. Additional case studies involving PHB1, TWIST1, and EGR1 further demonstrate the general applicability of the method across diverse transcription factors. Motif-Cluster also provides intuitive visualization and reproducible workflows to facilitate interpretation of spatially dense motif patterns. Overall, Motif-Cluster offers a robust and flexible approach for prioritizing transcription factor regulatory regions from genome-wide motif scans, enabling biological discovery and guiding experimental design, particularly in settings where direct genome-wide binding assays are unavailable.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou, Yao. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To clarify the role of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4)-mediated ferroptosis in curcumin-treated papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) cells and explore the underlying mechanisms. GPX4 expression and clinical relevance were analysed in 54 PTC tissues by immunohistochemistry. B-CPAP cells were used to assess proliferation, migration, apoptosis and cell cycle after curcumin treatment. Ferroptosis was evaluated by detecting malondialdehyde (MDA), reactive oxygen species (ROS), Fe2⁺ and glutathione (GSH) levels, with ferrostatin 1 (Fer-1) and agonists (RSL3) used for validation. Molecular docking and Western blot were performed to analyse GPX4 interaction and expression. A nude mouse xenograft model was established to evaluate in vivo effects. Elevated GPX4 expression correlated with poor prognosis in PTC, including increased lymph node and distant metastasis and reduced progression-free survival. In vitro studies showed that curcumin downregulated GPX4 and induced ferroptotic features, including increased MDA and ROS, elevated Fe2⁺ and decreased GSH. These changes were accompanied by inhibited proliferation and migration, as well as G2/M arrest. Importantly, the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1 reversed curcumin-induced cell death and partially restored migration, confirming ferroptosis as the primary anticancer mechanism. Molecular docking analysis suggested a possible interaction between curcumin and the GPX4 protein at the Gln-55 and Pro-155 residues; however, this prediction was not experimentally validated in the present study. Importantly, GPX4 overexpression partially rescued curcumin-induced loss of cell viability and lipid peroxidation, supporting a functional role for GPX4 in curcumin-induced ferroptosis. In vivo experiments showed that curcumin significantly suppressed tumour growth in the xenograft model without observable organ toxicity and reduced GPX4 expression in tumour tissues. This study shows that curcumin inhibits PTC progression via GPX4-mediated ferroptosis; GPX4 overexpression partially reversed these effects, supporting its functional role. These findings identify curcumin as a promising therapeutic agent for PTC treatment and suggest GPX4 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Liver fibrosis is a major global health issue with limited treatment options. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces collagen deposition, which is a core step in the progression of liver fibrosis. MicroRNA221-3p (miR221-3p) is a key profibrotic regulator of the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Sensitive and selective imaging and regulation of miR221-3p within complex cellular environments are essential for both diagnosis and therapy, yet remains challenging.To address this, we engineered a miR-on Self-Assembly Cascade (SAC) amplification strategy for miR221-3p visualization and regulation. The system consists of a DNA initiator strand (Hc) and four hairpin strands (H1-H4). MiR221-3p binds to and opens Hc, triggering a self-sustained circular hairpin reporter reaction. The resulting replicas serve as feedback to drive subsequent cycles, achieving exponential signal amplification. This design enables highly sensitive and selective fluorescence imaging of miR221-3p in living cells. Additionally, as a functional demonstration, the SAC system also induced inactivation of HSCs. Mechanistic studies revealed that the SAC strategy disrupts the miR221-3p/Suppressor Of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1) axis, thereby suppressing Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus alleviating liver fibrosis. In vivo studies further demonstrate the sustained administration of SAC significantly reduced extracellular matrix accumulation and ameliorated liver fibrosis in a CCl4-induced mouse model.Owing to its self-sustained signal amplification, the SAC strategy achieves both sensitive miR221-3p imaging and effective fibrosis suppression. This work provides a robust analytical platform for miRNA-based diagnostics and holds promise for precision medicine in fibrotic and miRNA-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are key regulators of tumor progression within the gastric cancer microenvironment. Chloride Intracellular Channel-2 (CLIC-2), a member of the CLIC protein family, has been implicated in tumor biology. However, its role in CAFs remains unclear. In this study, we found that CLIC-2 expression was significantly reduced in gastric CAFs and that low CLIC-2 levels were associated with poor patient prognosis. Loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that CLIC-2 deficiency promoted CAF-like activation of non-cancer fibroblasts (NFs), whereas CLIC-2 overexpression attenuated the activated phenotype of CAFs. Conditioned medium from CLIC-2-knockdown fibroblasts enhanced the viability, migratory, and invasion of gastric cancer cells, while conditioned medium from CLIC-2-overexpressing CAFs suppressed these malignant phenotypes. In vivo, co-injection of MKN-45 cells with CLIC-2-deficient fibroblasts promoted tumor growth and liver metastasis, whereas CLIC-2 overexpression in CAFs exerted tumor-suppressive effects. Proteomic analysis of CAF-derived exosomes identified Solute Carrier Family 35 Member B2 (SLC35B2) as a candidate downstream component associated with CLIC-2-regulated exosomal alterations. Exosomes derived from CLIC-2-overexpressing CAFs exhibited reduced SLC35B2 levels and inhibited malignant behaviors in gastric cancer cells. Mechanistically, SLC35B2 promoted YAP1 activation, as evidenced by enhanced nuclear accumulation of YAP1 and upregulation of its target genes CYR61 and CTGF. YAP1 silencing attenuated SLC35B2-induced malignant phenotypes, while SLC35B2 overexpression partially reversed the tumor-suppressive effects mediated by CLIC-2-overexpressing CAF-derived exosomes. Collectively, these findings suggest that CLIC-2 suppresses CAF-driven gastric cancer progression, at least partly through SLC35B2-associated regulation of YAP1 signaling, highlighting a potential stromal regulatory mechanism in gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease. Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis, is upregulated during cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses, yet its specific role in keratinocyte biology and psoriatic pathogenesis remains unexplored. Here, we identify IMPDH2 as a critical metabolic regulator of psoriatic inflammation. Integrated analysis of bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets revealed consistent upregulation of IMPDH2 in psoriatic keratinocytes, which was further validated by immunofluorescence staining of patient skin biopsies. In an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine psoriasis model, pharmacological inhibition of IMPDH2 with Casticin attenuated disease progression and alleviated epidermal inflammation. Mechanistically, IMPDH2 promotes keratinocyte inflammation through GTP-dependent activation of STAT3 signaling: IMPDH2 knockdown or inhibition reduced STAT3 phosphorylation and suppressed inflammatory responses, effects that were reversed by exogenous GTP supplementation, whereas IMPDH2 overexpression enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and inflammation. Supporting a direct causal link between IMPDH2 and STAT3, the STAT3 activator colivelin reversed the effect of IMPDH2 inhibition, while the STAT3 inhibitor Stattic abrogated the effect of IMPDH2 overexpression. Collectively, this study establishes a previously unrecognized IMPDH2-GTP-STAT3 axis driving keratinocyte inflammation and nominates Casticin as a promising therapeutic candidate for psoriasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is a second messenger, regulating critical physiological processes. We report the enzymatic synthesis, unique photophysical features, and biological activity of novel emissive cAMP analogs (cthAMP and ctzAMP), comprised of thiopheno- and isothiazolo-based families of isomorphic ribonucleotides. The unexpectedly high brightness of cthAMP compared to thATP and thAMP, its precursor and hydrolysis products, respectively, driven by an anti-to-syn conformational shift upon cyclization, is employed for real-time monitoring of the adenylyl cyclase (AC) mediated synthesis and phosphodiesterase (PDE) mediated hydrolysis. Importantly, these emissive analogs effectively activate protein kinase A (PKA). This study provides critical insights into the biomolecular recognition and catalytic mechanism of cAMP-regulating enzymes, establishing these isomorphic analogs as potential tools for investigating cAMP-dependent protein-ligand interaction through fluorescence spectroscopy.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
To investigate the effects and mechanisms of Shi Pi Shu Gan formula (SPSGF) on sequelae of pelvic inflammatory disease (SPID) in rats with liver stagnation and spleen deficiency.A SPID rat model was established using mixed bacterial infection, mechanical injury, and compound stress (restraint, fatigue, diet disorder). Rats were divided into control, model, SPSGF-low (9.9 g/kg), SPSGF-high (36.9 g/kg), positive control, mitophagy inhibitor (Mdivi-1), SPSGF, and SPSGF+Mdivi-1 groups (n=6 each) for a 2-week treatment. Behavior, uterine histopathology (HE, TUNEL, immunohistochemistry), inflammatory cytokines (ELISA), mitophagy (TEM), and cGAS, STING, p-CREB, and p-YAP1 proteins (Western blot) were assessed.SPSGF treatment reduced inflammatory lesions and apoptosis in uterine tissue, decreased mtDNA levels and cGAS/STING expression, and increased p-CREB and p-YAP1 expression compared with the model group.This study's findings illuminate a novel link between mitochondrial quality control and tissue repair in SPID. Notwithstanding its limitations, including the model's translational capacity and the formula's complexity, this work lays the groundwork for developing SPSGF as a promising multi-targeted therapeutic strategy, aligning with TCM principles for managing chronic inflammatory sequelae.SPSGF may inhibit the inflammatory response in SPID rats by activating mitophagy to inhibit excessive activation of the cGAS/STING pathway and by activating the downstream PKACREB- Yap1 signaling pathway by interfering with the mtDNA-cGAS-STING network, thereby alleviating the symptoms of SPID.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIHS) is a rare congenital visceral myopathy characterized by severe gastrointestinal dysmotility and bladder dysfunction, most commonly associated with ACTG2-mutations.We report a preterm neonate with prenatally detected megacystis and a de novo heterozygous ACTG2 variant (c.593G>T; p.Gly198Val). Postnatally, the patient developed progressive abdominal distension and feeding intolerance. Imaging demonstrated dilated bowel loops and microcolon. Exploratory laparotomy on day 5 confirmed dilated ileum, microcolon, and massive megacystis without mechanical obstruction. Gastrostomy and ileostomy were performed. The patient required parenteral nutrition followed by gradual enteral feeding with stool recirculation. Clean intermittent catheterization and antibiotic prophylaxis were initiated.MMIHS should be suspected in cases of fetal megacystis. Early genetic diagnosis and multidisciplinary management, including intestinal failure rehabilitation and urological care, are essential to improve outcomes.© 2026 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558047
Early detection biomarkers are needed to support the timely detection and monitoring of ulcerative colitis (UC) and its potential association with colorectal cancer (CRC). We used Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) proteomics on paired colorectal tissue and exudate samples to define the pathway changes and identify serum-accessible markers.We employed DIA-based mass spectrometry to profile the proteomes of paired tissue and exudate samples from patients with UC and CRC. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were analyzed using Gene Ontology (GO), KEGG, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Four candidate biomarkers, CDA, REG4, LCN2, and TNS1, were validated in serum samples using ELISA and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.DIA proteomic analysis of colorectal tissues and exudates identified >7000 proteins and revealed profound microenvironmental remodeling associated with UC and CRC. Heatmap clustering of the top 50 features showed consistent change patterns across comparisons, supporting the robustness of the differential signatures. DEPs in the UC group were enriched in crucial biological processes (BPs), including oxidative phosphorylation, the TCA cycle, autophagy, lysosomes, and immune dysregulation. The DEPs ih the CRC group were clustered into many vital BPs, such as glycolysis, focal adhesion, ECM remodeling, suppressed antigen presentation, N-glycan biosynthesis and p53 pathway inhibition. Exudate profiling uniquely revealed complement and coagulation activation, consistent with a systemic prothrombotic and immunosuppressive state. Compared with the control group, the AUC values for CDA, REG4, LCN2, and TNS1 were 0.841, 0.878, 0.922, and 0.800 in the UC group, and 0.880, 0.752, 0.887, and 0.718 in the CRC group, respectively.UC and CRC are primarily driven by a metabolic shift from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis, progressive immune silencing, and extracellular matrix remodeling. These findings indicate that CDA, REG4, LCN2, and TNS1 have strong potential as serum biomarkers for the early detection of UC and CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
To evaluate the clinical effectiveness of adjunctive Manuka honey oral rinse following nonsurgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) in hemodialysis patients with periodontitis, and to explore associated changes in periodontal clinical parameters (clinical attachment level [CAL], probing depth [PD], bleeding on probing [BOP], and plaque index [PI]), selected inflammatory biomarkers (gingival crevicular fluid fibroblast growth factor-23 [FGF23] and serum C-reactive protein [CRP]), and oral health-related quality of life (OHIP-14).In this randomized, blinded, controlled clinical trial, 140 hemodialysis patients with Stage III periodontitis were allocated to NSPT with Manuka honey oral rinse (n = 70) or NSPT with saline rinse (n = 70). CAL was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included PD, BOP, PI, gingival crevicular fluid FGF23, serum CRP, and OHIP-14. Periodontal parameters were assessed at baseline, 3, and 6 months. Gingival crevicular fluid and venous blood samples were collected with sterile paper strips and before the hemodialysis session, respectively. The periodontal parameters were recorded at baseline, 3, and 6 months, whereas the biomarkers and OHIP-14 were recorded at baseline and 6 months.Both groups showed significant intragroup improvements in periodontal parameters over time (P < .001). At 6 months, the Manuka group demonstrated significantly greater improvements compared with controls in CAL mean difference = -0.5 mm (95% CI: -0.86 to -0.14; P = .008), PD (P = .013), and BOP (P = .005), while plaque index did not differ significantly between groups (P > .05). In addition, the Manuka group showed a greater reduction in GCF FGF23 and serum CRP levels (P ≤ .001). Improvements in OHIP-14 scores were also significantly greater in the Manuka group (P = .003).Adjunctive use of Manuka honey oral rinse with NSPT was associated with modest additional improvements in periodontal clinical outcomes and reductions in inflammatory biomarkers in hemodialysis patients. These findings suggest a potential supportive role for Manuka honey as an adjunctive periodontal therapy in medically compromised populations; however, the observed biomarker changes should be interpreted with caution, as systemic clinical outcomes were not assessed.The study was registered at Clinical Trials.gov on December 9, 2024 with the number (NCT06726876).Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and major depressive disorder (MDD) frequently co-occur, yet the shared biological mechanisms underlying this comorbidity remain poorly understood. Increasing evidence suggests that metabolic dysregulation may represent a critical link between tumor progression and depressive phenotypes.An integrative strategy combining metabolomics, bioinformatic analyses, and experimental validation was employed. Untargeted metabolomic profiling of brain and tumor tissues was performed in a well-established TNBC-MDD mouse model induced by 4 T1 tumor-bearing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from datasets of MDD (GEO) and TNBC (TCGA), followed by intersection analysis focusing on glutamine metabolism- and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle-related genes. Key genes were validated by qRT-PCR and WB in both brain and tumor tissues, while candidate therapeutic agents were predicted using a drug-gene interaction network.Metabolomic analysis revealed significant depletion of glutamine-related metabolites and adenosine in the TNBC-MDD comorbidity model. Transcriptomic bioinformatic analyses identified 21 DEGs shared by TNBC and MDD. Among these DEGs, those associated with core metabolic pathways were highlighted: GLDC and PYCR3 were consistently upregulated, whereas PID1 exhibited downregulation. qRT-PCR and WB validation confirmed aberrant expression of GLDC, PYCR3, and PID1 in both brain and tumor tissues. Drug prediction analysis identified several candidate compounds, including valproic acid, with potential dual therapeutic relevance for TNBC and MDD.GLDC, PYCR3, and PID1 were identified as key metabolic regulators underlying the co-occurrence of TNBC and MDD. Their coordinated dysregulation may drive glutamine and TCA cycle reprogramming, which links peripheral malignancy to central mood dysfunction, providing a foundation for integrated therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Inflammation causes bone loss by dysregulating the differentiation and functions of osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes. This process can be modeled by the expression of constitutively activated IKK2 (IKK2ca), a strategy that we leveraged to investigate the mechanisms through which inflammation negatively affects cells of the osteoblast/osteocyte lineage. We found that mice expressing IKK2ca in osteoblasts exhibit significant bone loss. Mechanistically, IKK2ca downregulates the expression of osteoblast genes while inducing the differentiation of bone-forming osteoblasts into catabolic osteocytes like cells, expressing high levels of Podoplanin, Fgf23, Dkk1 and Sclerostin. We term these atypical inflammatory osteocyte-like cells (aiOCy-L cells) as they highly express inflammatory and senescence markers and promote osteoclast differentiation as well. Additional data show that inflammation induces abnormal differentiation of OB into aiOCy-L cells through upregulating mTOR and glycolysis. In summary, we uncovered a mechanism by which inflammation alters osteoblast differentiation and fate decision via the IKK2/mTOR/glycolysis axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Phosphate plays essential roles within the human body and levels are tightly controlled through conserved feedback loops. FGF23, a phosphate-regulating hormone produced in the bone, is regulated by the glycosyltransferase, GALNT3, whose expression is sensitive to circulating phosphate levels. GALNT3-mediated glycosylation of FGF23 confers protection from inactivating furin cleavage, thus allowing intact FGF23 to modulate phosphate reabsorption in the kidneys. Mutations in either FGF23 or GALNT3 are responsible for diseases of phosphate regulation, which can lead to growth defects, skeletal malformations, soft-tissue calcification, kidney failure, and death. However, the specific effects of many of these mutations remain poorly understood and effective treatments are lacking. Here, we employ an in vivo system that recapitulates the FGF23/GALNT3 axis to demonstrate the functional consequences of 11 GALNT3 patient mutations. We identify certain GALNT3 mutations that affect stability yet retain catalytic activity and thus may be targets for therapeutic approaches that enhance folding/stability. We present evidence that one previously reported pathogenic mutation is not pathogenic. We also demonstrate that two additional members of the GALNT family can glycosylate FGF23 and protect it from furin cleavage in cells. Finally, we examine three patient-derived FGF23 mutations and show they have unique effects on stability or secretion. This study provides detailed mechanistic information regarding patient mutations in both GALNT3 and FGF23 that result in disease and a functional platform for developing new approaches to treat diseases of phosphate dysregulation.
Objective: To explore the causal relationships between human inflammatory proteins and hypertrophic scars (HS) and keloids. Methods: This study was conducted based on bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Data of human inflammatory proteins, HS, and keloids were acquired from genome-wide association study database. The inverse variance weighted (IVW) method was adopted to evaluate the causal relationships between 91 kinds of human inflammatory proteins and HS and keloids, i.e., a forward MR analysis. For the above associations, Cochran's Q test was used to assess heterogeneity, MR-Egger regression and MR-PRESSO outlier tests were performed to evaluate horizontal pleiotropy, and the leave-one-out method was applied to analyze the robustness of the results. The IVW method was also used to evaluate whether there was a reverse causal relationship between HS, keloids and inflammatory proteins screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis. Results: CD6, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 12 (TNFSF12), programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), interleukin-17C (IL-17C), LIF receptor (LIFR), osteoprotegerin (OPG), and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) had significant causal relationships with HS (with ORs of 1.365, 0.506, 1.567, 1.683, 0.621, 1.375, 0.623, and 0.553, respectively, 95% CIs of 1.100-1.693, 0.289-0.887, 1.081-2.273, 1.090-2.599, 0.408-0.947, 1.025-1.845, 0.402-0.966, and 0.315-0.971, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR were risk factors for HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 were protective factors for HS. CD5, IL-10 receptor subunit alpha (IL-10RA), IL-5, LIF, and OPG had significant causal relationships with keloids (with ORs of 0.744, 1.303, 0.686, 0.603, and 0.715, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.573-0.965, 1.024-1.660, 0.472-0.996, 0.431-0.842, and 0.553-0.924, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, IL-10RA was a risk factor for keloids, whereas CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG were protective factors for keloids. No significant heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy was observed in the above associations (P>0.05), and the robustness of the results was not driven by any single nucleotide polymorphism. Significant reverse causal relationships existed between HS and TNFSF12 and LIFR of the 8 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with HS screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (with ORs of 0.972 and 0.968, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.949-0.997 and 0.942-0.994, respectively, P<0.05). No reverse causal relationship was found between keloids and the 5 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with keloids screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (P>0.05). Conclusions: CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR may increase the risk of HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 may decrease the risk of HS. IL-10RA may increase the risk of keloids, while CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG may decrease the risk of keloids.
Enteral feeding intolerance is a frequent and clinically significant complication in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI), yet its mechanisms remain poorly understood and predictive tools are lacking. We investigated a prospective study to determine whether elevated circulating glucagon-like peptide-1(GLP-1) is associated with feeding intolerance after TBI and to assess its predictive utility.A prospective cohort study in a tertiary neuro-ICU including 109 adults aged 18-80 years with TBI was conducted. A standardised enteral feeding strategy targeted 25 kcal/kg/d and was adjusted according to tolerance. Participants were classified by average caloric adequacy over 14 days: tolerance (≥70% of goal) vs intolerance (<70%). Blood was sampled during post-injury day (PID) windows 1-3, 4-7, 8-10, and 11-14. Longitudinal trajectories of circulating GLP-1, insulin, glucose, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. The Primary outcome was feeding intolerance within 14 days. Associations of biomarkers with feeding intolerance were evaluated, and discrimination was quantified using multivariable logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic analysis.Insulin (P = 0.49) and glucose (P = 0.47) did not differ between intolerance (n = 50) and tolerance (n = 59) groups, whereas GLP-1 was higher in the intolerance group (P = 0.024). GLP-1 increased with injury severity (P = 0.034) and was greatest in patients with GCS 3-5 vs 6-12 (P < 0.001). GLP-1 correlated with glial fibrillary acidic protein over 14 days (r = 0.259; P < 0.001); intestinal permeability markers did not differ between groups. In multivariable models, GLP-1 at PID8-10 (OR, 1.029; P = 0.001), IL-6 at PID8-10 (OR, 1.033; P = 0.035), insulin at PID1-3 (OR, 1.025; P = 0.006), and admission SOFA score (OR, 1.646; P = 0.023) were independently associated with feeding intolerance. Combining insulin at PID1 and SOFA offered early risk stratification (AUC, 0.786; 95% CI, 0.693-0.879; P < 0.001; specificity 71.4%; sensitivity 75%).Elevated plasma GLP-1 levels are associated with enteral feeding intolerance in patients with TBI. These findings are hypothesis-generating and suggest that altered GLP-1 signalling may contribute to feeding intolerance.We propose that disrupted central GLP-1 signalling diminishes afferent satiety input and efferent anorexigenic output, yielding central GLP-1 resistance with secondary GLP-1 accumulation in plasma; higher circulating GLP-1 may therefore indicate central GLP-1 resistance in TBI and associate with FI. Elevated circulating GLP-1 may serve as a pragmatic predictor of feeding intolerance after TBI and could inform feeding strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. All rights reserved.
Raine syndrome (OMIM # 259775) is a rare disorder characterized by osteosclerotic bone dysplasia and autosomal recessive inheritance due to mutations in FAM20C. Classic clinical features include generalized osteosclerosis, dysmorphic facies, and thoracic hypoplasia. FGF23-mediated hypophosphatemic rickets/osteomalacia, besides osteosclerosis, occurs due to mutations in the FAM20C gene that encodes a Golgi-enriched fraction casein kinase involved in the mineralization of bone. Most cases were reported to be fatal during the neonatal period; however, some nonlethal variants have also been identified. Here, we report a middle-aged lady presenting with proximal myopathy. On evaluation, she was found to have hypophosphatemia due to increased renal tubular wasting with low TMP/GFR. Radiological evaluation showed findings suggestive of osteomalacia and osteosclerosis. On molecular analysis, a novel homozygous mutation, the FAM20C variant c.1375C>T (p.Arg459Cys) located on chromosome 7p22.3, was identified. The current case expands the phenotypic and genetic spectrum of the adult cases of nonlethal variants of Raine syndrome with hypophosphatemic osteomalacia caused by the FAM20C mutation.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42539483
Immune checkpoint blockade targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis has improved the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet its therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient antitumor immune activation. Herein, we developed a biomimetic manganese-amplified STING nanoagonist to potentiate PD-L1 blockade immunotherapy. Hollow mesoporous manganese silicate nanoparticles were engineered as Mn2⁺-releasing nanocarriers for loading a STING agonist (Sa) diABZI, followed by coating with anti-PD-L1 antibody-functionalized NSCLC tumor cell membranes. The resulting Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited pH-responsive Sa release, preserved PD-L1 blocking activity, and enhanced tumor-cell-selective uptake. Mechanistically, Mn2⁺ released from HMMSN promoted cGAMP production, while Sa further enhanced STING phosphorylation, leading to robust STING activation. Sa@HMMSN@PM showed enhanced tumor accumulation, superior tumor growth inhibition and prolonged survival in both subcutaneous and orthotopic NSCLC mouse models. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated increased IFN-β, CXCL10, TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ levels, together with enhanced CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Importantly, Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited favorable biosafety without obvious systemic toxicity. Overall, this biomimetic Mn2⁺-amplified STING nanoagonist provides a promising strategy for integrating innate immune activation with immune checkpoint blockade for enhanced NSCLC immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying autoimmune diseases remain poorly understood. Here, we employed integrated multi-omics approaches to systematically dissect the role of alternative polyadenylation (APA) and piRNA-mediated regulation in psoriasis pathogenesis.We performed transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) combined with Mendelian randomization to identify causal susceptibility genes. Long-read sequencing was used to characterize APA landscapes in 15 healthy controls and 10 psoriasis patients. Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on lesional tissues from 4 patients to define cell-specific expression patterns. Small RNA sequencing was conducted to profile piRNA regulation in LPS + IFN-γ-polarized THP-1 macrophages following TDRKH knockdown.Integrating multi-tissue genetic validations across GTEx, eQTLGen, and FinnGen datasets, we identified TDRKH as a robust psoriasis susceptibility gene (PPH4 > 0.92). TDRKH exhibited significant APA alterations in psoriatic PBMCs, with preferential usage of the distal polyadenylation site leading to 3'UTR lengthening (PDI = -0.574). Reporter gene assays confirmed that the long 3'UTR isoform conferred approximately 3-fold greater mRNA stability (t½ = 6.9 h vs. 2.3 h). Single-cell RNA sequencing of psoriatic skin (4 patients, 17,734 cells) identified 17 cell types and 10 macrophage/myeloid subpopulations using marker gene-based annotation with TDRKH excluded from feature selection. TDRKH expression was highest in IL-23-producing macrophages (IL23A+IL1B+), which were selectively enriched in lesional tissue. TDRKH knockdown in LPS + IFN-γ-polarized THP-1 macrophages altered piRNA expression profiles, reduced pro-inflammatory surface markers (CD80, CD86, HLA-DR), and attenuated IL6 and IL1B expression, supporting a functional role of the TDRKH-piRNA axis in macrophage inflammatory activation.Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized post-transcriptional regulatory network involving APA and piRNA that governs macrophage-driven inflammation. The discovery of the TDRKH-piRNA axis provides novel mechanistic insights into psoriasis and establishes a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Du, Lu, Wang, Zhao, Feng and Liu.
Macrophage inflammatory plasticity is a central determinant of immune-mediated tissue injury, yet the intrinsic checkpoint mechanisms that restrain inflammatory macrophage programming remain incompletely defined. Here, using acute cardiac allograft rejection as an alloimmune tissue-injury model, we found that Vsir, encoding V-domain Ig suppressor of T-cell activation (VISTA), was preferentially expressed in graft macrophages but declined as macrophages acquired inflammatory and antigen-presenting states. Single-cell RNA sequencing and pseudotime analysis revealed that VISTA downregulation accompanied macrophage progression from reparative/resident-like states toward inflammatory programs. In vitro, VISTA overexpression intrinsically restrained pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization, reduced inflammatory cytokine expression, and limited the induction of antigen-presenting molecules including MHC-II and CD80, thereby attenuating macrophage-driven CD4+ T-cell proliferation. Integrative CUT&Tag and RNA-seq analyses further showed that VISTA overexpression was associated with reduced H3K4me3 -associated chromatin remodeling at inflammatory regulatory loci, including TRAF5 and CHDH, together with transcriptional repression of NF-κB-, TNF-, MAPK-, and IL-17-associated inflammatory programs. In vivo F4/80 promoter-directed Vsir restoration shifted intragraft macrophages away from inflammatory polarization, reduced T-cell accumulation, and attenuated early rejection-associated tissue injury. Together, these findings identify VISTA as an intrinsic regulator of macrophage inflammatory programming and point to H3K4me3-associated chromatin remodeling as a regulatory layer linked to VISTA-mediated inflammatory restraint.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality, and the mechanisms linking lead exposure to CRC remain unclear. In this study, we integrated population-level association (NHANES), transcriptomic analyses (bulk and single-cell RNA-seq), and genetic evidence to prioritize candidate genes potentially connecting lead exposure and CRC. In NHANES, higher blood lead levels were associated with increased odds of self-reported CRC in the crude and partially adjusted models, but this association was attenuated and no longer statistically significant after full adjustment. Database-driven prioritization combining network toxicology and machine-learning highlighted several candidate genes (HMOX1, IL1B, NLRP3, BCL2, MAPK3, and ALAD). Single-cell RNA-seq and CellChat analyses indicated that HMOX1 is enriched in monocytes/macrophages and may be involved in immune- and oxidative-stress-related signaling within the CRC microenvironment. Exploratory two-sample MR using whole-blood eQTL as an exposure proxy provided genetic evidence consistent with an association between genetically predicted HMOX1 expression and CRC risk. Molecular docking suggested a plausible binding pose of plumbagin within the HMOX1 pocket. Collectively, these results suggest that the crude epidemiologic association between blood lead and CRC prevalence is sensitive to covariate adjustment and generate testable hypotheses implicating HMOX1 for future experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559272 is a review article
Plant polysaccharides possess significant anticonvulsant potential. This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of polysaccharide-rich birch sap (PRBS), previously characterized as primarily low-molecular-weight polysaccharides (MW·1.29 kDa), in a rat model of kainic acid (KA)-induced acute seizures.Rats received oral PRBS (6/10 mL/kg) for 7 days before KA-induced (15 mg/kg, i.p.) seizures. Seizure severity was evaluated using behavioral, electroencephalographic (EEG), and cerebral blood flow (CBF) monitoring. Brain tissues were analyzed via histology, Western blotting, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) for neuronal damage, neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and glutamate metabolism.Results demonstrated that the higher dose (10 mL/kg) exerted potent anticonvulsant effects, significantly reducing tonic convulsion scores and EEG ictal spikes. Furthermore, the treatment mitigated KA-induced CBF deficits and prevented neuronal damage in the cortex and hippocampus. Mechanistically, PRBS suppressed glial activation, indicated by a decrease in GFAP+ and OX42+ cells and reduced expression of markers associated with a pro-inflammatory state (C3 and CD86). It also inhibited neuroinflammatory signaling by downregulating TLR4 and p-IkB levels while suppressing the overall activation of NF-kB p65, thereby decreasing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1b, IL-6, and TNF-a). Additionally, the treatment attenuated BBB disruption by reducing albumin extravasation and upregulating tight junction proteins (claudin-5 and occludin). Finally, it restored glutamate homeostasis by upregulating the astrocytic transporter GLT-1 and glutamine synthetase, while downregulating glutamine transporters (SNAT1/3), glutaminase, and the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1.PRBS exhibits potent antiseizure and neuroprotective properties that are closely associated with the modulation of TLR4/NF-kB-mediated inflammation, the preservation of BBB integrity, and the regulation of glutamate homeostasis, highlighting its potential as a natural therapeutic agent for seizures.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Wu, Chiu, Lee, Pan, Lin and Wang.
Neuroinflammation plays a central role in the progression of tauopathy via the glial activation and T cell accumulation in the brain parenchyma. However, the key molecular mediators that link these processes to tau pathology remain poorly understood.Here, we identify C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) as a critical inflammatory mediator that is markedly upregulated in the brains of P301S-mutant tau transgenic mice and associated with regions of severe tau pathology. Spatial transcriptomics revealed that CXCL10 is mainly expressed by disease-associated astrocytes, defining an astrocytic CXCL10-rich inflammatory niche within the tauopathy brain.Genetic ablation of Cxcl10 significantly attenuated soluble and insoluble tau accumulation selectively in 9-month-old female mice, whereas no attenuation of tau accumulation was observed at 11-12 months of age. In addition, Cxcl10 deficiency significantly prolonged survival specifically in female tauopathy mice. Although Cxcl10 deficiency reduced the number of parenchymal T cells in both sexes, this reduction did not explain the female-specific effects. Furthermore, Cxcl10 deficiency did not alter neurodegeneration and motor dysfunction, suggesting that downstream sex-dependent regulatory mechanisms govern tauopathy progression. Moreover, CXCL10-dependent inflammatory activation within the local microenvironments was observed in both sexes. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the sex-dependent effects of CXCL10 remain unclear, these findings suggest that CXCL10 contributes to tau pathology through multiple inflammatory pathways.In summary, our findings identify CXCL10 as a key inflammatory mediator of sex specific tau-associated pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564204 is a review article
The meninges are a gateway for pathogenic T cells to enter the central nervous system (CNS). They possess a diverse repertoire of immune cells that orchestrate CNS inflammation and autoimmunity, yet the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we report that group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) accumulated in the dura as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) progressed. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry analyses revealed distinct features of ILC2s, including expression of MHC class II. ILC2s acted as antigen-presenting cells to activate and expand myelin-reactive T cells in an MHC class II-dependent manner. ILC2-mediated expansion of myelin-reactive T cells increased expression of cytokines IFN-γ and IL-17A. Genetic ablation of ILC2s or of H2-Ab1 in ILC2s alleviated neuroinflammation and CNS demyelination during EAE. These findings revealed a role of ILC2s in neuroinflammation via instructing myelin-reactive T cells, implying targeting ILC2s may be an avenue to restrict CNS inflammation and autoimmunity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Tumor-induced manipulations of myelomonocytic differentiation have been widely reported. Here, we describe the elicitation of a tumor-supportive cell type in a T lymphoma model in mice. We observed that the development of T lymphoma coincided with the appearance of a lymphoma-associated monocytic cell type (LAM) of host origin accompanied by a diminished dendritic cell (DC) population. RNA-sequencing and cytometric analyses revealed that LAMs shared markers with both DCs and with resident macrophages, most closely resembling monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs). The numbers of T lymphoma cells were negatively affected by reducing LAMs suggesting a helper function of LAMs for tumor growth. LAMs expressed Notch ligands, and treatments of lymphoma-carrying mice with Notch signaling-inhibitors LY3039478 and DAPT selectively decreased expansions of T lymphomas with or without Notch1 mutations, respectively. Mature LAMs did not proliferate in the periphery. Instead, their expansion resulted from altered myelomonocytic differentiation in the bone marrows of lymphoma-carrying mice with increases in common monocyte/DC precursors but with reduced granulocyte, monocyte and DC precursor populations. These data suggest that developing T lymphomas are capable of reprogramming monocyte/DC differentiation to increase the numbers of a tumor-promoting DC type, attract it to tumor locations and may engage in Notch ligand-dependent signaling to support lymphoma survival.
Both influenza A infection (IAV) and type I hypersensitivity mechanisms have been independently linked to acute appendicitis. Particularly the expression of type I hypersensitivity associated with cytokine interleukin (IL) 13 has been shown to be of significance in both, appendicitis and influenza infection. The aim of the current study was to analyze possible associations of respective gene expressions at the level of mathematical correlations.We analyzed messenger RNA (mRNA) gene expressions of IAV-associated markers, hypersensitivity type I-related cytokines and inflammatory markers IL-17A and c-reactive protein (CRP) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 29 children aged 7-17 years, who were operated for histologically confirmed appendicitis at Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin between April and August 2019. Statistical relationships between gene expressions were investigated using Spearman's correlation analysis, with a correlation coefficient r ≥ 0.5 or r ≤ - 0.5 representing high, and r ≥ 0.7 or r ≤ - 0.7 very high correlations. Statistical significance was assumed at P < 0.01.A total of 29 patients were involved in this study. Particularly the expression of IL-13 showed highly significant negative correlations with that of IAV-specific antiviral response genes, ranging from - 0.89 (P < 0.0001) to - 0.49 (P = 0.006). A strong inflammatory background was demonstrated by very high correlations of IL-13 with CRP (r = 0.91, P < 0.0001) and IL-17A (r = 0.82, P < 0.0001).These findings suggest a connection between IAV infection and acute appendicitis in children, implicating sequential immune responses, including hypersensitivity type I mechanisms, in appendicitis pathophysiology.© 2026. The Author(s).
While smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer, the increasing incidence among never-smokers is a growing concern, highlighting non-tobacco-related mechanisms of carcinogenesis. Emerging evidence suggests that respiratory microbial dysbiosis and associated inflammatory responses may contribute to lung tumorigenesis. We previously showed that elevated abundances of Selenomonas, Streptococcus, and Veillonella are correlated with lung cancer independent of smoking history. Here, we examine whether circulating microbial and inflammatory profiles are linked to lung cancer in never-smokers.Circulating bacterial DNA representing the three genera was quantified by droplet digital PCR, and seven systemic inflammatory cytokines were measured by ELISA in plasma of 56 ever-smoker lung cancer patients, 56 never-smoker lung cancer patients, and 78 healthy controls. Integrative statistical modeling was performed to evaluate relationships among bacterial DNA burden, inflammatory activation, smoking history, and cancer status.Plasma DNA levels of Selenomonas, Streptococcus, and Veillonella, together with IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8, and IL-17A, were elevated in lung cancer patients compared with controls (all p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed between smoking and never-smoking lung cancer patients for bacterial DNA levels, IL-6, TNF-α, or IL-17A (all > 0.05), whereas modest but statistically significant differences were observed for IL-8 (P = 0.036) and IL-1β (P = 0.048). Bacterial DNA burden was correlated with systemic inflammatory cytokine activation independent of smoking history (all p < 0.05).A smoking-independent microbial-inflammatory signature is associated with lung cancer and provides a foundation for future studies evaluating its biological significance and clinical utility for diagnosis and management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cutaneous verrucae (warts) are benign epidermal proliferations caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. The host immune response particularly T helper 17 (Th17) related cytokines such as interleukin-17A (IL-17A) and interleukin-23 (IL-23) plays a critical role in the regulation of viral control and inflammatory responses. However, the systemic levels of these cytokines in patients with verrucae have not been sufficiently characterized.To investigate serum IL-17A and IL-23 levels in patients with cutaneous verrucae, to compare them with those of healthy controls, and to evaluate their associations with age, sex, number of lesions, disease duration, and lesion localization.In this case-control study, 49 patients with palmoplantar or anogenital verrucae and 41 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were included. Serum IL-17A and IL-23 levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Continuous variables were analyzed using the Mann-Whitney U test, and categorical variables using the chi-square test. Correlations between variables were assessed using Spearman correlation analysis.The median serum IL-23 level was 11.8 pg/mL (interquartile range, IQR: 7.8-21.3) in patients with cutaneous verrucae and 8.8 pg/mL (IQR: 7.2-12.0) in controls, with a statistically significant difference (p = 0.018). The median serum IL-17A level was 16.6 pg/mL (IQR: 8.7-37.9) in patients and 16.4 pg/mL (IQR: 10.9-24.5) in controls, with no significant difference between the groups (p = 0.755). A strong positive correlation was observed between IL-17A and IL-23 levels in patients (rs = 0.880, p < 0.001). No significant associations were found between cytokine levels and age, sex, number of lesions, disease duration, or localization.Elevated IL-23 levels and its strong positive correlation with IL-17A suggest that the IL-23/IL-17Axis may play a role in immune activation associated with HPV-related cutaneous verrucae. IL-23 may represent a potential indicator of immune activation associated with cutaneous verrucae; however, its standalone diagnostic utility appears limited. Future studies with larger cohorts and tissue-level analyses are needed to further elucidate the role of Th17-related cytokines in the pathogenesis of verrucae.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Endometriosis is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis, in which cytokines and cytokine-macrophage interactions serve as critical mediators. However, the specific mechanisms that initiate the fibrotic cascade in endometriosis remain poorly defined.Spatial transcriptomics (ST) and cellular interaction analyses were performed on human specimens of endometriotic lesions and normal endometrium. An endometriosis mouse model was used to evaluate the effect of IL-17 C neutralization with the MOR106 antibody on ectopic lesion growth and fibrosis. In vitro experiments were conducted to explore the role of IL-17 C in macrophage polarization and extracellular matrix (ECM) production by endometrial stromal cells (ESCs).IL-17RE expression was significantly upregulated in endometriotic tissues compared with normal endometrium and correlated with endometriosis fibrosis. IL-17 C levels were markedly higher in patient-derived tissues and peritoneal fluid. In a mouse model of endometriosis, neutralization of IL-17 C with the MOR106 antibody inhibited ectopic lesion growth and alleviated fibrosis in both eutopic and ectopic endometrium. Importantly, MOR106 selectively reduced CD206 + M2 macrophage infiltration in lesions without significantly altering the M1 macrophage population, suggesting that IL-17 C primarily drives M2-like macrophage accumulation in vivo. In vitro, IL-17 C promoted macrophage polarization toward a pro-fibrotic M2-like phenotype, and these IL-17 C-induced M2 macrophages enhanced ECM production by ESCs via activation of the MAPK/ERK pathway.Targeting the IL-17 C/IL-17RE axis provides a promising novel therapeutic strategy for mitigating fibrosis in endometriosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis is a life-threatening multi-organ involved diseases due to malfunctional immune response to pathogenic infections. Gut is usually deemed as a motor driver of sepsis. Yi-Qi-Tong-Fu Decoction (YQTFD) is specialized in treating gastrointestinal dysfunction. This study intends to illuminate the therapeutic mechanism of YQTFD by which IL-17 mediated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway regulates sepsis induced intestinal failure via epithelial apoptosis. The potential target signaling pathway was screened with network pharmacology and in silico analysis. The effects of YQTFD at low, medium and high doses (i.e. 5.18, 10.36 and 20.72 g/kg) on murine survival, intestinal pathological change, the gene and protein expressions related to tight junction, inflammation, apoptosis, and the activity of IL-17 mediated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway were assessed in a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) induced sepsis model. The therapeutic effects of YQTFD drug-containing serum (YQTFD-DS) were also monitored in primary intestinal epithelial and Caco2 cells In silico analysis showed that IL-17 mediated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway might be a potential hub. In CLP mice, YQTFD could significantly extend life span, improve intestinal integrity, and reduce intestinal pathology, inflammation and apoptosis. In Caco2 cells, YQTFD-DS protected against LPS, CM and rIL-17 A induced cellular injuries and apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Silenced IL-17RA and PI3K remarkably blocked the therapeutic effect of YQTFD-DS via reactivating IL-17 mediated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and apoptosis. Z-VAD-FMK also significantly negated the amelioration of YQTFD-DS against apoptosis. YQTFD has satisfactory therapy against sepsis induced intestinal injury via IL-17 mediated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway mediated epithelial apoptosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Beyond its antidepressant effects, esketamine (ESK) has the potential to enhance neuroplasticity, facilitating the reconnection with emotional and cognitive processes, improving social cognition, and promoting resilience. However, not much is known about its role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aims to explore the potential mechanism of ESK in AD treatment. The potential targets of ESK were predicted by bioinformatics analysis, and 3xTg-AD male mice were subjected to adeno-associated virus and ESK treatment. Cognitive ability, neuronal damage, and proinflammatory factors in 3xTg-AD mice were evaluated. An inflammatory model was established by inducing mouse cortical neurons with mouse IL-17A protein. Neuronal viability was assessed after treatment with different concentrations of ESK. TAOK1 knockdown or IL-17RA knockdown was performed on 3xTg-AD mice and neurons. TAOK1 was highly expressed in the cerebral cortex of ESK-treated 3xTg-AD mice. ESK improved IL-17-induced neuronal inflammation and DNA damage in a TAOK1-dependent manner. TAOK1 interacted with IL-17RA. IL-17RA knockdown improved DNA damage and inflammatory responses in cells and alleviated cognitive impairment and neuroinflammation in AD mice. Overall, ESK protects against DNA damage-mediated neuroinflammation by promoting TAOK1 and inhibiting IL-17 signaling, thereby improving cognitive dysfunction in 3xTg-AD mice.
Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or Long-COVID affects millions and remains mechanistically undefined due to its heterogeneous clinical presentation. Identifying robust biological signatures is essential for understanding disease mechanisms and improving diagnosis. Here, we investigated the protein cargo of plasma-derived small extracellular vesicles (SEVs) from PASC-positive and PASC-negative individuals to identify EV-linked biomarkers of Long-COVID.SEVs were isolated from EDTA plasma of PASC-positive (n=20) and PASC-negative (n=11) individuals using size-exclusion chromatography. SEV protein cargo was profiled across more than 5400 proteins using the Olink Explore HT platform.PASC-positive patients commonly reported fatigue, shortness of breath, brain fog, sleep disruption, and mood changes. Proteomic analysis revealed 269 significantly dysregulated proteins, including 84 upregulated and 21 downregulated, with a fold change >2 in PASC. These differentially altered proteins were enriched in pathways related to coagulation, inflammation, apoptosis, fibrosis, extracellular matrix remodeling, mitochondrial dynamics, and immune activation. PASC-positive SEVs showed persistent increases in FN1, HCF-H, HGF, and IL-17RA, proteins previously dysregulated in acute COVID-19. These markers showed greater differences in SEVs than in matched plasma, particularly HGF and IL-17RA, which were significantly altered in SEVs but not in plasma.Proteomic alterations in SEVs from PASC patients highlight the inflammatory, thrombotic, and neurobiological dysregulation, underscoring the potential of SEVs as biomarkers and mechanistic drivers of long COVID.Copyright © 2026 Chandran, Chen, Ram, Spikes, Chalise and Dhillon.
This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic effect and mechanism of Zhuangdu Quhan Mixture (ZDQHM) in ankylosing spondylitis (AS). An AS mouse model was established in mice using β-glucan. Therapeutic efficacy was assessed through arthritis scores, histopathology, serum cytokine measurement by ELISA, and bone metabolism-related protein analysis via Western blot. Active compounds were identified by UHPLC-MS, with targets predicted using network pharmacology and validated by molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations. ZDQHM significantly ameliorated spinal inflammation and histopathological damage, reduced serum IL-6 and TNF-α levels, and modulated bone metabolism proteins. Network pharmacology identified 45 intersecting targets between ZDQHM compounds and AS, predominantly enriched in IL-17, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor pathways. Molecular docking and dynamics demonstrated binding of key compounds to IL-17A. In vivo validation revealed that ZDQHM suppressed IL-17A, Act1, and IL-17RA expression, and recombinant IL-17A partially reversed its therapeutic effects. ZDQHM alleviates inflammation and abnormal bone metabolism in AS mice, potentially through inhibition of the IL-17 signaling pathway. Beyond confirming the established role of IL-17 in AS, this study provides an integrated pharmacological framework explaining how ZDQHM exerts its effects via regulation of the IL-17A/IL-17RA/Act1 axis, offering mechanistic insights and experimental support for TCM in AS therapy.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) airway disease is characterized by exaggerated inflammatory responses and progressive respiratory failure. Although interleukin-8 (IL-8) is a central mediator of neutrophilic inflammation in the CF airway, the upstream epithelial pathways that regulate cytokine production remain incompletely understood. Interleukin-17C (IL-17C) is an epithelial-derived IL-17 family cytokine that can promote inflammatory signaling in an autocrine/paracrine manner, but its regulation in CF-derived airway epithelial cells remains poorly defined. Here, we examined Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligand-induced IL-17C regulation in primary human airway epithelial cells derived from bronchial and small airway compartments, including normal human bronchial epithelial cells, CF-derived human bronchial epithelial cells, small airway epithelial cells (SAEC), and CF-derived SAEC (D-SAEC-CF). Among the ligands tested, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)], a synthetic TLR3 ligand, consistently revealed differences in IL-17C and IL-8 induction between non-CF and CF-derived cells in both epithelial cell systems. Time-course analyses showed that poly(I:C)-induced IL-17C expression increased gradually and exhibited relatively delayed kinetics compared with the rapid interferon-β response, resembling IL-8 induction. Pharmacological inhibition indicated that c-Jun N-terminal kinase, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and nuclear factor-κB, but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase, were involved in poly(I:C)-induced IL-17C expression. Basal TLR3 and IL-17RE mRNA levels were elevated most clearly in D-SAEC-CF cells; however, IL-17RE knockdown did not significantly reduce poly(I:C)-induced IL-8 production in bronchial epithelial cells. Together, these findings suggest that poly(I:C)-induced IL-17C production may represent a TLR3-dependent epithelial inflammatory response in CF-derived primary airway epithelial cells.
Pediatric concealed penis (CP) is a congenital penile anomaly that has been associated with abnormal dartos fascia development, reduced tissue compliance, and fibrotic remodeling. While surgical correction is standard, the molecular etiology of this pathological fibrosis remains largely unexplored. This study aims to delineate the transcriptomic landscape of CP and identify candidate signaling pathways associated with dartos fascia remodeling. We performed RNA-seq on dartos fascia tissues from CP patients and phimosis control tissues, followed by bioinformatic analysis and validation using qRT-PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. RNA-seq and functional enrichment analysis identified a significantly enriched IL-17-related signaling signature in CP tissues. Experimental validation showed increased expression of key nodes such as IL-17RA, ACT1, FOS, IL-6, and PTGS2. Notably, synchronous upregulation of FOS and downstream inflammation- and remodeling-associated mediators IL-6 and PTGS2 was accompanied by fragmented elastic fibers and increased matrix deposition. These findings provide preliminary clinical tissue-based evidence that IL-17/FOS-associated inflammatory remodeling signatures are enriched in CP dartos fascia and may contribute to reduced tissue compliance and fibrosis. Further functional studies are required to determine causality.© 2026 Hu, Liu, Tu, Lei, Wu, Yang, Wu and Jing.
IL-17 and TNF blockade effectively treats hidradenitis suppurativa and psoriasis, yet the relative importance of the different cell types that respond to IL-17 and TNF remains unresolved. Keratinocytes are viewed as the dominant effector cells, whereas fibroblasts have recently emerged as important contributors. In mice, topical imiquimod induces IL-17- and TNF-dependent skin inflammation and models psoriasis. Here, we demonstrate that intradermal injection of IL-17 and TNF elicits inflammation with features of hidradenitis suppurativa, including a transcriptional program that is distinct from psoriasis and imiquimod-induced inflammation. Single-cell transcriptomic network analysis identified fibroblasts as the dominant communication hub in hidradenitis suppurativa and IL-17/TNF-injected mice. In contrast, fibroblasts and keratinocytes both showed strong network involvement in psoriasis and imiquimod-treated mice. Cell-type-specific deletion of IL-17RA revealed that imiquimod-induced inflammation depends equally on IL-17 signaling in fibroblasts and keratinocytes, whereas inflammation induced by intradermal IL-17/TNF requires only fibroblasts to recognize IL-17. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis of conditional knockout mice demonstrated that keratinocytes and fibroblasts activate divergent and disease-dependent transcriptional programs downstream of IL-17. These findings introduce a conceptual framework wherein IL-17 signaling is routed through distinct cellular and molecular pathways depending on disease context and establish complementary experimental systems for interrogating type 17 skin inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Airway remodeling (AR) is a key pathological feature of chronic lung diseases and is closely associated with disease progression. IL-17A has been implicated in airway inflammation and fibrosis, but its role in AR and the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study investigated whether IL-17A regulates bronchial fibroblast autophagy and airway remodeling through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway.An AR mouse model was established by intratracheal administration of an adenovirus expressing IL-1β. Lung histopathology and pulmonary function were evaluated in wild-type mice and conditional IL-17RA-deficient mice. Primary mouse bronchial fibroblasts were used to assess the effects of IL-17A on autophagy-related proteins, inflammatory and profibrotic mediator secretion, collagen production, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway activation. The autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3MA) was used to further examine the relationship between autophagy and pathway activation.Conditional IL-17RA deficiency attenuated airway inflammation, collagen deposition, and pulmonary function impairment in AR mice. In primary bronchial fibroblasts, IL-17A decreased LC3II/I expression, increased p62 expression, promoted collagen I/III production, altered inflammatory and profibrotic mediator secretion, and activated the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. These effects were reduced in fibroblasts with lower IL-17RA expression. Moreover, IL-17A partially reversed the inhibitory effect of 3MA on PI3K/AKT/mTOR phosphorylation.IL-17A/IL-17RA signaling contributes to airway remodeling by suppressing bronchial fibroblast autophagy and promoting inflammatory and fibrotic responses, at least partly through PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway activation. These findings suggest that IL-17A may represent a potential therapeutic target for AR.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhou, An, Gu, Zhang, Ma, Tang, Yu and Ouyang.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42484833
Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) is a systemic autoimmune disease targeting muscle and extramuscular organs, but the molecular mechanisms driving IIM pathogenesis remain largely undefined. Muscle fibroblasts are central to orchestrating inflammation in myositis. Here, we investigated muscle fibroblast dynamics using a single-cell RNA sequencing approach in an established murine model of anti-histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HRS, also known as Jo-1)-induced myositis. In fibroblasts, there was a robust activation of an IL-17 gene signature during disease. Among the induced genes was Nfkbiz, which encodes IκBζ, a noncanonical NF-κB transcriptional coactivator known to be key for pathologic IL-17 signaling in a variety of autoimmune settings. In muscle fibroblasts, IκBζ was potently activated by IL-17 in vitro and was essential for IL-17 signaling responsiveness. Surprisingly, however, the IL-17-IκBζ signaling axis was dispensable for the histopathological phenotype in HRS-induced myositis. Thus, despite a prominent IL-17 transcriptional signature, IL-17 and IκBζ are not required for autoantibody production or tissue inflammation in this model system.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552138 is a review article
Repetin (RPTN) is a member of the fusion S100 protein family encoded within the epidermal differentiation complex. Although genetic studies have revealed that RPTN is a susceptibility gene for atopic dermatitis (AD), its biological function remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the role of RPTN in epidermal homeostasis and inflammatory skin diseases. We examined RPTN expression in normal skin, inflammatory skin diseases, and differentiated normal human keratinocytes (NHKs). Functional analyses were performed using RPTN knockdown (KD) NHK and three-dimensional (3D) skin-equivalent models. Epidermal barrier function was assessed using a lucifer yellow permeability assay, and cytokine-mediated regulation of RPTN expression was evaluated using 3D atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis models. RPTN was primarily expressed in the granular layer of the normal epidermis and increased with keratinocyte differentiation. In the 3D skin-equivalent model, RPTN deficiency impaired epidermal barrier function and induced the expression of differentiation-related genes, including FLG, IVL, TGM1, CLDN1, KLK7, ALOX12, and TCHHL1. Notably, RPTN knockdown significantly increased IL-25 expression. RPTN expression was elevated in chronic atopic dermatitis (AD) lesions and in hypergranular epithelia of psoriasis vulgaris, lichen planus, and epidermolytic ichthyosis. In a 3D AD model, IL-4 and IL-13 significantly induced RPTN expression. These findings indicate that RPTN contributes to maintaining epidermal barrier homeostasis and suggest that it may be associated with regulating inflammatory responses.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539838 is a review article
Premature birth and cesarean section are associated with increased morbidity and inflammatory diseases. However, their impact on neonatal immunity remains incompletely defined. To explore how gestational age and mode of delivery contribute to early immune programming, we analyzed CD4+ T cells, central regulators of adaptive responses, from preterm neonates and full-term neonates born by cesarean section or vaginal delivery. We performed transcriptomic profiling (mRNA-seq) and functional assessment of T cell activation, proliferation, and cytokine production following stimulation. The mode of delivery emerged as a key factor for CD4+ T cell transcriptome and function. CD4+ T cells from full-term neonates born by vaginal delivery exhibited an immune activation signature, produced higher levels of multiple cytokines, and showed reduced proliferative capacity. In contrast, prematurity was associated with modest changes in basal gene expression relative to full-term cesarean section neonates. CD4+ T cells from preterm neonates displayed enhanced proliferation and increased secretion of inflammatory cytokines (IL-13, TNFα, IL-6, and IL-17F) upon stimulation, consistent with heightened responsiveness. Collectively, our findings show that CD4+ T cells from preterm neonates exhibit augmented inflammatory potential, which becomes more regulated at term. Mode of delivery further contributes to this developmental trajectory: cesarean section is associated with a restrained functional profile, whereas vaginal delivery is associated with a mild immune activation signature and increased responsiveness. These results support a model in which neonatal CD4+ T cell trajectories are established during fetal life and further modulated at birth, highlighting the layered influence of perinatal factors on immune development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528276 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522480 is a review article
Chronic respiratory diseases (CRDs), driven by dysregulated Th2/Th17 inflammation, represent a global health challenge with limited therapeutic options. Interleukin (IL)-25 has emerged as a key upstream regulator of both pathways, yet its exact role in CRDs' pathogenesis remains underexplored. Here, our aim is to evaluate the efficacies of SM17, a novel anti-IL-25 receptor (IL-17RB) antibody, in preclinical models of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).Eosinophil, peripheral blood mononuclear cell, primary macrophage and lung fibroblast cultures were utilised to define the mechanism of action for how SM17 could ameliorate CRSwNP and IPF related phenotypes in vitro. A CRSwNP murine model was induced by co-administration of ovalbumin and Staphylococcus enterotoxin B for comparing SM17's efficacy with dexamethasone. Furthermore, IPF model was conducted using bleomycin stimulation for differentiating beneficial effects of SM17 with two US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved IPF drugs, nintedanib and pirfenidone.In vitro studies demonstrated that SM17 could attenuate eosinophilic activities via Th2 modulation and Th17 differentiation through inhibition of macrophage activation. Simultaneously, SM17 could also prevent IL-25 driven myofibroblast differentiation. The in vitro efficacies were successfully translated to animal studies. SM17 administration restored olfactory function through suppression of eosinophilic inflammation in the nasal epithelium of the CRSwNP murine model and attenuated lung fibrosis through Th17 modulation in the IPF model. In both animal experiments, SM17 showed trend of improvements than the comparison drugs.Our findings suggest that SM17 is a potential therapeutic agent to treat CRDs such as CRSwNP and IPF through Th2/Th17 dual modulation and antifibrotic function.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567952
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564607 is a review article
Neutrophilic asthma is defined as an inflammatory disease typified by airway neutrophil infiltration. Tripartite motif-containing protein 31 (TRIM31), an E3 ligase, is implicated in various processes, including inflammation, tumorigenesis, and immune responses. However, the function of TRIM31 in neutrophilic asthma remains to be elucidated. In the study, we identified that TRIM31 expression was markedly upregulated and interleukin 17 (IL-17) pathway had an enrichment in bronchial biopsy tissues from neutrophilic asthma patients through bioinformatics analysis. TRIM31 was also elevated in lung tissues from mice with neutrophilic asthma. Further studies revealed that TRIM31 overexpression inhibited IL-17 mediated signaling cascade. TRIM31 bonded to TRAF6 and the interaction was strengthened in a dose-dependent manner. TRIM31 overexpression reduced the total and M1-linked ubiquitin chains of TRAF6. In the presence of IL-17 A, TRIM31-TRAF6 interaction was enhanced, and TRAF6 ubiquitination further decreased. Whereas TRIM31 knockdown increased TRAF6 ubiquitination and promoted IL-17-mediated signaling activation. In addition, TRIM31 failed to regulate IL-17 signaling in the TRAF6 deficiency cells. Overall, these findings demonstrated that TRIM31 regulated inflammation in neutrophilic asthma through suppression of TRAF6-mediated IL-17 pathway. These results provided new insights into the intricate pathophysiological mechanisms of neutrophilic asthma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Sea cucumber is a high-value marine food that contains characteristic bioactive components, notably saponins and polysaccharides. Strategies promoting their biosynthesis to improve sea cucumber quality are vital for the industry. The impacts of three dietary yeast β-glucans (native β-glucan, ultrasonic-degraded low-molecular-weight β-glucan, and carboxymethylated β-glucan) on the biosynthesis of saponin and fucosylated chondroitin sulfate (FCS) in A. japonicus and the underlying mechanism were investigated. A 28-day feeding trial showed that modified β-glucans improved growth performance and immune responses, as well as elevated the body wall accumulation of saponin and FCS. Mechanistically, modified β-glucans up-regulated the genes involved in the saponin and FCS biosynthesis, including the core mevalonate pathway (hmgcr, mvk, mvd), downstream post-squalene modifications (sqle), and chondroitin backbone biosynthesis (xylt1, chsy1, chpf). Moreover, these β-glucans up-regulated the TLR-MAPK signaling axis genes (tlr, myd88, irak4, traf6, tak1, mkk1, erk, p38) and increased p38/ERK protein abundance and phosphorylation levels. In vivo MAPK inhibition attenuated β-glucan-induced saponin and FCS accumulation and the expression of hmgcr, sqle, xylt1, and chsy1. Our findings reveal that modified β-glucans enhance A. japonicus quality by promoting saponin and FCS biosynthesis in association with the TLR-MAPK signaling axis-mediated immune-metabolic crosstalk.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pathogens infect hosts by interacting with host proteins and exploiting their functions to their advantage. Short linear motifs, small functional regions within intrinsically disordered protein regions, are common mediators of host-pathogen protein interactions. While motifs have been more extensively studied in viruses and bacteria, the extent to which eukaryotic unicellular parasites use motifs during infection remains poorly explored. Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread intracellular apicomplexan parasite capable of infecting all warm-blooded animals and invading any of their nucleated cells. Toxoplasma's secreted proteins are key in interacting with host proteins during infection, making them potential sources for motifs. To study the role of motifs in Toxoplasma gondii infection, we curated 19 known motif instances in Toxoplasma proteins from the scientific literature. To identify more motifs in Toxoplasma-secreted proteins, we developed a computational pipeline that predicts and annotates putative motif matches with structural and functional features. Using this approach, we identified 24,097 motif matches within 295 proteins from secretory organelles. We highlight strategies to further prioritize likely functional motif matches by focusing on integrin motifs, degrons, TRAF6-binding motifs, and 42 confirmed secreted proteins. We subjected peptides containing four predicted TRAF6-binding motifs to experimental validation, supporting the predicted motifs in the Toxoplasma proteins RON10 and GRA15. Our motif predictions provide a valuable resource for generating hypotheses and designing experiments to study infection mechanisms. The characterization of motifs in Toxoplasma will be key to understanding the molecular principles underlying its broad host range and more comprehensive apicomplexan infection strategies.IMPORTANCEToxoplasma gondii is a widely distributed intracellular parasite that achieves successful infection by interacting with different host cell proteins. Short linear motifs are small functional modules found in unstructured protein regions and recognized by folded protein domains. Given that unstructured protein regions are a common feature of Toxoplasma's proteins, we hypothesize that motifs play important roles during its infection cycle. Here, we highlight the role of motifs during the Toxoplasma host cell invasion cycle through a curated set of motif examples. Through a computational pipeline, we predict thousands of motifs in secreted proteins, outline strategies for working with these predictions, and finally experimentally test peptides containing a motif involved in the innate immune response, successfully supporting the potential binding of two motifs. Our work provides a resource for further motif testing in Toxoplasma proteins, aiming at understanding the molecular mechanisms of the organism's infection strategies and its broad host range.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a mycotoxin that impairs the function of various vital organs of the body including testes. Prunin (PRU) is a plant derived flavonoid with potential pharmacological properties. The current research was performed to assess the potential role of PRU to counter AFB1-induced testicular toxicity in male albino rats. Forty-eight male rats (Weight: 230-250 g; Age: 8-10 week) were divided into four equal groups, including control, AFB1 (50 μg/kg) group, AFB1 + PRU (50 μg/kg + 20 mg/kg) co-treated group, and only PRU (20 mg/kg) group. The groups were treated with their respective doses for 56 days and then the rats were euthanized, samples were collected and biochemical as well as histopathological analyses were performed. The outcomes of our research showed that AFB1 upsurged the expressions of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Moreover, AFB1 reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes i.e., HO-1, GSR, GPx, CAT, SOD, while elevating ROS, MDA and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and IL-6) levels. AFB1 intoxicated group showed notable reduction in the HOS coiled tail sperms and spermatogenic indices i.e., sperm motility, count and viability. Furthermore, AFB1 increased the structural defects in mid-piece, head and tail of sperms and lowered the levels of testosterone. AFB1 also induced histological injuries in the testicles of rats. Additionally, AFB1 lowered the expressions of Bcl-2 and steroidogenic enzymes and increased the expressions of Caspase-3 and Bax. However, PRU supplementation markedly recovered the testicular tissues from AFB1-induced injuries. Our findings proposed that PRU exhibits the protective effects against AFB1-instigated testicular toxicity due to its oxidative stress mitigating and TLR4/NF-κB pathway modulating properties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Human calmodulin-1 (CaM) undergoes calcium-dependent conformational changes that are difficult to capture owing to substantial structural flexibility. This study aims to show that double electron-electron resonance (DEER) spectroscopy can measure ensembles of CaM conformations. The most probable distances are compared to structural models from experimental structures and deep-learning predictions.Four double-cysteine variants of a recombinant CaM were engineered for site-directed spin labeling. Spin-labeled CaM was measured with DEER spectroscopy in both the presence (holo CaM) and absence (apo CaM) of Ca(II). Distance distributions were compared with predictions derived from Protein Data Bank structures and models generated from AlphaFold2 and IntFOLD7. DEERefiner was used to generate conformers from these models using the distance-distributions as restraints.The distance distributions from DEER were consistent with conformational heterogeneity. Distance distributions differed between apo and holo conditions. The results with Ca(II) were consistent with an ensemble of conformations including the canonical crystallographic structure (1CLL). Apo state distance distributions were not reproduced well by the models. Upon refinement with the distance distributions the models aligned better with the most probable distances from the apo and holo results. Comparisons of the refined models indicated that Ca(II) binding causes subtle rearrangements between EF-hand domains.The DEER-derived distance distributions for the four doubly-labeled CaM variants demonstrate that apo and holo CaM populate broad but different conformational ensembles in frozen solution. Comparison of apo and holo distributions indicate that Ca(II) binding induces a subtle, yet significant, structural rearrangement. These results illustrate how DEER-guided modeling can provide deeper insight into flexible protein ensembles that are not captured by existing static structures.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42091450 is a review article
Viral infections with gastrointestinal involvement remain a significant global health burden with limited therapeutic options. While probiotics show antiviral potential, their impact on primary human intestinal epithelial defenses is poorly defined. This study utilized human intestinal organoid-derived monolayers (ODMs), generated from the non-inflamed mucosa of patients with inflammatory bowel disease, to examine how Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis BB-12 (BB-12) and Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) modulate mucosal antiviral pathways. Unlike conventional Caco-2 cells, ODMs preserved physiological cellular diversity and intact innate signaling. Expression of viral receptors and interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes (ISGs) was quantified by RT-qPCR, while the effector 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 1 (OAS1) was also assessed by immunofluorescence and flow cytometry. Both probiotic strains modulated IFN-associated pathways; however, BB-12 induced a markedly stronger antiviral transcriptional response than LGG. Notably, OAS1 exhibited cell type-specific regulation; while goblet cells showed high basal levels, both probiotics enhanced OAS1 expression selectively in ileal enterocytes. Despite this shared effect, only BB-12 pretreatment significantly restricted Influenza A (H1N1) replication in ileal ODMs, whereas LGG did not significantly affect viral replication. These findings establish human ODMs as a superior platform for probiotic immunology, suggesting that BB-12 more effectively shapes epithelial antiviral "set-points" and highlighting OAS1 as a sensitive component of a broader antiviral program.
OAS1 (2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 1) and OAS3 have been identified through a genome-wide association study as major loci associated with COVID-19. The rs10774671A>G variant affects alternative splicing and generates two distinct mRNA and protein isoforms. The A allele produces the shorter p42 isoform, which has been associated with increased susceptibility, greater disease severity, and higher mortality from COVID-19, whereas the G allele produces the longer p46 isoform, which has been associated with a protective effect. In addition, the functional variants OAS1 rs4767027C>T, OAS1 rs1131454A>G, and OAS3 rs10735079A>G have also been associated with susceptibility to and/or severity of COVID-19. Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine whether four variants in the OAS1 and OAS3 genes are associated with susceptibility to COVID-19 and with the clinical signs and symptoms of the disease. We included 305 patients with COVID-19 and 288 healthy controls. We genotyped the OAS1 rs10774671A>G, rs4767027C>T, rs1131454A>G, and OAS3 rs10735079A>G variants using TaqMan® assays. The association between OAS1 and OAS3 variants and disease susceptibility or severity was assessed using binary logistic regression adjusted for age and sex. The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was evaluated using SNPStats, whereas haplotypes and linkage disequilibrium were analyzed with Haploview. Statistical power was calculated using Quanto. Logistic regression analysis adjusted for age and sex revealed an association between the OAS1 rs10774671A risk allele and susceptibility to COVID-19 (G vs. A: OR = 1.9, p = 0.007). In contrast, no associations with COVID-19 susceptibility were observed for the rs4767027C>T, rs1131454A>G, or rs10735079A>G variants. However, the rs1131454A>G and rs10735079A>G variants showed associations with sore throat. Overall, our findings suggest that OAS1 acts as a susceptibility factor for COVID-19 and the rs1131454A>G and rs10735079A>G SNVs are associated with sore throat in the Mexican population.
Preeclampsia (PE) remains a major cause of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality worldwide, with placental dysfunction and angiogenic imbalance playing central roles in disease pathogenesis. Emerging evidence highlights epigenetic regulation and angiogenic biomarkers, including placental growth factor (PlGF), as key contributors to disease heterogeneity and risk stratification. A systematic review of studies published between 2022 and 2025 was conducted in accordance with PRISMA 2020 guidelines to synthesize current evidence on epigenetic mechanisms and biomarker potential in PE. In addition, a supplementary exploratory analysis was performed using laboratory-derived PlGF data to assess analytical variability and biological associations. Non-parametric methods were applied, including Mann-Whitney U testing to compare PlGF distributions by analytical sample classification and Kendall's tau correlation to evaluate associations with gestational age and the sFlt-1/PlGF ratio. The systematic review identified consistent epigenetic alterations involving DNA methylation, histone modifications, and non-coding RNAs across maternal and placental tissues. Supplementary analysis demonstrated significantly higher and more variable PlGF concentrations in analytically classified measured samples compared with accepted samples (P = 0.03), suggesting an influence of analytical factors on biomarker distribution. PlGF levels showed a positive association with gestational age (τ = 0.32, P = 0.04) and an inverse association with the sFlt-1/PlGF ratio (τ = -0.41, P = 0.02). These findings support PlGF as a biologically relevant marker of gestational progression and angiogenic balance while underscoring the importance of rigorous analytical quality control. Integrating epigenetic insights with robust biomarker analysis may enhance personalized risk stratification in preeclampsia.© 2026 The Author(s).
Emerging viral pathogens such as porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) remain a major threat to the swine industry, causing severe economic losses due to limited protection from current vaccines. In this study, the MARC-145 cell line was utilized as an in vitro infection model to screen lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains with antiviral potential against PRRSV. Forty-five LAB isolates were obtained from fecal samples of nursing piglets, and after removing cytotoxic strains, the antiviral properties of the remaining 25 isolates were assessed. Among the tested strains, the intracellular fraction of HH69 provided the strongest prophylactic effect, whereas HH09 displayed the highest direct-inhibitory effect. Both HH09 and HH32-1 produced notable therapeutic effects. In the prophylactic assay, HH69 significantly suppressed PRRSV-M transcription and reduced the expression of proinflammatory cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-8 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), as well as anti-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-10 and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), while enhancing interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) expression in MARC-145 cells. In the direct-inhibitory assay, HH09 significantly reduced PRRSV-M and decreased IL-6, IL-8, TGF-β1, and TNF-α. In the therapeutic assay, HH09 significantly reduced PRRSV-M and decreased IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and TGF-β1, whereas HH32-1 decreased PRRSV-M, IL-8, TGF-β1, and TNF-α while elevating the antiviral enzyme 2’-5’-oligoadenylate synthetase 1 (OAS1). Microscopic observations, biochemical characteristics, and phylogenetic analyses identified HH09 as Limosilactobacillus reuteri, HH32-1 as Enterococcus faecium, and HH69 as Enterococcus faecalis. These findings indicate that HH09, HH32-1, and HH69 may serve as antiviral agents against PRRSV by modulating cytokine and ISG responses.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41809048 is a review article
Patients with Hepatitis B Virus-related liver failure are highly vulnerable to secondary infections (SI), yet early predictive tools remain limited. In this work, we aim to develop and validate a plasma proteomics-based model for early SI risk assessment. In a prospective multicenter study, 114 patients are enrolled in the discovery cohort, 60 each in two validation cohorts. Untargeted proteomics is used to identify SI-related proteins, followed by Minimum Redundancy Maximum Relevance based feature selection and logistic regression modeling. Targeted proteomics and ELISA are applied for external validation. Inflammatory and coagulation pathway dysregulation is strongly associated with SI. A final model including Lysozyme (LYZ), Calmodulin 1 (CALM1), Serpin Family D Member 1 (SERPIND1), Dermatopontin (DPT), total bilirubin, and AST show excellent discrimination (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) 0.980 in discovery; 0.873 in validation), outperforming C-reactive protein (CRP), white blood cell (WBC), and Neutrophil percentage (NE%). It also predicts 28-day mortality better than Chronic Liver Failure-Consortium Acute-on-Chronic Liver Failure score (CLIF-C ACLF) and Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD). ELISA measurements in validation cohort 2 yield consistent trends, and an ELISA-based model achieve an AUROC of 0.883. This proteomics-derived model reliably identifies patients at high SI risk and supports early clinical intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Oligoadenylate synthase proteins are activated through interaction with viral double-stranded RNA, where they polymerise ATP into 2',5'-linked oligoadenylates that subsequently bind and activate latent ribonuclease L. Once activated, ribonuclease L degrades both viral and cellular RNA, ultimately resulting in the suppression of protein synthesis. The present study was designed to investigate the impact of beta-glucan and inactivated parapoxvirus ovis strain D1701, used alongside standard therapy, on serum 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase 1 (OAS1) activity. The study included 60 unvaccinated dogs, that displayed respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms of distemper and were confirmed positive using a rapid diagnostic test. Dogs were randomly divided into three groups. Group I received only standard treatment, Group II was given beta-glucan 1.3/1.6 in addition to standard treatment, and Group III received inactivated parapoxvirus ovis strain D1701 alongside standard therapy. After treatment, OAS1 levels increased by 74.4% in Group I, 8.96% in Group II, and 142.45% in Group III compared to pre-treatment levels. These results suggest that serum OAS1 levels increased in treated dogs with distemper, with the increase being lowest in the beta-glucan group. However, additional studies directly correlating serum OAS1 levels with disease severity or prognosis are needed.
Recipient endothelial cells (ECs) actively respond to inflammation during allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (allo-HCT), yet mechanisms by which ECs influence acute graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) pathology remain incompletely defined. Single cell RNA-sequencing of ECs isolated from a GVHD target organ, the liver, showed rapid, subset-specific transcriptional reprogramming after allo-HCT, with induction of canonical interferon-γ (IFNγ)-inducible genes including interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1), MHC II, and PD-L1 in lymphatic ECs (LECs). In allo-HCT recipients, circulating IFNγ peaked on day 4 (early), decreased but remained elevated at day 14 (late), and declined by day 21, with a concordant induction of IRF1+ LECs in the liver and GI tract. IFNγ neutralization with anti-IFNγ monoclonal antibody at either early or late time points attenuated IRF1⁺MHCII⁺PD-L1⁺ LEC activation. Notably, early donor T cell expansion was IFNγ-independent, whereas late IFNγ blockade selectively impaired donor Treg, but not Th1, expansion, leading to accelerated GVHD. Using in vitro LEC-CD4 T cell co-cultures and allo-HCT in Irf1-/- bone marrow chimera recipients, we show that recipient ECs that cannot mediate IFNγ-IRF1 signaling exhibit reduced activation and apoptosis, but also have impaired Treg expansion, increased donor Th1/Treg ratios, and worsened GVHD severity. Finally, pharmacological JAK inhibition in allo-HCT recipient mice spares IRF1+ LECs and Tregs while reducing pathogenic Th1 cells, correlating with reduced GVHD severity and improved survival. Our findings identify a role for the lymphatic endothelial IFNγ-IRF1 axis in regulating early vascular remodeling, donor T cell mediated tolerance, underscoring a potential "goldilocks" level of pathway activation required to improve post-transplant outcomes.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Rheumatoid arthritis-associated interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD) is a severe autoimmune complication lacking effective treatments. This study investigates the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of licorice-ginger decoction (GGD) in experimental models relevant to arthritis-associated lung fibrosis. Utilizing network pharmacology, transcriptomic sequencing, and molecular docking analyses, we identified the STAT1/ICAM1/IL-17A signaling pathway as crucial for GGD efficacy. Experimental validation in both cellular and murine models demonstrated that GGD markedly alleviated body weight loss, reduced arthritis severity, and improved pulmonary pathological injury under inflammatory arthritis conditions. Mechanistic analyses revealed direct binding of Kae and QR to STAT1/ICAM1, leading to IL-17A inhibition and mitigation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and fibroblast activation. Notably, overexpression of STAT1 attenuated the therapeutic effects of GGD. This study provides mechanistic insights into the anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects of GGD in experimental models relevant to arthritis-associated lung fibrosis and offers a potential framework for future mechanistic studies and translational research of classical Chinese formulations.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Chronic pain is sustained by complex neuroimmune interplay within the spinal cord, yet how astrocytes constrain immune amplification remains poorly understood. Here we identified Src-homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP1; encoded by Ptpn6) as a key suppressor of spinal neuroinflammation and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Astrocyte-specific SHP1 deletion in the spinal dorsal horn induced profound astrocytic morphological changes, increased C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) expression, disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and facilitated the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes into the spinal parenchyma. These infiltrating T cells promoted microglial activation, enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission, increased the excitability of somatostatin (SOM)-positive neurons, and ultimately triggered nociceptive hypersensitivity. Mechanistically, T cell recruitment was governed by an SHP1-dependent regulatory circuit, in which SHP1-mediated Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dephosphorylation restrained Cxcl10 transcription. Blocking the STAT1-CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling axis alleviated T cell infiltration and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, we found that during the development of neuropathic pain, spinal SHP1 expression was significantly downregulated, accompanied by upregulation of CXCL10. Overexpression of SHP1 in astrocytes markedly attenuated astrocyte activation and alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by spared nerve injury (SNI). Collectively, our findings revealed an astrocyte-defined immune checkpoint that restrains neuroinflammatory escalation and pain persistence, emphasizing SHP1 as a promising therapeutic target for chronic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neuroinflammation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of major depressive disorder (MDD), with interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) playing a potential role. MicroRNAs (miRs) are also involved in MDD through posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression. This study investigated whether miR-20a-5p regulates IRF1 in MDD.IRF1 mRNA and miR-20a-5p expression levels were measured by qPCR in postmortem hippocampi from 14 MDD subjects and 14 controls, and in chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) mice. Their regulatory relationship was examined in HEK293 cells using miR-20a-5p overexpression and a dual-luciferase assay. Neuro2a cells treated with DMSO were used to evaluate the effects of cellular stress on Irf1 and miR-20a-5p expression.IRF1 mRNA and miR-20a-5p expression levels were significantly increased in both MDD hippocampi and CSDS mice. Luciferase assays showed that miR-20a-5p directly targeted the conserved seed sequence within the IRF1 3'-UTR and suppressed IRF1 expression. During the early phase of cellular stress, Irf1 mRNA was upregulated, whereas miR-20a-5p was downregulated, suggesting that stress initially induces Irf1 expression, followed by secondary regulation of miR-20a-5p.IRF1 mRNA expression was increased in the hippocampus of both MDD subjects and CSDS mice. Moreover, miR-20a-5p directly targeted the IRF1 3'-UTR, supporting a potential miR-20a-5p-IRF1 regulatory axis involved in inflammatory signaling in MDD. However, its functional significance in vivo remains to be determined.© 2026 The Author(s). Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2026 Japanese Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.
Based on a strategy integrating topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study systematically explored the efficacy targets and differentiated mechanisms of Colquhounia Root Tablets(CRT) in the &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and diabetic kidney disease(DKD). Firstly, candidate targets of CRT and disease-specific genes were retrieved by integrating multi-source databases and transcriptomic data. Protein-protein interaction(PPI) networks were constructed to identify key targets shared by or specific to RA and DKD via topological feature identification. Subsequently, a path priority assessment was introduced to calculate the average shortest path(ASP) values from drug targets to various pathological segments, thereby quantifying intervention efficacy to lock onto &quot;dominant pharmacodynamic links&quot;. The predicted key functional axes were validated through animal experiments. The results indicated that the core targets of CRT for both diseases involved shared pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt), tumor necrosis factor(TNF), and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Notably, path priority assessment revealed distinct dominant intervention links: for RA, CRT preferentially targeted &quot;fibroblast-like synoviocyte(FLS) activation and invasion&quot;(ASP=2.361), which mapped to the TNF-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38)-LIM domain kinase 1(LIMK1)-Cofilin1 axis to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling; for DKD, the dominant link was &quot;filtration barrier injury and interstitial fibrosis&quot;(ASP=2.295), converging on the TNF-poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP1)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1)-matrix metallopeptidase 9(MMP9) axis to mediate cellular senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) secretion. Animal experiments confirmed that CRT significantly alleviated RA synovial invasion and DKD renal fibrosis by inhibiting these two differentiated signaling axes, respectively. By employing topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study elucidates the scientific connotation of &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of RA and DKD with CRT through both shared network regulation and intervention in disease-specific differential signaling axes associated with pharmacodynamic links.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 K (UBE2K), defined as an E2, is involved in various cellular processes. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is one of the most abundant subtypes of RNA modifications. However, the systematic role of UBE2K and whether UBE2K undergoes an m6A modification in GC remain unknown.The expression and prognosis of UBE2K in GC were analyzed through an online database. RT-qPCR, western blot and IHC were used to test the expression of UBE2K in GC tissues and cells. CCK-8, colony formation, transwell, wound healing and sphere formation assays were conducted to explore UBE2K's function in vitro. The subcutaneous mouse model was generated to validate UBE2K's role in tumorigenesis. RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA stability experiment were applied to investigate the molecular mechanism of UBE2K.Higher expression of UBE2K was found in GC tissues and predicted worse prognosis. UBE2K knockdown suppressed the malignant progression of GC cells both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we found that UBE2K was regulated by m6A modification. WTAP was further revealed as the m6A writer of UBE2K to enhance UBE2K RNA stability. Finally, functional rescue experiments showed that silencing WTAP reversed the oncogenic effects of UBE2K overexpression on GC cells, whereas WTAP attenuated the suppression of GC cells induced by UBE2K knockdown.Our findings indicate WTAP-mediated m6A modification upregulates UBE2K and the WTAP/UBE2K axis facilitates GC progression, suggesting a potential therapeutic target for GC treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs) have crossed from apes to humans at least four times, but only one event gave rise to the AIDS pandemic. The host barriers that pandemic HIV-1 group M (major) strains overcame to spread efficiently in humans remain poorly understood. To identify such barriers, we performed CRISPR-Cas9 screens driven by the replication efficiency of SIVcpz, the chimpanzee precursor of HIV-1. Guide RNA libraries targeting more than 500 human genes encoding potential antiviral factors were inserted into the replication-competent SIVcpz MB897 molecular clone, which is phylogenetically closely related to HIV-1 group M strains. Propagation in Cas9-expressing human SupT1 T cells significantly enriched for sgRNAs targeting AXIN1, CEACAM3, CD72, EHMT2, GRN, HMOX1, HMGA1, ICAM2, IFITM2, MEFV, PCED1B, SGOL2, SMARCA4, SUMO1, and TMEM173. These hits only partially overlapped with those identified in analogous HIV-1-based screens, indicating virus-specific restriction profiles. Functional analyses confirmed that IFITM2 (interferon-induced transmembrane protein 2), PCED1B (PC-esterase domain-containing protein 1B), MEFV (Mediterranean fever protein, pyrin/TRIM20), and AXIN1 (Axis inhibition protein 1) restrict replication of the analyzed SIVcpz strains but not HIV-1 group M strains in primary human CD4+ T cells. These findings reveal previously unrecognized host factors that limit SIVcpz replication in human cells and highlight barriers that at least some HIV-1 group M strains overcame during adaptation for pandemic spread.Four independent transmission events of simian immunodeficiency viruses from chimpanzees and gorillas to humans gave rise to human immunodeficiency virus type 1, but only one led to the global AIDS pandemic. Understanding which adaptations allowed the pandemic HIV-1 M strains to spread efficiently in humans remains a key question in virus evolution and public health. In this study, we engineered replication-competent SIVcpz constructs carrying more than 1,500 single-guide RNAs to identify antiviral genes in Cas9-expressing cells. This approach revealed several cellular factors that restrict SIVcpz but not the pandemic HIV-1 M strains analyzed in primary human T cells. These findings provide new insights into antiviral defense mechanisms and the adaptations that most likely contributed to the efficient spread of HIV-1.
Chronic benzene exposure causes hematotoxicity, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification has emerged as a critical regulator in various diseases, but its role in benzene-induced hematotoxicity is unclear. In this study, m6A mRNA microarray analysis revealed widespread alterations in m6A methylation following benzene exposure. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment identified ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 G2 (UBE2G2) as a key m6A-methylated transcript associated with protein degradation pathways. Bioinformatics prediction and experimental validation (RIP-qPCR and MeRIP-qPCR) confirmed that the m6A reader YTHDF3 directly binds to UBE2G2 mRNA in an m6A-dependent manner. Benzene exposure downregulated YTHDF3 expression, leading to decreased UBE2G2 mRNA stability and expression. Overexpression of YTHDF3 reversed this suppression, confirming the regulatory relationship. Functionally, reduced UBE2G2 impaired ubiquitination of acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4), resulting in its stabilization and upregulation, which promoted lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. Notably, melatonin treatment ameliorated benzene-induced hematotoxicity by restoring the YTHDF3/UBE2G2/ACSL4 axis. In summary, this study identifies a novel epigenetic pathway-YTHDF3/m6A/UBE2G2/ACSL4-that mediates benzene-induced ferroptosis, and demonstrates the protective effect of melatonin through modulation of this axis.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is a life-threatening disease caused by a dysfunctional host response to infection. During sepsis, inflammation-related immunosuppression is the critical factor causing secondary infection and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. The regulatory mechanisms underlying Treg differentiation and function, which significantly contribute to septic immunosuppression, require further clarification. In this study, we found that neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) participated in the development of sepsis-induced immunosuppression by enhancing Treg differentiation and function via direct interaction with CD4+ T cells. Briefly, NETs anchored enolase 1 (ENO1) on the membrane of CD4+ T cells through its key protein myeloperoxidase (MPO) and subsequently recruited interferon-induced transmembrane protein 2 (IFITM2). IFITM2 acted as a DNA receptor that sensed NET-DNA and activated intracellular RAS-associated protein 1B (RAP1B) and its downstream ERK signaling pathway to promote Treg differentiation and function. ENO1 inhibition significantly attenuated NET-induced Treg differentiation and alleviated sepsis in mice. Overall, we demonstrated the role of NETs in sepsis-induced immunosuppression by enhancing Treg differentiation, identified ENO1 as an anchor of NET-MPO, and elucidated the downstream molecular mechanism by which IFITM2-RAP1B-ERK regulates Treg differentiation. These findings improve our understanding of the immunopathogenesis of sepsis and provide potential therapeutic targets for sepsis-induced immunosuppression.
Uveal melanoma (UM) poses a significant lethality, with approximately 50% of those developing metastases surviving less than one year. In the progression of UM, vasculogenic mimicry (VM) induced by hypoxia plays a pivotal role, which also partially explains the resistance of UM to anti-angiogenic therapies. Nevertheless, the crucial molecular mechanisms underlying VM in the progression of UM remain unclear. We identified ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 G2 (UBE2G2) as a critical suppressor through transcriptomic sequencing and metastasis correlation screening. In UM, hypoxia-induced VM and metastasis are markedly exacerbated by UBE2G2 knockdown and significantly alleviated by its overexpression. Mechanistically, UBE2G2 directly binds to galectin 3 binding protein (LGALS3BP) and forms a complex with the E3 ubiquitin ligase tripartite motif containing 38 (TRIM38), facilitating ubiquitination-mediated degradation of LGALS3BP at the K104 residue. Furthermore, UBE2G2 inhibits oncogenic phenotypes by inactivating intracellular PI3K/AKT signaling and reprogramming the tumor microenvironment. Therefore, targeting intercellular and intracellular molecular mechanisms of the hypoxia-UBE2G2-LGALS3BP axis may contribute to developing various therapeutic strategies for UM.© 2024 The Authors.
Breast cancer is a global health issue that, when in the metastasis stage, is characterized by the lack of estrogen receptor-α, the progesterone receptor, and human epidermal growth receptor expressions. The present study analyzed the differential gene expression related to the immune system affected by ionizing radiation and estrogen in cell lines derived from an experimental breast cancer model that was previously developed; where the immortalized human breast epithelial cell line MCF-10F, a triple-negative breast cancer cell line, was exposed to low doses of high linear energy transfer α particle radiation (150 keV/μm), it subsequently grew in the presence or absence of 17β-estradiol. Results indicated that interferon-related developmental regulator 1 gene expression was affected in the estrogen-treated cell line; this interferon, as well as the Interferon-Induced Transmembrane protein 2, and the TNF alpha-induced Protein 6 gene expression levels were higher than the control in the Alpha3 cell line. Furthermore, the interferon-related developmental regulator 1, the Interferon-Induced Transmembrane protein 2, the TNF alpha-induced Protein 6, the Nuclear Factor Interleukin 3-regulated, and the Interferon-Gamma Receptor 1 showed high expression levels in the Alpha5 cell line, and the Interferon Regulatory Factor 6 was high in the Tumor2 cell line. Additionally, to further strengthen these data, publicly available datasets were analyzed. This analysis was conducted to assess the correlation between estrogen receptor alpha expression and the genes mentioned above in breast cancer patients, the differential gene expression between tumor and normal tissues, the immune infiltration level, the ER status, and the survival outcome adjusted by the clinical stage factor. It can be concluded that the genes of the interferon family and Tumor Necrosis factors can be potential therapeutic targets for breast cancer, since they are active before tumor formation as a defense of the body under radiation or estrogen effects.
Cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy (CHT) is standard of care in metastatic urothelial cancer (mUC); however, no predictive molecular biomarkers are available for clinical use. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of molecular subtypes in relation to treatment response and survival in patients with mUC treated with first-line CHT.Molecular subtype classification according to the Lund Taxonomy (LundTax) was performed by tumor transcriptomic profiling and immunostaining in a retrospective cohort. Molecular subtypes were investigated in relation to the primary end point overall response rate (ORR) and secondary end points progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). Differential gene expression and association to treatment response were explored.Ninety-five patients with mUC were classified into urothelial-like (Uro, 43%), genomically unstable (GU, 26%), basal squamous-like (Ba/Sq, 20%), mesenchymal-like (Mes-like, 8%), and small cell neuroendocrine-like (Sc/NE, 3%) subtypes. Patients with Mes-like tumors had lower ORR (14%) compared with Uro (70%), GU (77%), Ba/Sq (75%), and Sc/NE (67%; odds ratio, 0.06 [95% CI, 0.01 to 0.54], P = .012). Furthermore, patients with Mes-like tumors had significantly shorter PFS (hazard ratio [HR], 5.18 [95% CI, 2.28 to 11.76], P < .001) and OS (HR, 3.19 [95% CI, 1.45 to 7.03], P = .004). Patients with Uro and GU showed the longest survival. In responders, an enrichment of downregulated stromal- and immune-related genes was seen. Downregulation of interferon-induced transmembrane protein 2 was associated with increased ORR and improved OS.This study identifies different CHT responses by LundTax molecular subtypes in patients with mUC, where the Mes-like subtype was associated with lower response rate and shorter survival.
Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PDL1) has been implicated in immune evasion in various tumor types. The objective of this investigation was to assess the correlation between metastasis-associated interferon-induced transmembrane protein 2 (IFITM2) and PDL1, and explore their impact on tumor immunity in gastric cancer (GC). The expression of IFITM2 and PDL1 in human GC tissues was initially evaluated using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, as well as immunohistochemistry (IHC). Subsequently, the relationship between IFITM2 and PDL1 was analyzed through Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blotting after cell transfection and inhibitor treatment in vitro. The role of IFITM2 and PDL1 in immune killing was further elucidated in both in vitro and in vivo settings. Our study revealed frequent overexpression of IFITM2 and PDL1 in GC. Notably, IFITM2 expression was significantly associated with lymphatic metastasis, clinical stage, and poor survival. Moreover, a positive correlation between PDL1 expression and IFITM2 expression in GC was identified. The activation of tumor-derived IFITM2 was found to enhance PDL1 expression via the JAK/STAT3 pathway in human GC cells (MKN28 and MKN45), leading to apoptosis of Jurkat T cells. Furthermore, IFITM2 induced PDL1 expression in a xenograft mouse model of GC. Based on our findings, we propose that IFITM2 modulates PDL1 expression and tumor immunity through the JAK/STAT3 pathway in GC cells, highlighting the potential of IFITM2 as a therapeutic target for GC immunotherapy.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), a highly lethal malignancy, exhibits escalating incidence and mortality rates, underscoring the urgent need for the identification of novel therapeutic targets and strategies. The BCL2-associated athanogene-3 (BAG3) protein, a multifunctional regulator involved in various cellular processes, notably plays a crucial role in promoting tumor progression and acts as a potential "bridge" between tumors and the tumor microenvironment. In this study, we demonstrate that PDAC cells secrete BAG3 (sBAG3), which engages the interferon-induced transmembrane protein 2 (IFITM2) receptor to activate the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway, specifically enhancing phospho-extracellular regulated protein (pERK) activity, thereby propelling PDAC growth. Furthermore, our preliminary investigation into the effects of sBAG3 on co-cultured natural killer cells intriguingly discovered that sBAG3 diminishes natural killer cell cytotoxicity and active molecule expression. In conclusion, our findings confirm the pivotal role of the sBAG3-IFITM2 axis in fostering PDAC progression, highlighting the potential significance of sBAG3 as a dual therapeutic target for both tumor and immune cells.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Background: Knowledge about the pathogenesis of depression and treatments for this disease are lacking. Epigenetics-related circRNAs are likely involved in the mechanism of depression and have great potential as treatment targets, but their mechanism of action is still unclear. Methods: Circular RNA UBE2K (circ-UBE2K) was screened from peripheral blood of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and brain of depression model mice through high-throughput sequencing. Microinjection of circ-UBE2K overexpression lentivirus and adeno-associated virus for interfering with microglial circ-UBE2K into the mouse hippocampus was used to observe the role of circ-UBE2K in MDD. Sucrose preference, forced swim, tail suspension and open filed tests were performed to evaluate the depressive-like behaviors of mice. Immunofluorescence and Western blotting analysis of the effects of circ-UBE2K on microglial activation and immune inflammation. Pull-down-mass spectrometry assay, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) test and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were used to identify downstream targets of circ-UBE2K/ HNRNPU (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U) axis. Results: In this study, through high-throughput sequencing and large-scale screening, we found that circ-UBE2K levels were significantly elevated both in the peripheral blood of patients with MDD and in the brains of depression model mice. Functionally, circ-UBE2K-overexpressing mice exhibited worsened depression-like symptoms, elevated brain inflammatory factor levels, and abnormal microglial activation. Knocking down circ-UBE2K mitigated these changes. Mechanistically, we found that circ-UBE2K binds to heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (HNRNPU) to form a complex that upregulates the expression of the parental gene ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 K (UBE2K), leading to abnormal microglial activation and neuroinflammation and promoting the occurrence and development of depression. Conclusions: The findings of the present study revealed that the expression of circUBE2K, which combines with HNRNPU to form the circUBE2K/HNRNPU complex, is increased in microglia after external stress, thus regulating the expression of the parental gene UBE2K and mediating the abnormal activation of microglia to induce neuroinflammation, promoting the development of MDD. These results indicate that circ-UBE2K plays a newly discovered role in the pathogenesis of depression.© The author(s).
Chronic tissue inflammation causes progressive tissue damage, organ dysfunction, and increased susceptibility to inflammatory diseases. Viral infections are major drivers of this process, but the molecular mechanisms linking antiviral immune responses to persistent inflammation and tissue pathology remain poorly understood.The function of TRIM47 was examined using primary macrophages and mouse models of RNA virus infection. Alveolar macrophages, peritoneal macrophages, and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) from wild-type and Trim47-deficient (Trim47-KO) mice were treated with RNA viruses or RNA mimics, and antiviral cytokine production was quantified. Sublethal reovirus and influenza A virus infection mouse models were used to evaluate survival, cytokine responses, and viral titers in vivo. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was used to identify TRIM47-interacting proteins. Molecular and biochemical assays were used to examine post-translational modification, aggregation and activation of mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS).TRIM47 was highly expressed in macrophages, and TRIM47 deficiency in BMDM markedly reduced type I interferon (IFN-I) production following RNA virus infection or RNA mimics stimulation. In sublethal RNA virus infection mouse models, Trim47-KO mice exhibited reduced survival, impaired IFN-I responses, higher viral titers, increased inflammatory cell infiltration and tissue inflammation including myocarditis compared to wild-type mice. Mechanistically, TRIM47 interacted with MAVS and promoted SUMO1-mediated MAVS SUMOylation at K297 and K348, thereby enhancing MAVS aggregation and activation and driving robust IFN-I, IL-1β and IL-18 production in macrophages.These findings establish TRIM47 as a molecular switch of MAVS activation and antiviral cytokine responses in macrophages, highlighting its role in restricting RNA virus infection and mitigating inflammation. This study provides mechanistic insight into host pathways that may be therapeutically leveraged in chronic viral inflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42454699 is a review article
The gut microbiota is critical for host defense against influenza. Polysaccharides are known for their microbiota-modulating and immunomodulatory activities; however, the anti-influenza efficacy of homogeneous Abrus cantoniensis polysaccharides (ACP) remains unexplored.The present study seeks to clarify the protective role of ACP in influenza and explore its underlying molecular mechanisms.Initially, crude polysaccharides were extracted via ethanol precipitation and subsequently purified by gel chromatography. Systematic structural characterization of ACP was then performed using carbohydrate chemistry techniques, including scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The therapeutic efficacy of ACP was assessed by monitoring various indicators such as body weight, survival rate, viral load, and pulmonary pathological changes in mouse models. Furthermore, to elucidate the biological mechanism underlying ACP's anti-influenza activity via regulation of pulmonary interferon-beta (IFN-β) immune networks by intestinal acetate-producing microbiota, multi-omics analyses integrating metagenomics, metabolomics, gene knockout, immunofluorescence, and Western blot were conducted. Finally, the potential anti-influenza effects of ACP via the gut-lung axis were evaluated based on in vivo and in vitro detection of protein expression of IFN-β, free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), and mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), as well as antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs).In this study, we purified a novel polysaccharide, ACP-A1, with a backbone of→4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→,→4)-β-D-Galp-(1→, and →4,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1→ linkages and α-D-Glcp-(1→ branches at O-6. In H1N1-infected mice, oral ACP-A1 alleviated weight loss, increased survival, and reduced lung inflammation and viral load. Metagenomic and targeted metabolomic analyses showed that ACP-A1 enriched Limosilactobacillus reuteri and elevated acetate levels. Fecal microbiota transplantation, FFAR2 inhibition, and MAVS knockout experiments demonstrated that ACP-A1 enhances the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral pathway via microbial-derived acetate.Collectively, our findings elucidate that ACP mitigates influenza virus-induced lung dysfunction by promoting the proliferation of acetate-producing gut microbiota, particularly Limosilactobacillus reuteri, and activating the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral axis in pulmonary immune cells. These findings establish ACP-A1 as a natural polysaccharide regulating IFN-β homeostasis, highlighting its potential for influenza prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a globally prevalent pathogen that poses a significant health threat due to its lifelong latency. This persistence is driven by intricate immune evasion mechanisms, the deciphering of which remains a challenge. Here, we identified the HSV-1 tegument protein UL16 as a novel viral immunosuppressive factor, which significantly suppresses the RIGI-like receptor (RLR)-mediated antiviral immunity. We found that UL16 can interact with MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein) and induce its degradation, thereby inhibiting type I interferon (IFN-I) production. Further investigation revealed that UL16-induced MAVS degradation was facilitated via mitophagy involving the mitochondrial cargo receptor FUNDC1 (FUN14 domain containing 1). Knockout of FUNDC1 expression completely disrupted UL16-induced MAVS degradation and restricted HSV-1 replication. In contrast, overexpression of FUNDC1 augmented the suppressive effect of UL16 on MAVS-triggered IFN-I signaling and consequently benefited viral replication. Notably, the C-terminal domain (CTD) of UL16 primarily accounted for its immunosuppressive function, which was also demonstrated to be essential for UL16 engagement with MAVS, FUNDC1 and MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3). A conserved LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif within the UL16 CTD was identified to play a critical role in LC3 recruitment enhancement. Furthermore, the UL16-deficient HSV-1 exhibited markedly attenuated viral infectivity and pathogenicity in vivo. In summary, our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized pathway through which HSV-1 UL16 subverts host immunity by inducing mitophagy. This study provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions and establishes a rational foundation for developing novel therapeutics against HSV-1 infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CARD: caspase recruitment domain; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; CXCL10: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ds: double-stranded; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HEK: human embryonic kidney; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; IAV: influenza A virus; IFIH1/MDA5: interferon induced with helicase C domain 1; IFIT1/ISG56: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFN-I: type I interferon; IgG: Immunoglobulin G; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; kDa: kilodalton; KO: knockout; KSHV: Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; Mdivi-1: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; NanoBiT: NanoLuc Binary Technology; NC: negative control; NTD: N-terminal domain; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RIGI/RIG-I: RNA sensor RIG-I; RLR: RIGI-like receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SeV: Sendai virus; sgRNA: single guide RNA; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TM: transmembrane; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TRAF: TNF receptor associated factor; TUFM: Tu translation elongation factor, mitochondrial; UL16: unique long region 16; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD-FMK: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
Mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) forms prion-like aggregates to activate innate immunity against RNA viruses, but the metabolic regulation of MAVS remains poorly understood. Here, we show that viral infection induces the formation of lipid droplets (LDs), which physically interact with mitochondria to promote the assembly of MAVS prion-like aggregates. Mechanistically, the LD-resident protein PLIN3 binds to the mitochondrial fusion protein MFN2, thereby relieving MFN2-mediated inhibition of MAVS and enabling its oligomerization. Furthermore, LD-mitochondria contact sites facilitate fatty acid transfer, sustaining mitochondrial membrane potential required for MAVS signaling. Oleic acid (OA)-enriched diets enhance LD formation and boost antiviral immunity in vivo, while myeloid-specific Seipin (an LD biogenesis regulator) deficiency attenuates MAVS activation and exacerbates viral susceptibility. These findings establish LDs as metabolic platforms that bridge cellular lipid metabolism with innate antiviral defense through organelle crosstalk, suggesting LD induction as a novel therapeutic strategy against viruses.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial GTPase ERA G-protein-like 1 (ERAL1) is considered an antiviral host factor against RNA viruses. However, its role in driving DNA virus infection, particularly hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, and its relevance to human liver disease are unknown. This study aimed to define the function and molecular mechanism of ERAL1 in HBV pathogenesis.Complementary models, including HBV-replicating cell lines, an rAAV8-HBV hydrodynamic mouse model, and clinical samples from patients across the natural history of chronic HBV infection were employed and analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation, confocal immunofluorescence, RNA sequencing, qPCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry.ERAL1 expression was significantly suppressed in HBV patients, including an approximately 75% reduction in the livers of patients during the immune-reactive phase compared with those in healthy controls. ERAL1 overexpression resulted in notable antiviral activity, suppressed HBV replication and achieved nearly 60% HBsAg clearance in vivo. Mechanistically, ERAL1 interacts with mitochondrial adaptor MAVS, promoting its aggregation and subsequently activating the downstream Akt and MAPK signaling pathways, which are essential for its antiviral effect.ERAL1 is identified as a crucial HBV-restricting host factor and a novel mitochondria-centered defense mechanism in which ERAL1 reinforces MAVS-dependent antiviral signaling. The notable downregulation of ERAL1 in patient livers and its considerable antiviral effectiveness suggest that ERAL1 is a candidate host factor worthy of further therapeutic exploration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42260135 is a review article
Introduction Galectin-9, a β-galactoside-binding protein, is elevated in various kidney diseases. While exogenous galectin-9 attenuates kidney injury in experimental models, it remains unclear whether endogenous plasma galectin-9 reflects renal histopathology and independently predicts long-term adverse outcomes in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Methods Plasma galectin-9 levels were prospectively measured in 366 participants from the Taipei Renal Transcriptomics and Outcomes Investigation (TRTOI) cohort. Renal histopathology and chronicity were assessed using a modified Mayo Clinic Chronicity Score (MCCS). Major adverse renal events (MAREs) were defined as ≥40% decline in eGFR, kidney failure, or death. Findings were validated in 549 participants from the Boston Kidney Biopsy Cohort (BKBC). In vitro, mouse mesangial cells (SV40-MES-13) were used to evaluate galectin-9 effects on TGF-β-induced mesangial activation. Results Transcriptomic analysis showed upregulation of LGALS9 (encoding galectin-9) in fibrotic kidneys. Plasma galectin-9 positively correlated with urine protein-to-creatinine ratio and MCCS, and inversely with eGFR. Elevated galectin-9 was independently associated with mesangial expansion. In vitro, exogenous galectin-9 attenuated TGF-β-induced mesangial cell activation, proliferation, and profibrotic responses; these effects were reversed by lactose, a competitive inhibitor of the carbohydrate recognition domains of galectin-9. In the TRTOI cohort, participants in the highest galectin-9 tertile had a significantly increased risk of MAREs, independent of confounders. Validation in the BKBC cohort confirmed that higher galectin-9 levels were independently associated with increased all-cause mortality. Conclusion Elevated plasma galectin-9 is associated with mesangial expansion and predicts a higher risk of MAREs in patients with CKD.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Cardiomyocyte-macrophage crosstalk is essential for post-infarction repair, with Galectin-9 (Gal-9) acting as a key immunoregulatory mediator. However, the mechanisms governing its expression and secretion remain unclear. Here, we show that hypoxia stabilizes HIF-1α in cardiomyocytes, driving Gal-9 expression. Pharmacological activation of HIF-1α with deferoxamine enhanced Gal-9 secretion, promoted macrophage polarization toward M2 phenotype, and improved cardiac function after myocardial infarction. These benefits were abrogated by HIF-1α inhibition or Gal-9 deletion, underscoring the HIF-1α-Gal-9 axis as a central regulator of cardiac healing. Mechanistically, Gal-9 secretion occurred via a TMED10-dependent, non-classical vesicular pathway. TMED10 interacted with Gal-9 through a glycan-independent interface to facilitate vesicle loading. Furthermore, Gal-9 underwent S-palmitoylation at Cys137, a modification required for membrane anchoring and secretion. ZDHHC3 was identified as the primary palmitoyl acyltransferase mediating this process; ZDHHC3 knockdown or Cys137 mutation markedly suppressed Gal-9 release. These findings define a novel regulatory network in which HIF-1α upregulates Gal-9, while TMED10 and ZDHHC3 coordinate its palmitoylation-dependent secretion. This pathway links hypoxic signaling to immune modulation, providing new mechanistic insight and therapeutic targets for post-infarction myocardial repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481329
Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) are highly modular drug nanocarriers that have significantly progressed in the development and application of novel RNA therapeutics. While instrumental in current vaccine and hepatic gene therapy applications, extrahepatic LNP delivery remains a challenging hurdle, severely limiting clinical applications for individualized therapies that require cellular- and tissue-specific enrichment. Novel platform development remains needed to generate targeted LNPs capable of modeling targeted uptake in vitro prior to in vivo applications. Herein, we developed and utilized an antibody-based targeting bispecific-LNP (TbsAb-LNP) platform simultaneously binding LNP polyethylene glycol motifs and desired cell surface markers. By colocalizing TbsAb-LNP complexes with desired cell surface markers, we enable mRNA-LNP accumulation in the desired cell types. We additionally assessed the endosomal efficiency kinetics of TbsAb-LNP complexes generated at various bispecific loading ratios in a Galectin-9 in vitro expression model. Leveraging this facile and modular platform that eliminates the need for complex chemical conjugation approaches, we successfully achieved targeted LNP delivery to xhuCD3-expressing lymphoblasts and xmTfR1-expressing cell lines in vitro as well as xmTfR1-expressing cells in vivo. Enrichment of TbsAb-LNPs to splenic cells demonstrates the potential utility of this platform for clinical vaccine and T-cell delivery applications.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains an aggressive hematologic malignancy with heterogeneous responses to induction chemotherapy. Reliable biomarkers to distinguish patients achieving complete remission (CR) from those with refractory disease are needed to support immunological assessment of treatment response.To evaluate whether serum soluble CD25 (sCD25), galectin-9 (Gal-9), and CXCL9 differ between AML patients in CR, refractory AML patients, and healthy controls, and to assess their discriminative performance for refractory versus CR status.In this single-center case-control study, 155 participants were enrolled (50 healthy controls, 55 AMLCR, 50 AML-Refractory). Serum sCD25, Gal-9, and CXCL9 were quantified by sandwich ELISA. Between-group comparisons used the Kruskal-Wallis test with Dunn post-hoc pairwise contrasts; p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons using the Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). Discriminative performance was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis with bootstrap-derived 95% confidence intervals (1000 resamples), and pairwise AUC comparisons were performed using DeLong's test.Serum sCD25 and Gal-9 were significantly elevated in refractory patients compared with CR and controls (adjusted p < 0.001 for both), whereas CXCL9 was highest in the CR group and lowest in refractory patients (adjusted p < 0.001). For discrimination between refractory and CR status, CXCL9 showed the highest single-marker performance (AUC = 0.94, 95% CI: 0.90-0.98), followed by sCD25 (AUC = 0.91, 95% CI: 0.86-0.96) and Gal-9 (AUC = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.83-0.94). A combined logistic regression model incorporating all three markers yielded cross-validated AUC = 0.96 (95% CI: 0.93-0.99); the improvement over CXCL9 alone did not reach statistical significance (DeLong p = 0.31).sCD25, Gal-9, and CXCL9 collectively describe two complementary immunological axes in AML chronic activation/exhaustion (sCD25, Gal-9) and effector-cell trafficking (CXCL9) and robustly discriminate refractory from remission status in this cross-sectional cohort. Prospective longitudinal studies are required before these markers can be recommended for prognostic use or clinical decision-making.The present study identifies a reproducible serum biomarker panel (sCD25, Galectin-9, and CXCL9) that reflects the dynamic balance between immune activation and exhaustion in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The combined measurement of these markers can distinguish patients in complete remission from those with refractory disease, correlating with treatment response and residual immune dysregulation. These findings highlight a practical, non-invasive immunological tool that could support early detection of relapses, guide therapeutic monitoring, and enhance risk stratification in AML management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) influences extracellular matrix remodeling. We investigated its clinical, prognostic, and immunomodulatory significance in colorectal cancer (CRC). COMP was quantified via ELISA in 107 paired CRC and normal tissues. Expression was correlated with clinicopathological features, mutational profiles, microsatellite instability (MSI), tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), immune checkpoints, and multiplex cytokine networks. For transcriptomic validation, the FieldEffectCrc dataset was used for Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) CRC cohort for survival analysis. COMP was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues (p < 0.001) and correlated with advanced T, N, and overall pathological stages (all p < 0.05, tau = 0.18, 0.21, and 0.23, respectively). High COMP expression was linked to restricted immune infiltration (reduced stromal TILs, p < 0.05, tau = -0.23), elevated levels in microsatellite stable (MSS) compared to MSI tumors (p < 0.01), and correlated positively with immune exhaustion markers (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM-3), galectin-9 (GAL9), sialic acid-binding Ig-like lectin 9 (SIGLEC9)). Transcriptomic data linked high COMP to worse disease-specific and progression-free survival, and enrichment in pro-tumorigenic pathways (epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, angiogenesis, IL-6 signaling). COMP upregulation defines an immunosuppressive microenvironment in CRC, particularly in MSS tumors. It represents an important prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for overcoming immunotherapy resistance.
Human immunodeficiency virus and tuberculosis (HIV/TB) coinfection remains a major global health challenge. Immune dysregulation in HIV complicates TB diagnosis. The type of immune response mounted in tuberculosis is a key determinant in deciding the outcome of the infection. Hence, estimating immune markers is critical for developing diagnostic, monitoring and treatment approaches. A study was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic potential of host-based biomarkers in individuals with HIV/TB coinfection in comparison to HIV monoinfection receiving antiretroviral therapy. Host-based biomarkers were quantified using commercially available kits. Receiver operated curve (ROC) analysis was conducted to determine diagnostic performance. Routine investigations showed significantly raised ratios of neutrophils, monocytes, and platelets-to-lymphocytes and alkaline phosphatase levels in HIV/TB coinfection (AUC values > 0.76). Plasma galectin-9 and osteopontin levels had an AUC > 0.8. IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-12 levels were also significantly raised (AUC values > 0.95) while levels of GM-CSF and IL-6 were significantly low in HIV TB coinfection. The ROC analysis revealed the highest diagnostic accuracy of IL-12, indicating its potential as an adjunct immunological biomarker in identifying TB among HIV-infected individuals. However, a large-scale prospective study is required to confirm the findings and to understand their role in predicting the development of tuberculosis disease in people living with HIV.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449718 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415519 is a review article
Kidney transplantation is the optimal treatment for end-stage renal disease. Soluble immune checkpoints (sICs) may serve as key immune regulators and potential biomarkers in transplantation. In this study, frozen serum samples from kidney transplant recipients (n = 30) at pre-transplantation (day 0) and post-transplantation (days 3 and 7), along with samples from healthy controls (HCs, n = 15), were analysed for sICs (sCD25, s4-1BB, sCD86, active TGF-β1, sCTLA-4, sPD-L1, sPD-1, sTIM-3, sLAG-3, galectin-9, sCD27, and sPD-L2) using a flow cytometry-based multiplex bead assay. To assess alloimmune sensitisation, anti-HLA panel-reactive antibody (PRA) levels were measured in transplant recipients. Kidney function was evaluated retrospectively by serum creatinine and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR, CKD-EPI). All data were analysed to investigate their associations with kidney function. Pre-transplant patients had significantly higher serum levels of sCD25, sPD-L1, sTIM-3, Galectin-9, sCD27, and sPD-L2 compared to HCs. Post-transplant, sCD25, sPD-L1, sTIM-3, Galectin-9, sCD27, sPD-L2, and sCD86 showed significant temporal changes. Conversely, s4-1BB, sLAG-3, sCTLA-4, active TGF-β1, and sPD-1 levels showed no temporal changes and were comparable to HCs. Notably, PRA-positive patients exhibited higher sTIM-3 levels. Correlation and subgroup analyses based on eGFR revealed that higher levels sLAG-3 and sCTLA-4 levels were associated with better kidney function, while higher sCD25 and Galectin-9 levels were linked with poorer function. These findings suggest a link between sICs and renal function in the early post-transplant period, highlighting their potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Future studies with larger cohorts are needed to evaluate their clinical utility in improving transplant outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study sought to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of exosomes derived from gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSC-Exo) in the context of inflammation associated with oral lichen planus (OLP).An in vitro OLP inflammatory model was established by stimulating the Human Adult Keratinocyte Transformed Cell Line (Hacat) with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The cellular uptake of GMSC-Exo was detected by immunofluorescence. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to assess the levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Cell viability and apoptosis were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The mRNA levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) were determined via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and the protein expression levels of TLR4, phosphorylated nuclear factor kappa B subunit p65 (p-P65), P65, phosphorylated IκBα (p-IκBα), and IκBα were further validated by Western Blot.LPS stimulation significantly increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6), decreased the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, and promoted Hacat cell apoptosis while impairing cell viability. Notably, administration of GMSC-Exo effectively alleviated these LPS-induced effects. Mechanistically, GMSC-Exo suppressed LPS-induced TLR4 overexpression and blocked downstream nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling activation, as evidenced by decreased phosphorylation of IκBα and P65.GMSC-Exo alleviates LPS-induced inflammation and apoptosis in Hacat cells by downregulating the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings offer novel insights and potential therapeutic strategies for treating OLP.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Amuc_1100, an outer membrane protein of the mucin-degrading commensal bacterium Akkermansia muciniphila, is known to strengthen intestinal epithelial barrier integrity, with reports suggesting a potential involvement of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Its role in the vaginal epithelial barrier, however, remains unexplored. In this study, recombinant Amuc_1100 was expressed in a baculovirus-insect cell system and purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC). Purified Amuc_1100 exhibited concentration-dependent binding to recombinant TLR2 in ELISA. In VK2/E6E7 vaginal epithelial cells, Amuc_1100 treatment did not alter viability across the tested concentrations, confirming the absence of cytotoxicity. Western blot analysis demonstrated that Amuc_1100 treatment significantly increased the expression of tight junction-associated proteins, including Zonula Occludens-1 (ZO-1), Claudin-1 (CLDN-1), and Claudin-4 (CLDN-4), under basal conditions. Furthermore, stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or zymosan A markedly reduced ZO-1 levels, whereas co-treatment with Amuc_1100 restored expression under both conditions. Collectively, these findings provide preliminary evidence that recombinant Amuc_1100 modulates tight junction-associated protein expression in vaginal epithelial cells. However, additional functional barrier assays, mechanistic studies, and in vivo validation are required to further evaluate its potential as a postbiotic candidate.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554391 is a review article
Organic dust exposures, particularly in occupational settings, induce airway inflammation and contribute to the development and progression of chronic lung disease and impaired tissue regeneration. Interleukin-22 (IL-22) is a pleiotropic cytokine recognized for maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and promoting tissue repair; however, its regulation in lung myeloid cells, particularly macrophages, remains poorly understood. Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), a pattern recognition receptor highly expressed on lung macrophages, recognizes bacterial components abundant in organic dust and drives inflammatory signaling. We investigated the mechanistic role of TLR2 signaling in regulating IL-22 production by lung macrophages following exposure to microbial-enriched agricultural organic dust extract (DE).An immortalized lung macrophage cell line (MH-S) was stimulated with selective Toll-like receptor agonists and pharmacologic inhibitors to determine the contribution of individual TLR pathways to IL-22 production. To examine the role of TLR2 in vivo, wild-type (WT) and TLR2-deficient (tlr2-/-) mice were exposed to DE repeatedly for two weeks. IL-22 expression and macrophage localization were evaluated using RNAscope in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence analysis.TLR2 stimulation preferentially induced IL-22 production compared with other TLR pathways while simultaneously coordinating pro-inflammatory cytokine responses. Activation of the TLR2/1 heterodimer, but not TLR2/6, significantly increased IL-22 production, indicating pathway-specific regulation of reparative signaling. In vivo, repeated DE exposure resulted in significantly reduced pulmonary IL-22 expression in tlr2-/- mice compared with WT controls. Furthermore, tlr2-/- lungs exhibited fewer IL-22+CD68+ cells, an overall reduction in macrophage numbers, and a significant decrease in the proportion of CD68+ macrophages expressing IL-22, suggesting that TLR2 is required for both macrophage accumulation and IL-22 production during dust-induced lung injury.These findings identify TLR2 as a critical regulator of IL-22-mediated reparative programming in lung macrophages following organic dust exposure. Our study reveals a previously unrecognized link between innate immune sensing and epithelial repair pathways, providing mechanistic insight into how TLR2 promotes tissue restoration after environmental lung injury. Targeting the TLR2-IL-22 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating occupational dust-induced lung damage.Copyright © 2026 Oyewole, Mondal, Jones, McDermott, Cunningham, Dean, Barahona, Threatt, Wahl, Poole and Nordgren.
Mood disorders, including major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder, constitute a primary source of global disability, and with conventional monoamine-targeted pharmacotherapy, approximately one-third of patients remain with treatment-resistant disease. Over the past decade, the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) has emerged as a systems-level pathophysiological framework that explains the chronic neuroinflammation, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity, and impaired neuroplasticity that characterize treatment-resistant mood disorders. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are key molecular mediators in MGBA signaling, exerting epigenetic regulation through the inhibition of histone deacetylase, suppression of microglial toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor-kappa B signaling, reinforcement of intestinal and blood-brain barrier integrity, and rebalancing of tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism. A few small randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses have reported that restoring SCFA output using next-generation psychobiotics (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Akkermansia muciniphila, and Clostridium butyricum), prebiotic-rich dietary patterns, defined synbiotics, and direct postbiotic supplementation is associated with symptom improvement, although the evidence base remains preliminary, and have been proposed as candidate prognostic biomarkers. This narrative review synthesizes 2022 to 2026 mechanistic and clinical evidence on SCFA-producing psychobiotics in mood disorders; integrates these findings within a clinical nutrition framework that positions dietary fiber, microbiota-accessible carbohydrates, and targeted psychobiotic supplementation as legitimate adjuncts to conventional psychopharmacology; and discusses the translational challenges of strain specificity, dosing variability, and precision-psychobiotic medicine. Nevertheless, current evidence remains dominated by preclinical models, with human trials constrained by size, duration, and number.
Interferons can trigger robust anti-tumor responses following immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). However, chronic interferon signaling can also reshape tumor cell phenotypes, selecting for immune evasion mechanisms that drive resistance. In a cohort of 108 metastatic melanoma samples collected prior to first-line ICB, immune infiltration and bulk interferon gamma (IFNG) expression correlate with initial but not durable responses. Using a regression-based approach to deconvolve cancer cell signals from bulk tumors, we find that tumors from patients who initially respond but later acquire resistance exhibit heightened cancer cell-dependent IFN signaling at baseline, accompanied by MYC downregulation, dedifferentiation, and impaired major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II induction. Genetically, acquired resistance also associates with reduced T cell interferon signaling, lower memory T cell activity, high tumor mutational burden, clonal diversification, and elevated subclonal neoantigen burden. These findings reveal baseline transcriptomic and genetic features distinguishing acquired resistance from durable ICB response, identifying candidate targets to prevent relapse and refine stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Hepatosteatosis is a common metabolic disorder. Bile acids influence hepatosteatosis, immune function, and incretin secretion. However, whether bile acids mediate hepatosteatosis through these immune or endocrine pathways remain unknown. Here, we identify supplementation with hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA) in high-fat diet-fed mice increases hepatic iNKT cells and elevates circulating GLP-1, both upregulating fatty acid oxidation genes in a PPARα-dependent manner. Mechanistically, HDCA increases iNKT cells and IFN-γ production that promotes hepatic lipid catabolism, thereby attenuating triglyceride accumulation in wild-type (WT) mice, but not in iNKT cell-deficient (Ja18-/-) and PPARα knockout (Ppara-/-) mice. By contrast, the GLP-1 receptor agonist suppresses high-fat diet-induced steatosis in WT and Ja18-/- mice, but not in Ppara-/- and GLP-1 receptor knockout (Glp1r-/-) mice. Furthermore, anti-steatotic effect of HDCA is nullified in Glp1r-/- mice. Consequently, HDCA alleviates hepatosteatosis through dual mechanisms; an iNKT cell/IFN-γ immunometabolic- and GLP-1-dependent pathways. These findings highlight HDCA as a promising multi-target therapeutic strategy for hepatosteatosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Spinal tuberculosis commonly involves the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, but its clinical differential diagnosis remains challenging. This study included patients with imaging findings suggestive of thoracic or lumbar spinal infection and aims to establish a diagnostic model based on routine laboratory indicators to assist in differentiating thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis from non-tuberculous spinal infections.Clinical data were consecutively collected from patients whose imaging findings suggested thoracic or lumbar spinal infection. Patients were divided into a thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis group and a non-tuberculous spinal infection group according to the final diagnosis. Candidate variables included 40 routine clinical laboratory indicators. First, the Boruta algorithm was used to screen all candidate variables. All cases were then randomly divided into a training set and a validation set at a ratio of 7꞉3, with 70% of cases used for model construction and 30% for model validation. In the training set, the variables selected by the Boruta method were further analyzed using logistic regression to identify independent diagnostic variables with statistical significance and clinical interpretability. An auxiliary differential diagnostic model for thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis was then constructed based on the final variables included in the model. A nomogram was further developed to visually present the contribution of each predictor to the diagnostic outcome in the form of scores. Receiver operating characteristic curves and the area under the curve were used to evaluate the discriminative ability of the model in the training and validation sets, and the diagnostic performance of the model was internally validated using the validation set. Calibration analysis and decision curve analysis were also performed to evaluate the consistency between predicted probabilities and actual diagnostic results, as well as the potential clinical net benefit of the model.A total of 275 patients with thoracolumbar spinal infection were included, comprising 104 patients in the tuberculosis group and 171 patients in the non-tuberculous group. The Boruta method selected 11 variables from the 40 candidate variables: Interferon-γ release assay, Mycobacterium tuberculosis antibody, red blood cell count, hemoglobin, lymphocyte count, monocyte percentage, high-density lipoprotein, D-dimer, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and activated partial thromboplastin time. A model was then established using Logistic regression. Five variables with significant differences, namely high-density lipoprotein, tuberculosis antibody, monocyte percentage, lymphocyte count, and interferon-γ release assay, were used to construct the nomogram. Each variable can be converted into a corresponding score according to its value, and the total score can be used to estimate the predicted probability of thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis. The model showed good discriminative ability in the training set, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.877. It maintained stable diagnostic performance in the validation set, with an area under the curve of 0.875, suggesting good internal validation performance and certain generalizability. Calibration analysis showed good agreement between the predicted probabilities and actual diagnostic results. Decision curve analysis demonstrated that, within a certain range of threshold probabilities, the model provided higher clinical net benefit than the simple assumption that all patients had thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis or that all patients had non-tuberculous spinal infection, indicating its incremental value for clinical differential diagnosis.Five routine laboratory indicators, namely high-density lipoprotein, tuberculosis antibody, monocyte percentage, lymphocyte count, and interferon-γ release assay, can be used to construct an auxiliary differential diagnostic model for thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis. This model has significant net benefit and good ability to distinguish thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis from non-tuberculous spinal infection. It has potential application value as an auxiliary differential diagnostic model before etiological results become available.
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
Tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations are frequently reported in canine cancers but remain incompletely characterized due to differences in reference genomes and sequencing cost.To evaluate a cost-efficient primer-walking approach for TP53 variant screening in dogs with spontaneous tumors.Tumor tissue (n = 10) or blood (n = 16) was collected from 26 dogs with suspected neoplasia. Interpretable TP53 sequences spanning introns and exons 2-11, excluding long intron 1 and non-protein-coding exon 1, were obtained by primer-walking polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing. Bidirectional reads were compared with the Ensembl ROS_Cfam_1.0 v114 reference sequence.TP53 gene sequence variations were observed in 18/26 sequenced tumor cases, including one exonic frameshift insertion and 17 noncoding variants: 13 intronic variants and 4 variants in the 5' untranslated region. Recurrent substitutions and deletions occurred in the intron 8-10 region. Variants were detected in lymphomas and carcinomas, including cases from several small breeds, but no significant association with tumor type or breed was demonstrated.Primer-walking Sanger sequencing can screen TP53 regions beyond coding exons in canine tumor samples. Matched tumor-normal sequencing is needed to determine somatic versus germline origin and to evaluate noncoding TP53 variants as potential biomarkers or drivers.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
During inflammation, megakaryocytes (MKs) can expand from hematopoietic stem cells, yet the specific driving factors remain unclear. We investigated whether C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 5 (CCL5) influences this process in murine and human iPSC-derived bone marrow organoid (BMO) models. Acute CCL5 administration to mice increased hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) populations and increased MKs, including the expansion of MHC II-expressing MKs, characteristic of the immune MK subpopulation. Mechanistically, MK progenitors upregulated CCR1 and CCR5, and MKs showed increased phosphorylation of JAK1, SRC, and STAT1-5. Phenotypically, transcriptomic profiling revealed enhanced expression of genes associated with the cell cycle, inflammatory pathways, and mitochondrial metabolism in MKs isolated from CCL5-treated mice, which was functionally supported by increased mitochondrial activity. Similarly, in human BMOs, CCL5 treatment increased MK numbers. Together, these findings implicate CCL5 as a direct mediator of acute megakaryopoiesis and immune MK expansion during inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The conserved human correlate of interleukin-18 receptor 1 (IL-18R1)-associated immune states in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains undefined. We aimed to identify a minimal, reproducible, immune-state component associated with IL18R1 across independent human HCC cohorts and evaluate its clinical relevance.Publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets from five independent HCC cohorts were analyzed using a unified framework. Paired tumor-adjacent cohorts were prioritized for primary analyses, whereas tumor-only cohorts served as supportive datasets. CD8 T cells were stratified by IL18R1 expression, and tumor-specific enrichment was quantified using difference-in-differences. We validated the spatial transcriptomics using a murine liver tumor Xenium dataset. Clinical relevance was evaluated using The Cancer Genome Atlas Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma (TCGA-LIHC) bulk RNA-seq data.IL18R1-positive CD8 T cells exhibited a tumor-specific, C-C motif chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5)-centered cytotoxic transcriptional program, consistently enriched across datasets. Alternative IL18R1 stratification confirmed the identified immune program's robustness. Spatial transcriptomics localized this cytotoxic state in tumor-associated CD8 T cells and highlighted increased expression of Ccl5 and Cxcr3. Tumor-only cohorts demonstrated substantial heterogeneity, highlighting the importance of paired cohort design. In TCGA-LIHC, a composite CCL5-centered cytotoxic core score, not CCL5 alone, was associated with improved overall survival, although this attenuated after adjusting for clinical covariates.The dominant human correlate of an IL18R1-associated immune state in HCC is a compact, CCL5-centered CD8 cytotoxic module, not a broad inflammatory response. This spatially validated unit provides a reproducible framework for HCC immune-state characterization and stratification.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of dihydroartemisinin(DHA) in ameliorating multiple sclerosis(MS). Hematoxylin and eosin(HE) staining was used to assess inflammatory cell infiltration, while luxol fast blue(LFB) staining and electron microscopy were performed to evaluate myelin sheath structure. In cell experiments, this study measured programmed cell death ligand 1(PD-L1) expression on BV2 cells and forkhead box protein p3(Foxp3) expression in Jurkat T cells co-cultured with BV2 cells, determined the C-C motif chemokine ligand 5(CCL5) concentration in the supernatant of BV2 cells, and evaluated BV2 cell chemotaxis. Western blot(WB) was performed to detect protein levels of receptor tyrosine kinase(AXL), phosphorylated AXL(p-AXL), signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1), phosphorylated STAT1(p-STAT1), and suppressors of cytokine signaling 3(SOCS3). To confirm the role of AXL, key cellular assays were repeated following inhibition of AXL. Additionally, under physiological conditions, the effects of DHA on body weight, spleen weight, and peripheral blood immune cell profiles were examined. The results showed that DHA significantly reduced disease scores, attenuated body weight loss, suppressed inflammatory infiltration, and promoted myelin sheath repair in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis(EAE) mice. At the cellular level, DHA upregulated PD-L1 expression on BV2 cells and Foxp3 expression in co-cultured Jurkat cells, and inhibited CCL5 release and BV2 cell chemotaxis. It also upregulated AXL, p-AXL, p-STAT1, and SOCS3 protein expression in BV2 cells. When AXL was inhibited, these effects are nullified. In healthy mice, DHA did not have any effect on their various parameters. In conclusion, DHA maintains inflammatory homeostasis in the EAE model by activating the AXL signaling pathway in microglia.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a common malignancy in men, and bone metastasis is a leading cause of mortality in advanced-stage PCa. This study aims to identify critical genes involved in PCa bone metastasis, exploring biomarkers for prognosis and precision treatment. Forkhead Box Q1 (FOXQ1) was identified as a potential key gene through screening of public databases, and was found to be markedly upregulated in bone metastatic PCa compared to primary PCa. FOXQ1 promotes PCa cell proliferation and metastasis while inhibiting apoptosis. Additionally, FOXQ1 recruits macrophages, promotes M2 polarization, and enhances osteoclast differentiation in the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, FOXQ1 activates the transcription of Glycosyltransferase 8 Domain Containing 2 (GLT8D2) by directly binding to its promoter, and GLT8D2 upregulates the expression of C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 2 (CCL2) by enhancing its N-glycosylation, thereby promoting PCa bone metastasis. Collectively, these findings establish FOXQ1 as a key regulator of PCa bone metastasis through the GLT8D2/CCL2 axis, and suggest that targeting this pathway may hold therapeutic promise for bone metastatic PCa.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study evaluated the diagnostic value of C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) and C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) in pleural effusions for distinguishing histological subtypes of lung cancer (LC).A retrospective cohort study was conducted on 96 cases of squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), 206 cases of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and 53 cases of small cell LC (SCLC). A control group of 102 patients with parapneumonic effusion was selected. CCL2 and CCR2 levels in pleural effusions were measured. Pearson correlation analysis and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis were conducted.Pleural effusion CCL2 and CCR2 levels were higher in advanced LC than in parapneumonic effusion, and the changes in these two levels showed a moderate positive correlation (p < 0.001). CCL2 and CCR2 levels in pleural effusions were elevated in LUAD patients compared to LUSC and SCLC patients (p < 0.01), with SCLC patients having higher levels than LUSC patients (p < 0.01). The AUC for the combined CCL2 and CCR2 panel was higher than that for CCL2, CCR2, carcinoembryonic antigen, and cytokeratin fragment antigen 21-1 tested individually (all p < 0.05).Patients with advanced LC exhibit elevated CCL2 and CCR2 levels in pleural effusions. Combined detection of these two markers has some diagnostic value in distinguishing between LUAD and LUSC, serving as a valuable supplement to histopathological examination; however, clinical application should involve a comprehensive assessment in conjunction with other auxiliary tests. These markers have limited value in distinguishing between SCLC and NSCLC.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) constitutes a major inducer of neuroinflammation within the initial 24 h, peak microglial reactivity by day 3 post-injury, and cytokine production through day 7. However, the precise underlying pathophysiology driving immune cell infiltration, inflammatory cascades, and subsequent neuronal damage remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) plays a functional role in TBI-induced neuroinflammation and associated neuronal injury.Datasets of RNA-seq analysis used were: GSE58485 is mice neocortex at 3 days post-TBI, GSE92363 is rat hippocampus at day 1 post-TBI, and GSE59645 is rat hippocampus at day 14 post-TBI. GEO datasets, GSE92363 and GSE59645, sequencing analysis of the normal rat hippocampus were merged to provide a baseline to identify key differentially expressed genes (DEGs). DEGs were used to perform functional annotations through Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses, execute gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and construct protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. Microglia HAPI cells and H19-7 cells co-culture system was used to functionally validate microglia-derived neuroinflammatory damage mechanisms on neuronal cells.For screening of DEGs related to TBI, we first performed an integrated analysis of the GSE92363 and GSE59645 datasets. Initial-phase TBI exhibited characteristic immune landscape alterations, marked by significant macrophage and neutrophil infiltration with concurrent M1 macrophage polarization. GSEA further revealed microglial phagocytic pathway dysregulation as the most profoundly perturbed signaling cascade in TBI pathogenesis. Subsequently, we identified CCL3 as a master regulatory hub orchestrating TBI progression with PPI analysis. In HAPI cells, short hairpin RNA-mediated CCL3 knockdown effectively attenuated lipopolysaccharide-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine elevation and suppressed nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat, and pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathway activation. In the HAPI-H19-7 (neuron) co-culture system, CCL3 silencing demonstrated significant neuroprotection by mitigating H19-7 neuronal apoptosis.CCL3 functions as a key regulatory chemokine orchestrating NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated microglial activation in post-TBI neuroinflammation. Inhibition of CCL3 may be a promising therapeutic target for ameliorating secondary neuronal injury following TBI.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive leukemia with high rates of chemoresistance and relapse. Patients with AML undergoing induction chemotherapy often have delayed erythropoietic recovery and febrile neutropenia. Infection is a leading cause of mortality in this population. There is an unmet need to improve disease-specific outcomes in patients with AML undergoing cytotoxic chemotherapy. AML, at diagnosis, is characterized by increased levels of circulating iron due to erythroid block and cell death, which is further aggravated upon intensive chemotherapy. We hypothesized that iron, particularly toxic non-transferrin-bound iron (NTBI), can be redistributed away from AML cells and bacteria into nonmalignant transferrin receptor (CD71)-expressing cells by administering exogenous iron-free apotransferrin (apoTF). Using mouse models of AML, we show that mice treated with human apoTF had decreased NTBI and increased bone marrow erythropoiesis and B cell responses. ApoTF treatment resulted in normalization of bone marrow blood vessels and reduction of lipid peroxidation in endothelial cells. Crucially, apoTF combined with chemotherapy resulted in a reduction of AML cells and in improved survival, which was dependent on adaptive immunity. We established a murine model of Escherichia coli sepsis in leukemic mice receiving chemotherapy. We show that apoTF administration increased the survival of E. coli-infected mice. Mechanistically, apoTF treatment decreased the levels of circulating C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) and interleukin-6 through reduced expression of CCL2 in lipopolysaccharide-polarized macrophages. Our results demonstrate an overall benefit of iron redistribution induced by transferrin in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy in AML.
Host defense against invasive bacterial infections of the skin is essential for survival. It involves a complex yet incompletely understood process of microbial recognition followed by innate and adaptive systems for communication between resident and recruited cells to mount an effective defense. Stromal fibroblasts have not been classically considered immunocytes but are gaining recognition for their critical role in inflammation. Here, we identify fibroblast-derived C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) as a key mediator of host defense against invasive Staphylococcus aureus infection. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that fibroblasts are a predominant source of CCL2 under steady-state conditions in both human and mouse skin. The use of mice with a conditional deletion of CCL2 in fibroblasts demonstrated that the expression of CCL2 by fibroblasts alters macrophage cytokine production and antigen-presentation-associated responses and is important for monocyte recruitment. Additionally, we revealed a novel role for fibroblast-derived CCL2 in promoting fibroblast-to-adipocyte differentiation via ERK and p38 signaling, leading to reactive adipogenesis and enhanced production of the antimicrobial peptide cathelicidin. In mice with targeted deletion of Ccl2 in fibroblasts, these host immune responses are impaired, and S. aureus infection of the skin is greatly increased. These findings highlight fibroblast-derived CCL2 as a critical regulator of immunity and suggest its broader implications in inflammatory and infectious diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to characterize the temporal dynamics of corneal immune responses and programmed cell death (PCD) following herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection, and investigate the role of PANoptosis in shaping the immune responses during herpes simplex keratitis (HSK).A murine HSK model was established through HSV-1 infection, and time-course RNA sequencing was performed on murine corneas at 0, 1, 3, 7, and 14 days post-infection. Phenotypic and mechanistic analyses were conducted using quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry, and co-culture experiments. PCD pathways were assessed using antagonists targeting PANoptosis, an integrated form of cell death encompassing key features of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis.RNA sequencing revealed sequential immune response phases in the cornea following HSV-1 infection: homeostasis disruption and transcriptional activation (0-3 days), immune amplification (3-7 days), and tissue reorganization (7-14 days). The immune amplification phase was strongly associated with the activation of three distinct PCD pathways: apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis, culminating in PANoptosis. PANoptosis was confirmed as a central mechanism in HSK pathogenesis, with Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1) serving as a key driver of PANoptosome formation. Furthermore, PANoptosis in human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) was shown to promote the release of C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), enhancing macrophage major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) and interferon β (IFN-β) expression and migration. The PANoptosis-CCL2/C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) axis was significantly upregulated in infected corneas and could be suppressed by a PANoptosis inhibitor or the CCL2 antagonist Bindarit.This study demonstrated the temporal coordination between immune activation and PANoptosis in HSK, highlighting PANoptosis as a crucial mechanism in amplifying antiviral immune responses. The ZBP1-PANoptosome-mediated PANoptosis-CCL2/CCR2 axis represents a potential therapeutic target for modulating the immune responses in HSK.
Low circulating levels of soluble fibroblast activation protein (sFAP) are associated with poor outcomes in patients with ischemic stroke, while its function in the ischemic brain remains unclear. This study investigated the role of FAP in ischemic stroke. BALB/c mice were subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion and treated with recombinant FAP (rFAP) or CPD60, a selective FAP inhibitor. Temporal and spatial patterns of FAP expression in brain were analyzed. sFAP showed a greater decrease in CSF than in serum after ischemic stroke. Astrocytes expressed FAP but did not secrete it. Meningeal fibroblasts constitutively released FAP, and this release decreased after exposure to Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 ligands. In cultured microglial and macrophages, rFAP suppressed TLR2/4-induced cytokine production. rFAP protected neurons and decreased tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β levels in neuron-glia cultures. Systemic or intracerebroventricular administration of rFAP reduced post-ischemic inflammation and infarct volume, whereas CPD60 worsened tissue injury. FAP also inhibited monocyte migration and inflammation induced by C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 and complement C1q tumor necrosis factor-related protein 6, suggesting that these chemokines are potential substrates. Overall, FAP regulates post-ischemic inflammation and protects neurons after ischemic stroke, indicating its therapeutic potential in ischemic stroke.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is characterized by microbial dysbiosis, notably an overabundance of Staphylococcus species. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of abrocitinib, a Janus kinase 1-selective inhibitor, on the skin microbiome and clinical outcomes in patients with moderate-to-severe AD.Patients enrolled in JADE MOA (NCT03915496) were randomly assigned to receive once-daily abrocitinib (100 or 200 mg) or placebo for 12 weeks. Skin swabs collected at baseline and Weeks 2, 4, and 12 underwent 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing to determine microbial composition. Disease severity was assessed at the same time points using established clinical metrics. Associations between microbial abundance and clinical metrics, as well as inflammatory and skin barrier markers, were investigated.Data from 43 patients were included. Alpha diversity increased significantly at Week 12 of treatment with abrocitinib 200 mg. Beta diversity analysis revealed clustering of the abrocitinib groups away from placebo as early as Week 2; divergence continued through Week 12. Staphylococcus and S. aureus relative abundance decreased in a dose-dependent manner from Week 2 through Week 12 of abrocitinib treatment. Changes in skin microbial composition corresponded with improvements in clinical metrics of disease severity as well as immune markers of AD.Abrocitinib treatment is associated with beneficial changes in the skin microbiome, notably a reduction in S. aureus and increased microbial diversity. These findings provide insight into the mechanism of action of abrocitinib and the interplay of immunomodulation and the skin microbiome in AD.ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03915496.© 2026 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease involving complex immune pathways. Natural compounds derived from Aloe vera are attracting increasing attention for their potential in the treatment of dermatological disorders.A virtual screening of 110 A. vera-derived phytoconstituents was performed against three key protein targets implicated in AD: interleukin-4 receptor alpha, Janus kinase 1, and phosphodiesterase 4D. The top-ranked compounds were further assessed using absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) properties to evaluate drug-likeness and safety profiles. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations over 100 ns were conducted to examine the structural stability of the selected ligand-protein complexes.Quercetin and kaempferol showed the highest binding affinities across all three targets. ADMET analysis confirmed their favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profiles. MD simulations revealed stable and compact protein-ligand interactions, supporting their potential as multitarget inhibitors of AD.Quercetin and kaempferol from A. vera emerge as promising multitarget lead candidates for AD treatment, particularly for topical therapeutic applications. These findings warrant further in vitro and in vivo validation to support their potential clinical translation.© 2026 Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences.
Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare condition characterised by impaired alveolar macrophage-mediated surfactant clearance, resulting in the accumulation of lipoproteinaceous material within the alveoli. Secondary PAP has been associated with certain medications. Ruxolitinib, a Janus kinase 1/2 inhibitor has recently been implicated in rare cases of PAP.We report the case of a woman in her early 60s treated with ruxolitinib for chronic pulmonary graft-versus-host disease following an allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, who developed progressive exertional dyspnoea. High-resolution CT demonstrated a 'crazy paving' pattern, and bronchoalveolar lavage revealed periodic acid-Schiff positive granular material consistent with PAP. Microbiological studies were negative. Ruxolitinib was discontinued with subsequent symptomatic, radiological and lung function improvement.This case highlights ruxolitinib as a potential cause of secondary PAP and emphasises the importance of considering this rare complication in patients who develop new respiratory symptoms while receiving ruxolitinib.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Integration of intracellular signalling and metabolic reprogramming is critical for macrophage polarisation and the induction of pro- or anti-inflammatory responses. However, the molecular switches that govern these processes remain incompletely defined. While 4-1BB ligand (4-1BBL), a member of the TNF superfamily, is known to promote sustained pro-inflammatory responses in macrophages, its role in anti-inflammatory macrophage responses has not been fully elucidated. This study identifies that 4-1BBL serves as a negative regulator of anti-inflammatory macrophage polarisation. Genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of 4-1BBL significantly enhanced the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines and markers in mouse macrophages. In IL-4R signalling, 4-1BBL restrained Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) phosphorylation, thereby modulating transcriptional programmes associated with anti-inflammatory macrophage activation. Consistently, 4-1BBL deficiency elevated mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid oxidation, accompanied by increased expression of metabolic genes in anti-inflammatory macrophages. Transcriptomic analysis further revealed a shift towards anti-inflammatory and oxidative metabolic gene signatures in IL-4-treated 4-1BBL-deficient macrophages. Importantly, the inhibition of 4-1BBL signalling also augmented anti-inflammatory responses in human monocytes and facilitated the transition from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory phenotypes. Collectively, these findings establish 4-1BBL as a crucial molecular switch that regulates macrophage polarisation by integrating inflammatory signalling with metabolic reprogramming, highlighting 4-1BBL as a potential therapeutic target for promoting inflammation resolution.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
We describe a pediatric patient treated with upadacitinib for atopic dermatitis (AD) who subsequently achieved sustained clinical and histologic remission of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). Upadacitinib is an oral small molecule selective Janus kinase 1 inhibitor that inhibits janus kinase-signal transduction and activation of transcription (JAK-STAT) pathway with wide inhibitory effects on the immune system, including Th2 signaling pathways. Therefore, it leads to broad suppression of inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), that play a central role in the pathogenesis of EoE. Given the broad signaling pathway, if a patient is started on upadacitinib for other indications, cessation of other therapies, particularly biologics like dupilumab, should be considered on a case-by-case basis.© 2026 The Author(s). JPGN Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) management has advanced rapidly in recent years, with new therapies supplementing established treatments. The cardiorenal benefits of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) and nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (ns-MRA) in patients with DKD have been proven in several large randomised controlled trials. Recent studies show that combining SGLT2i, ns-MRA and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockade significantly slows DKD progression compared with using single agents. The concurrent use of four agents, including GLP-1RA, SGLT2i, ns-MRA and RAAS blockade, may confer additional benefits, and a four-pillar approach to managing DKD could become standard therapy in the future. Additional investigational agents, including endothelin receptor antagonists, aldosterone synthesis inhibitors, and Janus kinase 1 and Janus kinase 2 inhibitors, have demonstrated encouraging results in Phase 2 trials. These therapies may offer further treatment options for patients who are unable to use other agents.Copyright © 2026 Singapore Medical Journal.
Although therapeutic options for hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) continue to expand, unmet needs remain substantial. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of povorcitinib (an oral, highly selective Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor) in patients with moderate to severe HS in two randomized trials. STOP-HS1 and STOP-HS2 were identically designed, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 trials. Adults with moderate to severe HS were randomized 2:2:1:1 to once-daily treatment through week 54: povorcitinib 45 mg; povorcitinib 75 mg; placebo with crossover at week 12 to povorcitinib 45 mg; or placebo with crossover at week 12 to povorcitinib 75 mg. The primary endpoint was HiSCR50 (≥50% decrease in total abscess and inflammatory nodule count, with no increase from baseline in abscess or draining tunnel count) at week 12. STOP-HS1/STOP-HS2 enrolled 608/619 patients, respectively. In both studies, both povorcitinib doses met the primary endpoint; in STOP-HS1, 82/204 (40%) patients in the povorcitinib 45-mg group and 82/202 (41%) in the 75-mg group versus 60/202 (30%) in the placebo group achieved HiSCR50 (OR (95% CI) 45 mg: 1.6 (1.1-2.5), P = 0.0240; 75 mg: 1.6 (1.1-2.4), P = 0.0214); corresponding values for STOP-HS2 were 88/208 (42%) and 88/208 (42%) versus 58/203 (29%; OR (95% CI) 45 mg: 1.8 (1.2-2.8), P = 0.0035; 75 mg: 1.9 (1.2-2.8); P = 0.0033). Through week 12, across STOP-HS1/STOP-HS2, serious treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) occurred in 1-2% of patients across povorcitinib doses and in 2-3% with placebo; through week 54, serious AEs occurred in 5%/6% of patients receiving 45-mg/75-mg povorcitinib, respectively. The most frequent AEs among patients treated with 45-mg/75-mg povorcitinib were acne (17%/20%), nasopharyngitis (10%/12%) and upper respiratory tract infection (11%/10%). One death of undetermined etiology was reported and deemed unrelated to treatment. No new or unexpected safety findings were identified. Oral povorcitinib demonstrated significant improvements in HiSCR50 versus placebo and a favorable safety profile in patients with moderate to severe HS. ClinicalTrials.gov registration: NCT05620823 and NCT05620836 .© 2026. Incyte Corporation and the Authors.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture(EA) intervention on the interleukin-4 (IL-4)/Janus kinase 1 (JAK1)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) signaling pathway in colon tissue of chronic ulcerative colitis (UC) mouse model, in order to explore the potential mechanism of EA in promoting M2 macrophage polarization and improving intestinal mucosal barrier injury in UC mice.A total of 56 eight-week-old SPF BALB/c mice (28 males and 28 females) were stratified by sex and randomly assigned to blank group (15 mice) and modeling group (41 mice). 3% DSS solution was used to induce the chronic UC model. The successfully induced mice were further divided into model, EA+11B11, and EA groups. Finally, 12 mice were included in each group. Mice in the EA+11B11 group received intraperitoneal injection of IL-4 inhibitor 11B11 (10 mg/kg) before EA, and mice in the EA group were treated with EA(10 Hz/50 Hz, 1 mA) at "Guanyuan" (CV4), "Tianshu" (ST25), "Zusanli" (ST36) and "Shangjuxu" (ST37) for 20 min. The treatments were performed once daily for 14 consecutive days. After the intervention, the following aspects were evaluated. ① Symptom improvement:including disease activity index (DAI) score, macroscopic morphology score in colon, and hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining to observe the pathological changes in colon tissue;②Structure and function of intestinal mucosal barrier:including the observation of colonic tight junction structure by transmission electron microscopy, detection of intestinal leakage by in vivo imaging with fluorescein isothiocyanate-4D (FITC-4D), detection of the positive expressions of tight junction protein ZO-1 and occludin in colon tissue by immunofluorescence staining;③ Activation of IL-4/JAK1/STAT6 signaling pathway:detection of the relative expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 proteins in colon tissue by Western blot;④ Markers of M2 macrophage polarization:detection of the CD206+/CD86+ ratio in mesenteric lymph nodes, and CD206 and arginase-1 (Arg-1) positive expressions in colon tissue by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining, respectively.Compared with the blank group, mice in the model group showed significantly increased DAI score and macroscopic morphology score (P<0.05), disorganized colonic mucosal structure, severe intestinal fluorescence leakage, significantly decreased positive expressions of ZO-1 and occludin (P<0.05), reduced relative expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 proteins(P<0.05), as well as decreased CD206+/CD86+ ratio and positive expressions of CD206 and Arg-1 (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the EA group exhibited reduced DAI and macroscopic morphology scores (P<0.05), improved colonic mucosal structure, and alleviated intestinal fluorescence leakage. The positive expressions of ZO-1 and occludin, and relative expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 proteins were significantly increased (P<0.05), along with elevated CD206+/CD86+ ratio, and CD206 and Arg-1 positive expressions (P<0.05). Compared with the EA group, the EA+11B11 group showed higher DAI and macroscopic morphology scores (P<0.05), disrupted colonic mucosal structure, obvious intestinal fluorescence leakage, decreased positive expressions of ZO-1 and occludin, and relative protein expression levels of IL-4, p-JAK1/JAK1, and p-STAT6/STAT6 (P<0.05), as well as reduced CD206+/CD86+ ratio, CD206 and Arg-1 positive expressions (P<0.05).EA can promote the repair of colonic mucosal barrier in mice with chronic UC and alleviate symptoms such as diarrhea and hematochezia, which may be associated with the activation of IL-4/JAK1/STAT6 signaling pathway and the inducing of M2 macrophage polarization in colon tissue.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) on the homeostasis of Th17/Treg cells and the expressions of key proteins of the janus kinase 1/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling pathway in myocardial tissue of rats with myocardial ischemia(MI), so as to explore its mechanisms underlying amelioration of inflammatory injury following MI.SD rats were randomly divided into control, model, and EA groups, with 6 rats in each group. The MI model was established by subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol hydrochloride(5 mg·kg-1·d-1), once daily for 7 consecutive days. After successful modeling, the rats of EA group received EA stimulation (2 Hz/10 Hz, 2 to 3 mA) of unilateral "Neiguan" (PC6) and "Zusanli" (ST36) for 20 min, once daily for 21 d. The standard limb lead II electrocardiogram (ECG) was recorded to analyze the height of ST and amplitude of T wave for assessing the degree of ischemic myocardial injury. The hematoxylin-eosin (H.E.) staining was used to observe histopathological changes in the myocardial tissue, and the Masson staining performed to examine the collagen deposition of the myocardial cells. The concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-17, and IL-10 in the serum and myocardial tissue were detected using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), and the proportions of Th17 cells and Treg cells in the myocardial tissue analyzed using flow cytometry. The expression levels of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3), phosphorylated (p)- STAT3, forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3), Janus kinase 1 (JAK1), retinoic acid-related orphan nuclear receptor-α(RORα), suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) proteins in the myocardial tissue were detected using Western blot.Compared with the control group, the model group had a significant increase in the ST height and T-wave amplitude, myocardial collagen volume fraction (CVF), TNF-α and IL-17 contents in the serum and myocardial tissue, myocardial Th17/Treg ratio, and expression levels of myocardial JAK1, STAT3, p-STAT3, and RORα proteins (P<0.01, P<0.05), and a striking decrease in the proportion of Treg cells, contents of myocardial and serum IL-10, and expression levels of myocardial FOXP3 and SOCS3 (P<0.01, P<0.05). In contrast to the model group, both the increase and the decrease of the indexes mentioned above were reversed in the EA group (P<0.05, P<0.01). H.E. staining showed necrosis and dissolution of a large number of myocardial cells, with increased cell spacing and blurred boundaries, inflammatory infiltration and fibrous tissue hyperplasia in the model group, which was relatively and significantly milder in the degree of myocardial injury in the EA group.EA at PC6 and ST36 can improve myocardial inflammation injury in rats with MI, which may be related to its function in regulating the homeostasis of Th17/Treg cells in myocardial tissue through JAK1/STAT3 signaling, balancing the secretion of pro-inflammatory factors TNF-α, IL-17 and anti-inflammatory factor IL-10.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) contribute to host defense by trapping pathogens. However, excessive or dysregulated NET formation is implicated in the pathogenesis of various conditions, including thrombosis, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Despite their clinical significance, the specific intracellular signaling pathways underlying NET formation in response to proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), remain incompletely defined. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TNF-α-induced NET formation in human neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. TNF-α induced rapid, non-lytic NET formation in dHL-60 cells without compromising cell viability. Mechanistically, TNF-α activated a signaling cascade involving c-Raf, MEK1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This signaling cascade regulated the sequential caspase activation, with caspase-2 acting upstream of caspase-1 cleavage to promote NET formation. Collectively, these findings suggest that TNF-α induces non-lytic NET formation via a defined c-Raf-MEK1/2-p38 MAPK-caspase pathway and a distinct caspase hierarchy. This mechanism offers a valuable experimental model for studying NET-mediated pathologies in proinflammatory environments.
Deucravacitinib, an oral, selective, tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, is approved for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy and for adults with active psoriatic arthritis.We evaluated deucravacitinib safety and efficacy over 5 years in the phase 3 POETYK PSO-1, PSO-2, and long-term extension (LTE) trials in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.PSO-1 and PSO-2 (parent trials) randomized patients 1:2:1 to oral placebo, deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily, or apremilast 30 mg twice daily. At 52 weeks, patients enrolled in the LTE trial received open-label deucravacitinib. Safety was reported as exposure-adjusted incidence rates (EAIRs) per 100 person-years (PY). Clinician- and patient-reported outcomes were analyzed using modified nonresponder imputation in patients receiving continuous deucravacitinib from day 1 (PSO-1/PSO-2) through 5 years.Overall, 1519 patients received one or more deucravacitinib dose; total exposure was 5046.7 PY through data cutoff (September 2, 2024). EAIRs/100 PY were comparable or decreased from the 1-year to 5-year cumulative period for adverse events (AEs) (229.23, 127.40, respectively), serious AEs (5.68, 5.06), discontinuation due to AEs (4.38, 2.09), deaths (0.20, 0.22), serious infections excluding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) (1.53, 0.94), malignancies (1.02, 0.92), major adverse cardiovascular events (0.30, 0.34), and venous thromboembolism (0.20, 0.06). Clinical outcomes were well-maintained in patients receiving continuous deucravacitinib (n = 513) from 1 through 5 years, including achievement of a ≥ 75% reduction from baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (1 year, 72.1% [95% CI 68.2-76.1]; 5 years, 67.3% [62.0-72.6]) and a static Physician Global Assessment score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost clear) (1 year, 57.5% [53.1-61.9]; 5 years, 52.6% [47.0-58.1]). Dermatology Life Quality Index 0 or 1 was well-maintained from 1 year (52.5% [48.0-57.1]) through 5 years (45.4% [40.0-50.8]).These findings demonstrate a consistent safety profile with no new safety signals and durable clinical response through 5 years of treatment with deucravacitinib.NCT03624127, NCT03611751, NCT04036435.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prolonged exposure to crystalline silica (CS) induces silicosis characterized as pulmonary fibrosis. Innate and adaptive immune responses are orchestrated in silicosis pathogenesis. Herein, we delineated the specific role of innate immunity, utilizing recombination-activating gene 1 (Rag1)-knockout mice, which are deficient in adaptive immunity. Unexpectedly, CS-exposure drove more severe lung fibrosis in the Rag1-/- mice than wild-type counterparts, due to a hyperactive NLRP3/Caspase-1 signaling in lung macrophages and a concomitant expansion of lung innate lymphoid cells (ILCs). Specifically, group 1 ILCs (ILC1s) and group 3 ILCs (ILC3s) expanded, and the ILC3s/ILC1s ratio lifted with silicosis progression. Depleting experiment confirmed that ILCs drive silicosis in Rag1-/- mice. Specifically, interleukin-18 receptor α (IL-18Rα) marked pathogenic ILCs with the characteristics of multi-cytokine productions, high proliferation, and potent activation status. Lung macrophages regulated the pathogenic function of IL-18Rα+ ILCs, promoting silicosis in Rag1-/- mice. NLRP3 and IL-18 exerted distinct effects on IL-18Rα+ ILCs that both NLRP3 and IL-18 similarly modulated ILC1s, whereas IL-18 affected cytokine production by ILC3s without influencing their emergence in the lungs. Our study extended the knowledge about how the innate immune response drives CS-induced fibrosis and provided intervention targets for silicosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561162 is a review article
Deucravacitinib, an oral, selective tyrosine kinase 2 inhibitor, is approved in multiple countries for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, as well as generalized pustular and erythrodermic psoriasis in Japan. Deucravacitinib 6 mg once daily was efficacious and well tolerated through 3 years in the pooled population of Japanese patients in the POETYK PSO-1 and PSO-4 trials who entered the ongoing open-label POETYK long-term extension trial. Safety and efficacy of deucravacitinib were evaluated through 5 years (256 weeks; data cutoff September 2, 2024) in Japanese patients who received continuous deucravacitinib in PSO-1 or PSO-4 or who crossed over from placebo to deucravacitinib at Week 16 in PSO-1. Safety was evaluated via adverse event (AE) exposure-adjusted incidence rates (EAIRs); efficacy was evaluated via endpoints including ≥ 75% reduction from baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75) and static Physician Global Assessment (sPGA) score of 0/1 (clear/almost clear). At data cutoff, 136 patients had received at least one deucravacitinib dose; 77.2% had > 48 months and 39.7% had > 60 months of total deucravacitinib exposure. EAIRs per 100 person-years were 182.1 (any AEs), 6.9 (serious AEs), 3.0 (discontinuations due to AEs), 1.6 (serious infections), 1.6 (herpes zoster events), 0.5 (major adverse cardiovascular events), and 1.4 (malignancies). Clinical responses (as observed) were maintained over 5 years in PSO-1 patients receiving continuous deucravacitinib treatment from baseline (PASI 75: Year 1, 88.9%; Year 5, 85.7%; sPGA 0/1: Year 1, 74.1%; Year 5, 71.4%); results were consistent regardless of imputation method (modified nonresponder imputation, treatment failure rule). Year 1 response rates were also maintained through Year 5 in PSO-4 patients and in PSO-1 patients who crossed over from placebo. These findings support the long-term safety and durable efficacy profile of deucravacitinib through 5 years in Japanese patients with psoriasis.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Dermatological Association.
This study investigated whether gasdermin E (GSDME) deficiency attenuates caerulein/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in mice. Wild-type (WT) and Gsdme-knockout (KO) mice were assigned to PBS or caerulein/LPS groups. SAP was induced by repeated intraperitoneal caerulein injections for 2 consecutive days followed by a single LPS injection. Pancreatic injury was assessed by body weight change, pancreas-to-body weight ratio, serum amylase and lipase, and histopathology. Inflammatory responses were evaluated by serum cytokines, serum and pancreatic IL-33, HMGB1 subcellular distribution, and MPO/F4/80 immunohistochemistry. Cell death and gasdermin pathway activation were assessed by TUNEL staining and Western blotting. Compared with WT mice subjected to caerulein/LPS challenge, Gsdme-deficient mice showed less body weight loss, lower histopathological scores, and attenuated systemic inflammatory responses. Serum and pancreatic IL-33 levels, HMGB1 nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation, and circulating HMGB1 were also reduced in KO mice. Consistently, pancreatic MPO- and F4/80-positive inflammatory cell infiltration, TUNEL positivity, and the cleaved caspase-3/total caspase-3 ratio were reduced in KO mice. Cleaved and full-length GSDME were absent in KO pancreatic tissues, whereas caerulein/LPS treatment increased cleaved GSDME levels in WT mice. The cleaved caspase-1/total caspase-1 ratio and cleaved GSDMD expression increased after caerulein/LPS challenge in both genotypes, but neither was further elevated in KO mice, indicating no detectable compensatory upregulation of the canonical caspase-1/GSDMD pathway at the examined time point. Collectively, Gsdme deficiency alleviated caerulein/LPS-induced pancreatic injury and systemic inflammation, indicating that the caspase-3/GSDME axis contributes importantly, but not exclusively, to experimental SAP.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a major driver of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Despite existing therapeutic approaches, significant residual risk persists, highlighting the need for improved treatment strategies. TLR4 and AT1R signaling pathways play critical roles in DKD pathogenesis. The present study investigates the therapeutic potential of a novel ligustrazine-telmisartan combination in both in-vivo and in-vitro models of DKD. The streptozotocin (55 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered in Sprague-Dawley rats to induce Type-1 diabetes. After four weeks, animals were treated with ligustrazine (40 and 80 mg/kg/day, i.p.), telmisartan (10 mg/kg/day, p.o.), and combination (ligustrazine 40 mg/kg/day, i.p. + telmisartan 5 mg/kg/day, p.o.). Post-treatment, plasma, urine, and kidney tissues were collected and analyzed for biochemical, histological, and immunohistochemical parameters. In-vitro, high-glucose-rh-TGF-β1-stimulated NRK-52E cells were treated with ligustrazine-50 µM, telmisartan-10µM, and their combination, alongside TAK-242-100nM (TLR4 inhibitor control), and cell samples were processed for cell viability, morphology, immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. The ligustrazine-telmisartan combination therapy significantly improved metabolic and renal function, while histology revealed notable preservation of renal architecture. The co-treatment significantly suppressed TLR4/NF-κB/NLRP3, AT1R/TGF-β/β-catenin, along with IL-18, IL-1β, and caspase-1 in diabetic rats, as revealed by immunohistochemistry and qRT-PCR. Moreover, co-treatment reduced TLR4, p-NF-κB, α-SMA, vimentin, and collagen-I expression in NRK-52E cells as assessed by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. Collectively, the combination therapy showed greater anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic potential than monotherapies. These findings indicate that ligustrazine with telmisartan enhances renoprotection and allows a lower telmisartan dose, potentially reducing its side effects and improving overall therapeutic outcomes in DKD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Circadian rhythm disruptions are increasingly recognized in disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), yet analysis of 24 h gene expression patterns remains challenging due to the lack of reliable reference genes for normalization. Even commonly used housekeeping genes may exhibit circadian oscillations, which can confound rhythmic gene expression analyses and hinder biomarker identification. To address this limitation, we evaluated the gene expression stability of 11 commonly used housekeeping genes in blood collected every 6 h over 24 h period from 40 adults with varying OSA severity and controls. Stability ranking by analytical tools RefFinder and EndoGeneAnalyzer identified ACTB (β-actin) and RPL13A (ribosomal protein L13a) as the most consistent reference genes, with minimal intra- and inter-individual variability across sampling times and disease groups. Their suitability was assessed by personalized cosinor analysis of core clock genes (BMAL1, PER2, CRY1), demonstrating that appropriate normalization enables detection of circadian oscillations in clinical samples. Using the optimal normalization, CosinorPy analysis of the core clock genes revealed significant circadian oscillations of at least one clock gene in the studied participants. These findings establish ACTB and RPL13A as robust reference genes for blood-based circadian studies of OSA and provide an important methodological framework for future circadian biomarker research.
Osteoarthritis (OA) involves progressive extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation in articular cartilage. We previously revealed that the m6A demethylase ALKBH5 stabilizes Runx2 mRNA in chondrocytes via YTHDF1, thereby increasing MMP and ADAMTS expression, causing ECM degradation. However, the transcriptional co-regulators of Runx2 remain unidentified.OA was induced in mice via injection of sodium monoiodoacetate (MIA). The histological architecture and proteoglycan content of the articular cartilage were evaluated using H&E and Safranin O-Fast Green staining, while subchondral bone microarchitecture was assessed by micro-computed tomography. Circulating proinflammatory cytokine levels were determined by ELISA.Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analyses of articular cartilage from MIA-induced OA mice identified the transcriptional coactivator EYA1 (Eyes Absent Homolog 1) and CIITA (Class II Major Histocompatibility Complex Transactivator) as novel Runx2-interacting proteins. In vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that EYA1, CIITA, and Runx2 form a functional EYA1-CIITA-Runx2 complex that binds to the promoters of MMP and ADAMTS genes and activates their expression. Silencing any member of the complex significantly reduced transcription of these matrix-degrading enzymes. Furthermore, we identified EYA1 as a phosphatase that dephosphorylates CIITA at serine 782, a phosphorylation site targeted by Pim3 (provirus integration site for Moloney murine leukemia virus 3) under inflammatory conditions.Our findings uncover a previously unrecognized transcriptional mechanism in OA pathogenesis, in which EYA1 promotes ECM degradation by regulating CIITA dephosphorylation and assembling a transcriptional complex with CIITA and Runx2. Targeting this pathway may provide a promising therapeutic strategy for OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Smoking is considered as the major risk factor for the progression of atherosclerosis (AS), whereas the underlying immunological mechanism remains unclear.ApoEKO mice were treated with cigarette tar via inhalation in vivo, mouse arterial endothelial cells (MAECs) and human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) were treated with cigarette tar in vitro. Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was utilized to explore the molecular mechanism of CD4+ Granzyme A (Gzma+) T cells activation in smoke-related atherosclerotic progression.Cigarette tar significantly aggravated the development of atherosclerotic lesion in ApoEKO mice. Results of scRNA-seq and validation experiments further indicated that cigarette tar inhalation significantly increased the proportion of CD4+Gzma+ T cells, a T cell subset which could lead to endothelial cells (ECs) damage. Concurrently, a significant reduction in the proportion of ECs was observed. Of note, cigarette tar enhanced interaction of ECs and CD4+Gzma+ T cells via mediating major histocompatibility complex II (MHC II) signaling pathway activation rather than other antigen-presenting cell types. Mechanistically, class II major histocompatibility complex transactivator (CIITA), a key transcriptional regulator of MHC II genes expression, was identified to connect with protein arginine methyltransferases-5 (PRMT5), scoring highest via utilizing mass spectrometry analysis, which triggered symmetrical dimethylation modification of H3R2 and promoted MHC II expression. Meanwhile, CIITA knockout/knockdown, and PRMT5 inhibition/knockdown inhibited the infiltration of CD4+Gzma+ T cells and MHC II expression of ECs, alleviating the atherosclerotic lesion severity. Additionally, findings from the in vitro co-culture experiment provided additional confirmation that activated CD4+Gzma+ T cells possessed the capability to induce cytotoxicity in ECs.Cigarette tar augments the expression of MHC II in ECs via promoting CIITA nuclear translocation and PRMT5-mediated methylation modification. This process activates CD4+Gzma+ T cells, which subsequently mediate ECs injury in turn, thereby contributing to the progression of AS. Therefore, CIITA and PRMT5 represent potential therapeutic targets for interventions aimed at mitigating smoke-related AS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a highly aggressive mesenchymal bone tumor with a dismal prognosis, and its underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Ribosomal protein L13a (RPL13a) contributes to tumorigenesis, while methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14), a core m6A methyltransferase, modulates OS progression via epigenetic regulation. Our prior work identified the PTEN/PI3K/AKT pathway as a key OS regulator. This study aimed to clarify the regulatory interplay among METTL14, RPL13a and PTEN/PI3K/AKT in OS, and verify that METTL14 mediates RPL13a m6A modification to regulate PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling, affecting OS cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration and invasion. METTL14, RPL13a and m6A levels were detected in OS cell lines (U2OS, HOS, MG-63) and normal osteoblast hFOB1.19 cells. RPL13a knockdown, PTEN overexpression and METTL14 overexpression models were established in U2OS/HOS cells. M6A-RIP-qPCR and MeRIP assays confirmed RPL13a m6A modification, with functional (CCK-8, flow cytometry, wound healing, Transwell) and molecular (RT-qPCR, Western blotting) assays performed in triplicate replicates. METTL14 and RPL13a were upregulated in U2OS/HOS cells versus hFOB1.19 (p < 0.05). METTL14 overexpression elevated RPL13a m6A modification by ~1.8-fold (p < 0.05); si-RPL13a reduced RPL13a mRNA by > 60% (p < 0.05). RPL13a knockdown promoted apoptosis, inhibited proliferation/migration/invasion, downregulated PTEN and activated PI3K/AKT signaling, partially reversed by PTEN overexpression. METTL14 overexpression upregulated RPL13a/PTEN and suppressed PI3K/AKT activation, abolished by RPL13a knockdown. METTL14 appears to mediate the m6A methylation modification of RPL13a mRNA. Downregulation of RPL13a is associated with reduced PTEN and activated PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling, which may ultimately contribute to suppressed osteosarcoma cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while promoting apoptosis.© 2026 Orthopaedic Research Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41994077 is a review article
Excessive macrophage activation is thought to be the primary cause of the cytokine storm that results in severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) complications. The underlying mechanisms remain elusive, and more research is needed to find disease-critical genes and develop effective therapies. In this study, we used publicly accessible microarray datasets of cytokine storm in cultured human monocyte-derived macrophages challenged with cytokines, and employed bioinformatics, such as weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and differential expression analysis, to dissect gene expression profiles and identify putative disease-related molecules. Initially, three co-expression modules and related key genes were discovered, which highly correlated to macrophages challenged with cytokines. Then, a preliminary gene expression signature consisting of 203 upregulated and 24 downregulated genes was identified. Next, protein-protein interaction analysis and hub gene identification were used to identify 11 crucial hub genes, namely tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21), interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1), guanylate binding protein 1 (GBP1), transporter associated with antigen processing 1 (TAP1), nuclear myosin I (NMI), interleukin 15 receptor subunit alpha (IL15RA), apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), E74-like ETS transcription factor 4 (ELF4) and guanylate binding protein 2 (GBP2). Then, the LINCS L1000 characteristic direction signatures search engine (L1000CDS2) was employed for drug repurposing studies. Dasatinib was predicted to be the leading therapeutic compound to perturb the gene signature of cytokine storm in human macrophages. Connectivity Map results suggested that dasatinib may normalize ICAM-1 expression. In addition, the results of molecular docking studies and molecular dynamics simulation revealed that dasatinib may spontaneously interact with ICAM-1 via several key residues and form a relatively stable protein-ligand complex. Overall, this work, based on an analysis of co-expression correlation networks, gene expression signatures and pivotal genes in human macrophages challenged with cytokines, combined with drug repurposing studies, demonstrated that dasatinib may interact with ICAM-1 and could be a potential candidate for cytokine storm. However, due to the limitations of computational approaches, further experimental validation is necessary.
Lupus nephritis (LN), a prevalent and serious manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus, exhibits particularly high incidence in children, yet its pathogenesis remains incompletely elucidated. This study aimed to investigate differentially expressed genes in LN and elucidate their regulatory mechanisms.Bioinformatics analysis was conducted on the publicly available glomerular gene expression dataset GSE32591 from the Gene Expression Omnibus to identify hub genes. Based on this screening, Guanylate-binding protein 2 (GBP2) was selected for further investigation. In vivo, GBP2 expression was assessed in renal tissues from pediatric LN patients by immunohistochemistry. In a murine LN model, the expression levels of GBP2 and key pyroptosis-associated markers were evaluated using immunohistochemistry, RT-qPCR, and western blotting. In vitro, a podocyte pyroptosis model was induced by lipopolysaccharide and adenosine triphosphate treatment. Functional experiments involving Gbp2 knockdown and overexpression, followed by a rescue experiment where absent in melanoma 2 (Aim2) was overexpressed in Gbp2-knockdown cells, were performed to elucidate its role and underlying mechanisms in regulating pyroptosis.Bioinformatics analysis identified OAS1, OAS2, IRF7, GBP2, and GBP1 as hub genes. An upregulation of GBP2 and gasdermin D (GSDMD) was observed in the glomeruli of children with LN, showing a strong correlation with 24-hour urinary protein excretion. Renal tissues from LN mice exhibited markedly increased expression of GBP2, AIM2, Caspase-1, and GSDMD compared to controls. Following siRNA-mediated knockdown of Gbp2 in vitro, a consequent reduction was observed in pyroptosis-associated proteins (GSDMD, AIM2) and diminished secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18. Conversely, Gbp2 overexpression aggravated these effects. Pyroptosis suppressed by Gbp2 knockdown was partially restored upon concurrent overexpression of Aim2.Our results demonstrate that GBP2 expression is significantly upregulated in LN and promotes podocyte pyroptosis, likely contributing to renal injury. These findings suggest that GBP2 facilitates the progression of pediatric LN by activating the pyroptotic pathway and triggering the release of inflammatory cytokines.Copyright: © 2026 Sun et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Integrated stress response promotes drug-induced AKI. Activating transcription factor 4 promoted tubular epithelial cell pyroptosis in drug-induced AKI by activating signal transducer and activator of transcription 1-guanylate-binding protein 2 signaling.Pyroptosis plays a critical role in eliminating pathogens and facilitating tissue repair; however, sustained pyroptosis-driven inflammation accelerates kidney injury and disease progression. Thus, elucidating the mechanisms governing pyroptosis is essential for developing effective therapies for inflammatory kidney diseases, such as AKI, which currently lacks specific treatment options.Changes in tubular epithelial cells (TEC) after drug-induced AKI were assessed using single-cell RNA sequencing, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. Mechanistic insights were obtained through RNA sequencing, genomic manipulation, transcriptomic profiling, luciferase reporter assays, coimmunoprecipitation, and Western blotting. TEC fate was further evaluated using transgenic mouse models and pharmacological interventions.We identified activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) as a key regulator of inflammation in drug-induced AKI. As the master regulator of the integrated stress response, ATF4 was markedly upregulated in renal tubules and positively correlated with kidney dysfunction in both human and murine AKI models. The specific deletion of ATF4 in TECs significantly ameliorated kidney dysfunction, inflammation, and mitochondrial apoptosis, whereas ATF4 activation exacerbated these pathological features. Mechanistically, ATF4 suppression inhibited signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 phosphorylation and disrupted its interaction with guanylate-binding protein 2, thereby attenuating NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3 inflammasome activation, preventing TECs' pyroptosis, and improving kidney function. Notably, inhibition of ATF4-either pharmacologically using our prioritized integrated stress response antagonist ERMT1 or through engineered nanobiologics-mediated silencing of TECs-significantly reduced renal inflammation and injury.ATF4 promoted pyroptosis in drug-induced AKI through signal transducer and activator of transcription 1-guanylate-binding protein 2 signaling.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life-threatening aortic disease without effective pharmacological therapies. Mounting evidences suggested that RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) exert pivotal roles in various diseases including AAA. The public human AAA microarray dataset and the RBP database were used to screen the involved RBPs during AAA formation. The integrated analysis identified zinc finger protein 36 (ZFP36) as a potential mediator of AAA. Underexpression of ZFP36 was observed in aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) within aneurysms from patients and angiotensin II (AngII)-induced mice. Zfp36 deficiency in VSMCs augmented extracellular matrix (ECM) degeneration, VSMC phenotypic switch, and apoptosis, which promoted AAA formation in the AngII-infused model. In contrast, VSMC-specific overexpressing Zfp36 inhibited AAA formation. Mechanically, guanylate binding protein 2 (GBP2), a GTPase related to interferon-γ signaling, was identified as a direct target gene of ZFP36 by analyzing the bulk sequencing data. We confirmed that ZFP36 regulates VSMC phenotypic switch via manipulating Yes-associated protein1/TEA domain transcription factor 1 (YAP1/TEAD1) signaling in a GBP2-dependent manner. Additionally, we further verified that dexamethasone (Dex) could promote glucocorticoid receptor nuclear translocation and Zfp36 transcription. In vivo Dex administration prevented AAA formation in a ZFP36-dependent manner. These findings revealed the regulatory role of ZFP36/GBP2/YAP1/TEAD1 signaling in VSMC phenotypic switch and AAA formation, and provided a novel strategy (Dex) for AAA treatment.Copyright © 2026 Zhinan Wu et al.
Allograft inflammatory factor-1 (AIF1) is a scaffold protein expressed predominantly in myeloid antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and associated with inflammatory disease. Although genetic studies have linked AIF1 loci to immune traits, its causal role in physiological immune responses remains poorly defined. We examined AIF1 deficiency using a conditional knockout model with deletion of AIF1 in hematopoietic cells (AIF1-cKO) during development and challenged mice with Listeria monocytogenes. AIF1 loss impaired bacterial clearance and diminished inflammatory responses, indicating reduced immune readiness during infection. AIF1-cKO mice exhibited impaired expansion of antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, accompanied by regulatory-associated phenotypic changes. These defects were associated with reduced cDC1 frequencies and transcriptional and phenotypic remodeling of splenic macrophages toward a less inflammatory state. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed transcriptional alterations across multiple myeloid and lymphoid compartments despite AIF1 expression being largely restricted to myeloid APC, indicating broader immune remodeling. Increased Tgfbr1 expression was a recurrent feature across several immune populations. Consistent with this finding, AIF1-deficient cells displayed enhanced TGFβ responsiveness, while Tgfbr1 silencing partially restored inflammatory responses and T cell priming ex vivo . These findings establish AIF1 as a regulator of immune competence that promotes effective innate and adaptive immune responses.
Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphoid cells that play a critical role in tumor surveillance by releasing proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic granules. NKp44 is an activating receptor that promotes NK cell secretion of TNF and IFN-γ upon engaging platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGF-DD), a ligand frequently overexpressed in aggressive malignancies, such as glioblastoma (GBM). However, whether NKp44-mediated recognition of PDGF-DD can directly enhance NK cell cytotoxicity against tumor cells remains unclear. Here we investigated the effect of PDGF-DD stimulation on NK cell cytotoxicity by analyzing the activity of cytotoxic transcriptional programs and cytolytic function of human NK cells in flow cytometry-based cytotoxicity assays. We demonstrate that PDGF-DD stimulation of NKp44 activates a procytotoxic transcriptional program and secretion of key cytotoxic effectors, including granzyme B, perforin, and Fas ligand. This response significantly enhanced NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity of GBM cell lines (T98G, U87, LN229 and A172) and HEK 293T cells, but not the NK-sensitive K562 cell line. Furthermore, the negation of PDGF-DD-mediated cytotoxicity and lytic granule secretion upon blockade and genetic ablation of NKp44 reveal that PDGF-DD augmentation of NK cell tumoricidal activity is tumor-type specific and reliant upon NKp44. Our data highlight a novel mechanism by which NK cells can detect soluble components of the tumor secretome, expanding the paradigm of NK cell activation beyond classical cell-surface interactions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1), a Ca²+/calmodulin-regulated serine/threonine kinase, plays a pivotal role in epidermal homeostasis, tissue repair, and cutaneous wound healing. However, its role in oral mucosal repair remains unclear. In this study, we established a global Dapk1 knockout mouse model to create 1.5-mm circular palatal wounds in mice aged 8 to 12 wk. Our results demonstrated that DAPK1 deficiency significantly accelerated oral wound closure. In vitro experiments further confirmed that DAPK1 modulates the proliferation and migration of human oral keratinocytes. Mechanistic investigations through transcriptome sequencing revealed activation of the Wnt signaling pathway in Dapk1 knockout mice following injury, characterized by pronounced upregulation of Wnt3, Fosl1, and Ctnnd2, alongside downregulation of innate immune mediators, including Il7, Ccl28, Ccr2, Ccl5, and Cxcr4. These findings suggest that loss of DAPK1 enhances epithelial proliferation and migration while attenuating local inflammation. Furthermore, we developed a novel microneedle patch for drug delivery, consisting of GelMA tips encapsulating the DAPK1 inhibitor (HS-38) and a hyaluronic acid substrate. This system facilitated efficient mucosal penetration and localized delivery. Application of the microneedle patch significantly improved wound healing in both normal and diabetic mouse models. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized role of DAPK1 in oral mucosal repair and highlight its potential as a molecular target to accelerate wound healing.
Liver fibrosis is a common pathological stage in the progression of various chronic liver diseases. Current interventions primarily focus on anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, lacking safe and universally applicable strategies for reversal. This work aimed to clarify the chemical basis and the potential mechanism of the ethyl acetate fraction of Prismatomeris tetrandra(HG). The constituents of HG were characterized by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry(LC-MS). Transcriptomic dataset was analyzed for differential expression, which was followed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis(WGCNA). Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) analyses were performed to build a &quot;constituent-target-pathway&quot; network for key pathway screening. A mouse liver fibrosis model was induced by carbon tetrachloride(CCl_4). After mice were administered continuously for 4 weeks, serum alanine aminotransferase(ALT), aspartate aminotransferase(AST), malondialdehyde(MDA), hyaluronic acid(HA), laminin(LN), procollagen type Ⅲ(PCⅢ), and type Ⅳ collagen(COL4) were detected. Hematoxylin and eosin(HE) and Masson staining were performed to assess histological changes, and Western blot was employed to detect the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) and the proteins related to death receptor pathway(Fas, Fas ligand [FasL], and Fas-associated death domain protein [FADD]). The results showed that the fraction was rich in coumarins and flavonoids. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that the signaling primarily acted on apoptosis-related pathways. In vivo, HG ameliorated liver injury and oxidative stress, reduced serum fibrosis markers, alleviated collagen deposition, and suppressed hepatic stellate cell(HSC) activation, with an overall dose-dependent trend. Network pharmacology results indicated that HG may reduce extracellular matrix(ECM) deposition by rebalancing inflammatory receptor-kinase signaling and promoting death receptor-mediated programmed cell death. Collectively, HG exhibits a clear anti-fibrotic effect in hepatic fibrosis models, potentially through mobilization of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway, which provides a basis for further validation of key monomers and causal mechanisms.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42367238 is a review article
As an important aquaculture bivalve, the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas faces severe constraints in artificial reproduction, where low sperm motility often leads to fertilization failure and limits the sustainable development of the oyster aquaculture industry. In the present study, the variation of sperm from different oyster individuals was observed, and high-quality sperm possessed intact, elongated flagella with no structural abnormalities, while low-quality sperm showed shortened flagella with frequent tangling or coiling defects. Transcriptomic analysis comparing high- and low-quality sperm revealed significantly reduced expression of genes associated with sperm motility and release (CgAIF1, CgAchR, CgSEX), sperm quality and development (CgEP4, CgIFi2b), and cryoprotection (CgISPs) in low-quality sperm. Notably, an allograft inflammatory factor (designed as CgAIF1) encoding EF-hand domain, known as Ca2+ binding activity, was among the most significantly downregulated in low-motility sperm. CgAIF1 is highly expressed in haemocytes, ganglia, and gonads of oysters. Incubation with the recombinant AIF1 protein (rCgAIF1) significantly improved sperm curvilinear velocity, thereby enhancing the overall motility of C. gigas sperm. Furthermore, rCgAIF1 incubation increased intracellular Ca2+ levels (2.13-fold at 30 min, 2.71-fold at 60 min) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity (1.44-fold at 30 min, 1.24-fold at 60 min) in sperm, suggesting potential roles in calcium homeostasis regulation and antioxidant defense. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that CgAIF1 significantly enhances motility of oyster sperm, providing a scientific basis for artificial breeding and seed production in oyster aquaculture.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic inflammation and macrophage activation are hallmarks of diabetic kidney disease (DKD). Allograft inflammatory factor-1 (AIF-1), a macrophage-associated inflammatory protein, aggravates high glucose-induced inflammation and oxidative stress in glomerular endothelial cells. However, its pathogenic role in macrophages remains unclear. In the present study, knockdown of AIF-1 by adeno-associated virus (AAV) in db/db mice improved renal function and ameliorated renal histopathological changes, with restored E-cadherin expression and reduced α-SMA expression. Double immunofluorescence staining demonstrated that AIF-1 was predominantly localized in infiltrating macrophages in diabetic kidneys. To explore the underlying mechanisms, THP-1-derived macrophages and a macrophage-tubular epithelial cell coculture system were employed. Under high-glucose conditions, AIF-1 knockdown inhibited NF-κB activation and reduced interleukin-1β (IL-1β) secretion in macrophages, whereas AIF-1 overexpression enhanced both responses. In coculture experiments, AIF-1 overexpression in macrophages promoted epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related changes in HK-2 cells, as evidenced by decreased E-cadherin expression and increased α-SMA expression. Neutralization of IL-1β with canakinumab partially reversed the EMT changes induced by AIF-1 overexpression, indicating that IL-1β is a key mediator of macrophage-tubular epithelial cell communication. In conclusion, AIF-1 in macrophages promotes EMT of renal tubular epithelial cells through the NF-κB/IL-1β axis and may represent a potential therapeutic target for DKD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
LARC patients exhibit heterogeneity in their response to total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT). This study aims to screen and identify plasma biomarkers associated with treatment response to TNT in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) to predict pathological complete response (pCR).Pre-treatment plasma RNA sequencing and functional annotation were performed in six patients with LARC (three pCR and three non-pCR) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with TNT response. The Olink® Target 96 Oncology II panel was employed to validate a subset of DEGs at the protein level in 61 patients with LARC (20 pCR vs 41 non-pCR), 6 patients with rectal adenoma (RA), and 6 healthy participants. Correlations between pretreatment plasma differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), clinicopathological characteristics, and TNT-response in LARC patients were analyzed.Compared to the non-pCR group, 365 DEGs were upregulated, and 198 were downregulated in the pCR group. These genes are involved in pathways related to cell growth and death, signal transduction, metabolism, the immune system, insulin secretion, mitophagy, and neutrophil extracellular trap formation. The transcriptomic analysis was conducted in a limited discovery cohort, and these DEGs identified should be interpreted with extreme caution due to the high risk of false discovery. Plasma levels of Fas ligand (FASLG), CD160, andLY6/PLAUR domain containing 3 (LYPD3) in the pCR group were higher than those in the non-pCR group. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed that a multi-marker panel consisting of FASLG, CD160, and LYPD3 was superior to three individual indicators in predicting pCR, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.791 (95% CI, 0.668-0.885). According to the optimal cutoff value of the multi-marker panel, all LARC patients were stratified into high (n=34, 55.7%) and low (n=27, 44.3%) expression groups. Statistical analysis indicated that high expression group was associated with a higher proportion of EMVI-negative status and a higher pCR rate. High expression of multi-marker was associated with pCR in multivariate analysis.The multi-marker panel consisting of FASLG, CD160, and LYPD3 may serve as a candidate predictor of treatment response in LARC patients undergoing TNT, warranting further validation in larger, multicenter cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Wen, Zou, Kang, Chen, Zhu, Fan and Huang.
Apoptosis plays a paramount role in endometriosis pathogenesis. This process may be disrupted in endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) of women with endometriosis, causing them to continue developing in ectopic locations. This study investigates the role of apoptosis in endometriosis by comparing the protein expression of Fas (CD95) and Fas ligand (FasL) in ESCs of women with endometriosis to that of healthy controls. Additionally, it examines the gene expression levels of Fas and FasL in peritoneal fluid mononuclear cells (PFMCs) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from both groups. Lastly, it assesses the levels of soluble FasL (sFasL) released by ESCs and PFMCs. ESCs were isolated from ectopic (n = 11) and eutopic samples (n = 17) of endometriosis patients and control (n = 10), alongside peritoneal fluid and blood samples from 10 patients and 10 controls. Using Western blot, Fas and FasL protein expression were assessed in ectopic endometrial stromal cells (EESCs), eutopic endometrial stromal cells (EuESCs), and control endometrial stromal cells (CESCs). Additionally, quantitative real-time PCR was used to evaluate Fas and FasL gene expression in PFMCs and PBMCs. Lastly, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was conducted to assess the concentration of sFasL molecules in the supernatants of EESCs, EuESCs, CESCs, and PFMCs. Importantly, Fas protein levels in EESCs and EuESCs were lower than in CESCs (p < 0.01). Conversely, FasL protein levels were elevated in EESCs compared to both EuESCs and CESCs (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). Additionally, patients with endometriosis exhibited higher Fas gene expression in PFMCs (p < 0.05) and lower expression in PBMCs (p < 0.01) compared to controls, along with reduced FasL expression in PFMCs (p < 0.01). Moreover, the concentration of sFasL molecules released from EESCs was significantly higher compared to EuESCs (p < 0.01) and CESCs (p < 0.05). All in all, our findings shed light on the understanding of the involvement of the Fas/FasL pathway in endometriosis pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains a leading cause of neurological morbidity and mortality, characterized by complex pathophysiological cascades. Here, we investigate the role of the transcription factor EGR1 (early growth response 1) in modulating mitochondrial homeostasis via the HIF1A (hypoxia inducible factor 1, alpha subunit)-BNIP3 (BCL2/adenovirus E1B interacting protein 3) axis following TBI. Using integrated transcriptomic and epigenomic analyses, we identified EGR1 as a critical regulator of TBI pathology, with its expression acutely upregulated in neurons post-injury. Genetic ablation of Egr1 in mice significantly reduced neuronal apoptosis, preserved dendritic integrity, and ameliorated cognitive and sensorimotor deficits. Mechanistically, chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase assays revealed that EGR1 directly binds to the Hif1a promoter, repressing its transcription. Loss of EGR1 enhanced HIF1A-BNIP3-mediated mitophagy, reducing mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress both in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, silencing HIF1A or BNIP3 abrogated the neuroprotective effects of EGR1 deficiency. These findings establish a novel EGR1-HIF1A-mitophagy signaling axis as a key determinant of TBI outcomes, highlighting EGR1 as a potential therapeutic target.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTB/β-actin: actin, beta; AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2/adenovirus E1B interacting protein 3; CCI: controlled cortical impact; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CUT&Tag: cleavage under targets and tagmentation; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; eGFP: enhanced green fluorescent protein; EGR1: early growth response 1; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; GO: gene ontology; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1, alpha subunit; IGV: integrative genomics viewer; KEGG: Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; Lv: lentivirus; MAP2: microtubule-associated protein 2; mCherry: monomeric cherry fluorescent protein; mRFP: monomeric red fluorescent protein; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MUT: mutant; MWM: Morris water maze; NAB1: Ngfi-A binding protein 1; NAB2: Ngfi-A binding protein 2; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation; OLIG2: oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PECAM1/CD31: platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PFA: paraformaldehyde; PPI: protein-protein interaction; Puro: puromycin; ROI: region of interest; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBI: traumatic brain injury; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TSA: tyramide signal amplification; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling; VDAC1: voltage-dependent anion channel 1; WT: wild-type.
Tumefactive demyelinating lesions (TDLs) are large lesions (> 2 cm) seen in demyelinating syndromes such as multiple sclerosis, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disorder, and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder. They rarely occur in children and most often have a monophasic course. TDLs can cause severe presentations given their size, edema, and associated mass effect, making prompt diagnosis and effective treatment crucial.We present four adolescents with TDLs who tested negative for aquaporin-4-IgG and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-IgG and did not meet diagnostic criteria for any known demyelinating disorder. All four patients underwent extensive and inconclusive workup for the etiology of their radiographic and clinical findings and received multiple immunomodulators with some clinical improvement, although three of the four had multiple relapses.TDLs that do not meet criteria for the known demyelinating syndromes can cause significant neurological sequelae. We describe four adolescents with neurological symptoms associated with TDLs. Given the rare but serious occurrence of these non-syndromic TDLs, more well-powered studies are critical to guide diagnosis, management, and response to therapies and eventually develop evidence-based protocols to manage other patients with similar presentations.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of the Child Neurology Society published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Child Neurology Society.
Coordinated signaling among neurons, glia, and the vasculature is essential for nervous system development. In the developing retina, spontaneous cholinergic retinal waves are the primary source of neural activity during the early maturation of the vasculature. Here, we test the hypothesis that retinal waves influence angiogenesis and the maturation of the glial-vascular interface. We first found that retinal vasculature grew normally in mice lacking β2-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-mediated retinal waves, demonstrating that early spontaneous activity is not required for angiogenesis. We next examined how Müller glia establish and signal at the developing glial-vascular interface. Sparse labeling and immunohistochemistry revealed that Müller glial lateral processes closely associate with endothelial tip cells during intermediate and deep layer angiogenesis and establish Aquaporin-4-enriched endfeet at vascular contact sites from the earliest stages of vascular growth. These associations were stable across development and persisted even when diving-vessel trajectories were disrupted in Piezo2 conditional knockouts. To determine whether glial signaling at the vascular interface is coupled to retinal waves, we combined two-photon calcium imaging with simultaneous retinal ganglion cell voltage-clamp recordings. Müller glial endfeet exhibited robust, compartmentalized calcium transients that were largely uncorrelated with retinal waves. Although blocking GABA-A receptors with gabazine increased wave-correlated activity in all glial compartments, the majority of endfoot calcium signaling remained wave-independent. Together, these findings support a model in which both angiogenesis and establishment of the Müller glial-vascular interface proceed through wave-independent developmental programs.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550248 is a review article
Pediatric central nervous system neuroimmune disorders frequently lead to cognitive, emotional, and fatigue-related complications that are often unrecognized, leading to treatment delays. We describe a novel multidisciplinary neuroimmunology-neuropsychology clinic model aimed to enhance access to neuropsychologic evaluations, identify neurocognitive impairment, and facilitate expedited treatment plans.Between February and October 2025, 28 patients <18 years of age with neuroimmune disorders involving the brain underwent performance-based, targeted neuropsychologic screenings before their neuroimmunology appointment. Assessments included measures of verbal memory, processing speed, working memory, attention, fine motor speed, and language. Standalone and embedded performance validity measures were administered. Neuropsychologic assessments and clinical data were retrospectively analyzed.Diagnoses included multiple sclerosis (n = 3), myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (n = 11), aquaporin-4 negative neuromyelitis optica (n = 4), N-methyl-D-aspartate encephalitis (n = 3), and acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (n = 2) with 50% of patients receiving maintenance immunotherapy. Three patients (11%) had prior attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder diagnoses and one (4%) had a prior autism diagnosis. Wait times for neuropsychologic evaluations decreased from 15 months to 1.9 months (t = 66.55, P < .0001). Cognitive impairments were detected in 71% of patients, and 36% had developed anxiety or adjustment disorders related to their disorder. Sixty-five percent of patients had cognitive issues identified and addressed during the clinic visit without need for additional evaluation.Our integrated neuropsychology-neuroimmunology multidisciplinary clinic expands access to neuropsychologic care, facilitates earlier identification of neurocognitive sequelae, and allows for development of patient-specific treatment plans. This multidisciplinary clinic model reduces appointment burden-potentially enhancing patients' and caregivers' emotional well-being and quality of life. Future studies will evaluate long-term clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Guanylate binding protein 5 (GBP5) belongs to an interferon (IFN)-inducible subfamily of guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases). GBP5 has been shown to promote NLRP3 inflammasome assembly, thereby playing a key role in innate immunity and inflammation. However, the role of GBP5 in the development of various cancers and its potential as a biomarker in cancer prognosis are still unexplored.In this study, we used integrative analysis of multi-omics data, including global gene expression, tumor immune infiltration, biological functions, molecular signatures, diagnostic value of biomarkers and responses to therapies in pan-cancer to evaluate the potential of GBP5 as a biomarker in cancer prognosis.Here, it is found that GBP5 is aberrantly expressed in the infiltrated immune cells in most cancer types. Furthermore, GBP5 not only responds to external cytokines, but also controls the expression of chemokines and immunomodulators. Consistently, GBP5 expression is positively associated with infiltration levels of immune cells in diverse cancer types. Moreover, GBP5 exhibits robust predictive power for response outcomes of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy compared to other 21 established biomarkers.Altogether, our study strongly suggests that GBP5 is an onco-immunological biomarker with potential value for cancer prognosis and the efficacy prediction of ICB immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disorder characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive cartilage degradation, largely driven by the pathological activation of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS). Prim-O-glucosylcimifugin (POG), a chromone derivative isolated from Saposhnikovia divaricata, has been shown to exert potent anti-inflammatory and anti-proliferative effects. However, its anti-RA effect and mechanism remain unclear. The present investigation aimed to evaluate the anti-RA activity of POG and delineate the underlying mechanisms. To determine the anti-proliferative effect of POG on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)-activated RA-FLS, cell counting kit-8 and western blot were performed. In a murine collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model, the in vivo efficacy of POG was assessed via measurements of paw swelling, arthritis scores, and hematoxylin and eosin staining. POG attenuated RA progression by suppressing RA-FLS proliferation. Proteomics revealed that its anti-arthritic action involves modulating pyroptosis, which was examined using western blot, immunohistochemistry, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and immunofluorescence. In vitro, POG reduced lactate dehydrogenase release and downregulated critical mediators of the P2X7R/NLRP3-pyroptosis axis. In the CIA model, POG decreased levels of interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18, inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome activity, and alleviated synovial pyroptosis. Mechanistically, guanylate-binding protein 5 (GBP5) was confirmed as a POG target through molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, cellular thermal shift assay, cycloheximide chase assay, drug affinity responsive target stability, surface plasmon resonance, and small interfering RNA experiments. The POG-GBP5 interaction lowered GBP5 expression, diminishing its stimulatory effect on NLRP3 and ultimately blocking pyroptosis. In conclusion, POG exerts anti-arthritic effects by targeting the GBP5/P2X7R-NLRP3 axis to inhibit pyroptosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Guanylate-binding protein 5 (GBP5) is an interferon-inducible GTPase that promotes NLRP3 inflammasome activation. However, its role in acute lung injury (ALI) and its relationship with compensatory anti-inflammatory pathways remain poorly defined. Methods: We employed an LPS-induced ALI mouse model with AAV-mediated intratracheal GBP5 knockdown, transcriptomic profiling (RNA-seq), and in vitro studies in THP-1 macrophages. GBP5 overexpression and CD73 overexpression were used to dissect the GBP5-HIF-1α-CD73-adenosine axis. RNA-seq analysis of LPS-induced lung injury revealed upregulation of GBP family members (particularly GBP5) and multiple adenosine metabolism genes. AAV-mediated GBP5 knockdown in male C57BL/6 mice (6-8 weeks, n = 10/group) attenuated LPS-induced lung injury, reduced NLRP3 inflammasome activation (NLRP3, ASC, cleaved caspase-1), and decreased inflammatory cytokine levels (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α). In parallel, GBP5 knockdown suppressed CD73 and ADORA2A expression, whereas GBP5 overexpression in THP-1 macrophages enhanced CD73 expression via HIF-1α-dependent transcriptional activation confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assays. CD73 overexpression in turn elevated cAMP/p-CREB signaling and suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activity. GBP5 exacerbates ALI through NLRP3 inflammasome activation while simultaneously driving a compensatory HIF-1α-CD73-adenosine-cAMP-CREB feedback loop that restrains excessive inflammation. Targeting this dual pathway may offer novel therapeutic strategies for ALI and ARDS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bats are asymptomatic reservoirs of several zoonotic viruses. This may result from long-term co-evolution between viruses and bats, that have led to host adaptations contributing to an effective balance between strong antiviral responses with innate immune tolerance. To better understand these virus-host interactions, we combined comparative transcriptomics, phylogenomics and functional assays to characterize the evolution of bat innate immune antiviral factors. First, we stimulated the type I interferon immune pathway in Myotis yumanensis primary cells and identified guanylate-binding protein 5 (GBP5) as the most differentially expressed interferon-stimulated gene (ISG). Phylogenomic analyses showed that bat GBP5 has been under strong episodic positive selection, with numerous rapidly evolving sites and species-specific gene duplications, suggesting past evolutionary arms races. Functional tests on GBP5 orthologs from 10 bat species covering the >60 million years of Chiroptera evolution revealed species- and virus-specific restrictions against RNA viruses (retrovirus HIV, and rhabdoviruses European bat lyssavirus and VSV), which are typical signatures of adaptations to past viral epidemics. Interestingly, we also observed a lineage-specific loss of the GBP5 prenylation motif in the common ancestor of Pipistrellus and Eptesicus bats. Importantly, resurrection of the prenylation motif in Eptesicus fuscus GBP5 in corresponding bat cells was associated with different GBP5 subcellular localization and loss of anti-rhabdoviral functions, suggesting specific adaptation to ancient viral epidemics ~22 million years ago. Altogether, our results highlight adaptations that contribute to bat specific immunity and provide insights into the functional evolution of antiviral effector GBP5.Copyright: © 2026 Le Corf et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease associated with high mortality rates upon rupture. Guanylate binding protein 5 (GBP5) has been implicated in the exacerbation of inflammatory responses in various diseases, including rosacea, osteoarthritis, and lupus nephritis. However, its role in the development and progression of AAA remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of GBP5 in the development and progression of AAA. An angiotensin II (Ang II)-infused ApoE−/− mice, LPS-treated Raw 264.7 cells, and a Raw 264.7 and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) co-culture system were used to investigate the role of GBP5 in AAA progression. The effects of GBP5 knockdown on AAA were determined using histological assessments, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, western blot, ELISA, and RT-qPCR experiments. GBP5 expression was upregulated in the aorta of Ang II-treated mice. Knockdown of GBP5 attenuated AAA progression, as evidenced by the reduced aortic diameter and preserved elastin integrity. GBP5 knockdown reduced inflammation and suppressed VSMC phenotypic switching in Ang II-induced mice. Mechanistically, GBP5 knockdown reversed Ang II-induced upregulation of TLR4 and p-NF-κB p65 levels in mouse aortas. In vitro, GBP5 silencing attenuated LPS-induced M1 macrophage polarization by modulating the TLR4/NF-κB pathway. Furthermore, GBP5 knockdown in macrophages inhibited VSMC phenotypic switching in the co-culture system. Our results demonstrated that GBP5 knockdown attenuated AAA progression by reducing reduced inflammation and inhibiting phenotypic switching of VSMCs through inactivation of the TLR4/NF-κB pathway. These results indicated that targeting GBP5 may be a potential therapeutic approach for AAA.
Human guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs), induced by interferon in endothelial cells, are being explored as therapeutic targets for viral and metabolic diseases. However, their role in dengue pathogenesis, particularly regarding endothelial leakage in severe cases, remains unclear. To shed some light, the current study assessed mRNA and plasma GBP5 levels in 26 patients with severe dengue (SD), 15 with warning signs (DWW), 15 without warning signs (DWOW), and 10 healthy controls, using RT-PCR and ELISA, respectively. Correlation between plasma GBP5 levels and oxidative stress markers, such as plasma lipid peroxidation, Protein oxidation, and DNA oxidation, was further investigated. GBP5 knockdown was assessed for its effects on oxidative stress and endothelial integrity in the HUVEC model. During the early febrile phase, GBP5 level was significantly elevated in all dengue cases compared to HC; towards the critical phase, there was a sharp decline observed in SD (p < 0.001) and DWW (p < 0.05) cases, which is accompanied by an increased oxidative stress marker, indicating its plausible association with dengue severity. Interferon stimulation of HUVEC cells significantly increased GBP5 expression (p < 0.05) and sustained oxidative stress levels, while GBP5 silencing raised oxidative stress and lowered endothelial integrity. Our findings highlight the potential of GBP5 as a prognostic marker and therapeutic target in the management of dengue.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Myocardial infarction (MI) is a complex pathological process characterized by vascular injury, myocardial necrosis, and dynamic immune interactions. Migrasomes are recently identified organelles generated during cell migration, serving as key mediators of intercellular communication. However, the contribution of migrasomes to immune-mediated myocardial injury remains largely unexplored. This study demonstrated an increase in migrasome production following MI. Migrasomes can be produced by macrophages, and M1 macrophage-derived migrasomes (M1-Migs) were particularly found to exacerbate myocardial tissue injury. Quantitative proteomic sequencing demonstrated increased levels of guanylate binding protein 5 (GBP5) within M1-Migs. Viral knockdown experiments demonstrated that M1-Migs mediate their deleterious effects predominantly via GBP5. Pathway enrichment analysis further indicated that GBP5 activates nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling, thereby promoting myocardial cell apoptosis. Analysis of clinical samples has also demonstrated a positive correlation between macrophage-derived migrasomes and MI. Notably, colchicine may mitigate post-infarction myocardial injury by suppressing migrasome production by M1 macrophages. Overall, these findings identify macrophage-derived migrasomes as key amplifiers of myocardial injury, providing potential therapeutic targets for MI and may provide additional evidence for the clinical application of colchicine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Human spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are crucial for spermatogenesis and male reproduction. Although abnormal pyroptosis caused by inflammation impacts male fertility, the molecular mechanisms underlying the pyroptosis of human SSCs are elusive. To induce pyroptosis, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was introduced into the vas deferens of mice. RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) of human SSCs was employed to identify NOD-like receptor thermal protein domain associated protein 3 (NLRP3), and RNA interference (RNAi) was used to determine the function and mechanism of NLRP3 in controlling pyroptosis of human SSCs. Guanylate-binding protein 4 (GBP4) was analyzed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses, and the impact of GBP4 on NLRP3 in human SSCs was subsequently assessed using GBP4 short hairpin RNA (shRNA). LPS reduced the testicular weight of mice, disrupted spermatogenesis, and increased the levels of inflammatory factors (interleukin-18 [IL-18] and interleukin-1β [IL-1β]). NLRP3 siRNAs antagonized the LPS-induced increases in IL-18 and IL-1β, proliferative inhibition, and pyroptosis (Caspase 1 and Gasdermin D) in human SSCs. An association between GBP4 and NLRP3 in human SSCs was identified by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). Human SSCs with stable GBP4 shRNA decreased the expression level of NLRP3 in human SSCs under inflammatory conditions. Collectively, these results imply that LPS-induced NLRP3 activation enhances the pyroptosis of human SSCs via the regulation of GBP4. This study offers novel insights into molecular mechanisms underlying the fate determinations of human SSCs.Copyright ©The Author(s)(2026).
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare but potentially life-threatening complication associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This condition is characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, which can result from either an acquired deficiency of the ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 13 (ADAMTS13) or through complement-mediated mechanisms. We present the case of a 55-year-old female with a history of Sjögren's disease and a recent diagnosis of SLE. She exhibited severe anemia, thrombocytopenia, and symptoms suggestive of immune-mediated TTP with markedly reduced ADAMTS13 activity. Her diagnosis was confirmed through clinical evaluations, laboratory tests, and immunologic findings. After initially responding to urgent therapy with plasmapheresis, high-dose corticosteroids, and rituximab, the addition of caplacizumab led to a rapid and sustained improvement in her thrombocytopenia. This report highlights the successful use of caplacizumab in lupus-associated immune TTP and reviews diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.Copyright © 2025, Kulkarni et al.
Viral infection induces production of type I interferons and expression of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) that play key roles in inhibiting viral infection. Here, we show that the ISG guanylate-binding protein 5 (GBP5) inhibits N-linked glycosylation of key proteins in multiple viruses, including SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. GBP5 binds to accessory subunits of the host oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) complex and blocks its interaction with the spike protein, which results in misfolding and retention of the spike protein in the endoplasmic reticulum likely due to decreased N-glycan transfer and reduces the assembly and release of infectious virions. Consistent with these observations, pharmacological inhibition of the OST complex with NGI-1 potently inhibits glycosylation of other viral proteins, including MERS-CoV spike protein, HIV-1 gp160, and IAV hemagglutinin, and prevents the production of infectious virions. Our results identify a novel strategy by which ISGs restrict virus infection and provide a rationale for targeting glycosylation as a broad antiviral therapeutic strategy.IMPORTANCEViral infection induces production of type I interferons and expression of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) that play key roles in inhibiting viral infection. We found that the interferon-stimulated gene GBP5 is induced by SARS-CoV-2 infection in vitro and in vivo. GBP5 inhibits N-glycosylation of key proteins in multiple viruses, including SARS-CoV-2. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) complex blocks host cell infection by SARS-CoV-2, variants of concern, HIV-1, and IAV, indicating future translational application of our findings.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Prurigo nodularis (PN) is a chronic neuroimmune skin disorder characterized by intensely pruritic nodules, severe impairment of quality of life and significant psychosocial burden. Prior to the approval of targeted therapies, management relied on conventional agents with limited efficacy. Recent evidence of its neuroimmune pathogenesis have led to the approvement of targeted biologics. Dupilumab, a human monoclonal antibody targeting IL-4/IL-13-axis, has been the first targeted therapy approved for PN.We report a 75-year-old woman presenting with severe, treatment-naïve generalized pruritus (IGA PN-S 4; NRS 9/10; DLQI 21) with extensive nodular involvement of the trunk and extremities, complete sleep deprivation and important anxiety and depression (HADS.A 12; HADS-D 11). Following diagnosis of PN, treatment with dupilumab (600 mg loading dose, then 300 mg every 2 weeks) was initiated in October 2025. At approximately 6 weeks, marked pruritus reduction (NRS 3) and sleep restoration were observed. Progressive improvement continued over time. At 4 months follow-up, complete remission was nearly achieved (NRS 1, IGA PN-S 1, DLQI 2, HADS-A 4, HADS-D 3), with no adverse events reported.This case corroborates and extends the existing evidence on dupilumab efficacy in the treatment of moderate-to-severe PN, with particularly rapid and comprehensive responses across pruritus, skin lesions, sleep and psychosocial outcomes in an elderly patient, through IL-4/IL-13 inhibition. Our findings support dupilumab as a safe and effective targeted option for severe PN, also in older patients where conventional systemic therapies, such as corticosteroids or immunosuppressants, carry a high risk of adverse effects.Copyright © 2026 Ventre, Nuccio, Gangemi and Ricciardi.
Macrophages and their fused counterpart, foreign body giant cells (FBGCs), have a determining influence on the long-term functionality of implanted biomaterials, coordinating biomaterial resorption and fibrous encapsulation. Modulating macrophage phenotype into favorable polarization states is a widely adopted strategy to attempt steering the foreign body response. However, the links between macrophage phenotype and FBGC formation and function are unknown. The goal of this study was to determine the fusion potential of well-defined macrophage polarization states, and to explore whether prior polarization state translates to FBGC phenotype in primary human macrophages.Peripheral blood-derived human macrophages were first stimulated toward M0/M1/M2a/M2c polarizations after which they were stimulated to fuse into FBGCs using interleukin-4 (IL-4). After fusion, these cells were re-stimulated to investigate the effect of the respective cytokine cocktails on FBGC phenotype.The results showed that M1 macrophages had increased IL-4 receptor expression, an altered cytoskeleton, and significantly increased expression of fusion-associated genes, when compared to unstimulated, M2a and M2c macrophages. FBGCs could form from all polarization states. Although M1 polarization led to a decreased fusion percentage, the FBGCs that did form were larger in terms of cell size and number of nuclei. FBGCs showed significant changes in their cytoskeletal structure by forming rings of actin around the periphery of the cell, which was consistent for the different macrophage polarizations. Expression of select genes and proteins associated with macrophage polarization states were either maintained during fusion, or reacquired by FBGCs upon restimulation with polarizing factors.These results provide evidence for the existence of FBGC polarization states, emphasizing the importance of the macrophage population and microenvironment in regulating FBGC formation. This suggests that FBGC function may be steerable, for example using biomaterial design parameters, in order to improve long-term biomaterial functionality and integration.Copyright © 2026 Conner, de Kort and Smits.
To evaluate the effect of sublingual immunotherapy with dust mite drops on serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) levels and symptom improvement in allergic rhinitis (AR) patients.A prospective randomized controlled trial enrolled 300 AR patients sensitized to dust mites, randomly assigned to control group (conventional treatment, n = 150) and research group (conventional treatment plus sublingual dust mite drops, n = 150) for 6 months.Compared with controls, the research group showed significantly greater reductions in interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-17 (IL-17), ECP, TARC, VCAM-1, lower adverse reaction rates, improved pulmonary function including forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1), peak expiratory flow (PEF), FEV1/FVC ratio, and small airway function including maximal mid-expiratory flow (MMEF), expiratory flow rate at 50% of FVC (MEF50), expiratory flow rate at 25% of FVC (MEF25), as well as reduced symptom scores (all p < 0.05).Sublingual immunotherapy with Dust mite drops appears effective in suppressing systemic inflammation, minimizing treatment-related adverse events, enhancing both small airway and pulmonary function, and easing the clinical manifestations of allergic rhinitis.
Epithelial barrier dysfunction is an early feature of pediatric rhinitis, but the upstream epithelial events that initiate this process remain incompletely defined. Because lipid remodeling and epithelial-derived alarmins may interact during type 2 inflammation, this study examined whether acid sphingomyelinase (ASM)-ceramide signaling is associated with thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) release and barrier impairment in a pediatric rhinitis-related nasal epithelial model.Primary human nasal epithelial cells were stimulated with interleukin-4 (IL-4)/interleukin-13 (IL-13) (10 ng/mL each, 24 h) to model a type 2 inflammatory epithelial milieu. ARC39 was used to inhibit ASM, and siRNA was used to knock down TSLP. TSLP was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); barrier function was assessed by FITC-dextran permeability and ZO-1 immunofluorescence; ceramide levels were measured using a commercial kit; and sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1) expression was evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting.IL-4/IL-13 stimulation increased TSLP release and impaired epithelial barrier integrity (P < 0.001). ARC39 reduced ceramide levels and decreased TSLP output (P < 0.001) in a concentration-dependent manner, with an evident effect at approximately 5 µM, whereas SMPD1 expression remained largely unchanged. TSLP knockdown improved barrier function indicators (P < 0.05), and combined ARC39 treatment did not produce an additional effect beyond TSLP knockdown.ASM-ceramide axis modulation was associated with TSLP release and epithelial barrier dysfunction in this in vitro model. These findings suggest a possible link among sphingolipid remodeling, epithelial alarmin responses, and barrier injury, but further mechanistic and clinical validation is needed.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547464 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539867 is a review article
Dupilumab, an interleukin-4 receptor α antagonist, has transformed the treatment of severe asthma but has been linked to reports of lymphoma, particularly cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Whether lymphoma risk differs between dupilumab and other asthma biologics remains unclear.What is the comparative incidence of lymphoma among adult asthma patients treated with dupilumab versus omalizumab, mepolizumab, or benralizumab?We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the TriNetX global federated health research network. Adults with asthma initiating dupilumab, omalizumab, mepolizumab, or benralizumab between 2015 and 2025 were identified. Propensity score matching balanced baseline demographic and clinical characteristics. The primary outcome was lymphoma incidence. Secondary outcomes included lung, breast, and prostate cancers. Hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using Cox proportional hazards models.After matching, 10,841 dupilumab users were compared with 10,841 omalizumab users, 8,088 mepolizumab users, and 7,330 benralizumab users. Over up to 5 years of follow-up, lymphoma incidence rates per 1,000 person-years were 1.5 versus 0.8 (HR, 1.25; 95% CI, 0.78-2.00) for dupilumab versus omalizumab, 1.5 versus 1.5 (HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.53-1.56) versus mepolizumab, and 1.5 versus 1.7 (HR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.47-1.51) versus benralizumab. No significant differences were observed for breast, lung, or prostate cancer.No statistically significant differences in lymphoma incidence were observed between dupilumab and other biologics. These findings provide comparative reassurance regarding lymphoma risk with dupilumab over up to 5 years of follow-up.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) lacks effective disease-modifying therapeutics. Probiotics, promising neuroprotective candidates, exert benefits mainly by modulating gut-brain-axis (GBA) signaling. This study explored the anti-AD effects and mechanisms of Rhodopseudomonas pseudopalustris (R. pse). Using Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) AD models, we evaluated AD-related phenotypes (learning deficits, paralysis) after R. pse administration, and performed genetic analysis and metabolomic profiling to clarify its regulatory pathways and metabolites. Mechanistically, R. pse significantly alleviated AD-related phenotype in C. elegans. It upregulated γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS-1) to enhance the glutathione (GSH)-dependent antioxidant defense. Knockout of the oxidation repair enzyme methionine sulfoxide reductase A-1 (MSRA-1) abolished the neuroprotective effects of R. pse, which was rescued by methionine. R. pse also activated activating transcription factor 7 (ATF-7)-mediated innate immunity and transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling, with pantothenic acid as its functional metabolite. Collectively, R. pse is a potential anti-AD bacterium that mitigates AD model pathogenesis by enhancing the cellular antioxidant capacity, providing experimental evidence for bacteria-based AD interventions.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483182 is a review article
Immune evasion in lung cancer is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. This study identifies key epigenetic drivers of immune escape in lung cancer and elucidates how they remodel the tumor microenvironment to induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion. We performed a CRISPR-negative screen targeting 159 epigenetic regulators (mEpi driver library) in a mouse model of lung metastasis and used single-cell sequencing, cell-based experiments, and chromatin analyses to identify mechanisms of immune escape. SET domain-containing protein 2 (SETD2) emerged as a critical suppressor of immune evasion. Loss of SETD2 markedly increased lung colonization and metastasis in mice with intact T cells, whereas this effect disappeared after T cell depletion. Mechanistically, SETD2 recruited adenine-thymine-rich interaction domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) to maintain a repressive chromatin state at genes encoding the chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, 2, and 5. Loss of the SETD2-ARID2 axis increased secretion of these chemokines and recruited polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, which inhibit T cell responses. These cells increased expression of free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), depleted arginine from the tumor environment, and impaired signaling required for T cell activation, driving cytotoxic T cells into terminal exhaustion. Depleting polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells or conditionally deleting FFAR2 in these cells restored T cell function and reduced metastasis of SETD2-deficient tumors. These findings show that loss of SETD2 creates an arginine-depleted, immunosuppressive tumor environment through a chemokine-FFAR2 pathway, revealing an epigenetic-metabolic immune checkpoint that may inform combination treatments for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xuyu Gu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529768 is a review article
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) is a frequent and severe complication after liver transplantation and hepatectomy, driven by sterile inflammation and lacking effective therapies. Regulator of G-protein signaling 16 (RGS16) is an inflammatory modulator, but its role in HIRI remains unclear. We found that RGS16 expression was markedly increased in the livers of post-hepatectomy patients and positively correlated with neutrophil extracellular trap formation (NETosis). Using hepatocyte-specific Rgs16 knockout and transgenic mouse models, we demonstrated that Rgs16 deficiency attenuated hepatic inflammation and apoptosis after HIRI, whereas Rgs16 overexpression significantly exacerbated liver injury. Integrated multi-omics analyses, including RNA-seq, MeRIP-seq, and mass spectrometry, identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) as a key downstream effector of RGS16. Mechanistically, RGS16 competitively binds YTH domain family protein 3 (YTHDF3), displacing poly(A)-nuclease deadenylation complex subunit 3 (PAN3) and stabilizing m6A-modified Cxcl1 mRNA, thereby enhancing CXCL1 expression. Elevated CXCL1 promotes hepatocyte apoptosis and inflammation through C-X-C chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) and drives neutrophil recruitment and NETosis. Pharmacological inhibition of CXCL1 or degradation of NETs with DNase I significantly alleviated RGS16-induced liver injury. Collectively, RGS16 aggravates HIRI by amplifying hepatocyte-intrinsic CXCL1-CXCR2 signaling and CXCL1-mediated neutrophil recruitment and NETosis, suggesting RGS16 and its downstream pathways as potential therapeutic targets for HIRI.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508199 is a review article
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation is a common respiratory condition, particularly when accompanied by eosinophilia, which mediates inflammatory responses that significantly impair the integrity of the airway mucosal barrier. This study aims to elucidate the roles of interleukin-24 (IL-24) and eosinophils (EOS) in COPD-associated tissue remodeling, focusing on their effects on the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and extracellular matrix (ECM) components in pulmonary fibroblasts, as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms. Based on the differential expression of IL-24 between healthy individuals and COPD patients and its correlation with EOS, we differentiated EOL-1 cells into EOS using butyrate and established a co-culture system with pulmonary fibroblasts. Concurrently, groups of fibroblasts were stimulated with varying concentrations of IL-24 alone. The regulatory effects on pro-inflammatory mediators and ECM expression were systematically analyzed using flow cytometry, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunofluorescence, and Western blotting. Under the present experimental conditions, IL-24 treatment was associated with enhanced fibrotic responses in pulmonary fibroblasts. Furthermore, compared with butyrate treatment alone, the combination of IL-24 and butyrate further increased the differentiation rate of EOL-1 cells into EOS cells. Differentiated EOS further stimulated pulmonary fibroblasts to secrete pro-inflammatory factors IL-6 and IL-8, as well as the tissue remodeling-related factor vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), thereby exacerbating the fibrotic process. This study confirms that IL-24 promotes the maturation and differentiation of EOL-1 cells and can induce a fibrotic phenotypic transformation in pulmonary fibroblasts. This interaction participates in regulating inflammatory responses and tissue remodeling during COPD progression, highlighting the critical role of eosinophil-fibroblast crosstalk in the pathological mechanisms of the disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Local tumor progression and metastasis substantially compromise the therapeutic efficacy of thermal ablation in liver cancer. Although the inflammatory microenvironment contributes, the specific role of neutrophils after ablation remains unclear. This study aimed to clarify the roles of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) after thermal ablation and evaluate the translational potential of NETs-targeted strategies.The adverse prognostic impact of thermal ablation-induced neutrophil and inflammatory changes in liver cancer was retrospectively evaluated. Circulating NETs were quantified by ELISA, and their association with local tumor progression was analyzed. An orthotopic liver cancer mouse model and patient-derived neutrophils elucidated the spatiotemporal dynamics and mechanisms of ablation-induced NETs, and pharmacologic inhibition was used to investigate NET formation, function, and translational potential.Thermal ablation rapidly activates neutrophils, elicits a sustained local inflammatory response and NET formation, which is closely associated with poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer. Depletion of neutrophils, inhibition of NET formation, or degradation of thermal ablation-induced NETs markedly suppressed post-ablation tumor progression. Mechanistically, tumor cell-intrinsic reactive oxygen species generated under heat stress contributed to nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) activation, promoting p65 binding to theC-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) promoter and transcriptional upregulation of CXCL1. This process drove CXCL1-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) signaling and led to the formation of a characteristic band-like NETs-enriched zone at the peri-ablational margin. In turn, NETs activated toll-like receptor (TLR)9-dependent NF-κB,mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in heat-stressed cancer cells, reinforcing a pro-inflammatory feedback loop. Concurrently, NETs impaired CD8+ T-cell responses and fostered an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Together, this coordinated pro-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effect promotes liver cancer progression following thermal ablation, which can be effectively reversed by dual blockade of NF-κB and CXCR2.Our research uncovers a novel mechanism underlying tumor-promoting inflammation after thermal ablation, highlighting the critical role of NETs as mediators through TLR9 activation of downstream inflammatory pathways and the significant potential of NETs-targeted strategies in combination with thermal ablation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Cerebral ischemia remains a major cause of disability, and the contribution of the hyperacute immune response is increasingly recognized. The aim of this study was to investigate the local inflammatory response in the affected brain of stroke patients with large vessel occlusion during the hyperacute phase of stroke.To decipher the role of myeloid immune cells in stroke-induced inflammation, we performed an unsupervised multiomics analysis of innate immune pathways in ischemic blood obtained directly from the occluded middle cerebral artery in 54 patients undergoing mechanical recanalization. Paired nonischemic arterial blood served as an internal control.Stroke triggered a local hyperacute activation of classical monocytes and neutrophils in the ischemic cerebral vasculature, with interleukin (IL)-1β emerging as a key mediator of inflammation. Elevated plasma adenosine triphosphate levels and inflammasome priming in intravascular monocytes were associated with IL-1β production within the occluded middle cerebral artery within 4.5 hours of stroke onset. IL-1β release coincided with increased neutrophil-attracting chemokines (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 [CXCL1], IL-8). Locally activated neutrophils formed neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) within the ischemic vasculature, a hallmark of thromboinflammation. Postmortem analyses revealed NET deposition within ischemic brain parenchyma.These findings indicate increased IL-1β expression and enhanced NET formation within the cerebral circulation in stroke caused by large vessel occlusion, suggesting that these mechanisms might contribute to early stroke pathophysiology and represent potential targets for immunomodulatory strategies. ANN NEUROL 2026.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Neurosyphilis has resurged globally, presenting a significant public health threat, yet challenges in early diagnosis persist. This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic value of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 5(CXCL5), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for neurosyphilis.A total of 126 patients were included in this study, comprising 44 syphilis patients and 82 diagnosed with neurosyphilis (28 asymptomatic and 54 symptomatic). We assessed CSF chemokines, CSF parameters, and lymphocyte subpopulations. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were conducted to identify predictors of neurosyphilis. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was employed to evaluate the diagnostic value of individual and combined biomarkers for this condition.CSF CXCL1 and CSF CXCL8 levels were significantly elevated in the neurosyphilis group compared to the syphilis group (P < 0.05). Additionally, CSF white cell count (CSF WBC) and CSF total protein (CSF TP) levels were increased, while CD4 levels were decreased. Binary logistic regression analysis identified CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP as independent predictors of neurosyphilis. ROC curve analysis revealed areas under the curve (AUC) for CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP distinguishing neurosyphilis from syphilis of 0.766 and 0.830, respectively. The combined assessment of CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP further improved diagnostic accuracy, with an AUC of 0.865.The levels of CSF CXCL1 and CSF CXCL8 are valuable for diagnosing neurosyphilis and assessing treatment efficacy. The combined detection of CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP enhances diagnostic precision.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Jin, Liu, Xue, Gu, Du, Liu and Xu.
Classical swine fever (CSF), caused by classical swine fever virus (CSFV), continues to threaten the global swine industry. Current E2-based subunit vaccines are limited by their slow adaptation to emerging viral strains and insufficient cell-mediated immunity. To address these challenges, we developed mRNA-lipid nanoparticle (LNP) vaccines encoding modified forms of the CSFV E2 glycoprotein. In this study, we constructed three novel mRNA-LNP vaccines encoding engineered E2 proteins: E2-mRNA-LNP, XCL1-E2-mRNA-LNP containing the X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (XCL1) to target dendritic cells, and Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP containing ubiquitin (Ub) to enhance antigen presentation through Ub-mediated degradation. These vaccines were evaluated in rabbits and piglets. Following challenge with the live attenuated CSFV C-strain, rabbits immunized with XCL1-E2-mRNA-LNP or Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP exhibited neither fever nor detectable viral RNA in the spleens. Notably, immunization with Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP conferred complete protection against challenge with the highly virulent CSFV Shimen strain in piglets, outperforming the E2-based subunit vaccine, the unmodified E2-mRNA-LNP, and XCL1-E2-mRNA-LNP. Further analysis revealed that Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP elicited more potent antibody and cell-mediated immune responses. Our study demonstrates that Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP is a promising vaccine candidate for CSF prevention.IMPORTANCECSF remains a major threat to the global swine industry. Recently, a moderately virulent subgenotype CSFV 2.1c strain was isolated and reported in China. Given that the mRNA platform enables rapid vaccine development to address emerging pathogens, we constructed three nucleoside-modified mRNA-LNP vaccines expressing engineered E2 glycoproteins of CSFV, including E2-mRNA-LNP, XCL1-E2-mRNA-LNP (targeting dendritic cells), and Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP (enhancing proteasomal degradation). Evaluated in rabbits, XCL1-E2- and Ub-E2-mRNA-LNPs conferred strong protection against CSFV C-strain challenge, with no fever or detectable virus in tissues. Both induced stronger antibody responses than E2-mRNA-LNP. Notably, Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP provided complete protection in piglets, superior to the E2-based subunit vaccine, E2-mRNA-LNP, or XCL1-E2-mRNA-LNP groups and eliciting robust humoral and cellular immunity. These results highlight Ub-E2-mRNA-LNP as a highly promising candidate for an effective CSF vaccine.
Emerging evidence from recent pathological investigations has demonstrated that inflammation plays a critical role in the progression of gastrointestinal diseases. However, the causal relationships between inflammation and gastritis still lack further validation.Mendelian Randomization (MR) was used to evaluate the causal effects of inflammatory factors on gastritis. The datasets of 91 inflammatory factors were obtained from the Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) database, and the genetic datasets of Acute Gastritis (AG) and Chronic Gastritis (CG) were obtained from the GWAS database and the FinnGen database, respectively. Heterogeneity and pleiotropy were assessed with Cochran's Q test and MR-Egger's intercept test, respectively.After accounting for heterogeneity and horizontal pleiotropy, MR analysis identified Axin-1, C-X-C motif chemokine 10 (CXCL10), and Fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand to be significantly associated with acute gastritis, while linking CXCL10, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, Leukemia Inhibitory Factor Receptor (LIFR), hepatocyte growth factor, and fibroblast growth factor 19 to chronic gastritis. Furthermore, reverse MR analysis revealed that CG could significantly downregulate the levels of Interleukin-2 receptor subunit beta, Interleukin-15 receptor subunit alpha, Interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha, LIFR, and Interleukin-1-alpha.This study found that AG and CG were associated with distinct inflammatory factors and that CG could reverse the levels of inflammatory factors. CXCL10 and LIFR may be potential biomarkers for gastritis.This study systematically identified causal relationships between inflammatory factors and gastritis. The identified inflammatory factors offer new insights into potential targets for gastritis.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited targeted treatment options and poor clinical outcomes. We developed an AI-driven multi-omics pipeline that links prognostic modeling to multitarget drug repurposing for ESCC. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization was integrated with bulk transcriptomic datasets to identify esophageal cancer-related druggable genes that are differentially expressed. Cox regression and non-negative matrix factorization were then used to define prognostic genes and molecular subgroups, and a Lasso Cox model with SHapley Additive explanation provided an interpretable prognostic signature. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis mapped the hub genes interleukin 22 receptor subunit alpha 1 (IL22RA1) and family with sequence similarity 221 member A (FAM221A) to epithelial cell populations and associated them with proliferative and DNA repair programs, supporting their role in tumor progression, supporting their role in ESCC progression. To translate these targets into a therapeutic strategy, we applied machine learning-based drug sensitivity prediction, ADMET-AI toxicity, pharmacokinetic profiling, and molecular docking, which converged on the checkpoint kinase inhibitor AZD7762 (3-(carbamoylamino)-5-(3-fluorophenyl)-N-[(3S)-piperidin-3-yl] thiophene-2-carboxamide) as a promising multitarget inhibitor of IL22RA1 and FAM221A. In vitro assays confirmed that IL22RA1 and FAM221A promote ESCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Taken together, this AI-driven multi-omics framework delivers a prognostic model, defines biologically distinct ESCC subgroups, and nominates AZD7762 as a rational multitarget drug repurposing candidate, providing a precision oncology strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypertensive nephropathy (HTN) is a major public health concern worldwide. This study aims to investigate the potential causal relationships between inflammatory factors and HTN, as well as to identify possible underlying biological pathways. Using genome-wide association study data from large publicly available population cohorts, we applied a bidirectional 2-sample Mendelian randomization approach to investigate whether 91 inflammatory factors influence the risk of HTN. Additionally, we examined whether HTN has a potential causal effect on the levels of these inflammatory factors. Finally, we performed pathway enrichment analysis to explore the underlying biological pathways involved in these associations. Mendelian randomization results indicated that interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha, caspase 8, CUB domain-containing protein 1, and stem cell factor were associated with a reduced HTN, while interleukin-18 receptor 1, leukemia inhibitory factor, oncostatin-M, and interferon-gamma were associated with an increased HTN. Pathway enrichment analysis further identified several biological pathways potentially involved in the development of HTN. This study provides evidence for causal relationships between multiple inflammatory factors and HTN, offering valuable insights that may inform disease management strategies and policy development related to HTN.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Mucosal barrier integrity is vital for homeostasis with commensal organisms while preventing pathogen invasion. Here we show that fungal-induced immunosurveillance enhances resistance to fungal outgrowth and tissue invasion by remodeling the oral mucosal epithelial barrier in mouse models of adult and neonatal Candida albicans colonization. Epithelial subset expansion and tissue remodeling are dependent on interleukin-22 and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling, through a non-canonical receptor complex composed of glycoprotein 130 coupled with the interleukin-22 receptor subunit alpha-1 and the interleukin-10 receptor subunit beta. Epithelial proliferation enhanced antifungal host defenses through the upregulation of antimicrobial peptide expression. Immunosurveillance-induced epithelial remodeling is restricted to the oral mucosa, whereas barrier architecture is reset once fungal-specific immunity developed. Collectively, these findings identify fungal-induced transient mucosal remodeling as a critical determinant of resistance to mucosal fungal infection during early stages of microbial colonization.© 2026. The Author(s).
The aim of the present study is to compare cold adaptation mechanisms between cold-tolerant Hezuo and cold-sensitive Bama pigs.A total of 40 healthy pigs (75 days old), including 20 Hezuo pigs and 20 Bama pigs, were used in this study. A 2×2 factorial design was employed, with factors including breed (Hezuo vs. Bama) and ambient temperature (23±2°C vs. -15±2°C). After 7 days of acclimation, pigs in the cold groups were exposed to low temperature and slaughtered on days 0, 1, 5, and 10 (n = 5 per group per time point). All pigs had ad libitum access to feed and water. Lung histology, wet/dry ratio, oxidative and inflammatory biomarkers, apoptosis, and transcriptomics were analyzed.The results showed that Hezuo pigs displayed less severe alveolar septal thickening, inflammatory infiltration, and fine bronchial fold extension during cold exposure than Bama pigs. The W/D ratio dramatically decreased in Hezuo pigs while rising in Bama pigs. Hezuo pigs exhibited significantly higher aquaporin-1 (AQP-1) and aquaporin-5 (AQP-5) expressions than Bama pigs during the middle and late phases. Bama pigs displayed increased reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and decreased glutathione (GSH) levels. Hezuo pigs maintained stable GSH levels and no significant changes in late-phase inflammatory markers. Bama pigs had a greater apoptosis density and more TUNEL-positive cells than Hezuo pigs, which was related to the down-regulation of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and the up-regulation of Bcl2-associated X protein (Bax) and Caspase-3. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that in Bama pigs, distinctive genes such as mucin 5B (MUC5B), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), alveolar macrophage chemotactic factor-II (AMCF-II), interleukin 22 receptor subunit alpha 1 (IL22RA1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 16 (CCL16), SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), keratin 5 (KRT5) contribute to mucus hypersecretion, extracellular matrix degradation, and sustained inflammatory chemotaxis, worsening tissue damage. In contrast, Hezuo pigs possess unique genes such as aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A2 (ALDH1A2), acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 6 (ACSL6), ACSM5, aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3/2 (NR4A3/2), G protein subunit gamma 4 (GNG4), glycogen synthase 2 (GYS2), which enhance lipid metabolism, facilitate aldehyde detoxification, and mitigate oxidative stress, thereby orchestrating a cellular protection.Hezuo pigs exhibit protective molecular mechanisms, suggesting potential targets for cold-resistance breeding.
Both osteochondrosis and osteomalacia are metabolic disorders that are impacted by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. The objective of this research is to explore the potential causal connection between plasma metabolomics and the development of osteochondrosis and osteomalacia, with a focus on inflammatory factors. Summary statistics were collected for 91 inflammatory cytokine traits, 1400 plasma metabolite traits, and osteochondrosis and osteomalacia traits from publicly accessible genome-wide association studies. Causality was evaluated through two-sample Mendelian randomization analyses, which included methods such as inverse variance weighting, Mendelian randomization-Egger, weighted median, weighted mode, and simple mode analyses. Extensive sensitivity analyses were conducted to evaluate the reliability, diversity, and identification of horizontal pleiotropy in the results. The results of our study indicate that 4 cytokines play a significant causal role in osteochondrosis: C-X-C motif chemokine 5 (P = .029, OR = 0.864, 95% CI = 0.758-0.985), interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha (P = .041, OR = 1.244, 95% CI = 1.009-1.534), interleukin-33 (P = .009, OR = 0.786, 95% CI = 0.657-0.941), and macrophage inflammatory protein 1a (P = .021, OR = 0.829, 95% CI = 0.707-0.971). Furthermore, we identified an association between inflammatory cytokines and osteomalacia, specifically with tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 9 (P = .010, OR = 1.820, 95% CI = 1.157-2.863). Subsequent screening of metabolites related to osteochondral (X-12798 levels, P = 9.95E-05) and osteomalacia (adenosine 5'-monophosphate to glutamate ratio, P = 1.27E-04) was conducted based on these inflammatory factors. The research indicates that IL-33, CXCL5, IL-20RA, and MIP-1α could potentially play crucial roles as upstream factors influencing the development of osteochondrosis, while metabolites like X-12798 may serve as promising biomarkers in this context. Furthermore, TNFRSF9 is suggested as an upstream determinant of osteomalacia, with the AMP to glutamate ratio identified as a potential biomarker. These results underscore the importance of utilizing these cytokines and metabolites in clinical practice for distinguishing between osteochondrosis and osteomalacia, as well as for exploring potential therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Colorectal adenocarcinoma (CRA) is the third most frequently detected cancer worldwide. The relationship between iron and CRA is ambiguous and interactive, especially when considering the heterogenesis of colon and rectal adenocarcinoma. This research utilized Mendelian randomization to examine how serum iron levels are linked to colon and rectal adenocarcinoma, respectively. Furthermore, proteomic data-based mediation analysis was followed by enrichment analysis to explore mediating pathways. Analysis using magnetic resonance imaging showed that higher levels of iron in the blood were linked to a higher risk of developing colon and rectal adenocarcinoma. In proteomic mediation analysis, signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and interleukin-22 receptor subunit alpha-1 (IL-22RA1) show the highest mediating ratios among 32 proteins associated with colon adenocarcinoma. In contrast, neural cell adhesion molecule 1 (NCAM1), torsin-1a-interacting protein 2 (TOR1AIP2), and polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR) exhibit the highest mediating ratios among 31 proteins linked to rectal adenocarcinoma. The signaling of interferon-alpha/beta and interleukin-6(IL-6) were the most relevant pathways in colon adenocarcinoma. The apoptosis pathways were the main pathways involved in rectal adenocarcinoma. Our research clarifies the causal impact of serum iron levels in the development of CRA, emphasizing unique molecular pathways involved in CRA.
BACKGROUND: Dysregulation of cathepsins is associated with cancer development and progression. However, their specific role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. METHODS: We employed two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses to investigate potential causal relationships between cathepsins, 91 circulating inflammatory cytokines (CICs), and HCC. Subsequently, we explored causal associations between identified cathepsins and carcinogenic CICs. Finally, using the GSE14520 dataset, we conducted comprehensive bioinformatics analyses on the encoding genes of the screened cathepsins and CICs. RESULTS: Inverse-variance weighted (IVW) MR revealed that the genetically predicted Cathepsin S (CTSS) and seven CICs, including C-C motif chemokine 20 (CCL20), Fibroblast growth factor 19, Interleukin-1-alpha, Interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha, Interleukin-24, Monocyte chemoattractant protein-3 and Stem cell factor levels, were intrinsically associated with increased HCC risk. Additionally, a casual estimate from Cathepsin S to CCL20 was identified. Sensitivity analysis found little evidence of heterogeneity and horizontal pleiotropy. CTSS and CCL20 gene expression was significantly dysregulated between HCC and adjacent normal liver tissue, exhibiting a positive correlation. Based on CTSS and CCL20 expression levels, we stratified the GSE14520 set into four clusters. Notably, the CTSShiCCL20low subgroup carried the most dismal overall survival, which was further validated in the GSE76427 and International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) datasets. This subgroup also exhibited relatively lower predicted half-maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50s) of multiple chemo- and targeted-therapies. Moreover, significant differences among the four clusters were observed in the stromal and immune score, immunocyte infiltration levels, especially Macrophages M1, Monocytes, Mast cell resting and Dendritic cells activated. CONCLUSIONS: Our exploratory analyses suggest that CCL20 may mediate the effect of CTSS on HCC development. Patients with CTSShighCCL20low HCC tumors may have a poorer prognosis but could be more susceptible to certain chemotherapeutic and targeted drugs. However, further in vivo and in vitro are required to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.
The oligomerization of the transmembrane helices of single-pass membrane proteins is crucial to biological function and its misregulation can lead to many diseases. The study of transmembrane helix oligomerization is facilitated by the availability of genetic reporter assays, which are essential tools for understanding the organization and biology of single-pass systems. In particular, reporter assays are crucial for mapping the oligomerization interfaces of transmembrane helices through scanning mutagenesis but their application is limited by the need to clone and measure each construct individually. Here, we present "TOXGREEN sort-seq," a high-throughput version of the TOXGREEN assay that enables the direct measurement of transmembrane helix oligomerization in large libraries using fluorescence-activated cell sorting and next-generation sequencing. We show that TOXGREEN sort-seq is robust and accurately reproduces the direct measurements of individual constructs. The method produced high-quality mutational profiles from a library of 17,400 constructs designed to probe the interface of 100 potential GASright dimers predicted from sequences of human single-pass membrane proteins. We report the validated structural model of twelve dimers involved in a variety of biological functions, including immune response (interleukin-22 receptor subunit alpha-1, butyrophilin-like protein 3, hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2), transport (transferrin receptor protein 1), and cell-surface signaling and proliferation (syndecan-3; semaphorins 5A, 6B, and 6D). Remarkably, all semaphorins in the dataset formed strong dimers and produced mutational profiles consistent with the computational structure. These findings suggest that dimerization may be relevant to these proteins' activity and provide a validated interface for assessing their biological role.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of National Academy of Sciences.
This study aimed to investigate the potential causal relationships between 91 circulating inflammatory proteins and colorectal cancer (CRC) using a two-sample bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) framework, supplemented by spatial transcriptomic analysis.Genetic instruments for circulating inflammatory proteins were obtained from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) involving individuals of European ancestry. CRC outcome data were sourced from BioBank Japan. The inverse variance weighted (IVW) method was used as the primary analytical approach, complemented by MR-Egger regression, weighted median, and mode-based estimators. Horizontal pleiotropy and heterogeneity were assessed using the MR-Egger intercept, Mendelian Randomization Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier (MR-PRESSO) test, and Cochran's Q statistic. The Mendelian randomization Steiger (MR-Steiger) method was employed to verify causal directionality. Spatial transcriptomic profiling of CRC tissue was performed to evaluate the spatial expression patterns and cell-type-specific co-expression profiles of MR-identified candidate genes.Three inflammatory proteins demonstrated significant associations with CRC risk. Tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 9 (TNFRSF9) and interleukin-20 receptor subunit alpha (IL20RA) were positively associated with increased risk, whereas latency-associated peptide transforming growth factor beta 1 (LAP-TGF-β1) showed a protective association. These associations remained robust across all sensitivity analyses. Spatial transcriptomic analysis revealed that TNFRSF9 expression was enriched in immune cell-dense stromal regions, while IL20RA was predominantly expressed in tumor cell-dominated areas, indicating distinct cellular mechanisms.This integrative study provides genetic and spatial evidence supporting the involvement of specific circulating inflammatory proteins in colorectal carcinogenesis. TNFRSF9 and IL20RA may act as pro-tumorigenic mediators, while LAP-TGF-β1 may confer protective effects. These findings offer new insights into inflammation-related CRC pathogenesis and may inform future biomarker or therapeutic targetd evelopment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568100 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate whether interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor inhibitors affect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) metabolites in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients. The initial phase employed drug-targeted Mendelian randomization to investigate the association between IL-6 receptor inhibitors and T2D across diverse populations. Subsequently, variables related to T2D were utilized as mediators in the relationship between IL-6 receptor inhibitors and CSF metabolites. Finally, the mediating effect of T2D was evaluated using mediation analysis. In the European cohort, the use of IL-6 receptor inhibitors was associated with a 25.3% reduction in the risk of T2D, as indicated by an odds ratio of 0.747 with a 95% confidence interval ranging from 0.556 to 0.938 (P = .003). In the East Asian cohort, IL-6 receptor inhibitors were associated with a 1.188-fold increase in the risk of elevated fasting insulin levels, with an odds ratio of 1.188 and a 95% confidence interval of 1.034 to 1.343 (P = .029). Mediation analysis revealed that IL-6 receptor inhibitors significantly elevated the levels of galacto-glycero-lipid (GG) in CSF, with 3.06% of the effect attributable to the reduced risk of T2D, and 96.94% directly resulting from the action of the IL-6 receptor inhibitors. The findings preliminarily indicated that race constituted a variable potentially influencing the differential effects of IL-6 receptor inhibitors among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) across various regions. While the administration of IL-6 receptor inhibitors might impact glucose concentrations in CSF, the role of T2D as a mediator in CSF metabolites was weak. The predominant determinant appeared to be the administration of IL-6 receptor inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Mechanical and/or microbial stimuli can prompt extracellular ATP release in many cell types, where it acts as an inflammatory mediator to amplify pain signals and inflammation. This study aimed to investigate the synergistic effects of microbial and/or mechanical stimulation on ATP and cytokine release from dental pulp cells (DPCs) and to determine if the inflammatory signalling identified was dependent on ATP acting via the purinergic receptor, P2X3.DPCs were prepared from sound third molars using explant culture method. P2X3 protein expression and functionality in DPCs were investigated by immunostaining and calcium mobilisation assays using the P2X3 agonist αβmeATP and antagonist AF-353. ATP or interleukin-6 (IL-6) release from DPCs treated with lipoteichoic acid (LTA) and fluid shear stress or stretch was measured using the ATPlite luciferase assay (PerkinElmer) or ELISA (R&D Systems), respectively. To assess the role of P2X3 activation in IL-6 release, the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 was included in ELISA experiments. Data were checked for normality and analysed by Mann-Whitney test for two-group comparisons and Kruskal-Wallis or ANOVA test with Dunn's or Dunnett's multiple comparisons test where appropriate for multiple-group comparisons.The DPCs expressed functional P2X3 receptors. The cells' response to αβmeATP was significantly inhibited by AF-353 (p < 0.0001). Increased ATP and IL-6 release were observed following co-stimulation with LTA and fluid shear stress (p < 0.01, p < 0.05) or LTA and stretch (p < 0.05). The addition of AF-353 reduced IL-6 release by 34% and 36% (p < 0.05) in DPCs co-stimulated with LTA and fluid shear stress or stretch, respectively.This study demonstrates that the combined bacterial mimetic and mechanical stimulation of DPCs significantly enhances ATP and IL-6 release. The inhibition of IL-6 release by the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 indicates the importance of P2X3 receptor activation in this process. These findings offer insights into the molecular mechanisms of dental pulp inflammation and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). International Endodontic Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Endodontic Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
Reversible splenial lesion syndrome (RESLES), mild encephalitis/encephalopathy with a reversible splenial lesion (MERS), and cytotoxic lesions of the corpus callosum (CLOCCs) are overlapping clinicoradiological constructs associated with infection, seizures, metabolic disturbance, and drug exposure. We report an 11-year-old right-handed boy with recurrent paroxysmal speech arrest over approximately 24 hours. During the episodes, consciousness and comprehension were preserved; he could vocalize and communicate by typing but could not produce meaningful speech. Transient left upper-limb or generalized weakness and upper respiratory symptoms accompanied the spells. Respiratory adenovirus testing was positive, and a Mycoplasma pneumoniae (M. pneumoniae) antibody titer was reported as 1:160, although respiratory and cerebrospinal fluid M. pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction testing was negative. Cerebrospinal fluid contained 1 white cell/microL, with normal protein, glucose, and chloride and mildly elevated interleukin-6 (IL-6). Baseline electroencephalography showed abundant right frontopolar, frontal, anterior temporal, and Fz interictal discharges without a captured electroclinical seizure. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a splenial lesion with symmetric posterior periventricular and centrum semiovale abnormalities, compatible with a type II MERS/RESLES pattern or CLOCC-spectrum process. He received two 40 g doses of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and later intravenous methylprednisolone followed by oral prednisone, together with empirical acyclovir, azithromycin, mannitol, and supportive care. No further speech arrest or weakness was documented on or after illness day 5, and methylprednisolone was initiated on illness day 6. Follow-up electroencephalography on illness day 48 showed qualitatively fewer discharges confined to sleep, but no habitual event. Serial imaging showed lesion regression with residual fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) signal on illness day 74. At approximately 4.5 months, he remained asymptomatic during prednisone tapering. Because formal language and motor-speech testing was not performed during an episode, aphasia could not be definitively distinguished from anarthria, dysarthria, apraxia of speech, or focal speech arrest. This case highlights the diagnostic overlap among resolving callosal-white matter lesions, transient speech-output disturbance, and interictal epileptiform abnormalities, while cautioning against attributing recovery to a single treatment or equating residual magnetic resonance signal with active inflammation.Copyright © 2026, Yu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552647 is a review article
To compare the effectiveness and safety of interleukin 6 receptor inhibitors (IL-6Ris) and conventional synthetic immunomodulators (csIM) in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) who received glucocorticoids (GC) and initiated a new therapy for PMR.We evaluated the effectiveness and safety of IL-6Ris in a retrospective comparative cohort created from the US Medicare fee-for-service medical and part D prescription claims data. Patients with PMR, on GC, without prior IL-6Ri exposure and initiating IL-6Ri/csIM therapy were identified. These patients were categorised into csIM-naïve and csIM-experienced cohorts and matched using direct methods and propensity score methods. Primary endpoints were time-to-GC discontinuation and time-to-minimal GC use (≤2 mg/day or stop GC) through year 1. Incidence rates (IRs) for adverse events of special interest were reported for IL-6Ri and csIM initiators through year 2.We included 415 matched treatment pairs (187/228, csIM-naïve/csIM-experienced). IL-6Ri initiators were more likely to discontinue GC (adjusted HR (aHR) 1.28, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.60; p=0.031) or achieve minimal GC use (aHR 1.28, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.58; p=0.025) by year 1 versus csIM initiators. At year 1, IR (95% CI)/100 patient-years for primary hospitalised infections was higher for IL-6Ri initiators versus csIM initiators (12.2 (95% CI 8.9 to 16.3) vs 5.7 (95% CI 3.6 to 8.6)); however, it was similar for year 2 (5.8 (95% CI 3.3 to 9.6) vs 6.4 (95% CI 3.8 to 10.1)). For other events of interest, the IRs were low and comparable in both groups.IL-6Ri therapy was more effective as a steroid-sparing agent than csIM for PMR with no new safety findings.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) is a life-threatening complication of T-cell-engaging immunotherapies, causing vascular leakage and multi-organ dysfunction. Standard Interleukin-6 (IL-6) blockade often fails in severe cases by leaving the upstream initiator, Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (TNF-α), unchecked. TNF-α drives early macrophage activation and endothelial injury, whereas IL-6 amplifies systemic inflammation. To decisively interrupt this inflammatory feedback loop, we developed IDC007, a novel bispecific antibody simultaneously neutralizing TNF-α and IL-6 receptor (IL-6R).We evaluated the neutralizing effects of IDC007 in an in vitro CRS model utilizing OKT3/R848-stimulated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Furthermore, we utilized an OKT3-induced humanized CRS mouse model to assess in vivo target engagement and therapeutic efficacy.In vitro, IDC007 effectively suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion (e.g., TNF-α, IFN-γ) and prevented endothelial barrier dysfunction. In vivo, IDC007 successfully engaged both targets. Administration mitigated physiological deterioration, including hypothermia and weight loss, leading to improved survival. Dual inhibition effectively prevented immune hyperactivation, evidenced by the significant attenuation of splenomegaly and lung-specific organ damage.These findings serve as a preclinical proof-of-concept demonstrating that dual targeting of TNF-α and IL-6R offers a potent mechanistic approach to attenuate severe CRS by preserving vascular endothelial integrity and overcoming the therapeutic limitations of conventional monotherapies.Copyright © 2026 Won, Park, Roh, Kang and Kim.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484541 is a review article
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system, characterized by severe attacks. Optic neuritis is the most common clinical manifestation, leading to a rapid and often severe loss of vision, which is sometimes bilateral, with frequent sequelae and a risk of very low visual acuity in the long-term. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) reveals extensive lesions of the optic nerve, mostly involving the posterior part of the nerve and sometimes extending to the optic chiasm. Myelitis manifests as longitudinally extensive and centrally located spinal cord lesions, which may lead to tetraplegia, sensory disturbances, neuropathic pain and sphincter dysfunction. Area postrema syndrome presents with nausea, vomiting, and severe hiccups, which are often resistant to conventional treatments and may require hospitalization. Diagnosis is confirmed by the detection of anti-aquaporine 4 (AQP4) antibodies in the serum. Attacks should be treated as an emergency, with intravenous (IV) corticosteroids and plasma exchange, without waiting for antibody confirmation. Maintenance therapy includes monoclonal antibodies targeting B lymphocytes, interleukin-6 receptor, complement C5 and non-selective immunosuppressive treatments, according to profile of tolerance. Conventional treatments such as azathioprine or mycophenolate are less commonly used as first-line therapies but remain possible depending on the clinical context. Follow-up is multidisciplinary, with neurological, and according to the symptoms ophthalmological, neuropsychological, urodynamic or sequellar disability consultations. Therapeutic patient education and support from patient organizations are essential for improving quality of life and treatment adherence. Pregnancy is considered high-risk, requiring regular neurological and obstetric monitoring, as the risk of attack increases in the postpartum period. Finally, the rapid and individualized management of attacks as well as the prevention of relapses is crucial to limit functional sequelae and disability.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42458195 is a review article
Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) lacks proven relapse-preventive therapies. While clinical trials are ongoing, safety data may be limited and approved drugs are costly. Studies of interleukin 6 receptor blocker (IL-6RB) in MOGAD are limited by small numbers and no comparative studies, contributing to low use.To evaluate the impact of IL-6RB therapy on relapse rates in MOGAD and compare relapse frequency with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG).This international, multicenter, retrospective cohort study (January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2025) included a historical IVIG-treated cohort of varying doses. The study took place across sites in North and South America (US, Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru). Patients with MOGAD (n = 116, no excluded patients) who received at least 1 dose of an IL-6RB were included. These data were analyzed in January 2026.Tocilizumab or satralizumab.Annualized relapse rate (ARR) during IL-6RB therapy, time to next relapse after treatment initiation, and adverse events. Outcomes were compared with the IVIG cohort using inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) adjusted for age, sex, prior ARR, and concomitant therapies.A total of 116 patients with MOGAD (89% relapsing) receiving IL-6RB (tocilizumab, 104 [90%] and satralizumab, 12 [10%]) were included; overall, 60.3% were female, 39.7% were male, and 18% were younger than 18 years. The median (IQR) IL-6RB treatment follow-up was 1.4 (0.7-2.5) years and 23 relapses occurred during 241.8 person-years of IL-6RB therapy. The ARR decreased from 0.64 (95% CI, 0.58-0.70) for relapsing MOGAD before IL-6RB to 0.09 (95% CI, 0.06-0.14) during IL-6RB treatment (incidence rate ratio, 0.08; 95% CI, 0.04-0.16). Adverse events occurred in 58 patients (50%), most commonly mild infections, although 10 (9%) had severe infections. In the IVIG cohort (n = 59), 30 relapses occurred over 133.8 person-years (ARR, 0.22; 95% CI, 0.15-0.32). After IPTW, IL-6RB was associated with a lower hazard ratio (HR) than the group who underwent IVIG therapy less than 1 g/kg every 4 weeks (HR, 4.5; 95% CI, 2.0-9.8), with no significant difference vs the group who underwent IVIG 1 g/kg or more every 4 weeks (HR, 2.0; 95% CI, 0.8-4.5).In this multicenter observational cohort, IL-6RB use in MOGAD was associated with low relapse rates and a favorable safety profile, though severe infections occurred occasionally. Relapse rates were lower than the group who underwent IVIG less than 1 g/kg every 4 weeks but not significantly different from the group who underwent IVIG 1 g/kg or more every 4 weeks. This supports IL-6RB as a potential relapse-prevention therapy in MOGAD; the wide availability and relative affordability of tocilizumab may enable broad global use.
Natural killer (NK) cells contribute to the development of Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). Increased expression of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), encoded by the PDCD1 gene, indicates NK cell exhaustion, a process that may be influenced by microRNAs (miRNAs). In this study, we examined PD-1 expression on NK cells from RA patients and evaluated whether miRNAs modulate this pathway. Although antibiotics are critical for treating infections, they can provoke harmful immune responses by releasing bacterial components that overstimulate the immune system. Such responses may lead to excessive inflammation or cytokine storms. To address this risk, we assessed the immune safety of a newly designed chimeric endolysin, ZAM-MSC, and compared its effects with traditional antibiotics using transcriptomic, proteomic, and computational analyses. We analyzed public gene and protein expression datasets from antibiotic-treated human cells and performed in silico studies on ZAM-MSC. Differential expression analysis and pathway enrichment were conducted, alongside structural modeling of the endolysin and its predicted interactions with immune receptors. Antibiotic treatment strongly activated inflammatory genes and pathways, including nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). In contrast, ZAM-MSC minimally affected immune-related gene expression, with downregulation of interleukin-6 receptor (IL6R) and tumor necrosis factor receptor 1A (TNFRSF1A). Structural modeling showed weak interactions with Toll-like receptors, and epitope analysis predicted low immunogenicity. These results suggest ZAM-MSC may offer a safer antimicrobial alternative, though all protein-level findings are based on computational predictions and require experimental validation.
Over the past decade, the prognosis of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) has significantly improved owing to the development of anti-angiogenic targeted drugs such as sunitinib, pazopanib, and sorafenib. However, biomarkers that can identify patients with mRCC who may rapidly develop drug resistance are still lacking. Approximately 25% of patients experience rapid disease progression [progression-free survival (PFS) ≤3 months]. Currently, there is a lack of effective noninvasive biomarkers to identify resistant patients prior to treatment. This study aimed to identify plasma biomarkers associated with therapeutic resistance and develop a predictive model for clinical decision-making.Plasma proteomic analysis was conducted in 159 patients with mRCC treated with targeted therapy. Patients were divided into training and validation cohorts. Candidate protein biomarkers were initially screened using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and further validated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). A predictive nomogram was subsequently developed using logistic regression analysis and assessed for discrimination and calibration performance. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to compare protein expression levels in corresponding tumor tissue samples.Four plasma proteins-chitotriosidase-1 (CHIT1), interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R), neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NRCAM), and ecto-5'-nucleotidase (NT5E)-were identified as significant predictors of intrinsic resistance. The nomogram incorporating these biomarkers exhibited a high predictive accuracy, with a concordance index (C-index) of 0.956 and 0.869 for the training and validation cohorts, respectively. Notably, while the plasma concentrations of these proteins were significantly elevated in resistant patients, their expression levels in tumor tissues showed no significant differences, underscoring their utility as circulating, noninvasive biomarkers.We developed and validated a plasma protein-based nomogram to predict mRCC resistance to targeted therapy. The four identified biomarkers allow noninvasive identification of high-risk patients and offer a practical tool for early clinical stratification. This model may assist clinicians in avoiding ineffective treatment and optimizing therapeutic strategies for patients with mRCC.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42436641 is a review article
Adenine-thymine (AT)-rich interactive domain-containing protein 5a (Arid5a) is an RNA-binding protein (RBP) that post-transcriptionally stabilizes mRNAs encoding proinflammatory mediators, including Interleukin-6 (IL-6), thereby amplifying inflammation. However, structural basis and regulatory mechanisms of Arid5a function remain poorly defined. In this study, we identified and characterized a conserved allosteric site within the ARID domain that regulates Arid5a-mediated mRNA stabilization. Using integrative in silico modeling and in vitro assays, 2 picolinamide-based inhibitors, NFP1 and NFP2, were designed to specifically engage the allosteric site constituent residues. Mutational and functional analyses revealed Tyr88 and Val91 as key regulatory elements within the allosteric site, essential for transmitting conformational regulation upon ligand engagement. Pharmacological inhibition of the allosteric site disrupted Arid5a interaction with target RNA stem-loop structure, reduced stability of Il6 mRNA, and attenuated inflammatory responses in Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Furthermore, Arid5a inhibitors reduced the stability of other target mRNAs, including Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) and OX40, in polarized T helper 17 (Th17) cells. In a murine model of LPS-induced septic shock, treatment with NFP1 or NFP2 significantly improved survival, reduced clinical severity, and mitigated tissue damage in vital organs. These findings identify a new mechanism regulating Arid5a activity and present Arid5a allosteric inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for managing systemic inflammation including sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a pivotal oncogenic driver in multiple myeloma (MM), and its constitutive activation promotes malignant plasma cell proliferation, survival, and drug resistance in the bone marrow microenvironment. Despite therapeutic advances, MM remains incurable due to persistent STAT3-driven tumorigenesis and the resilience of MM stem cells. We investigated the therapeutic potential of napabucasin (BBI608), a novel STAT3 inhibitor, in MM. Our data demonstrated that BBI608 potently suppressed MM cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, while significantly impairing the clonogenic potential and inducing robust apoptosis. Mechanistically, BBI608 exhibited dual efficacy by targeting bulk tumor cells and eradicating the stem-like compartment of MM cells, thereby addressing a critical therapeutic challenge. Moreover, we revealed that BBI608 triggered immunogenic cell death (ICD) via the activation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), which subsequently enhanced T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. Our findings highlight STAT3 inhibition as a promising strategy to simultaneously eradicate MM cells, target stem cell reservoirs, and harness anti-tumor immunity, providing a robust rationale for the clinical translation of BBI608 in MM therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health LLC., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
This study aimed to investigate the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway in orthodontic force-induced mechanotransduction and osteogenic differentiation, and explore its potential crosstalk with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), whose regulatory mechanism remains unclear.In vitro, MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts were exposed to cyclic tensile strain (2000 μstrain, 0.5 Hz, 4 h) with or without the specific ERKs inhibitor SCH772984. In vivo, a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established with 4g force, and SCH772984 was locally injected into periodontal tissues. Pathway protein expression, osteogenic marker levels, tooth movement distance, and bone microarchitecture were analyzed.Mechanical strain significantly activated ERKs and STAT3 phosphorylation and upregulated key osteogenic markers (Runx2, OSX, OPN, ALP) in vitro; these effects were inhibited by SCH772984 except for COL1. In vivo, orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, with osteogenic markers predominantly elevated on the tension side. SCH772984 treatment suppressed ERKs activation and reduced tooth movement by ~40% (all P<0.05).The ERKs pathway is a critical mediator of orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, functioning partially through STAT3. These findings establish the ERKs/STAT3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for accelerating orthodontic treatment.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Information regarding the signaling axis involving triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1) and its downstream mediator, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), remains limited in ischemic stroke. We investigated the plasma levels of TREM-1 in patients with ischemic stroke and compared to controls. Second, we investigated the potential correlation between plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and explored their associations with stroke severity and functional outcomes.In an observational case-control study, plasma and PBMCs from participants were collected to measure TREM-1 and STAT3 expression levels. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission, day 7, and 1 and 3 months, and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months post-discharge were assessed. Plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), respectively. The Inflammation-Related Principal Component Score (IRPCS) was examined for its association with 3-month functional outcome.TREM-1 and STAT3 were significantly elevated in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients (p < 0.05, p < 0.0001) and positively correlated (ρ = 0.432, p < 0.0001). Both biomarkers correlated with the NIHSS at 1 and 3 months and mRS at 3 months (all p < 0.05). The composite IRPCS showed the strongest association with poor 3-month functional outcome among the tested biomarkers (OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.32-6.12, p = 0.008).Plasma TREM-1 levels were positively correlated with STAT3 expression. The TREM-1-STAT3 axis was associated with stroke severity and 3-month functional outcome in AIS patients. These findings should be regarded as exploratory and require validation in larger cohorts.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been an anti-cancer protein target for three decades due to its over-activation in various cancers; however, direct STAT3 inhibitors have not reached the market. In this study, a series of novel hydrazone derivatives were designed, synthesized, and characterized. The most promising compound P42 was found to selectively target the STAT3 SH2 domain over the DNA-binding domain, as suggested by the results from fluorescence polarization assays. The GI50 values after 72 h of P42 treatment were determined to be 0.85-5 μM in STAT3-overexpressing pancreatic and colorectal cancer cell lines harboring KRAS mutations (MIA PaCa-2, DLD-1 and HCT 116). Western blot analyses showed that P42 significantly inhibited phosphorylated STAT3 levels without affecting total STAT3 and its upstream kinases JAK2 and SRC. P42 demonstrated significant autophagy-associated cell death rather than apoptosis or necrosis in flow cytometry analyses, with increases in LC3II/I ratios and decreases in p62 levels. Cancer stemness potential was significantly abrogated with P42 as shown in colony formation assay and decreases in epithelial-mesenchymal transition/stemness markers SNAIL and ZEB1 levels. Molecular docking further supported a plausible binding mode within the STAT3 SH2 domain for P42, and SwissADME prediction suggested its favorable drug-likeness properties. Taken together, P42 warrants future anti-cancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Elevated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression is observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, yet the precise mechanism through which PTEN contributes to AD progression remains undefined. This study provides the direct evidence that PTEN promotes neurodegeneration by driving neuronal ferroptosis. Using APP/PS1 transgenic mice with hippocampal-specific PTEN knockdown mediated by adeno-associated virus (AAV), we demonstrated that downregulation of PTEN substantially ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and neuronal loss. Mechanistically, PTEN silencing upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), inhibiting lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. We identified a dual-signaling framework through which PTEN regulates GPX4 expression. PTEN reduction activates the PI3K/AKT axis, which drives GSK3β phosphorylation and facilitates nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Concurrently, PTEN knockdown induces phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Both Nrf2 and STAT3 act as transcriptional activators of GPX4, establishing two convergent axes: PTEN/AKT/GSK3β/Nrf2/GPX4 and PTEN/AKT/STAT3/GPX4. These pathways cooperatively upregulate GPX4 expression, thereby attenuating lipid peroxidation and inhibiting ferroptosis. Importantly, PTEN knockdown restored redox homeostasis by bolstering cellular antioxidant defenses. Our findings reveal a novel PTEN-regulated ferroptotic pathway in AD pathogenesis and highlight PTEN as a promising therapeutic target for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The transition between naive and primed pluripotency is governed by dynamic signaling networks and transcriptional circuits. While the janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway is the master driver of naive pluripotency, the intrinsic negative feedback mechanisms that restrict its activation in primed epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs) remain incompletely defined. This study aimed to characterize the functional role of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 3 (SOCS3) in the primed-to-naive pluripotency transition.CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats)/Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein 9) -mediated Socs3 knockout (KO) was generated in mouse EpiSCs, followed by primed-to-naive reprogramming induction in 2i/LIF [LIF (leukemia inhibitory factor), PD0325901 and CHIR99021) culture system. Molecular and phenotypic changes were evaluated via quantative real time PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blot, flow cytometry and immunofluorescence. Multilineage differentiation as-says were performed to verify pluripotency, and the STAT3-specific inhibitor Stattic was used to confirm the pathway dependence of the reprogramming phenotype.Socs3 was highly expressed in naive embryonic stem cells (ESCs) but minimally detected in EpiSCs. Socs3 deletion uncoupled the JAK/STAT3 negative feedback loop, causing sustained STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation that drove rapid and successful primed-to-naive conversion. The resulting reprogrammed naive ESCs (rnESCs) reactivated the core naive transcriptional network and acquired multilineage differentiation potential. Socs3 deficiency also delayed exit from naive pluripotency, and Stattic treatment completely abrogated Socs3 KO-mediated reprogramming.SOCS3 acts as a pivotal inducible barrier to the primed-to-naive pluripotency transition. Eliminating SOCS3-mediated negative regulation to sustain STAT3 activation is an effective strategy to overcome stem cell reprogramming barriers, providing a key target for the precise manipulation of pluripotent stem cell (PSC) fate.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Huang, Du, Yang, Liu, Lin and Yang.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of loganin on the osteogenic differentiation of mouse embryonic osteoblast precursor cells(MC3T3-E1) under oxidative stress and to explore its underlying mechanisms. First, a network pharmacology approach was employed to identify common targets of loganin and osteoporosis(OP) using SwissTargetPrediction, OMM, and GeneCards databases. A total of 31 potential targets were identified, with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3), interleukin-2(IL-2), matrix metalloproteinase-9(MMP-9), and caspase-3 being central in the protein-protein interaction(PPI) network. Further enrichment analysis based on Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) suggested that the JAK-STAT signaling pathway might be a key pathway through which loganin exerts its effects. In vitro experiments utilized hydrogen peroxide(H_2O_2, 200 μmol·L~(-1)) to establish an oxidative stress injury model in MC3T3-E1 cells. The cells were divided into a control group, an H_2O_2 model group, and low-, medium-, and high-dose(50, 100, 200 μmol·L~(-1)) loganin groups. The results showed that loganin significantly reversed the H_2O_2-induced decreases in cell viability, reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species(ROS) levels, enhanced alkaline phosphatase(ALP) activity, and inhibited apoptosis. Western blot analysis revealed that loganin upregulated the expression of osteogenic differentiation markers, including Runt-related transcription factor 2(Runx2), ALP, and osterix, while downregulating the expression of apoptosis markers such as cleaved caspase-3 and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax) and upregulating the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2). Furthermore, loganin inhibited the phosphorylation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway. Notably, the promoting effect of loganin on osteogenic differentiation and its anti-apoptotic effect were significantly reversed upon treatment with a JAK2/STAT3 pathway agonist, further confirming the critical role of this pathway in its mechanism of action. In conclusion, this study suggests that loganin may alleviate oxidative stress by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway, thereby suppressing apoptosis and promoting osteogenic differentiation in MC3T3-E1 cells.
Entamoeba dispar is a non-pathogenic sibling species of Entamoeba histolytica, yet the mechanisms that enable E. dispar to persist in the intestine without causing disease remain poorly understood. Experimental models for dissecting intestinal immune responses to E. dispar have been limited. In Japan and other East Asian countries, E. histolytica infection is relatively common among men who have sex with men, whereas E. dispar infection has rarely been identified.We report the first domestically acquired and culture-established E. dispar infection in Japan. A clinical strain, NA442, was isolated from fecal cysts of an HIV-positive patient without gastrointestinal symptoms and was maintained in stable monoxenic culture with Pseudomonas putida. Phylogenetic and tRNA-linked STR analyses confirmed the species identity and revealed genetic similarity to a Thailand-derived genotype. Using NA442, we established a murine cecal infection model to characterize host immune responses. Infection induced detectable secretion of lipocalin-2 in stool, indicating epithelial stress; however, CXCL-1 and myeloperoxidase levels in cecal tissue remained at baseline, and no neutrophil infiltration or tissue destruction was observed. NA442 colonized the murine cecum for up to three weeks but elicited only mild epithelial thickening without the hallmark inflammatory signatures associated with E. histolytica.This study provides the first in vivo evidence that E. dispar colonization triggers limited mucosal inflammation despite successful short-term persistence in the intestine. The identification of NA442 as the first domestic E. dispar case in Japan suggests the parasite may circulate unnoticed within the population. The NA442 strain establishes a valuable experimental tool for comparative studies of pathogenic versus non-pathogenic Entamoeba species and contributes to understanding the determinants of intestinal virulence and host immune modulation.Copyright: © 2026 Saito-Nakano et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Cardiovascular health depends critically on the integrity of the vascular extracellular matrix (ECM) and the behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), both of which can be adversely affected in vascular diseases. This study quantitatively evaluates the therapeutic potential of conditioned medium (CM) derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) in an elastase-injured human aortic smooth muscle cell (HASMC) model. We systematically varied seeding densities (2000, 5000, and 10,000 cells/cm2) and serum conditions to optimize the SC-SMC secretome for vascular repair. Our results indicate that neither BM-SMC nor AD-SMC CM significantly enhanced lysyl oxidase (LOX) activity. In fact, serum-supplemented BM-SMC CM significantly suppressed LOX activity at seeding densities of 2000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0378) and 10,000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0080) compared to injured untreated controls. High-density AD-SMC CM (10,000 cells/cm2) also resulted in a significant decrease in elastin levels (p < 0.05). In addition, serum presence was critical for maintaining the reparative phenotype. Serum-free (SF) conditions for both cell sources led to widespread, statistically significant reductions (p < 0.0001) in key repair and inflammatory biomarkers, including PDGF-AA, Leptin, Lipocalin-2, Osteopontin, RBP4, MMP-1, and IL-6. IL-11 emerged as a primary discriminatory biomarker, showing significant differences between BM and AD treatments at high seeding densities, with both sources causing a significant decrease (p < 0.0001) compared to injured untreated controls. These findings demonstrate that seeding density and serum conditions are critical variables that quantitatively modulate the efficacy of SC-SMC-CM. The study highlights that BM-SMC-derived CM offers a more stable platform for elastin maintenance under serum-free conditions, providing a foundation for developing tailored, cell-free regenerative therapies for cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic psychological stress is increasingly recognized as an important host-related determinant of cancer progression, yet how stress-associated neuroendocrine signaling reshapes the metastatic immune microenvironment remains incompletely understood. Here, using male mouse models of chronic restraint stress and chronic unpredictable mild stress, together with transcriptomic profiling, flow cytometry, functional assays, and a prospective clinical cohort, we investigated whether chronic stress promotes gastric cancer liver metastasis through glucocorticoid-associated neutrophil reprogramming, neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, and hepatic immune remodeling. Chronic stress induced robust behavioral stress phenotypes, elevated corticosterone levels, and increased hepatic metastatic burden. Immune profiling revealed a myeloid-skewed and immunosuppressive hepatic niche characterized by neutrophil accumulation, impaired CD8+ T-cell effector function, and enhanced T-cell exhaustion. Mechanistically, glucocorticoids activated neutrophils through glucocorticoid receptor signaling, increased reactive oxygen species, and promoted NET formation, whereas pharmacological inhibition of glucocorticoid receptor signaling, degradation of NETs, or antibody-mediated neutrophil depletion attenuated stress-associated metastatic progression in vivo. In parallel, glucocorticoid stimulation increased hepatic lipocalin 2 (LCN2) expression and secretion, and conditioned medium from glucocorticoid-treated hepatocytes enhanced neutrophil migration, an effect attenuated by pharmacological LCN2 inhibition. In vivo, LCN2 blockade reduced circulating LCN2 levels and alleviated hepatic metastatic burden. In patients with gastric cancer liver metastasis, higher stress burden was associated with elevated cortisol and circulating myeloperoxidase-DNA levels and with shorter progression-free survival. Multivariable Cox regression further supported an association between Perceived Stress Scale-defined stress burden and shorter progression-free survival. Together, these findings support a stress-associated glucocorticoid-neutrophil-hepatic niche axis linking chronic stress to metastatic progression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The present study examined the impact of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) on the differentiation and proliferation of bovine intramuscular preadipocyte (BIP) cells, specifically exploring the role of G protein-coupled receptor 41 (GPCR41). Cells were exposed to CLA at various concentrations ranging from 50 to 150 μmol/L. Flow cytometry revealed that treatment with 100 μmol/L CLA led to a significant increase in the proliferation rate. During differentiation, 100 and 150 μmol/L CLA markedly enhanced lipid droplet accumulation. Maximal cytoplasmic lipid content was observed when CLA was combined with insulin and dexamethasone. CLA treatment significantly enhanced the transcript abundance of the adipogenic transcription factors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and CCAAT-enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα). Knockdown of GPCR41 via RNA interference in CLA-treated cells led to a significant suppression of GPCR41 expression, accompanied by decreased PPARγ mRNA levels and diminished cytoplasmic lipid droplet formation, indicating impaired differentiation. Taken together, these results show that CLA enhances both differentiation and proliferation of bovine intramuscular preadipocytes, possibly via activation of C/EBPα and PPARγ, with GPCR41 playing a critical role in mediating this adipogenic effect.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a relapsing inflammatory disorder of the intestine for which safe and effective therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. The present study aimed to isolate a novel probiotic strain from traditionally fermented mare's milk (koumiss) and to characterise its molecular mechanism of action in alleviating UC through modulation of lipocalin-2 (LCN2) and the NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis pathway. We conducted a systematic investigation integrating microbiological characterisation, whole-genome sequencing, bioinformatic mining and a DSS-induced mouse model of colitis. The results suggested that the isolated Enterococcus faecium MMX strain exhibited no haemolytic activity, strong bile salt tolerance, absence of typical virulence factors, and carried certain resistance genes, while also harbouring multiple probiotic-associated functional genes. Multi-dataset machine learning analysis identified LCN2 as a key biomarker of UC, with its expression highly positively correlated with neutrophil infiltration. In vivo experiments revealed that E. faecium MMX significantly improved the disease activity index, restored the intestinal epithelial barrier (with recovery of E-cadherin expression), promoted goblet cell regeneration and markedly suppressed neutrophil infiltration. Mechanistically, E. faecium MMX treatment was associated with reduced total LCN2 expression in colonic tissue and a shift in its cellular source from a predominantly pro-inflammatory neutrophil-derived localisation to an epithelial cell-derived localisation, accompanied by suppression of the NF-κB pathway (as evidenced by reduced p-p65 levels), which correlated with inhibition of the NLRP3/cleaved-caspase-1/GSDMD-N/IL-1β pyroptosis signalling axis and diminishing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including mature IL-1β and mature IL-18, as confirmed by ELISA and western blot analyses. Collectively, these findings suggest that E. faecium MMX may exert its anti-colitic effects by remodelling the host immune microenvironment, downregulating LCN2 and NF-κB signalling, and inhibiting pyroptosis, positioning it as a promising candidate for microbiota-based intervention in UC.
Cancer cachexia (CC) is a multifactorial metabolic syndrome characterized by systemic inflammation, muscle wasting, and adipose tissue depletion. Amaranth (Amaranthus caudatus L.), a pseudocereal rich in proteins, squalene, and tocotrienols, exhibits strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Enzymatic hydrolysis of amaranth proteins enhances bioavailability and physiological potency. Korean mint (Agastache rugosa) extract, abundant in flavonoids such as tilianin and acacetin, has been reported to suppress inflammatory and oxidative pathways. However, the combined effect of amaranth hydrolysate and Korean mint extract (AKE) on cancer cachexia has not been elucidated. CT26 tumor-bearing mice (six-week-old male BALB/c) were orally administered AKE (125 or 250 mg/kg/day) for 14 days. AKE attenuated cachexia-induced weight loss (3.6%-10.3%, p < 0.01) and preserved muscle (13.6%-15.8%, p < 0.01) and fat mass (36.0%-40.8%, p < 0.01). Grip strength was significantly improved. AKE suppressed serum pro-inflammatory cytokines and inhibited muscle protein degradation by downregulating muscle RING-finger protein-1 and muscle atrophy F-box expression. It also enhanced protein synthesis by activating the protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin pathway. In adipose tissue, AKE reduced AMP-activated protein kinase browning while promoting adipogenesis via proliferator-activated receptor gamma, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha, and Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 upregulation. These findings demonstrate that AKE mitigates cancer-induced muscle and fat loss by modulating inflammation, proteolysis, and metabolic remodeling, highlighting its potential as a multi-targeted nutritional strategy for managing cancer cachexia.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Obesity is a major metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation and adipocyte differentiation. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MEK5) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in adipogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic effects of BIX02189, a selective MEK5 inhibitor, using 3T3-L1 adipocytes, human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), and zebrafish models. Treatment with BIX02189 significantly reduced lipid accumulation and triglyceride content during adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner without marked cytotoxicity. BIX02189 effectively suppressed MEK5 phosphorylation and downregulated the expression of key adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP-α). In addition, BIX02189 decreased the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5, as well as the expression of lipogenic markers such as fatty acid synthase (FAS), perilipin A, and leptin. Conversely, BIX02189 enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and markedly reduced the protein and mRNA expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a key enzyme involved in fatty acid synthesis. Similar anti-adipogenic effects were observed in hASCs. Furthermore, BIX02189 significantly attenuated lipid accumulation in a zebrafish obesity model without affecting body length or causing overt toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of MEK5 suppresses adipogenesis and lipid accumulation through regulation of the STAT3/STAT5-PPAR-γ axis and activation of AMPK signaling. These findings provide the first evidence that MEK5 inhibition exerts anti-adipogenic effects in adipocytes and zebrafish, highlighting the MEK5 signaling pathway as a previously unrecognized regulator of adipogenesis and lipid metabolism.
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is a common and severe complication of sepsis. Lipocalin-2 (LCN2), a biomarker for SA-AKI, has an undefined role and underlying molecular mechanism in regulating renal ferroptosis. This study aimed to elucidate the regulatory function and potential mechanism of LCN2 in renal ferroptosis during SA-AKI. In vivo, a murine sepsis model was established using cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), while in vitro, human renal tubular epithelial cells (HK-2) were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to mimic SA-AKI. Histopathological, biochemical, and molecular analyses were performed to assess renal injury, oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, and ferroptosis-related indicators. In vivo, LCN2 knockout significantly attenuated renal pathological damage, reduced oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokine expression, and inhibited renal ferroptosis. Mechanistically, LCN2 knockout enhanced AMPK phosphorylation and upregulated SIRT3 expression, promoted deacetylation of FOXO3a, and upregulated the expression of antioxidant and anti-ferroptotic proteins. In vitro, LCN2 overexpression exacerbated LPS-induced ferroptosis in HK-2 cells, whereas activation of AMPK or overexpression of SIRT3 reversed this effect, as reflected by improved markers of ferroptosis and oxidative stress. Collectively, our findings suggest that LCN2 may promote renal ferroptosis and contribute to the progression of SA-AKI, potentially involving inhibition of the AMPK/SIRT3/FOXO3a pathway. These observations indicate that LCN2 could be further explored as a candidate molecular target for the clinical treatment of SA-AKI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is increasingly recognised as a systemic condition associated with cardiometabolic and neurovascular alterations. Lipocalin-2 (LCN2), a marker of adipo-neuroinflammation, may represent a link between metabolic dysfunction, vascular impairment, and cognitive decline.In this cross-sectional study, we enrolled a group of 40 patients with a recent diagnosis of MASLD and a control group of 40 patients with no history of anamnestic or active liver disease. We evaluated serum LCN2 levels, endothelial function assessed by reactive hyperemia index (RHI), myocardial mechano-energetic efficiency (MMEE), and cognitive performance using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Multivariable analyses were adjusted for age, BMI, and diabetes mellitus.Compared with controls, patients with MASLD showed higher LCN2 levels, lower RHI and MMEE values, and lower MMSE scores. MASLD was independently associated with lower RHI, lower MMSE, and higher LCN2 levels in multivariable models. However, additional partial correlation analyses adjusting for major cardiometabolic confounders did not confirm independent associations between LCN2 and vascular or cognitive parameters.MASLD is associated with endothelial dysfunction, early cognitive changes, and increased LCN2 levels. However, these relationships appear to be largely influenced by the underlying cardiometabolic profile. LCN2 should be interpreted primarily as a marker of systemic metabolic and inflammatory burden rather than as a causal mediator.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
BMPR1B is considered to be the main effector gene affecting polytocous trait in sheep and other animals, and co-regulates reproductive performance with BMP15. Individuals containing the BMPR1B mutation had significantly higher lambing numbers than the wild type in Small-tailed Han sheep. However, the mode of regulation of BMP15 in the three genotypes (FecB BB, FecB + + and FecB + B) of BMPR1B in the Small-tailed Han sheep remains unclear. To investigate the effect of BMP15 on the proliferation of granulosa cells (GCs) from sheep with different FecB genotypes via the TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway, we established an in vitro three-stage culture model (24h, 48h, 72h) using isolated GCs of three genotypes. We observed that BMP15 promoted GCs proliferation across all genotypes, with proliferative activity increasing progressively over the culture period. This BMP15-mediated proliferative response was associated with the specific upregulation of key components within the TGF-β/SMAD pathway. Notably, the FecB BB genotype exhibited the highest proliferation efficiency. Furthermore, compared to the FecB + + and FecB + B genotypes, the FecB BB genotype displayed the highest mRNA and protein expression levels of both TGFβ receptor I (TGFβ-R1) and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). In summary, it was found that BMP15 regulated GCs proliferation by affecting the expression of genes related to the TGF-β/SMAD signalling pathway. Compared with the FecB + + and FecB + B genotypes, the FecB BB genotype responded more strongly to BMP15 treatment, suggesting a genotype-dependent response. These results provided a basis for further investigation of the molecular mechanisms by which BMP15 regulates GCs proliferation.
Appendiceal cancer (AC) is a rare malignancy that often presents at advanced stages with significant histological variability influencing clinical outcomes. Precise genomic profiling is essential for accurate diagnosis and personalized patient management. This study interrogated DNA from appendiceal tumor tissue, buffy coat cells, and the cell-free DNA component of plasma using a 523-gene panel for comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) to identify cancer-related genetic mutations in tumor and blood, evaluate tumor mutation burden, and determine genetic markers associated with histologic grade.A total of 73 patients provided blood samples comprising cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and germline buffy coat cells (bcDNA) for analysis compared with tumor tissues available from 56 of these patients. Concordance of mutations between matched tumor tissue and plasma samples (n = 51) was assessed and tumor-specific and germline variants were classified using OncoKB™ clinical criteria to delineate oncogenic and therapeutically actionable variants [level 1 mutations with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapy]. Additionally, cfDNA concentrations were tested for association with clinical and pathologic features and oncologic outcome including disease-specific (DSS) and progression-free (PFS) survival.Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from plasma cell-free DNA demonstrated high concordance with tumor genomic profiling, reaching 98.4% concordance [median, interquartile range (IQR) 13.5, 21.5] overall and 85.7% (IQR 64.6, 100) for therapeutically actionable level 1 mutations. Prevalent appendiceal tumor-specific mutations included KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS) (41%), GNAS complex locus (GNAS) (30%), tumor protein p53 (TP53) (30%), and SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) (29%). Tumor-specific TP53, SMAD4, and spectrin alpha, erythrocytic 1 (SPTA1) mutations strongly correlated with intermediate and high-grade histology, whereas GNAS mutations predominated in low-grade tumors. Germline analysis identified coding mutations shared among this patient cohort in notch receptor 4 (NOTCH4) (55%) and BRCA1 associated RING domain 1 (BARD1) (48%) genes, with zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3) (29%) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor A2 (ADGRA2), DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE), and transcription factor 3 (TCF3) mutations (all = 23%) specifically enriched in intermediate and high-grade AC. Both histological grade and cfDNA stratified by concentration tertiles independently predicted progression-free and disease-specific survival. Plasma samples exhibited consistently lower variant allele frequencies than solid tumors, limiting sensitivity for discovery of novel mutations exclusively from plasma.This study supports integrating comprehensive ctDNA assays into standard diagnostic and treatment pathways for AC using large gene panels. TP53, SMAD4, SPTA1, and GNAS mutations serve as prospective tumor-specific molecular classifiers for histological grade, while germline variants in NOTCH4 and BARD1 may further influence disease biology, with ZFHX3, ADGRA2, POLE, and TCF3 affecting grade stratification. Overall cfDNA concentration may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker in AC.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
In colorectal carcinoma (CRC), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) remains the cornerstone of adjuvant systemic therapy, with folic acid (FA) serving as an essential adjunct. Expression of genes related to the metabolism and action of 5-FU and FA can be influenced by patient- and tumor-specific biological factors. In this study, we explore differential gene expression profiles of 180 genes representing 14 different gene sets associated with different 5-FU and FA metabolism processes, at both gene and pathway levels across clinical and molecular subgroups. In 71 patients with CRC, paired tumors and normal colonic tissues were analyzed. In CRC tissue, several gene sets (including Cell Cycle Checkpoint, Oxidative Stress Response, and Signaling Pathway, etc.) were upregulated, while three gene sets (Apoptotic, Tumor Suppressor, and Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress) were downregulated. Kirsten rat sarcoma virus (KRAS), tumor protein p53 (TP53), and microsatellite instability (MSI) status impacted gene expression across molecular subgroups. At the individual gene level, among cell cycle genes, the BUB3 mitotic checkpoint protein (BUB3) was upregulated in MSI tumors compared to MSS, whereas SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) was downregulated in MSS tumors compared to MSI. DNA fragmentation factor alpha (DFFA) was downregulated in MSI and upregulated in MSS. Notably, thymidylate synthetase (TYMS) was more upregulated in MSI tumors (1.65-fold; 95% CI: 1.27-2.13) compared to MSS (1.19-fold; 95% CI: 1.02-1.39). Dysregulation of these genes across these factors will broaden our understanding of 5-FU-based treatment in CRC. Furthermore, targeting dysregulated pathways could form the basis for improved precision therapies tailored to CRC subtypes.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is among the deadliest digestive malignancies, with over half of patients showing liver metastases at diagnosis. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying PC liver metastasis is crucial for improving patient prognosis and extending survival. This study aimed to elucidate the role of integrin subunit beta 6 (ITGB6), a downstream target of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling, in PC progression and metastasis, particularly focusing on its involvement in liver metastasis.First, ITGB6 was identified as a key TGFβ-pathway gene linked to liver metastasis in PC, with its enrichment further confirmed by SMAD family member 4 ( SMAD4 )-based subgroup analysis. A total of 37 paired clinical PC and adjacent normal tissue samples were obtained from patients who underwent surgical resection at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate ITGB6 expression and its correlation with clinicopathological features. In vitro assays, including cell proliferation, apoptosis detection, and cell migration and invasion assays, were conducted to evaluate the role of ITGB6 in PC cell behavior. A SMAD4 wild-type (WT) PC cell line stably overexpressing ITGB6 was established, and its in vivo role was assessed using subcutaneous and liver metastasis xenograft models. To explore the transcriptional regulation of ITGB6 by TGFβ, chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. The effect of ITGB6-expressing PC cells on hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation was evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, and IHC. Finally, the therapeutic potential of targeting ITGB6 was preliminarily assessed using a monoclonal antibody intervention strategy.TGFβ upregulates ITGB6 expression through a SMAD4-dependent pathway. Elevated ITGB6 expression not only promotes the migration and invasion of PC cells but also activates HSCs, thereby establishing a fibrotic microenvironment favorable for metastatic colonization. In mouse models, administration of an ITGB6 monoclonal antibody significantly attenuated HSC activation and suppressed the formation of liver metastases. Therefore, ITGB6 serves as a key downstream effector of TGFβ-mediated metastasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for liver metastasis in PC.The TGFβ-ITGB6 positive feedback axis plays a critical role in liver metastasis of SMAD4 WT PC, highlighting ITGB6 as a potential therapeutic target, especially for patients with intact SMAD4 function.Copyright © 2025 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Effective CAR T cell infiltration into solid tumors remains a major barrier to therapy success. Despite their clinical potential, few studies have evaluated phenotypes of CAR T cells successfully invading the tumor mass following infusion. Phenotypic information would enrich our understanding of the mechanisms governing CAR T cell migration into solid tumors. Here we implemented an in vitro strategy to identify genes driving L1CAM-CAR T cell migration into a 3D tumor mass.L1CAM-CAR T cells were separated into 2 groups by their capability to infiltrate (or not) a 3D bioprinted neuroblastoma model. Single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing was performed, and infiltrating CAR T cells were compared to noninfiltrating cells to seek genetic drivers of CAR T cell migration. CRISPR/Cas9 technology was used to generate modified L1CAM-CAR T cells.Tumor-infiltrating L1CAM-CAR T cells expressed lower levels of the selectin P ligand (SELPLG) glycoprotein and higher levels of the T cell-specific adaptor protein, SH2D2A. Functional characterization of L1CAM-CAR T cells genetically modified to enforce these characteristics demonstrated that neither trait negatively impacted L1CAM-CAR T cell cytotoxicity, activation and cytokine release upon coculture with neuroblastoma target cells. Transgenic SH2D2A expression did not improve CAR T cell migration in an endothelial transmembrane assay. SELPLG knockout benefited CAR T cell in vitro trans-endothelial migration, but did not enhance anti-tumor efficacy in an immunodeficient mouse model.Our findings reveal a key limitation of murine xenograft models, which are widely used as the gold standard for preclinical CAR T cell testing. The lack of conservation between the human and murine SELPLG proteins likely accounts for the discrepancy between enhanced in vitro migration of SELPLG-deficient L1CAM-CAR T cells and their lack of improved efficacy in the mouse model. This underscores the need for more predictive human-relevant models to better preclinically evaluate CAR T cell function.Copyright © 2025 Andersch, Grunewald, Stecklum, Klironomos, Haase, Hollek, Lam, Jung, Winkler, Schwiebert, Astrahantseff, Launspach, Jens, Henssen, Kloke, Blüthgen, Eggert, Schulte, Anders and Künkele.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a prevalent cause of lung injury in premature infants. The migration inhibitory factor (MIF), its receptor CD74, and the TGFβ/Smad signaling cascade play pivotal roles in the regulation of alveolar epithelial type II cells (AECIIs) during lung development. This study investigated whether the MIF/CD74 axis regulates AECIIs by modulating the TGFβ/Smad pathway in BPD.A rat model of BPD induced by intraamniotic LPS-injection and postnatal hyperoxia exposure was treated with various interventions and histopathological changes using hematoxylin and eosin staining. In vitro, AECIIs with CD74 or SMAD4 knockdown or overexpression were treated with LPS. Cell proliferation was assessed using BrdU and MTT assays, mRNA expression levels via RT-qPCR, while protein expression was analyzed using immunofluorescence, western blotting, and ELISA.Our findings revealed that LPS inhibited AECII proliferation, induced transdifferentiation, apoptosis, autophagy, and upregulated MIF, CD74, TGFβ, and phosphorylated Smad proteins both in vitro and in vivo. MIF supplementation and CD74/SMAD4 overexpression reversed LPS-induced effects by promoting proliferation and reducing transdifferentiation, apoptosis, and autophagy in AECIIs. Conversely, MIF inhibition or CD74/SMAD4 knockdown exacerbated these effects. In vivo, MIF and TGFβ1 counteracted the effects of LPS, whereas LL1 enhanced LPS-induced damage. The TGFβ/Smad pathway mediated the regulatory effects of the MIF/CD74 axis in AECIIs within the BPD context.The MIF/CD74 axis regulates AECII phenotypes in BPD via the TGFβ1/Smad4 pathway, underscoring the potential for targeted therapies against the MIF/CD74 axis and TGFβ/Smad signaling for the prevention and treatment of BPD.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s).
Curcumin is a natural polyphenolic compound extracted from the rhizomes of Curcuma longa, exhibiting a wide range of biological activities, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antitumor, antibacterial, antiviral, and neuroprotective effects. However, its low oral absorption rate and poor bioavailability limit its clinical application. To address this issue, this study synthesized a novel curcumin derivative, AN02, which significantly improves the absorption rate and bioavailability while enhancing its antitumor activity. This study focused on the antitumor mechanism of AN02 in ovarian cancer, particularly its ability to inhibit ovarian cancer cell proliferation, invasion, and migration by regulating the APC (Adenomatous Polyposis Coli)-SMAD4 (SMAD family member 4)-CTLA-4 (Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte-Associated Protein 4) molecular axis. Experimental results demonstrated that AN02 significantly inhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation at very low concentrations, with its half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) significantly lower than that of curcumin. Additionally, AN02 exerted its antitumor effects by activating the APC-SMAD4 molecular axis and inhibiting the CTLA-4 molecular axis. Silencing CTLA-4 inhibits the proliferation and immune escape of ovarian cancer. Further molecular mechanism studies revealed that APC directly regulates the SMAD4-CTLA-4 molecular axis, while SMAD4 forms a chaperone relationship with CTLA-4 and promotes CTLA-4 degradation through the K48-dependent ubiquitination pathway, thereby suppressing the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells. These findings not only reveal the antitumor mechanism of AN02 but also provide new insights for the treatment of ovarian cancer. Animal experiments also demonstrated that AN02 significantly inhibits the proliferation of subcutaneous xenograft tumors in mice. As a novel curcumin derivative, AN02 exhibits significant antitumor activity and inhibits ovarian cancer progression by regulating the APC-SMAD4-CTLA-4 molecular axis. This study lays an important theoretical foundation for the development of novel antitumor drugs based on AN02, with significant clinical application potential. However, the long-term toxicity and safety of AN02 require further investigation to establish safe dosage standards for clinical use. Future studies will focus on exploring combination therapy strategies of AN02 in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer to provide new directions for precision treatment of ovarian cancer.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Introduction: Neuroinflammation is a common pathological hallmark of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) and epilepsy; however, their shared immunogenomic mechanisms remain poorly defined. This study explores shared immune-inflammatory transcriptomic signatures and identifies potential repositioning therapeutics. Methods: We integrated single-cell RNA-seq data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of COVID-19 patients and healthy donors (GSE149689), and bulk RNA-seq data from hippocampal tissue of patients with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy with Hippocampal Sclerosis (TLE-HS) and healthy controls (GSE256068). Common Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs) were identified and subjected to GO/KEGG enrichment, a PPI network, hub gene detection (cytoHubba), and transcriptional regulation analysis (ENCODE-based TF/miRNA networks). Drug repositioning was performed using the LINCS L1000 database. Results: We identified 25 DEGs shared across datasets, including 22 upregulated genes enriched in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, NF-κB, and Toll-like receptor pathways. PPI analysis revealed a CX3CR1-TLR4-centered immune module. Gabapentin emerged as a promising repositioning candidate with potential to downregulate CX3CR1, TLR4, and selectin P ligand (SELPLG). Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis confirmed the diagnostic value of these targets (AUC > 0.90 in epilepsy). A mechanistic model was proposed to illustrate Gabapentin's dual action on microglial polarization and cytokine suppression. Conclusions: Our results reveal a shared CX3CR1-TLR4-NF-κB inflammatory axis in COVID-19 and epilepsy, supporting Gabapentin as a potential dual-action immunomodulator. These findings reveal a previously underappreciated immunomodulatory role for Gabapentin, providing mechanistic rationale for its repositioning in neuroinflammatory conditions beyond seizure control.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530382 is a review article
Background: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with early disturbances in mineral metabolism that contribute to bone fragility. Secondary hyperparathyroidism is a key component of chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) and may affect bone even during the early stages of CKD. This study evaluated the association between serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentrations and bone mineral density (BMD) in patients with stage 3 CKD. Methods: A multicenter cross-sectional observational study was conducted in 203 patients with stage 3 CKD. Blood and 24 h urine samples were collected to measure creatinine, calcium, phosphate, magnesium, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), and PTH. Bone mineral density was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Associations between serum PTH concentrations and BMD were analyzed. Results: Elevated serum PTH concentrations were associated with lower femoral BMD and less favorable femoral T-scores, whereas no significant associations were observed at the lumbar spine. Serum PTH concentrations were inversely correlated with femoral BMD and femoral T-scores. Patients with reduced femoral BMD also showed higher FGF23 concentrations and lower renal function, while serum calcium, phosphate, magnesium, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations did not differ significantly among the groups. Conclusions: Elevated serum PTH concentrations were associated with reduced femoral BMD in patients with stage 3 CKD, supporting preferential early involvement of cortical bone. Serum PTH may represent an accessible biomarker for the early identification of patients at increased risk of cortical bone loss before conventional biochemical abnormalities become clinically apparent.
Background/Objectives: This study aimed to evaluate serum fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23) and α-Klotho levels in patients with prolactinoma and patients with non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia and to explore their discriminatory performance for prolactinoma. Methods: Seventy-three participants were included in this single-center, cross-sectional comparative study: non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia (n = 14), prolactinoma (n = 29), and healthy controls (n = 30). All patients with prolactinoma had received dopamine agonist therapy for at least six months. Serum FGF-23 and α-Klotho were measured by ELISA, and between-group comparisons, correlation analyses, linear regression analyses, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses were performed. Results: FGF-23 concentrations differed significantly among the groups (overall p < 0.001). Post hoc analysis showed that FGF-23 concentrations were significantly higher in the prolactinoma group [236.10 (107.70-667.90) pg/mL] than in healthy controls [138.75 (49.40-253.60) pg/mL] (adjusted p < 0.001), whereas the difference between the prolactinoma and non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia groups [166.20 (100.30-327.20) pg/mL] was not statistically significant (adjusted p = 0.075). α-Klotho concentrations were significantly higher in the prolactinoma group [2.908 (1.376-6.257) ng/mL] than in both the non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia group [2.244 (1.432-5.139) ng/mL] (adjusted p = 0.038) and healthy controls [2.204 (0.149-4.917) ng/mL] (adjusted p < 0.001). In pooled analyses, both biomarkers showed positive correlations with prolactin and weak negative correlations with hemoglobin. However, prolactin and hemoglobin were not independently associated with either biomarker after multivariable adjustment. The non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia group did not differ significantly from healthy controls for either biomarker. For distinguishing prolactinoma from non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia, the AUCs were 0.741 for FGF-23, 0.732 for α-Klotho, and 0.862 for the exploratory combined model. Conclusions: Dopamine agonist-treated prolactinoma was characterized by higher circulating FGF-23 concentrations than those in healthy controls and by higher α-Klotho concentrations than those in both healthy controls and patients with non-tumoral hyperprolactinemia. Exploratory ROC analyses suggested moderate discriminatory performance for the individual biomarkers and higher apparent performance for the combined model; however, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and require validation in larger, treatment-naïve cohorts.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501286 is a review article
Hypophosphatemic osteomalacia is an uncommon metabolic bone disorder that may present with nonspecific musculoskeletal symptoms, resulting in delayed diagnosis across orthopedic and emergency care pathways. We describe a 55-year-old man who presented through a National Health Service (NHS) orthopedic pathway with progressive atraumatic bilateral hip and groin pain, worsening mobility, proximal muscle weakness, and functional decline, initially managed as presumed mechanical musculoskeletal pain. Plain hip and pelvic radiographs did not identify a structural explanation for the severity of his symptoms. Initial laboratory investigations demonstrated profound hypophosphatemia (0.32 mmol/L) with markedly elevated alkaline phosphatase (428 IU/L), mildly reduced corrected calcium (2.18 mmol/L), elevated parathyroid hormone, and vitamin D insufficiency. Because the severity of hypophosphatemia appeared disproportionate to the degree of vitamin D deficiency, extended metabolic bone investigations were undertaken. Further testing demonstrated renal phosphate wasting with reduced tubular maximum phosphate reabsorption corrected for glomerular filtration rate (TmP/GFR 0.42 mmol/L) and C-terminal fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) above the laboratory reference range (248 RU/mL), supporting suspected FGF23-mediated phosphate-wasting osteomalacia; localization imaging and definitive etiologic classification remained pending at the time of reporting. Severe hypophosphatemia with elevated alkaline phosphatase in patients presenting with unexplained atraumatic bilateral hip or groin pain, proximal weakness, or progressive mobility impairment should prompt consideration of metabolic bone disease and renal phosphate wasting. This case also illustrates that clinically significant osteomalacia may occur despite only mildly reduced calcium concentrations and initially nondiagnostic radiographs. Early biochemical recognition may facilitate timely specialist referral and help reduce diagnostic delay and downstream skeletal morbidity in patients with phosphate-wasting disorders.Copyright © 2026, Chery et al.
Vitamin-D deficiency is common in chronic heart failure (CHF) and may be linked to disturbances in mineral metabolism and cardiovascular biomarkers. This study investigated the association between Vitamin-D status and biochemical and cardiovascular markers across different CHF stages.This cross-sectional observational study was conducted between 2023 to 2024 at three tertiary care centers in Baku, Azerbaijan (Republican Clinical Center, Sabunchu Clinical Center, and 1st Clinical Medical Center). The study included 219 patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), classified according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification: 123 patients in class I-II and 96 patients in class III-IV. Serum Vitamin-D, mineral parameters, and cardiovascular biomarkers: BNP, NT-proBNP, galectin-3, parathormone (PTH), endothelin-1, fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23), and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) were measured. Correlation analyses were performed to assess relationships between Vitamin-D levels and these markers.Vitamin-D levels decreased with worsening NYHA class. Advanced CHF was associated with mineral metabolism disturbances and increased myocardial, neurohumoral, and vascular biomarkers. Significant inverse correlations were observed between Vitamin-D concentrations and BNP, NT-proBNP, galectin-3, and FGF-23, highlighting interconnected changes among these markers in CHF progression.Lower Vitamin-D levels are associated with greater functional severity of CHF and unfavorable biomarker profiles, suggesting that worsening Vitamin-D deficiency may be involved in disease progression and clinical deterioration.Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
To investigate short-term changes in hormonal, bone metabolic, and inflammatory markers after ultrasound-guided microwave ablation (MWA) in patients with hyperparathyroidism (HPT).Nineteen patients (14 with primary HPT[PHPT], 5 with secondary HPT[SHPT]) underwent MWA. Serum intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bone turnover markers [e.g., procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide (PINP), bone-specific ALP (BALP), fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23), etc.], and inflammatory markers [e.g., C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), etc.] were measured at baseline, day 1, and month 1 post-ablation.iPTH and calcium decreased by day 1 (both P < 0.001); iPTH remained reduced at month 1 (P < 0.001), while calcium slightly increased (P = 0.046). Phosphate showed a borderline upward trend (P = 0.050), and ALP decreased at month 1 (P = 0.044). PINP increased at month 1 (P = 0.011; day 1 to month 1 P = 0.001), BALP trended upward (P = 0.112), and FGF-23 declined over time (P = 0.015). CRP peaked at day 1 and decreased by month 1 (P = 0.036); other cytokines remained unchanged. In PHPT, iPTH and calcium decreased on day 1 (both P ≤ 0.001), PINP increased by month 1 (P = 0.013), and FGF-23 declined (P = 0.009). In SHPT, trends were directionally similar but not statistically significant; calcium decreased on day 1 (P = 0.043) and rebounded by month 1. No severe hypocalcemia occurred; two patients experienced transient hoarseness.Microwave ablation induces rapid biochemical normalization and early skeletal and inflammatory changes in patients with hyperparathyroidism.Copyright © 2026 Wei, Zhao, Wu, Cao, Yu, Cai, Li, Peng and Yu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483646 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative joint disease characterized by progressive cartilage breakdown driven by inflammatory and oxidative stress mechanisms. Blue turmeric (Curcuma caesia Roxb.), a rare and understudied spice, represents a source of bioactive compounds with anti-inflammatory properties. This study aimed to characterize the phenolic profile of a blue turmeric rhizome extract (BTE) and its bioaccessible fraction obtained after in vitro gastrointestinal digestion, and to assess their biological effects on human chondrocytes (C-28/I2) exposed to interleukin-1 β (IL-1β). HPLC-MS/MS analyses revealed a phytochemical profile rich in phenolic acids and flavan-3-ols, with partial stability maintained after in vitro digestion. Pre-treatment with both native BTE and digested BTE (dBTE) protected chondrocytes against IL-1β-induced cytotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) inactivation. Furthermore, BTE pre-treatment significantly reduced tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) release and preserved cellular morphology. These findings demonstrate that BTE phenolic compounds are partially bioaccessible and exert chondroprotective effects, supporting further preclinical investigation of BTE as a potential functional ingredient for joint health maintenance and OA prevention strategies.
Globally, the disease burden of colorectal cancer has been gradually increasing. Radical resection is the cornerstone treatment for colorectal cancer, but postoperative gastrointestinal dysfunction has been a potential complication. Current therapies are unsatisfactory. Acupuncture has the merits of inexpensive and easy-operative and has the potential to be a promising strategy.This study aimed to observe the effect and safety of electroacupuncture in facilitating the postoperative recovery of colorectal cancer patients.Randomized controlled study.Prospective, single-center study.Patients over 18 years old who undergone radical resection of colorectal cancer.Electroacupuncture or sham electroacupuncture at 2h after surgery and on the morning of the first 2 days after surgery, with 30 minutes each session.The primary outcome was first flatus time. Secondary outcomes included first oral feeding time, bowel sound recovery time, length of postoperative hospitalization, adverse events, serum inflammatory cytokine indicators and heart rate variability indicators.One hundred fifteen patients met the inclusion criteria and 101 patients completed the treatment and were enrolled into statistical analysis. There was no statistically significant difference (p > 0.05) in baselines. First flatus time, first oral feeding time, bowel sound recovery time were improved in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Length of postoperative hospitalization was not significantly different. On postoperative day 1, interleukin-1β was lower in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05); On postoperative day 3, interleukin -1 β, and interleukin -6 were lower in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Percentage of difference between adjacent normal RR intervals exceeding 50ms and high frequency were higher in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier curve analysis, multiple linear regression and correlation analysis secured the stability of the main results.This is a single-center trial with a small sample size and long-term follow-up was absent. No blank control group was set.EA facilitated postoperative recovery without increasing the incidence of complications. This effect was hypothesized to be related to lower IL-1β/IL-6 levels and the rebalance of autonomic nervous system. See Video Abstract.Clinical trial registration: The trial has been registered at chictr.org.cn (ChiCTR2100050660 https://www.chictr.org.cn/hvshowproject.html?id=167502&v=1.9).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Prompt reperfusion is the standard treatment for acute myocardial infarction, but it can induce myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI). Quercetin, a plant-derived flavonoid, has been investigated as a potential cardioprotective agent in preclinical MIRI models; however, its effect magnitude, dose-exposure relevance, and mechanistic specificity remain uncertain. This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated quercetin monotherapy in vivo and ex vivo MIRI models.Databases were searched from inception to March 2026 for controlled preclinical studies comparing quercetin monotherapy with vehicle-treated MIRI controls. The primary endpoint was myocardial infarct size. Secondary outcomes included myocardial injury biomarkers, hemodynamic recovery, oxidative-stress markers, and inflammatory cytokines. Random-effects models calculated standardized mean differences (SMDs) or mean differences (MDs). Subgroup, leave-one-out, split-control, risk-of-bias-informed, dose-response meta-regression, and publication-bias analyses were performed where feasible. This review was registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO; CRD420261325366).Twenty studies were included. Quercetin was associated with reduced infarct size compared with vehicle controls (SMD = -2.98, 95% confidence interval -4.37 to -1.58; P < 0.00001). A split-control sensitivity analysis showed an attenuated but directionally consistent effect (SMD = -2.22, 95% confidence interval -3.16 to -1.28). Exploratory dose-response meta-regression did not identify a clear linear association between systemic dose and infarct-size effect. Quercetin was associated with an 18.35-percentage-point improvement in left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP) recovery and favorable changes in selected maximal rates of pressure change (±dP/dtmax). It was also associated with reduced myocardial injury biomarkers, decreased malondialdehyde (MDA), increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), and lower tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Exploratory subgroup analyses suggested attenuated responsiveness in comorbid or metabolically altered models, but this finding was limited and confounded. Egger testing suggested possible small-study effects for infarct size.Quercetin is associated with a directionally consistent preclinical cardioprotective signal in rodent in vivo and ex vivo MIRI models. However, the magnitude, mechanistic specificity, and translational relevance remain uncertain because of heterogeneity, possible publication bias, unclear methodological quality, limited pharmacokinetic exposure data, and scarce sex-balanced, comorbid, and large-animal evidence.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420261325366, identifier CRD420261325366.Copyright © 2026 Shi, Liang, Chen, Wang, Zhang, Yao and Jiang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556122 is a review article
The present study investigated the protective effects of ferulic acid against behavioral and neurochemical alterations induced by early life stress (ELS) using a maternal separation model in mice. Swiss albino mouse pups were subjected to maternal separation from postnatal day 2 to 14. During adulthood, animals received ferulic acid (40 and 80 mg/kg, p.o.) or fluoxetine (20 mg/kg, p.o.) for 15 days. Behavioral assessments included the elevated plus maze, open field test, tail suspension test, and Morris water maze. Oxidative stress, inflammatory, cholinergic, monoaminergic, and neuroendocrine parameters were evaluated in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Maternal separation stress produced significant anxiety-like and depressive-like behaviors, impaired spatial learning and memory, elevated corticosterone levels, increased thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and decreased reduced glutathione (GSH), serotonin, and dopamine levels in both hippocampal and cortical brain regions. Ferulic acid treatment significantly attenuated behavioral deficits, reduced corticosterone concentrations, restored antioxidant status, suppressed inflammatory mediators, normalized AChE activity, and increased serotonin and dopamine levels. Correlation analysis revealed significant associations between behavioral performance and neurochemical alterations, indicating that improvements in cognitive and affective outcomes were accompanied by normalization of oxidative stress, neuroinflammatory, cholinergic, monoaminergic, and neuroendocrine disturbances. These findings demonstrate that ferulic acid attenuates the long-term behavioral and neurochemical consequences of ELS and support further investigation of its neuroprotective potential in stress-related neurobehavioral disorders.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04990-x.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
This study aims to elucidate the material basis and mechanism of action of the Aconitum pendulum Busch product processed with highland barley wine against rheumatoid arthritis(RA). UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS was employed to preliminarily identify 55 compounds from the product. Through network pharmacology, 19 potential active ingredients and 140 corresponding targets were screened out. The drug targets were intersected with 89 RA targets collected from the OMIM database to yield a set of potential intervention targets. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via STRING and topological analysis was conducted via Cytoscape, which identified eight core targets: PPARG, EGFR, SLC6A3, OPRM1, PRKCA, CYP2D6, HTR1A, and HMGCR. Gene Ontology(GO) functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses performed in the Metascape database revealed that these targets were significantly enriched in processes such as TRP channels, the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) signaling pathway, and neutrophil extracellular traps(NETs) formation. An integrated &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-target-pathway&quot; network was constructed, which selected seven core ingredients(dehydrolucidusculine, linoleic acid, pyraconitine, 16-epipyroaconitine, delphinine, 1-monopalmitin, and songorine) for molecular docking with the eight core targets. The results demonstrated favorable binding activity between each ingredient and the targets. Animal experiments showed that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine alleviated joint swelling and inflammatory pathological changes of synovial tissue in the rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis(AA) in a dose-dependent manner. In terms of the serum inflammatory cytokine levels, it downregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-17A(IL-17A), and interleukin-6(IL-6). Furthermore, the product significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and its downstream signaling molecule Akt of knee synovial tissue in the rat model of AA. In conclusion, this study preliminarily reveals that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine may exert anti-RA effects through multi-ingredient, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms, particularly by regulating the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and inflammatory responses.
Bimekizumab inhibits interleukin-17A and interleukin-17F. Clinical trials have shown its efficacy in moderate--to-severe plaque psoriasis; however, real-world effectiveness and safety data remain limited.To evaluate the real-world effectiveness and safety of bimekizumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis over 16 weeks in routine clinical practice.We conducted a single-centre retrospective observational study involving adults diagnosed with moderate-to--severe plaque psoriasis who were administered bimekizumab (320 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks for 16 weeks). The primary outcomes assessed were ≥90% improvement in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 90) and complete clearance (PASI 100) at week 16. Secondary outcomes included ≥ 50% improvement in PASI, ≥75% improvement in PASI, Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) scores and the incidence of adverse events.In total, 86 patients were enrolled. Their mean (SD) age was 44.4 (12.3) years, 53% (n = 46) were women and 58% (n = 50) had prior biologic exposure. At week 16, 71% (n = 61) achieved PASI 90 and 66% (n = 57) achieved PASI 100. By week 4, 50% (n = 43) of the patients had achieved PASI 90. Patients who were biologic-naïve had higher PASI 90 rates than patients who were biologic-experienced (75% vs. 60%; P = 0.08). The complete clearance rates were 71%, 63% and 75% for scalp, nail and genital psoriasis, respectively. The mean (SD) DLQI decreased from 15.8 (6.2) at baseline to 3.2 (2.4) at week 16. Adverse events occurred in 33% of patients (n = 28), most commonly mild oral candidiasis (n = 15; 17%). No serious adverse events or treatment discontinuations were observed.Bimekizumab demonstrated high efficacy in the real-world treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, with a rapid onset of action and improvement in difficult-to-treat areas. The safety profile was favourable.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538068 is a review article
Among inflammatory mediators, interleukin-17A (IL-17A) has emerged as a potential contributor to AD pathogenesis, although its role remains incompletely defined. Notably, sex differences are evident in AD, with males exhibiting earlier mortality and greater cognitive deficits during aging and preclinical stages compared to females. While hormonal influences have been widely studied, the contribution of sex chromosome complement was suggested critical and remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the impact of sex chromosome on cognitive function and neuroinflammation using amyloid and tau mouse models. Female Tg2576 and PS19 mice were crossed with XY* males to generate XX, XO, XY, and XXY genotypes, enabling separation of X from Y chromosomal effect. Behavioral assessments, including fear conditioning, novel object recognition, and Barnes maze, revealed that XY mice exhibited significantly greater cognitive impairment compared to XX and XXY counterparts. The same pattern was seen in IL-17A levels, indicating an effect of X chromosome instead of Y. Amyloid-β and phosphorylated tau pathology by immunohistochemistry and Elisa confirmed robust disease-associated accumulation in Tg2576 and PS19 mice, but showed no differences across sex chromosome complements. Collectively, our study identifies X chromosome dosage as a key modulator of cognitive resilience and IL-17A-linked neuroinflammation in AD models. Future studies focused on understanding how X-linked factors regulate IL17 mediated neuroinflammatory pathways could reveal novel therapeutic targets for AD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hypertrophic scar (HTS) formation following severe trauma or burns remains a significant clinical challenge due to the lack of effective treatments, imposing substantial psychological burdens. Chronic inflammation is a key driver of HTS pathogenesis. Interleukin-17A (IL-17A), a critical inflammatory cytokine implicated in organ fibrosis, may play a role in HTS formation, but its function and mechanism in cutaneous scarring are not well defined.We collected 10 pairs of HTSs and normal skin tissues from patients with burns and examined the expression of IL-17A and Wnt signaling pathway-related molecules by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. These findings were further verified in rabbit ear scar experiments.IL-17A protein expression was significantly higher in HTSs than in normal skin, whereas Wnt signaling pathway-related molecules were downregulated in the HTS group. In rabbit ear scar models, Wnt signaling inhibitors aggravated HTS development, whereas activators partially inhibited HTS formation.Our findings demonstrate that IL-17A may target cyclin D1 downstream of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. These findings represent a promising therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of HTSs.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42524831 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522956 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the antiinfi ammatory effects and potential molecular mechanisms of star anise-cinnamon compound essential oil (SCEO) against multidrug-resistant Salmonella Thompson (MDR S. Thompson) infection in mice.An intestinal infection model was established in mice by oral gavage of MDR S. Thompson (1×109 CFU/mL) for two consecutive days. Experimental animals were randomly assigned to a blank group, a model group, a levofioxacin group (positive control), and SCEO low-, medium-, and high-dose groups (100, 200, and 400mg/kg, respectively).SCEO intervention significantly alleviated clinical symptoms in infected mice, restored pathological damage in the liver and ileum, and normalized the liver index. Gas chromatography-mass spectrom- etry (GC-MS) analysis identified trans-cinnamaldehyde and trans-anethole as the primary active components of SCEO. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses revealed strong binding affinities between these components and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), RELA, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14) (Vina score < -5.0 kcal/mol). Further in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that SCEO significantly downregulated the mRNA expression of key cytokines, including Tlr4, interleukin-6 (Il6), tumor necrosis factor (Tnf), and interleukin-17A (Il17a), and suppressed the overactivation of the TLR4/nuclear factor kappa-B (NFĸB)/MAPK signaling pathway. SCEO effectively alleviated Salmonella-induced infiammatory damage, a protective process potentially me- diated through the modulation of the TLR4/NFĸB/MAPK signaling axis. These findings provide a theoretical basis for the development of SCEO as a natural, plant-derived anti-infective agent.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Zhang, Lin, Luan, Shao, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Tao, Tang, Huang, Huang, Li and Chen.
Background/Objective: Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis (ECRS) is a subtype of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps that is characterized by abundant eosinophilic infiltration within nasal polyps. Tuft cells are epithelial chemosensory cells that are present in the normal respiratory tract and activate group-2 innate lymphoid cells through their secretion of interleukin-25 and prostaglandin (PG) D2. ECRS is also characterized by the activation of group-2 innate lymphoid cells; however, the involvement of tuft cell-derived PGD2 in this process remains unclear. Methods: We selected consecutive patients with and without ECRS who underwent biopsy or surgical resection. Dual immunohistochemical analyses were performed to determine the presence of tuft cells producing PGD2, using POU class 2 transcription factor (POU2F3), a specific tuft cell marker, and hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase (H-PGDS). Results: The cohort included 52 and 14 patients with and without ECRS, respectively. The number of total POU2F3-positive tuft cells (POU2F3+/H-PGDS+ and POU2F3+/H-PGDS-) was significantly higher in the ECRS group vs. the non-ECRS one (p < 0.0001). Moreover, the ratio of POU2F3-positive tuft cells expressing H-PGDS [POU2F3+/H-PGDS+/(POU2F3+/H-PGDS+ + POU2F3+/H-PGDS-)] was also significantly higher in the ECRS group vs. the non-ECRS one (p = 0.0084). Conclusions: These results suggest that tuft cells present in the context of ECRS may serve as a potential source of PGD2, thus involving to the amplification of type 2 inflammation.
The ENHANCE trials demonstrated that ensifentrine (CAS Number 1884461-72-6), an inhaled dual phosphodiesterase (PDE) 3/4 inhibitor, offers additional benefits in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Its bifunctional activity warrants pharmacological investigation to elucidate mechanisms behind lung function improvements and exacerbation reduction. Human bronchial tissues from COPD donors were examined after lipopolysaccharide challenge. The effects of ensifentrine on bronchial relaxation were evaluated in response to carbachol and electrical field stimulation (EFS), also in combination with long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), long-acting β2-adrenoceptor agonists (LABA), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). Anti-inflammatory effects were assessed by profiling cytokines, alarmins, and growth factors. Drug interactions were analyzed using the Bliss-Loewe Uncertainty Range (BLUR) model. Ensifentrine induced concentration-dependent relaxation to carbachol in both epithelium-intact and epithelium-denuded tissues (Emax 81.97 ± 6.17%, pEC50 4.86 ± 0.17) and inhibited EFS-induced contractility from 0.1 μM, with maximum reduction of 29.01% ± 2.50%. When combined with a LAMA, dual LABA/LAMA, or triple ICS/LABA/LAMA combinations, ensifentrine showed synergistic bronchorelaxant effect (overall increase in relaxation 20.47% ± 0.39%), leading to near-complete relaxation (>90%) at higher concentrations. At lower concentrations, ensifentrine reduced inflammation by 84.34% ± 8.69% in medium bronchi and 64.75% ± 8.96% in small airways; at the higher concentrations, inflammation was almost abolished (>90%), comparable to roflumilast. Drug combinations showed synergistic anti-inflammatory interactions in 31.43% of cases, mainly affecting interleukin 10, interleukin 25, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, and tumor necrosis factor-α. This study supports ensifentrine as an adjunct in COPD therapy, because of its dual bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory actions. Further research is warranted to optimize combination strategies to maximize clinical benefits and to identify additional activities in the target tissue. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The inhaled dual PDE 3/4 inhibitor ensifentrine emerges as a potent therapeutic option for COPD, showing remarkable bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory effects within human airways, the primary target tissue. It exhibits synergistic interactions with existing inhaler therapies, enhancing their efficacy. By demonstrating anti-inflammatory efficacy comparable to the established PDE4 inhibitor, roflumilast, our findings emphasize ensifentrine's capacity to significantly improve treatment outcomes and guide the development of optimized future combination strategies for COPD management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Palmoplantar psoriasis is a clinically challenging variant of psoriasis in which lesions confined to the palms and soles frequently impair function and prove refractory to conventional therapeutic approaches. A range of therapies, including topical corticosteroids, phototherapy, systemic agents, small molecules, and biologics, are used in palmoplantar psoriasis. Among biologics, those targeting interleukin (IL)-17 and IL-23 are guideline-endorsed for moderate-to-severe disease and are commonly employed in palmoplantar involvement, although responses are often less predictable than in plaque psoriasis. Brodalumab, an IL-17 receptor A (IL-17RA) antagonist, uniquely inhibits signaling from multiple IL-17 family cytokines, which could account for its efficacy in patients who fail other targeted therapies.This is a case report on a patient presenting with palmoplantar psoriasis that was resistant to topical and systemic corticosteroids. A 62-year-old White male patient with obesity presented with chronic palmoplantar psoriasis and was unsuccessfully treated with guselkumab and ixekizumab. Disease persistence severely affected the patient's work performance. Brodalumab initiation resulted in complete skin clearance within 3 months with no adverse effects, and the patient resumed working full-time.This case highlights the potential role of IL-17RA blockade in localized, treatment-resistant psoriasis and supports further investigation into its use for palmoplantar disease.Copyright © 2026. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42465768 is a review article
Of the three classes of lymphocytes that constitute the adaptive immune system, γδT cells are the only class for which the principles of antigen recognition remain enigmatic. Although endogenous γδT cell antigen receptor (γδTCR) ligands are thought to regulate γδT cell development, their identities are largely elusive. Here, we identified the interleukin 17 receptor A chain (IL17RA) as a γδTCR ligand that drove the differentiation of Vδ7+ γδT cells with a T helper 1 (TH1)-like effector program in mice. IL17RA promoted this differentiation through an interaction involving germline-encoded regions of the Vδ7 chain, enabling the selection of cells with a diverse CDR3 repertoire and thus acting as a nonclonotypic γδTCR ligand. Together with the nonclonotypic mode of γδTCR engagement by butyrophilins, these results suggest that such interactions represent a general biological mechanism shaping the γδT cell compartment.
Autoimmune uveitis is a vision-threatening inflammatory disorder driven by dysregulated T helper 17 (Th17) responses, yet therapeutic strategies targeting Th17 differentiation are lacking. Through transcriptomic screening of an experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model and validation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients, we identified MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S) as a pivotal, conserved regulator. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1S constrains pathogenic Th17 responses and alleviates EAU through a dual mechanism coordinating transcriptional control and autophagic degradation. Mechanistically, MAP1S binds to EGR2 (early growth response 2) and restrains its acetylation at Lys368, thereby suppressing Lcn2 (lipocalin 2) transcription. Besides, MAP1S facilitates autophagosome biogenesis and lysosomal trafficking, promoting the autophagic clearance of LCN2 protein. Notably, MAP1S deficiency enhances EGR2 acetylation, increases Lcn2 transcription, disrupts autophagosome trafficking, impairs LCN2 degradation, and promotes LCN2 accumulation, collectively driving Th17 polarization and exacerbating EAU pathology. Adoptive transfer of cervical lymph node cells from map1s knockout mice reproduced severe disease in wild-type recipients. Moreover, pharmacological activation of MAP1S with spermidine suppressed Th17 responses and alleviated disease severity. Our findings establish MAP1S as a critical node integrating acetylation signaling of EGR2 and autophagic flux to govern LCN2 homeostasis and Th17 pathogenicity, revealing a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune uveitis and potentially other Th17-mediated diseases.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACOD1: aconitate decarboxylase 1; AU: autoimmune uveitis; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; CDLNs: cervical draining lymph nodes; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EAU: experimental autoimmune uveitis; EGR2: early growth response 2; GDF15: growth differentiation factor 15; HDAC4: histone deacetylase 4; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; IL17: interleukin 17; IL17f: interleukin 17f; IL22: interleukin 22; K: lysine; KAT2A/GCN5: K(lysine) acetyltransferase 2A; KO: knockout; LCN2: lipocalin 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1S: microtubule-associated protein 1S; MS: mass spectrometry; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PCR: polymerase chain rection; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PTX: pertussis toxin; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription and quantitative real-time RCR; SAA3: serum amyloid A3; SPD: spermidine; Th1 cells: T helper 1 cells; Th17 cells: T helper 17 cells; TF: transcriptional factor; Tregcells: regulatory T cells; VKH disease: Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease; WT: wild-type.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is an acute febrile vasculitis in children, and vascular endothelial injury is a central event in the development of coronary artery lesions. Salidroside (SAL), a natural active compound extracted from Rhodiola rosea, has anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, and immunomodulatory properties. However, its mechanism in KD-related vascular inflammatory injury remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the protective effects and potential mechanisms of SAL in endothelial injury relevant to KD.Potential targets of SAL were predicted using reverse virtual screening and SwissTargetPrediction. KD-related targets were collected from the GeneCards and DisGeNET databases. Overlapping targets were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction analyses. Key targets were further evaluated by molecular docking. Human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) were stimulated with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) to establish an endothelial inflammatory injury model. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to identify differentially expressed genes after SAL treatment. The protective effects of SAL were then assessed by Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, wound-healing assay, Annexin V-fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)/propidium iodide (PI) flow cytometry, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and western blotting.Network pharmacology identified 226 potential SAL targets and 2,686 KD-related targets, with 56 overlapping targets. KEGG enrichment and RNA-seq indicated that SAL may regulate a broader inflammatory network, particularly interleukin (IL)-17 and TNF signaling pathways. Molecular docking showed stable binding of SAL to matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). In TNF-α-stimulated HCAECs, SAL significantly improved cell viability, inhibited excessive migration, and reduced inflammatory cell death. SAL also decreased the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of IL-1β, IL-6, MMP-9, interleukin-17 receptor A (IL-17RA), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), and reduced the protein levels of IL-6, phosphorylated nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) p65, NLRP3, gasdermin D (GSDMD), and Caspase-1 (P<0.05).SAL alleviates TNF-α-induced endothelial inflammatory injury in HCAECs. Its protective effects are associated with suppression of inflammatory signaling, inhibition of abnormal migration and cell death, and attenuation of NF-κB/NLRP3 inflammasome-related molecules. These findings provide preliminary experimental evidence for further investigation of SAL in KD-related vascular inflammation.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42336334 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537739 is a review article
Lupus nephritis (LN), a severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is closely associated with aberrant immune-inflammatory responses. Currently, reliable non-invasive biomarkers are lacking, and existing treatments remain limited. Targeting autoimmune and inflammatory pathways offers new therapeutic potential. Triptolide (TP), a diterpenoid triepoxide compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicine Tripterygium wilfordii, exhibits potent immunosuppressive, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proteinuric effects, demonstrating remarkable efficacy in tumors, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and kidney-related disorders. This study investigates the mechanism by which TP ameliorates LN through the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis to regulate TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA stability. In vitro (human renal tubular epithelial cell line) and in vivo (MRL/lpr mouse model) experiments were conducted. Renal function was assessed by measuring 24-hour urinary albumin, blood urea nitrogen, and serum creatinine levels. Serum levels of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-2, were detected by ELISA. Renal histopathological changes were observed via hematoxylin-eosin and periodic acid-Schiff staining. The cytotoxicity of TP was determined using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. The expression of hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 mRNA was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression of TRAF6 and its downstream pathway components (phosphorylated p65/p65, phosphorylated p38/p38) was detected by Western blot. Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry, and intracellular reactive oxygen species levels were measured to assess oxidative damage. Immunoglobulin G and complement component 3 deposition were evaluated by immunofluorescence. The interactions among hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 were investigated using RNA pull-down, fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. TRAF6 mRNA stability was examined following Actinomycin D treatment. Bioinformatics analysis revealed upregulation of hsa_circ_0001439 in LN (P<0.05). TP improved renal function and histopathology in LN mice (P<0.05). Silencing hsa_circ_0001439 or ELAVL1 alleviated renal injury (P<0.05), while their overexpression reversed TP's therapeutic effects (P<0.05). Hsa_circ_0001439 bound to ELAVL1 to stabilize TRAF6 mRNA (P<0.05). In rescue experiments, TP reduced inflammation (P<0.05), but hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 overexpression counteracted this effect (P<0.05). TRAF6 inhibition further mitigated oxidative damage (P<0.05), confirming TRAF6 as a key target. This study elucidates that TP alleviates LN by inhibiting TRAF6-driven inflammation via the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis, providing a potential therapeutic target for LN treatment.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Carboxyl terminus of HSC70-interacting protein (CHIP) serves as a quality control protein that involves in inflammation and immunity, bone remodeling and tumorigenesis. However, the role of CHIP in joint disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is less explored.Wild-type and Chip knockdown mice were used to establish a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model to assess arthritis progression through clinical index and histopathological markers (synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory infiltration and cartilage damage). SiRNA and lentivirus were respectively used to knockdown and overexpress CHIP in CIA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), investigating its regulatory effect on proliferation, migration, invasion and inflammation. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis were performed to assess the effect of CHIP on Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated delivery of Chip was used to evaluate its therapeutic effects in CIA mice.CHIP significantly decreased in the synovium of CIA mice and RA patients compare to control. CHIP deficiency exacerbated synovial inflammation, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion in CIA, further underscoring its protective role in joint homeostasis. Moreover, knockdown of CHIP promoted the proliferation, migration and expression of inflammatory cytokines in CIA-FLS, while CHIP overexpression in CIA-FLS showed the opposite results. Mechanistically, CHIP interacted with TRAF6 and promoted the degradation of TRAF6. CHIP inhibited the migration and pro-inflammatory phenotypes of CIA-FLS via TRAF6/p65 pathway. Further, AAV mediated CHIP gene therapy by intra-articular administration effectively attenuated the progression of CIA by inhibiting the synovial inflammation and expression of TRAF6.Collectively, these findings demonstrated the critical regulatory role of CHIP in RA. Therefore, exploiting the protective effects of CHIP may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for RA.These findings not only advance our understanding of CHIP's regulatory role in RA but also highlight the value of genetic animal models in orthopaedic drug discovery.© 2026 The Authors.
Corneal allograft rejection remains a leading cause of graft failure. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) may provide new options for modulating the immune response to allografts.This study aimed to determine whether miR-146a-enriched EVs could prolong corneal allograft survival by modulating local and systemic immune responses.After corneal allografting from C57BL/6 to BALB/c mice, recipients received subconjunctival injections of PBS, miR-NC-EVs, or miR-146a-EVs isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCSCs). Local inflammatory and regulatory factors in ocular tissues were assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to quantify the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3). Systemic cytokine profiles were assessed in recipient sera using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin (IL)-17, IL-10, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β.Clinical rejection scores were markedly reduced, with significant improvements in opacity, edema, and neovascularization. RT-PCR analysis of corneal tissue showed miR-146a overexpression, downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6, a significant reduction in TNF-α mRNA, and increased Foxp3 expression. ELISA analysis of systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 showed that treatment with miR-146a-EVs resulted in lower systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 levels and significantly higher levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and TGF-β.This study identifies miR-146a-EVs as a novel cell-free therapy that effectively prolongs corneal transplant survival. The treatment exerts dual immunomodulatory effects by regulating local inflammatory pathways and shifting systemic cytokine profiles toward an anti-inflammatory state, thereby offering a targeted strategy to prevent transplant rejection.Copyright © 2026, He.
Metabolic dysregulation is a hallmark of tumorigenesis and profoundly impacts immune surveillance; however, the underlying mechanisms and targeted treatments remain limited in colorectal cancer (CRC). Here, we utilize public databases, mouse models, and multi-omics analyses to identify N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) as a critical prognostic-associated gene that emerges as a significant modulator of tumor immunity in CRC. We demonstrate that NAT1 suppresses glycolysis and lactate production, thereby promoting an immune-activated tumor microenvironment (TME). Mechanistically, NAT1 interacts with enolase 1 (ENO1), a key glycolytic enzyme, acetylating it at lysine 343 (K343) and thereby inhibiting its activity. However, loss of NAT1 in tumor cells leads to enhanced ENO1 activation, which in turn drives glycolysis and lactate production. Lactate then binds to TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), promoting its oligomerization and activation, leading to K63-linked ubiquitination of PD-L1, which enhances PD-L1 stability and facilitates immune evasion. Importantly, low NAT1-expressing tumors from CRC patients show increased sensitivity to anti-PD-1 therapy, and NAT1 deficiency significantly improves the efficacy of anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment in preclinical mouse models. Collectively, our findings highlight the critical role of NAT1 in reshaping the TME and suggest that targeting the NAT1-ENO1-lactate axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance immunotherapy in CRC.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Prostate cancer remains a significant therapeutic challenge in male urologic oncology. Characterized by an immunosuppressive microenvironment, it is commonly described as an immunologically "cold" tumor. This study elucidates the role of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) within the immune landscape of prostate cancer. We observed marked downregulation of TRAF6 in both patient-derived tissues and cultured prostate cancer cell lines. Functional assays demonstrated that TRAF6 upregulation robustly suppresses cancer cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, we discovered that TRAF6 sensitizes prostate cancer cells to CD8+ T cell-mediated ferroptosis by targeting Lipocalin 2 (LCN2) for proteasomal degradation. The anti-tumor effects of TRAF6 overexpression were reversed upon LCN2 restoration. Further analyses showed that TRAF6 promotes LCN2 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Our results reveal a previously unrecognized pathway by which TRAF6 modulates tumor cell susceptibility to CD8+ T cell-associated ferroptosis, highlighting the translational potential of targeting the TRAF6-LCN2 signaling axis in prostate cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The NLRP3 (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat-containing receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) inflammasome plays a causal role in driving atherosclerosis. HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor) prolyl hydroxylase EGLN3 (Caenorhabditis elegans gene egl-9 [EGLN] 3) inhibits NFκB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling independently of its hydroxylase activity. This study determined the role and mechanism of EGLN3 prolyl hydroxylase in regulating NLRP3 inflammasome activation, vascular inflammation, and the development of atherosclerosis.ApoE-/- mice deficient for global EGLN3, macrophage EGLN3, or EGLN3 hydroxylase activity were used to explore the role of EGLN3 and its activity in atherosclerosis. MCC950 was applied to antagonize the NLRP3 inflammasome in mice. Various cellular and molecular methods were used for mechanistic studies.EGLN3 elimination promotes the production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and the release of mitochondrial DNA in macrophages. EGLN3 ablation enhances NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and promotes GSDMD (gasdermin D) cleavage, IL (interleukin) 1β production, and pyroptosis of macrophages. TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6) catalyzes lysine (K) 63-linked NLRP3 ubiquitination and potentiates NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation, which can be antagonized by EGLN3. EGLN3 also blunts K63-polyubiquitination of TRAF6. EGLN3 deficiency enhances lipid uptake through increasing CD36 expression and impedes cholesterol efflux by declining ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette transporter A1) expression, thereby boosting macrophage foam cell formation. EGLN3 depletion restrains MerTK expression and efferocytosis of macrophages. Inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome counteracts the impacts of EGLN3 deficiency on foam cell formation and efferocytosis. Global and macrophage-specific ablation of EGLN3 exacerbates vascular inflammation and instability of the atherosclerotic plaques in ApoE-/- mice. Pharmacological inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome ameliorates the detrimental effect of EGLN3 deficiency on vascular inflammation and the formation and stability of the plaques. Genetic inactivation of EGLN3 activity retains its ability to restrict NLRP3 inflammasome activation and atherosclerosis development.EGLN3 inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation through antagonizing TRAF6-induced NLRP3 ubiquitination and activation. EGLN3 suppresses vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis by modulating pyroptosis, foam cell formation, and efferocytosis of macrophages through targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome. EGLN3 protects against atherosclerosis independently of its hydroxylase activity.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301525
Breast cancer (BC) remains one of the most aggressive and life-threatening types of female cancer. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are closely correlated with the progression and metastasis of cancers. This study aimed to explore the role of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 25 (USP25) in breast cancer metastasis and stemness. Cell counting kit 8 (CCK-8) and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EDU) assay were performed to measure cell viability and proliferation. Xenograft tumor model was established to determine in vivo growth of cancer cells. Flow cytometry was used to measure cell apoptosis. Western blot and qPCR were performed to assess the expression of apoptosis and cancer stemness biomarkers. Cancer cell self-renewal ability was analyzed by the sphere formation assay. Clinical samples were collected to measure the expression of USP25 and C1ql4 (C1q-like 4). Knockdown of USP25 suppressed the in vitro and in vivo growth of breast cancer cells and increased cell apoptosis, inhibited the self-renewal ability, downregulated the expression of cancer stemness biomarkers, and reduced the stability of C1ql4 protein, whereas overexpression of C1ql4 could reverse these effects. The clinical analysis demonstrated that USP25 and C1ql4 were highly expressed in breast cancer tissues and presented a positive correlation. Our data indicated that knockdown of USP25 suppressed the stemness growth of breast cancer cells via reducing the stability of C1ql4 protein. These findings provide USP25/C1ql4 as a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
