Approximately 90% of patients with pancreatic cancer harbor KRAS mutations, predominantly the KRASG12D subtype. HRS-4642, a non-covalent inhibitor targeting KRASG12D, demonstrates potent antitumor efficacy but may ultimately lead to resistance. This study investigates the mechanisms underlying KRASG12D inhibitor resistance and evaluates strategies to enhance treatment sensitivity. Our findings indicate that a glutamine-restricted diet not only reverses KRASG12D inhibitor resistance in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) but also achieves remission with prolonging survival. Mechanistically, KRASG12D inhibitor resistance markedly upregulates ANXA1 expression, which, in turn, promotes its binding to the glutamine-related enzyme GOT1 and stabilizes its expression. Additionally, we find that ANXA1 upregulation facilitates mitochondrial localization of GLS1, thereby altering glutamine metabolism. These findings highlight ANXA1-mediated glutamine metabolism as a key driver of KRASG12D inhibitor resistance and support glutamine-restricted diets as a potential therapeutic strategy for KRASG12D mutant PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metastatic disease remains the primary cause of cancer mortality, yet the identification of robust therapeutic targets is hampered by tumor heterogeneity and microenvironmental complexity. A key challenge lies in identifying epigenetic regulators that can simultaneously inhibit tumor progression and harness immunity. Here, we leverage single-cell transcriptomics from 120 liver cancer patients to identify E1A-like inhibitor of differentiation 1 (EID1) as the sole histone acetylation regulator upregulated in both tumor cells and effector lymphocytes within metastatic sites. Systemic Eid1 deletion markedly suppresses lung metastasis in melanoma, liver cancer, and breast cancer models. This protection is mediated dominantly by natural killer (NK) cells and type I/II interferons (IFNs), as evidenced by antibody-based cell depletion and cytokine neutralization. Eid1-deficient NK cells exhibit a hyperactivated state with robust proliferation, and their adoptive transfer confers superior metastatic suppression. Notably, Eid1 deficiency augments the accumulation of NK cells and dendritic cells (DCs) in lung metastases and induces a close spatial and transcriptional DC-NK interplay for metastatic defense. Mechanistically, loss of Eid1 upregulates formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1) and its ligand annexin A1 (ANXA1) on DCs and NK cells, enabling a FPR1-dependent DC-NK crosstalk that strengthens type I and II IFN responses against tumor dissemination. Conditional knockout demonstrated that intratumoral accumulation of NK cells and DCs is determined by cell-intrinsic Eid1. Critically, targeted Eid1 silencing delivered by nanoparticles significantly enhanced Fpr1 expression and NK activation, eventually suppressing tumor dissemination. Collectively, our study uncovers a previously unrecognized role of EID1 in promoting cancer metastasis by dampening the DC-NK joint immunosurveillance and establishes the therapeutic potential of EID1 inhibition in NK cell transfer and siRNA-based strategies.© 2026. Science China Press.
Alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality worldwide, yet the associations linking alcohol-induced gut microbial alterations to metabolic remodeling and hepatocyte dysfunction remain incompletely understood. Here, we applied an integrative multi-omics strategy combining untargeted fecal metabolomics, shotgun metagenomics, mouse liver bulk RNA sequencing, and reanalysis of publicly available human hepatic single-cell and bulk transcriptomic datasets to characterize alcohol exposure-associated gut-liver immunometabolic features. In a mouse model of acute ethanol-induced liver injury, fecal metabolomic and metagenomic profiling revealed marked alterations in microbial functional potential and fecal metabolic composition, identifying six convergent metabolic pathways across fecal multi-omics layers, including nucleotide metabolism, the pentose phosphate pathway, histidine metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, glycine/serine/threonine metabolism, and the phosphotransferase system. Reanalysis of human ALD single-cell transcriptomes showed hepatocyte-enriched activity patterns for several corresponding pathways, suggesting potential pathway-level associations between fecal metabolic alterations and hepatic transcriptional responses. Integrative transcriptomic analysis further identified a ten-gene hepatocyte-associated signature, comprising LRG1, ORM1, ORM2, TAT, HP, FGB, FGG, ITIH3, NNMT, and AGT, which was associated with pathway activity and showed consistent upregulation across acute ethanol-induced liver injury and human ALD/AH transcriptomic datasets. In an external human cohort, this signature stratified patients into exploratory molecular subgroups with distinct metabolic pathway activities and clinical outcome distributions. Collectively, these findings provide a hypothesis-generating multi-omics framework for investigating alcohol-related liver injury and support further validation in chronic ethanol exposure models and functional studies.Copyright © 2026 Ding, Qi, Dai, Li and Zhang.
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
Dietary cholesterol and de novo cholesterol synthesis in the liver use reciprocal coordination to maintain cholesterol homeostasis. However, high level of dietary cholesterol still promotes excessive cholesterol accumulation in the liver, leading to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), yet the mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we show that hepatic S100A11, a member of the S100 family of calcium-binding proteins, positively responds to the dietary cholesterol level and is involved in hepatic cholesterol metabolism. S100A11 localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and can bind to cholesterol. In vivo and in vitro, hepatic overexpression of S100A11 led to SREBP2 activation to promote cholesterol synthesis, uptake, and accumulation, consequently exacerbating steatohepatitis. In contrast, inactivation of S100A11 had opposite effects and improved steatohepatitis. Mechanistically, S100A11 triggers the non-canonical entry of SREBP2 into the nucleus through a S100A11-ANXA1-KPNB axis, distinct from the well-known INSIG-SCAP pathway or Caspase2 pathways. Therefore, our work identifies S100A11 as a regulator of liver cholesterol metabolism, providing a promising target to treat MASH and hypercholesterolemia.
Epithelial-immune cell interactions are crucial in the regulation of pulmonary immune responses. Emerging evidence suggests that cell populations lining the airways may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a disease characterised by progressive scarring of the lung parenchyma. We profiled the cellular landscape of the airway mucosal niche in incident cases of IPF to understand early-stage events contributing to disease development.Single-cell RNA-sequencing was used to explore cellular heterogeneity in proximal airway brushings from seven healthy controls and nine patients with newly diagnosed IPF. In-depth bioinformatics analysis was used to interrogate changes in cell populations and cell-cell communication in IPF patients compared to controls.We show a relative increase in the abundance of airway macrophage subsets in IPF compared to healthy controls, and disease-specific changes in their transcriptional profile. Increased frequency of airway macrophages and proliferating macrophages was associated with more extensive disease at baseline quantified by the composite physiological index and radiological severity of traction bronchiectasis. Monocyte-derived macrophages were significantly enriched at baseline in IPF patients who had disease progression at 12 months. Using CellChat we exposed differences in cell-cell communication between airway epithelial cells, airway macrophages and T-cells in IPF. We identified dysregulation in signalling pathways such as SEMA3, ANXA1 and DESMOSOME, which modulate airway epithelial-macrophage interactions, potentially driving disease pathology.Airway epithelial cells and macrophages may play a key role in orchestrating the early immunopathology of IPF, and these data support further exploration of novel, airway-focused therapeutic targets in IPF.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
This study aimed to evaluate the antidepressant activity of Piper laetispicum extract and preliminarily explore its underlying mechanism using a zebrafish model of depression combined with quantitative proteomics. A chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) paradigm was employed to establish the depression model. AB strain zebrafish were randomly assigned into four groups: control, model, P. laetispicum, and fluoxetine, with 15 fish in each group. Except the control group, all groups were subjected to CUMS for 2 weeks. Intervention of P. laetispicum extract or fluoxetine lasted for 3 consecutive weeks. Upon completion of the experiment, the pathological morphology of zebrafish brain tissue was observed, and the expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta(IL-1β), brain-derived neurotrophic factor(BDNF), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A(5-HT2A) were measured in each group. Brain tissue proteins were extracted and subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins(DEPs), which was followed by bioinformatics analysis. Key DEPs were validated using Western blot and RT-qPCR. The results demonstrated that P. laetispicum extract significantly ameliorated CUMS-induced brain histopathological damage, reduced the levels of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β, and reversed the aberrant expression of BDNF and 5-HT2A. Proteomic profiling identified a total of 11 633 proteins, among which the expression levels of 81 proteins were markedly reversed following P. laetispicum extract treatment. Subsequent validation by Western blot and RT-qPCR confirmed that P. laetispicum significantly modulated the expression of annexin A1(Anxa1) and transcription factor JunB(JunB). Collectively, these findings suggest that P. laetispicum exerts antidepressant effects potentially through the regulation of Anxa1 and JunB expression.
Identifying new drug targets is essential for improving breast cancer survival. The proteome provides a rich source for potential therapeutic targets. This study aimed to identify protein markers and therapeutic targets for breast cancer by using proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR).Protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) data were obtained from four large-scale proteomic studies, including 17,267 circulating protein markers. Genetic associations with breast cancer survival were derived from a large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (37,954 cases, 2,900 deaths). Proteome-wide MR was performed to estimate causal effects of proteins on breast cancer survival, complemented by single-cell expression analysis to identify enriched cell types. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) and druggability assessments were also conducted to prioritize therapeutic targets.Genetically predicted circulating levels of 27 proteins were found to be associated with breast cancer survival. Among these, eight proteins (ADAM15, CD83, SH3BGRL3, SNCG, ANXA1, GRHPR, ALDH2, and MTHFD2) showed the strongest evidence of association, while four proteins (ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B) demonstrated a strong but slightly weaker correlation. Notably, SH3BGRL3, GRHPR, ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B were newly identified as circulating protein markers significantly associated with breast cancer prognosis. Druggability analysis revealed that 13 of these proteins were already targeted by existing drugs, offering potential for breast cancer treatment.We identified 27 genes encoding proteins associated with overall and subtype-specific breast cancer survival, providing potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and offering new avenues for improving breast cancer management.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
Therapeutic needs to modulate brain circuits highlight graphene-based materials (GBMs) as an emerging tool to engineer specific interventions to treat neuro-diseases. In this context, graphene oxide (GO) nanosheets offer new drug delivery strategies to reach neural cells and signaling networks selectively. To complex and transport neuropeptide Y (NPY), GO was engineered as GO:NPY, and its activity was investigated in regulating excitatory neurotransmission in NPY-positive synaptic pathways, when delivered to the amygdala, a structure mediating fear memory responses. First, it was shown that in vitro GO:NPY specifically and selectively inhibited glutamate release and suppressed synaptic enhancement via NPY receptors. In a rat model of anxiety disorder, when injected into the amygdala, GO:NPY suppressed contextual fear memory responses via activation of NPY receptors in specific synaptic pathways. This easy-to-tune GBM-based nanoplatforms promise advances in co-delivery vectors preserving the synaptic specificity needed for treating specific pathological conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Pain is a common and debilitating non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet its underlying neural mechanisms remain poorly defined.The aim was to test whether neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor (Npy1r)-expressing parabrachial neuronsdrive PD-associated pain.In a unilateral 6 hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) mouse model, pain-related behaviors, neuronal activation, and intrinsic excitability of parabrachial nucleus (PBN) neurons were assessed using behavioral assays, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and ex vivo whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology. Cell type-specific chemogenetic inhibition.Following 6-OHDA injection, mice developed robust multimodal hypersensitivity accompanied by increased recruitment of Npy1r-expressing PBN neurons. Chemogenetic silencing of Npy1r-expressing PBN neurons abolished PD-associated hypersensitivity, whereas activation induced pain-like behaviors in naïve mice.Npy1r-expressing PBNs are a discrete supraspinal population that drives pain in a preclinical model of PD. © 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
CCR2+ monocytes are recruited to sites of acute myocardial injury, where they play a critical role in clearing necrotic debris and replenishing the depleted resident macrophage population. Although this response is necessary for early tissue repair, prolonged activation of inflammatory pathways and persistent recruitment of CCR2+ monocytes have been associated with accelerated ventricular remodeling and adverse outcomes. Inhibition of CCR2 has shown promise in preclinical models of myocardial injury and represents a potential therapeutic target. Cardiosphere-derived cell extracellular vesicles (CDC-EVs) have demonstrated cardioprotective effects partly through modulation of the immune response. We investigated whether CDC-EVs regulate inflammatory monocyte trafficking through effects on CCR2 signaling. We found that CDC-EVs reduce the surface availability of CCR2 on human monocytes through an miR-146a-dependent mechanism, resulting in decreased monocyte migration toward CCL2. These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism by which CDC-EVs modulate CCR2-dependent monocyte trafficking and provide new insight into how EVs regulate innate immune responses after myocardial injury.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Repair of acutely injured skeletal muscle relies on an adequate inflammatory response predominated by monocyte/macrophage infiltration. The process requires injured muscles to produce C-C chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2). The present study identified fibro/adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) as the primary source of CCL2 in acutely injured muscle, where the pro-inflammatory subcluster of FAPs expanded rapidly and expressed the highest level of CCL2. FAP-specific deletion of Ccl2 largely abolished CCL2 production by acutely injured muscle, reducing monocyte/macrophage infiltration and impairing muscle regeneration. In vitro, the CCL2 expression by both mouse and human FAPs was induced by danger signal-containing muscle homogenates through Toll-like receptor signaling. The CCL2 expression by mouse FAPs was also induced by infiltrating neutrophils, partly through their secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our findings suggest an important immune sentinel role for FAPs, as they sense muscle damage, produce CCL2 to recruit inflammatory monocytes, and promote injury repair.© 2026 The Author(s).
In the current study, we genetically engineered Salmonella Typhimurium to serve a dual purpose in cancer immunotherapy, simultaneously inducing apoptosis and activating anti-cancer immune responses. Tumor-residing tryptophan auxotrophic Salmonella, featuring trpA and trpE deletions, selectively inhabits the tumor microenvironment, promoting tumor-targeted delivery of therapeutic antigens such as apoptin (an apoptosis inducer) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA; related to anti-cancer immunity), while minimizing off-target effects. The therapeutic strain had reduced endotoxic responses owing to a lack of pagL in its genome. Additionally, to enhance adaptation to the tumor microenvironment, the strain underwent consecutive passaging for over five generations, increasing its potency for tumor recognition and localization. A prokaryotic and eukaryotic dual-expression plasmid was developed by incorporating the complete apoptin open reading frame into the eukaryotic region and the CEA epitope collection associated with an MHC-II agonist peptide into the prokaryotic expression cassette. Each antigen was confirmed for successful expression at the intended sizes, with functional validation performed through in vitro cytotoxicity assessment. Mouse inoculation studies demonstrated that the Salmonella therapy significantly suppresses the progression of highly aggressive 4T1 breast cancer tumors as well as metastatic dispersion in lung, liver, and spleen tissues, fostering an anti-tumoral immune environment characterized by IFN-γ and CCL2 markers. This transformative approach to Salmonella-mediated cancer immunotherapy could pave the way for targeted treatments for immune-resistant cancers and hard-to-treat malignancies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
Brain metastases (BrM) are a frequent and life-threatening complication of solid tumours, with lung cancer representing their most common source. While cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are well-established contributors to tumour progression in many extracranial malignancies, their presence and function within the brain tumour microenvironment, where fibroblasts have long been considered scarce or absent, remain poorly understood. Here, we isolated and characterised fibroblast-like cells from 13 human BrMs of diverse origins. These BrM-associated CAFs (BrM-CAFs) expressed canonical CAF markers and showed reduced proliferation and increased senescence compared to normal fibroblasts. Their transcriptome was enriched for extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes, including multiple collagens, fibronectin, and matrix-remodelling enzymes. In vitro, BrM-CAFs produced a fibrillar ECM, and in BrM tissues, their abundance was associated with collagen I and fibronectin deposition. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and secretome analyses further revealed that BrM-CAFs produce multiple cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote cell motility. BrM-CAF conditioned medium promoted both monocyte migration and the migration of cancer cells, including established cell lines and patient-derived lung cancer BrM cells; monocyte migration was partially reduced by inhibition of CCL2/CCR2 signalling, whereas blocking CXCL12, CXCL16, or CX3CL1 attenuated BrM-CAF-induced cancer cell migration. Beyond these effects on migration, exposure to BrM-CAFs increased cancer cell invasion in transwell and heterotypic 3D spheroid assays. In contrast, their effects on cancer cell proliferation were limited and did not indicate a growth-promoting role. Exposure to BrM-CAFs was also associated with increased expression of interferon-stimulated genes in cancer cells. Together, our findings support a role for BrM-CAFs in shaping the brain metastatic microenvironment through ECM remodelling and the secretion of pro-migratory mediators, promoting monocyte and cancer cell migration and enhancing cancer cell invasion. These data identify BrM-CAFs as active stromal participants in BrM biology and support further investigation of their biological, diagnostic, and therapeutic relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Qingxin Tongmai Yin (QXTMY), a classic traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula widely used for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, has unclear multitarget mechanisms against atherosclerosis (AS). This study integrated network pharmacology with experimental validation to investigate these mechanisms. Network pharmacology identified 128 bioactive compounds and 135 potential targets of QXTMY, highlighting key anti-AS targets such as TNF, IL6, insulin (INS), IL1B, MMP9, CCL2, and ALB, with the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway as a central mechanism; principal active ingredients included quercetin, kaempferol, luteolin, and cryptotanshinone. In vitro experiments using THP-1-derived macrophages induced with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) showed that QXTMY significantly suppressed inflammatory responses, inhibited foam cell formation, and downregulated the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway, as measured by Western blot, ELISA, cholesterol quantification, and Nile Red staining. These findings suggest that QXTMY may exert protective effects against AS, potentially via suppression of the AGE-RAGE-mediated inflammatory axis. However, in vivo validation is still required to support these preliminary conclusions.Copyright © 2026 Yangfan Huang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Low-fat diets are widely promoted as health-protective; however, the consequences of removing sucrose within a low-fat dietary framework remain unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of a sucrose-free low-fat diet (SF-LFD) compared with a sucrose-containing low-fat control diet (C-LFD) in mice (n=6/group) over 16 weeks. Despite unchanged body and liver weights, SF-LFD feeding resulted in impaired glucose tolerance, reduced insulin sensitivity, and broad alterations in circulating metabolic hormones, including elevated C-peptide, incretins, ghrelin, and resistin, as well as reduced fasting insulin. 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that SF-LFD markedly disrupted gut microbial diversity and composition, with depletion of short-chain fatty acid-producing commensals, including Lactobacillus murinus and members of the Lachnospiraceae family, and enrichment of taxa associated with inflammatory or stress-adapted states, including Helicobacter ganmani, Odoribacter splanchnicus, and Alistipes species. This dysbiosis was accompanied by pronounced colonic inflammation characterized by crypt architectural disruption, loss of goblet cells, submucosal expansion, increased CD3+ T-cell and F4/80+ macrophage infiltration, and robust upregulation of inflammatory mediators, including Il1b, Il6, Ccl2, Rorγt, and Tbx21. SF-LFD feeding induced hepatic microvesicular steatosis, lobular inflammation, recruitment of F4/80+ and CD11c+ immune cells and increased hepatic expression of IL1b and IL6. Together, these findings suggest that sucrose elimination from a low-fat diet disrupts gut microbiota, impairs metabolic homeostasis, and promotes gut and liver inflammation, revealing an unrecognized dietary trigger of metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Almansour, Kochumon, Al-Rashed, Malik, Benobaid, Shenouda, Thomas, Arefanian, Nizam, Jacob, Al Madhoun, Tuomilehto, Al-Mulla and Ahmad.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) and atopic dermatitis (AD) are driven by distinct T cell programs, and safe long-term topical therapies remain limited. Dermal fibroblasts (dFBs) have emerged as active immunomodulators, but whether they can be therapeutically targeted remains unexplored.Here we developed MDI1228, a novel topical pan‑JAK inhibitor with nanomolar potency against JAK1/2/3/TYK2 (IC₅₀ 0.11-0.85 nM) and high selectivity. MDI1228 was evaluated in DNFB‑induced ACD and MC903‑induced AD mouse models, as well as in primary mouse and human cell‑based assays.Topical MDI1228 ameliorated both ACD and AD in mice, reducing T cell infiltration and cytokine production. Mechanistically, MDI1228 not only directly inhibited T cell activation and cytokine production but also disrupted fibroblast‑T cell crosstalk by reducing dFB‑derived chemokine expression. Single‑cell transcriptomics identified dFBs as the primary source of CXCL9/10 in ACD and CCL2 in AD. Conditioned medium and neutralization experiments demonstrated that CXCL9/10‑CXCR3 and CCL2‑CCR2 signaling axes contribute to T cell polarization in a context‑dependent manner. Compared with glucocorticoids, prolonged topical application of MDI1228 showed minimal systemic toxicity and preserved tissue homeostasis.These findings identify dFBs as a central therapeutic node and demonstrate that MDI1228, by directly targeting T cells and disrupting dFB‑derived chemokine axes via JAK inhibition, offers a potent and safe topical treatment for both ACD and AD.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Yin, Yang, Heng, Zhang, Song, Feng, Yang, Liu and Zhang.
Atrophic non-union is a significant clinical challenge associated with impaired early inflammation resolution and delayed osteogenesis. Although the osteoimmune microenvironment is critical for bone healing, the specific molecular mechanisms regulating this process require further elucidation.We utilized a 6-mm critical-size rat femoral defect model and time-series RNA sequencing to explore potential molecular mechanisms. Additionally, primary mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) were used for in vitro validation of in vivo findings.Histological and transcriptomic analyses identified 1-2 weeks post-fracture as a critical window characterized by significant inhibition of the canonical BMP9-SMAD signaling cascade in the non-union microenvironment. In vivo, this defect was associated with sustained accumulation of M1 macrophages, impaired reparative M2 polarization, and osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. In vitro studies further validated the in vivo results, confirming that BMP9 promotes M2 macrophage polarization, upregulates chemokines Ccl2 and Ccl7, and inhibits RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis through the canonical SMAD-ID1 pathway.Early loss of canonical BMP9-SMAD signaling disrupts the balance between immune cell recruitment and bone remodeling, contributing to the development of atrophic non-union in critical-size defects. Targeted modulation of the BMP9-driven osteoimmune axis may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for impaired bone healing.Copyright © 2026 Zhong, Shao, Zhou, Huang and Liu.
This study evaluated the neuroprotective effects of inhibiting the pro-apoptotic molecule Bim (Bcl-2-interacting mediator of cell death) in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). A mouse optic nerve crush (ONC) model was used to induce RGC degeneration. Bim expression and RGC survival were assessed by immunohistochemistry, RBPMS immunofluorescence, and histological analyses. Following intravitreal injection of AAV2-shBim, retinal structure and visual function were evaluated by optical coherence tomography, flash visual evoked potentials, and flash electroretinography. Optic nerve axons were assessed by CTB-555 anterograde tracing. Primary dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were used to examine the effects of Bim manipulation on axon growth. RNA sequencing, qPCR, and pharmacological modulation of Drd1 signaling were performed to investigate associated molecular changes. ONC induced marked upregulation of Bim expression accompanied by substantial RGC loss. AAV2-shBim treatment reduced Bim expression, preserved retinal structure, increased RGC survival, partially improved visual function, and enhanced axonal preservation after injury. In DRG cultures, Bim knockdown promoted axon elongation, whereas Bim overexpression suppressed axon growth. Transcriptomic analysis identified significant upregulation of Drd1 following Bim inhibition, which was confirmed by qPCR. Pharmacological activation of DRD1 enhanced axon growth, whereas DRD1 blockade attenuated this effect. Taken together, these findings indicate that Bim inhibition is associated with enhanced RGC survival and axonal preservation after ONC, with Drd1 related signaling potentially contributing to these effects.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aims to investigate the expression and function of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and histone methyltransferase EZH2 in regulating the expression of thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) and fibrotic markers by orbital fibroblasts from Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO) patients.DNMTs mRNA levels were measured in orbital fibroblasts from healthy controls (control orbital fibroblasts), active GO fibroblasts, and inactive GO fibroblasts (iGOFs). TSHR and other fibrotic markers were measured in iGOFs treated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB and decitabine (a DNMT inhibitor) or DZNep (an EZH2 inhibitor) or small interfering RNA by RT-qPCR or Western blotting.DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA expressions were significantly higher in active GOFs compared with iGOFs and control orbital fibroblasts. Among all DNMTs, DNMT1 expression was at the highest levels. Upon PDGF-BB stimulation, DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA levels in iGOFs were significantly induced. Decitabine significantly inhibited PDGF-BB-induced cell viability and TSHR mRNA levels in iGOFs, whereas DNMT1 silencing partly reduced TSHR protein. Because a positive correlation between DNMT1 and EZH2 expression in iGOF was observed, the regulatory role of EZH2 on TSHR expression was also investigated. DZNep slightly decreased TSHR mRNA expression in iGOFs and iGO orbital tissue, whereas EZH2 silencing partly affects TSHR expression.This study demonstrates that DNMT1 is the major DNMT during the active stage of GO. Moreover, DNMT1 is inducible upon PDGF-BB stimulation in iGOFs, suggesting an important role of PDGF-BB and DNMT1 during an active stage of GO. Our findings also highlighted that the inhibition of DNMT or EZH2 potentially suppressed TSHR mRNA expression, suggesting potential therapies targeting DNMT/EZH2 in controlling GO progression.
Stress can cause or exacerbate psychiatric illness, and effects on the transcription factor CREB within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are critically involved. In rodents, stress-induced activation of NAc CREB produces elevations in dynorphin (DYN), an endogenous opioid expressed in dopamine D1-receptor (D1R)-expressing medium spiny neurons (MSNs). In turn, elevated DYN signaling produces features of mood and anxiety disorders via actions at kappa-opioid receptors (KORs). Although individual differences in stress sensitivity have been described-with some appearing susceptible and others resilient-the contribution of NAc DYN to these phenotypes is unclear. Here we examined relationships between social behavior and DYN in D1R-expressing MSNs in mice exposed to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS). We used quantitative (q)RNAscope to assess co-expression of genes encoding CREB (Creb1), D1Rs (Drd1), and DYN (Pdyn) within the NAc. To leverage individual variability, we performed regression analyses across all mice, revealing negative correlations between social interaction behavior and expression of Drd1 and Pdyn, linking higher social avoidance with higher expression of these genes. There was no correlation with Creb1, suggesting stress-induced elevations in Pdyn depend on CREB activation (phosphorylation). These findings suggest that stress-related induction of DYN in D1R-expressing MSNs within the NAc is a biomarker of susceptibility.© 2026 The Authors.
Acetylcholine (ACh) signaling regulates oligodendrocyte lineage progression via muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs), yet its role in cocaine-induced myelin-associated and relapse-like changes remains unexplored. Here, we examined whether hippocampal cholinergic and oligodendroglial alterations were associated with cocaine-related outcomes and pharmacologically sensitive to M3-preferential antagonism. Adult male C57BL/6J mice were subjected to cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP), extinction, and cocaine-primed reinstatement, and treated with benztropine (BZT), the M1-selective mAChR antagonist VU0255035, or the M3-preferential mAChR antagonist solifenacin (SOL). Cocaine conditioning increased dorsal hippocampal ACh levels and reduced the expression of selected myelin-related genes and oligodendroglial transcription factors, including Mbp, Plp, Olig2, and Olig1, predominantly in the dorsal hippocampus. These changes were accompanied by reduced myelin basic protein (MBP) immunoreactivity, increased cholinergic terminal apposition to oligodendrocyte-lineage cells, and upregulation of Chrm3 in O4-sorted hippocampal oligodendrocytes. BZT reduced cocaine-primed reinstatement and increased Mbp and Plp expression and MBP immunoreactivity in several hippocampal layers. BZT also normalized cocaine-induced changes in Fosb, ΔFosb, Creb, and Slc6a3 in the dorsal hippocampus, whereas dorsal Bdnf remained different from vehicle-treated controls. SOL reduced reinstatement relative to both cocaine-conditioned and VU0255035-treated mice. SOL also increased open-arm time and entry ratio in the elevated plus maze test relative to cocaine-conditioned mice. In CD140a-sorted oligodendrocyte precursor cell-derived cultures, SOL increased MBP-positive oligodendrocyte volume relative to cocaine alone; however, the lack of a SOL-VU0255035 difference precluded conclusions about subtype specificity. These findings provide evidence consistent with a contribution of M3-sensitive muscarinic mechanisms to cocaine-associated oligodendroglial and behavioral alterations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study aimed to evaluate the effects of FTO (rs9939609) and ADRB3 (rs4994) gene variants, dietary intervention, and physical activity on gestational weight gain and perinatal outcomes in women with obesity and early gestational diabetes (GDM). In this prospective study, 115 pregnant women with obesity and early GDM were enrolled. All participants received standardised dietary counselling and recommendations regarding physical activity. Gestational weight gain, biochemical parameters, physical activity levels, genetic variants, and maternal and neonatal outcomes were assessed throughout pregnancy. Appropriate gestational weight gain was achieved by 73% of participants. Both earlier diagnosis of GDM (11 vs 14 weeks, p = 0.04) and initiation of dietary intervention (12 vs 15 weeks, p = 0.01) were observed in the group with recommended gestational weight gain. Women with EGWG had significantly higher glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels in the second (5.03% vs 5.22%, p = 0.02) and third (5.33% vs 5.55%, p = 0.02) trimesters. Unfavourable FTO genotypes were associated with higher first-trimester HbA1c concentrations (p = 0.04) and elevated triglyceride levels throughout pregnancy (p < 0.05) but were not independently associated with gestational weight gain. Higher physical activity in each trimester, was significantly associated with appropriate gestational weight gain regardless of genetic predisposition (p < 0.001). Appropriate gestational weight gain was associated with a lower risk of neonatal macrosomia (2% vs 4%, p = 0.04). Among women with obesity and early GDM early dietary intervention and sustained physical activity were more strongly associated with appropriate gestational weight gain than the studied genetic variants. Appropriate gestational weight gain was associated with a lower risk of neonatal macrosomia.Trial registration number and date of registration: NCT04924738, 14/06/2021.© 2026. The Author(s).
Impaired bile secretion disrupts the gut microbiome and perpetuates cholestatic liver injury. Vancomycin (VCM) has been shown to improve cholestasis in human patients, but its biological effects remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects of VCM on microbiome modulation and the restoration of liver function. VCM was administered in a modified Abcb11 knockout (KO) mice model with pre-existing cholestasis to examine its therapeutic effects and microbiome changes. After 2 weeks of treatment, VCM significantly decreased serum bilirubin while maintaining stable transaminase in the KO mice. Three-dimensional imaging of pan-CK expression by immunofluorescence revealed improvement of the disrupted biliary epithelium and interconnected bile duct network, as evidenced by increased coverage and cumulative duct length in the liver. Gene expression and hepatic bile acid profiling demonstrated that VCM enhanced canalicular/sinusoidal bile acid export while repressing bile acid synthesis, with a reduction in tauro-β-muricholic acid, the predominant bile acid in mice, in KO livers. Fecal microbial analysis using next-generation sequencing identified Parabacteroides goldsteinii (PG) as the predominant species after VCM treatment. KO mice fed PG demonstrated improved cholestasis, with significantly reduced direct bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, total bile acids in serum, as well as fewer reactive ductules in the liver. In vitro culture of ductal organoids suggested that PG directly promoted the growth of cholangiocytes. RNA sequencing results suggested that PG suppressed pro-inflammatory Lyz1 (mouse orthologous gene of human LYZ) and Aqp4 and increased pro-proliferative Muc6 and Chrm3. This study highlights the therapeutic potential of VCM in cholestasis by enriching PG in the gut and improving biliary structures in the liver, identifying PG as a potential probiotic with beneficial effects in cholestasis. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic, progressive joint disorder with higher prevalence and pain severity in women than men. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) modulates pain and shows sexual dimorphism, yet sex-specific alterations in central ECS signalling in OA pain remain under-investigated.We investigated sex-dependent differences in pain-related behaviours and central ECS signalling in the rat monoiodoacetate (MIA) model of knee OA pain.Adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats (8-9 weeks old) received an intra-articular injection of either MIA (2 mg/50 μL) or saline (Sham control) in the left knee. Pain-related behaviours were assessed over 63 days post-injection. The influence of oestrous cycle stage on pain-related behaviours was examined in 100 additional MIA-injected female rats. Endocannabinoids [anandamide (AEA), 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG)] and N-acylethanolamines [palmitoylethanolamide (PEA), oleoylethanolamide (OEA)] were quantified in brain and spinal cord regions (LC-MS/MS), and ECS-related gene expression (Faah, Mgll, Cnr1, Cnr2) was assessed (RT-qPCR).MIA females exhibited greater weight-bearing deficits and hind paw mechanical hypersensitivity than males throughout the study period. Oestrous cycle stage did not influence MIA-induced pain-related behaviours. MIA males showed lateralised ECS signalling in the amygdala, with elevated endocannabinoid and N-acylethanolamine levels in the ipsilateral/left amygdala, a pattern absent in females. A bilateral reduction of Mgll expression in the amygdala was observed in MIA female rats compared to Sham controls.In the MIA model, female rats demonstrate greater nociceptive behaviour and a different amygdala ECS profile, compared with males, paving the way for further investigation of ECS-mediated mechanisms underlying sex differences in OA pain.© 2026 The Author(s).
The α 1A-adrenergic receptor, encoded by ADRA1A, couples to heterotrimeric Gq/11 proteins, promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and PKC activation. In human hepatocytes, it regulates acute metabolic responses and impacts gene expression. Although fundamental hepatic functions of ADRA1A have been described, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma remains elusive. We hypothesized that ADRA1A expressed in liver cancer tissue is part of a signaling repertoire potentially linked to patient outcomes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas liver cancer datasets and found ADRA1A gene deletion in 6% of patients and more prolonged survival of patients with high ADRA1A expression. Thus, we aimed to identify ADRA1A-signaling partners equally linked to more prolonged patient survival. Through a rational data mining strategy, based on the identification of the signaling repertoire linked to ADRA1A expression and statistical correlation with patient survival, we identified a transcriptional signature integrated by the adrenoceptor and five candidate signaling companions including two RhoGEFs: FGD4 and FARP2, a phospholipid phosphatase: PLPP6, a RabGAP: TBC1D2B, and an RTK adaptor: BAIAP2. Additionally, highly co-expressed GPCRs such as ACKR2, DRD1, ADRA1B, GPR17, S1PR1, and GPR182, and RTKs like KDR and TEK similarly integrated transcriptional signatures with ADRA1A that correlated with more prolonged survival. Most ADRA1A candidate signaling partners were well-co-expressed with hepatocyte markers, suggesting that integrating ADRA1A-associated signaling networks could improve liver cancer patients' prognosis.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00706-4.© The Author(s) 2026.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.718578.].Copyright © 2026 Feng, Han, Wu and Wang.
Positive social comparative feedback during motor skill practice is hypothesized to enhance motor learning by triggering a dopaminergic response. Individual differences in dopamine-related genes impact dopamine neurotransmission and may influence responsiveness to motor practice conditions that target dopaminergic pathways. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of dopamine genotype on learning of a motor sequence task under two different feedback conditions: response time only feedback or response time with positive social comparison. Fifty-two adults practiced a joystick-based motor sequence task over two consecutive days. On Day 1, participants were randomized to receive either 1) response time only feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds") or 2) positive social comparative feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds. You were faster than others"). Motor learning was assessed by retention performance, or the change in response time from the first block of Day 1 to the first block on Day 2. Saliva samples were used to genotype for dopamine receptors DRD1, DRD2 and DRD3 and COMT. Individual genes were scored (0-2) and summed to create a polygene score (0-8). Participants were then categorized as having Low (1-4) or High (5-8) dopamine neurotransmission. A significant interaction was found between time, summary polygene group and feedback group (p = 0.048). The Low dopamine group showed greater improvements with response time only feedback versus positive social comparative feedback. The High dopamine group showed similar improvements in response time regardless of feedback type. This suggests that feedback targeting dopaminergic pathways may not be beneficial for individuals with lower dopamine neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that dopaminergic genetics may impact the efficacy of positive social comparative feedback on motor learning in low dopamine genotypes.Copyright: © 2026 Lewis et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Exposure to aristolochic acid (AA) has been strongly linked to the development of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC), but the precise molecular mechanisms driving AA-associated carcinogenesis remain unclear, limiting effective prevention and treatment strategies. This study aimed to identify core target genes and explore the associated toxic mechanisms by integrating network toxicology, microarray analysis, machine learning, and experimental validation.Potential AA targets were identified from multiple databases. Differential expression and weighted gene co-expression network analyses were performed on microarray data from AA-related UTUC samples and matched normal urothelium samples to identify hub genes. Overlapping genes between AA-related targets and UTUC hub genes were considered potential pathogenic targets of AA-induced UTUC toxicity. To enhance the accuracy and predictive power, various machine learning algorithms were employed for gene selection. Molecular docking was performed to assess the binding affinity of AA to the core targets. Functional analysis was performed to elucidate potential toxic mechanisms. Gene expression was validated using quantitative real-time PCR in clinical samples from patients with AA-related UTUC and controls.In total, 379 AA target genes and 793 hub genes of UTUC were identified, leading to the identification of 20 shared genes that were considered potential pathogenic targets of AA-induced UTUC toxicity. Machine learning algorithms extracted five core target genes: AVPR1A, CFD, F10, SCN3A, and NPY1R. Molecular docking confirmed the stable binding of AA to these core targets. Functional analysis suggested that AA-induced UTUC may involve disruption of vascular homeostasis, calcium signaling, and immune modulation. The expression of core genes was successfully validated in clinical samples.This study integrated network toxicology, microarray analysis, machine learning, and experimental validation to comprehensively elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying AA-induced UTUC. The combined approach used in this study extends beyond the exploration of individual targets or pathways. Instead, it provides a comprehensive view of the toxic effects of AA through multiple targets and pathways, thereby offering a robust framework for understanding the complex toxicological processes of various harmful compounds. The findings of this study provide crucial insights into the toxicological mechanisms of AA with implications for therapeutic development and regulatory strategies. These insights offer guidance for improving the clinical applications and safety regulations of traditional medicines.We identified and validated five novel core target genes associated with AA-induced UTUC: AVPR1A, CFD, F10, SCN3A, and NPY1R. Functional investigations revealed that AA-induced UTUC may involve the disruption of vascular homeostasis, calcium signaling, and immune system modulation. Thes.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
The parabrachial nucleus (PBN) is a critical hub for pain processing that acts as a switchboard for nociceptive signals, relaying sensory information to forebrain regions that integrate the sensory and affective dimensions of pain. Although the PBN is well established as a key regulator of pain, the remarkable heterogeneity of its neuronal populations has hindered efforts to identify specific cell types responsible for distinct aspects of pain processing. Here, we identify bombesin receptor subtype 3 ( Brs3 )-expressing neurons as a distinct glutamatergic PBN subpopulation involved in heat hypersensitivity associated with persistent pain. Using Fos expression analysis and in vivo calcium imaging, we demonstrate that Brs3 neurons exhibit heightened activity in response to heat stimulation following an inflammatory insult or neuropathic injury. Inhibition of Brs3 neurons effectively reduces heat, but not mechanical, hypersensitivity induced by both inflammatory and neuropathic pain, suggesting a specific role in processing heat hypersensitivity. Ablation of parabrachial Brs3 neurons prior to induction of pain also selectively prevents the development of heat hypersensitivity induced by persistent inflammation in mice. Brs3 -expressing neurons encompass multiple previously identified pain-related PBN subpopulations, including those expressing the mu opioid receptor ( Oprm1 ), tachykinin 1 receptor ( Tacr1 ), and neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor ( Npy1r ), positioning Brs3 as a potential unifying marker of heat hypersensitivity circuits. These findings provide new insight into the organization of pain-processing networks in the PBN and highlight Brs3 neurons as a crucial population for heat pain.
Pain perception is initiated upon activation of nociceptors of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia. We identify G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) expressed in CGRP+ mouse and human DRG neurons and find that agonists of several identified Gi/o-coupled and orphan GPCRs attenuate neuronal excitability. Experiments focusing on the Gi/o-coupled serotonin receptor Htr1b, which is expressed in mouse and human CGRP+ DRG neurons, reveal that Htr1b/1d agonists, the triptans sumatriptan and zolmitriptan, attenuate CGRP+ neuron excitability in vitro and exhibit analgesia across several pain models, including neuropathic pain. Conditional genetic deletion experiments show that triptan-induced analgesia is mediated by Htr1b expressed in A-fiber mechanonociceptors. Also, triptan-associated adverse effects are partially mediated by Htr1b-independent targets. Further testing identifies the GPCR Gpr19 as an additional promising target for treating pain. These findings establish a preclinical screening platform for identifying analgesic candidates and reveal nociceptor GPCRs that may be targeted to treat pain.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Epidermal growth factor receptor-targeted therapies such as afatinib provide clinical benefits to patients with advanced-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); however, acquired resistance frequently develops, with the underlying mechanisms remaining undefined in 20-30% of cases. The present study established afatinib-resistant (AR) NSCLC cell lines and confirmed their resistance phenotype using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) cell viability assays. Notably, these cells also exhibited cross-resistance to osimertinib. To elucidate the molecular basis of resistance acquisition, the time-resolved transcriptomic profiling of A549 cells was performed across three stages: Parental, afatinib-exposed (adaptive phase) and stable resistant cells. The analyzed results revealed the persistent upregulation of ABLIM3, HTR1D and HSPA1A, which was validated by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The meta-analysis of hazard ratios from The Cancer Genome Atlas demonstrated that the elevated expression level of the three-gene signature was significantly associated with tumor progression and an increased risk of disease recurrence. These transcriptional alterations were accompanied by the sustained activation of the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway, as evidenced by increased ERK1/2 phosphorylation detected using western blot analysis, which was positively associated with the expression level of the three-gene signature. Functional analyses further demonstrated that the pharmacological inhibition of MAPK/ERK signaling using selumetinib effectively re-sensitized AR cells to both afatinib and osimertinib, as demonstrated by restored drug sensitivity in CCK-8 assays. Collectively, these findings suggest that MAPK/ERK signaling contributes to the transition from adaptive tolerance to stable resistance to afatinib and highlight a tractable therapeutic vulnerability for overcoming resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in NSCLC.Copyright: © 2026 Qin et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506338 is a review article
Can ANPEP-based magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) be used to isolate and functionally enrich human steroidogenic theca interna cells from small antral follicle membranes?This experimental study used ovarian tissue from eight women (mean age 33.7 years) undergoing fertility preservation. Membranes from small antral follicles (2-9 mm) were enzymatically digested and cultured for 48 h. A mixed cell sample was obtained before MACS separation into ANPEP-positive and ANPEP-negative cell fractions, followed by an additional 48-h culture. Cell purity and viability were assessed by flow cytometry (FACS) using ANPEP and FSHR antibodies. Gene expression (ANPEP, CYP17A1, LHCGR, FSHR, CYP19A1) was analyzed by RT-qPCR. Steroid secretion (pregnenolone, progesterone, 17-OH-pregnenolone, 17-OH-progesterone, DHEA, androstenedione) was quantified using LC-MS/MS.Before cell sorting, 29.6-82.9% of viable cells expressed ANPEP. After MACS, ~ 68% of cells in the ANPEP-positive fraction expressed ANPEP, compared with ~ 3% in the negative fraction (P < 0.05). CYP17A1 expression was higher in pre-MACS and ANPEP-positive populations than in the negative fraction. ANPEP-positive cells secreted androgen precursors (17-OH-pregnenolone, 17-OH-progesterone, DHEA, androstenedione), whereas the negative fraction produced relatively more progesterone, consistent with theca cell enrichment.ANPEP-based MACS enables enrichment of viable, steroidogenic human theca interna cells. The ANPEP-positive fraction exhibits molecular and functional characteristics consistent with theca lineage and provides a useful model for studying ovarian steroidogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42486999 is a review article
Psychedelic drugs, such as lysergic acid diethylamide and psilocybin, have emerged as potentially transformative therapeutics for various neuropsychiatric conditions, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, migraine and cluster headaches. Classical psychedelics exert their effects through activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors (HTR2As). Here we provide a suite of engineered mice that will be useful for clarifying the role of HTR2A in psychedelic drug actions. We generated Htr2aEGFP-CreERT2 mice to identify both HTR2A-EGFP-CT receptors and HTR2A-containing cells, thereby revealing HTR2A distribution in the brain. We also generated humanized Htr2aA242S-EGFP-Cre and constitutive Htr2aCre mice. Psychedelic-induced behavioral changes in these mice validated their utility for these studies. Electrophysiological investigations on brain sections from these mice revealed that 2,5,-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine induced robust increases in firing of genetically identified pyramidal neurons. These mouse lines are valuable tools for investigating the molecular, cellular, pharmacological, physiological, behavioral and other mechanisms of psychedelic actions in vivo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Corticotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumours (PitNETs)/adenomas are heterogeneous sellar neoplasms. Currently established histopathological classification approaches are often considered limited in fully capturing the clinical and biological complexity of these tumours. Thus far, a molecular-based classification has not been established in corticotroph PitNETs. We compile molecular data of 270 corticotroph PitNETs (111 internal, 159 external), encompassing epigenome, transcriptome, and proteome profiles. Comprehensive integrative analyses are performed to identify, validate and characterise definitive molecular subgroups. Corticotroph PitNETs separate into four robust and clinicopathologically distinct molecular subgroups, which are broadly distinguishable by microscopy using SSTR1, GATA3 and SSTR5 immunohistochemistry. An integrated stratification model incorporating these molecular subgroups demonstrates significant prognostic utility. Our findings support the establishment of a refined molecular-based corticotroph PitNET classification, the full clinical value of which will require validation in prospective studies. To facilitate future research, we provide an easy-to-use epigenomic classifier for corticotroph PitNETs.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidental thyroid uptake of radiolabeled ligands used in positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) targeting cell-surface proteins is observed in up to 6% of all scans. While diffuse thyroid uptake of ligands targeting somatostatin receptor type 2 (SSTR2), prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA), fibroblast activation protein (FAPI), or choline, is observed in normal thyroid or usually signifies a benign thyroid abnormality, a heterogenous or focal uptake is associated with malignant lesions in up to 19.7% of patients. The PET/CTs utilizing these ligands are characterized by decreased diagnostic sensitivity for detection of thyroid cancer metastases than cross-sectional imaging or 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG)-PET/CT but are highly specific for detection of a subset of thyroid cancers characterized by a high target protein expression. Increased uptake of radiolabeled ligands targeting SSTR2, PSMA, FAPI, integrin αvβ3 and minigastrin can be used for patients' selection for peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT). PRRT can be applied in clinical trials and/or off label for patients with advanced radioactive iodine-refractory thyroid cancer who have limited treatment options or for medullary thyroid carcinoma of neuroendocrine origin. The PRRT-induced disease control rate approaches 60% and PRRT is well tolerated with limited side effects. Efficacy could be improved with careful patients' selection based on the expression of molecular targets and their function, quantified by standard uptake values (SUVmax) in diagnostic PET/CT imaging. Adopting an individualized dosimetry-based approach and synthesizing ligands with better tumor retention and residence time may help optimize treatment response.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society 2026.
The HTR2A polymorphisms rs6311 (A-1438G) and rs6313 (T102C) have been thoroughly studied for their impact on atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) responsiveness in schizophrenia. However, the results remain inconsistent owing to the complex genetic and pharmacodynamic interactions. The Joanna Briggs Institute and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews criteria were followed in this scoping review to map the available data on the association between HTR2A polymorphisms and outcomes. We identified 28 studies published before May 2025. Several studies reported that the rs6311 A allele was more frequently associated with improved treatment response, whereas the G allele was linked to poorer or absent response. In contrast, rs6313 exhibited heterogeneous patterns, with some studies reporting poorer response associated with the C allele and others reporting improved response associated with the T allele. This variability across studies likely reflects differences related to specific AAPs, as well as variations in study design and outcome definitions, rather than population or ethnicity-specific biological effects. Overall, HTR2A variants may contribute to interindividual variability in response to AAPs in schizophrenia. However, the current evidence remains insufficient for clinical application and requires further validation in well-designed and adequately powered studies.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Neuroblastoma is an aggressive paediatric malignancy with poor outcomes in high-risk patients despite multimodal therapy. [177Lu]Lu-DOTATATE, targeting somatostatin receptor 2 (SSTR2), is under clinical investigation for neuroblastoma. Terbium-161 (161Tb) shares chemical characteristics and a similar half-life with lutetium-177 (177Lu) but offers advantages through its higher emission of Auger and conversion electrons, which may enhance therapeutic efficacy especially for micrometastases and recurrent disease. This study investigates [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE as a potential complement for treatment of SSTR2-expressing neuroblastoma.DOTATATE was successfully radiolabelled with 161Tb, achieving high radiochemical yield and stability. [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE demonstrated clear SSTR2-specific binding in vitro, as well as biodistribution and tumour uptake comparable to [177Lu]Lu-DOTATATE in vivo. Treatment with [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE reduced tumour growth in an activity-dependent manner, and demonstrated stronger early tumour control compared to [177Lu]Lu-DOTATATE at comparable administered activities (**p < 0.01 at day 9). Tumour doubling times were longest in the 6 MBq [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE group (29 vs. 18 days in controls), while the 3 MBq [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE group showed similar doubling times to 4 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTATATE (21 vs. 22 days). This was also reflected in survival, where 6 MBq [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE achieved the greatest effect (50% increase in median survival), followed by 4 MBq [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE (36%), while 3 MBq [161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE and 4 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTATATE showed more modest improvements (23%). All treatment regimens were well tolerated, and no signs of treatment-related toxicity were observed.[161Tb]Tb-DOTATATE demonstrates favourable targeting properties and activity-dependent therapeutic efficacy in preclinical neuroblastoma models without detectable toxicity. These findings encourage us to explore its potential as a complement to [177Lu]Lu-DOTATATE, particularly for targeting minimal residual disease and micrometastases, and warrant further preclinical and clinical evaluation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511878 is a review article
Personalized therapy in acromegaly is limited by interindividual variability in drug responses and the lack of robust markers predicting tumor shrinkage, rather than biochemical control alone. To test whether ex vivo drug-induced viability changes in patient-derived 3D cultures (Pd3D) of GH-secreting pituitary adenomas reflect tumor cell-intrinsic pharmacological sensitivity and align with established clinical predictors.Spheroid-based Pd3D cultures were established from 27 patients with acromegaly. Cultures were exposed to octreotide, cabergoline, pasireotide, or vehicle control. We assessed cell viability changes; sample-level responder status (viability reduction vs vehicle, p < 0.05); and associations between responder status and known predictive markers, including clinical characteristics, MRI findings, dynamic drug tests, and pathological features. In 6 cases, AI-based digital image analysis quantified pre- and post-treatment SSTR2 expression in liquid-based cytology (LBC).All agents modestly reduced median cell viability (84-86%, p < 0.05), with responder rates of 33-40%. Concordance with established predictors was observed: octreotide responders correlated with T2 hypointensity (88% vs 44%, p = 0.04); cabergoline with positive bromocriptine tests (100% vs 45%, p = 0.03); and pasireotide with sparsely granulated patterns (64% vs 19%, p = 0.04). AI-based dynamic analysis demonstrated that ex vivo responders showed relatively stable SSTR2 expression after treatment, whereas nonresponders exhibited marked depletion.Spheroid-based Pd3D ex vivo viability assays revealed modest but significant cohort-level effects and sample-level concordance with clinical predictors, suggesting its potential utility as an exploratory model. Additionally, AI-based quantification of SSTR2 dynamics captured functional receptor shifts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) syndrome (EAS) often involves occult microtumors, making localization challenging. We report a 68-year-old woman with severe ACTH-dependent hypercortisolism in whom the primary tumor remained occult despite extensive imaging, including 68Ga-tetraazacyclododecanetetraacetic acid-D-Phe(1)-Tyr(3)-octreotide positron emission tomography/computed tomography. Based on a positive octreotide challenge test, she received long-acting release octreotide for over a decade, achieving sustained biochemical stability. In 2020, she developed breast cancer, with the tumor being ACTH-negative on immunohistochemistry. In 2023, during resection of pulmonary metastases of the breast cancer, a 3-mm nodule was incidentally discovered in the adjacent lung tissue. Through close interdisciplinary coordination, the nodule was removed and was confirmed as an ACTH- and somatostatin receptor (SSTR) 2-positive pulmonary carcinoid. Thereafter, the EAS resolved completely with prompt recovery of adrenal function. In this case, intensive medical stabilization in occult EAS probably served as a strategic "bridge to surgery." Importantly, long-term biochemical control using somatostatin analogs facilitated prompt recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis immediately after tumor resection. This may also have preserved SSTR2 expression, potentially by mitigating cortisol-induced receptor downregulation, facilitating its eventual localization. This report shows that meticulous multidisciplinary communication during unrelated surgical procedures is indispensable for identifying radiologically occult lesions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
This study evaluated differences in the expression of proteins related to glucose metabolism and somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) between primary tumors and distant metastatic lesions in differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC).We retrospectively analyzed 18 patients with DTC (mean age 56 ± 10 years) who had bone or soft tissue metastasis. Immunohistochemical staining of surgical specimens was performed to assess the expression of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT-1), hexokinase-2 (HK-2), and somatostatin receptor subtype 2 (SSTR-2). Protein expression was classified as negative, weakly positive, or strongly positive. Correlations between primary and metastatic lesions were evaluated using Spearman analysis. FDG SUVmax values were compared according to protein expression using the Mann-Whitney U test, and the association between iodine avidity and SSTR-2 expression was assessed using Fisher's exact test.GLUT-1 expression was more frequent in metastatic lesions than in primary tumors (65% vs. 50%). HK-2 expression was high in both primary and metastatic lesions (94% each). SSTR-2 expression was similar between primary (50%) and metastatic lesions (41%). GLUT-1 expression demonstrated a marginal positive correlation between primary tumors and bone metastasis (r = 0.462, p = 0.062). After excluding primary tumors smaller than 1 cm, significant correlations were observed for both GLUT-1 (r = 0.624, p = 0.023) and HK-2 (r = 0.695, p = 0.008), whereas SSTR-2 showed no significant correlation. Among patients who underwent surgery and 18F-FDG PET/CT within one year, GLUT-1-positive metastatic lesions demonstrated significantly higher FDG SUVmax values than GLUT-1-negative lesions (p = 0.046). Among a small subset of evaluable iodine-non-avid metastatic lesions, preserved SSTR-2 expression was observed, although the association was not statistically significant.GLUT-1 expression showed partial concordance between primary and metastatic DTC lesions and was associated with higher FDG uptake, which may reflect altered glucose metabolic activity. Although SSTR-2 expression was not associated with iodine avidity, its retention in a subset of iodine-refractory metastatic lesions may indicate a possible avenue for future investigation of SSTR-targeted imaging or radionuclide therapy in selected patients with advanced DTC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japanese Society of Nuclear Medicine.
Adipose tissue remodelling, encompassing white adipose tissue (WAT) browning alongside brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation, holds promise for combating obesity, yet the endogenous chemokine receptors that restrain this plasticity remain ill-defined. Here, we uncover that C‒C chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) restrains adipocyte remodelling and energy expenditure.A high-fat diet (HFD) was provided to systemic and adipocyte-specific Ccr1 knockout mice. The CCR1-selective antagonist BX471 was administered to HFD-fed wild-type (WT) mice as a preventive regimen. Energy expenditure was assessed via indirect calorimetry; BAT thermogenic activity and WAT beiging were quantified through histology and gene expressin analyses. Adipose tissue macrophage homeostasis was analysed via flow cytometry. Peritoneal macrophages were differentiated into either the M1 or M2 state, and conditioned media were applied to the adipocytes.In HFD-fed mice, Ccr1 ablation conferred resistance to obesity and insulin resistance, coupled with enhanced WAT browning, augmented BAT thermogenesis and elevated energy expenditure. These metabolic benefits were associated with a shift towards M2 macrophage polarisation and reduced adipose tissue inflammation. Adipocyte-specific Ccr1 knockout recapitulated these phenotypes. BX471 administration in WT mice phenocopied the metabolic effects of Ccr1 deficiency under HFD conditions. Mechanistically, in vitro experiments suggested that Ccr1 loss suppressed Gαi-dependent signalling, leading to increased intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and subsequent protein kinase A/cAMP-response element-binding protein 1 (PKA/CREB) activation, thereby promoting thermogenic gene expression in adipocytes. In addition, conditioned media from M2-polarised macrophages enhanced thermogenic gene expression in adipocytes, and this effect was further potentiated in Ccr1-deficient adipocytes.CCR1 regulates adipose tissue remodelling and systemic energy expenditure, at least in part, through cAMP/PKA/CREB signalling and macrophage homeostasis. Pharmacological inhibition of CCR1 attenuates obesity development, suggesting a potential preventive strategy.CCR1 expression is significantly elevated in adipose tissue of obese individuals. Systemic and adipocyte-specific Ccr1 deletion promotes fat browning via cAMP/PKA/CREB activation and M2 macrophage polarisation, protecting against obesity. Pharmacological blockade of CCR1 suppresses obesity progression, highlighting its potential as a novel target for metabolic disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease with no specific etiological treatment. Polygonatum odoratum, a traditional yin-nourishing herb, is used in treating pSS, but its molecular mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the potential association of CCR1 with pSS immunopathology and to computationally assess its candidacy as a predicted target of P. odoratum.Transcriptomic datasets (GSE51092, GSE66795; validation: GSE84844) and single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE253568) were obtained from GEO. Network pharmacology screened active component targets of P. odoratum, and a "three-dimensional intersection" strategy identified candidate therapeutic targets. Single-cell analyses including monocyte subtyping, pseudotime trajectory, SCENIC transcription factor network, and CellChat cell communication analyses were performed. Molecular docking predicted drug-target binding, and RT-qPCR validated findings in clinical samples (pSS n = 65, HC n = 48).CCR1 was the only candidate target simultaneously satisfying "drug-targetable, disease-related, and differentially expressed" conditions. CCR1 was significantly upregulated in pSS patients (AUC = 0.758, indicating moderate discriminatory capacity) and positively correlated with serum IgG levels (R = 0.49, P = 0.0057). Single-cell analysis demonstrated CCR1 was specifically highly expressed in classical monocytes (CD14++CD16-), with CCR1-positive monocytes significantly expanded in pSS (P = 0.0079). SCENIC analysis predicted STAT1 and EGR1 as candidate upstream transcription factors potentially associated with CCR1 expression. CellChat analysis predicted a potential "T/NK cell-derived CCL5-CCR1-mediated monocyte chemotactic recruitment" signaling axis. Moupinamide from P. odoratum showed predicted binding affinity with CCR1 (-8.1 kcal/mol). RT-qPCR confirmed elevated CCR1 expression in pSS PBMCs (P < 0.0001).This study provides exploratory multi-dimensional evidence consistent with a candidate role of CCR1 in pSS immunopathology. CCR1 is predominantly expressed in classical monocytes, predicted to be associated with STAT1/EGR1 regulatory activity, and computationally linked to monocyte recruitment through the CCL5-CCR1 chemotactic axis. Pseudotime analysis suggested a computational inference of monocyte differentiation trajectory differences associated with CCR1 expression dynamics, requiring experimental validation. Moupinamide from P. odoratum shows predicted binding affinity to CCR1, offering a computational hypothesis for the "yin-nourishing and dryness-moistening" therapeutic principle that warrants experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Li, Gesang, Tan, Li and Liu.
Vascular smooth muscle cells are constantly subjected to cyclic stretch and hydrostatic pressure in vivo, yet the molecular responses to these stimuli remain incompletely understood. We performed transcriptome and secretome analyses to characterize the responses of human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) to cyclic stretch (10%; S10) or cyclic hydrostatic pressure corresponding to normotensive (120/60 mmHg; P120) or hypertensive (180/120 mmHg; P180) conditions. Principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering revealed distinct transcriptomic and secretomic profiles in P180 compared with S10 and P120. P180 also exhibited the largest number of differentially expressed genes, including several not previously linked to mechanical stress. Among these, vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor 1 (VIPR1), a regulator of vascular tone, was markedly upregulated. These distinct expression profiles induced by hypertensive hydrostatic pressure may provide insight into physiological and pathological responses in HASMCs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Drug resistance and poor clinical outcomes in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) necessitate robust biomarkers for personalized therapy. Glycolysis reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, but its clinical utility remains incompletely defined.We integrated TCGA and GEO transcriptomic data with Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), and multivariate Cox regression to construct a glycolysis-related prognostic signature. A nomogram combining the risk score with clinicopathological factors was developed. Drug sensitivity was predicted using the pRRophetic algorithm. qRT-PCR and xenograft models using A549 and cisplatin-resistant A549/DDP cells validated the expression of candidate genes.Patients stratified by glycolysis-related risk scores exhibited significantly distinct survival outcomes, and the glycolysis-based signature functioned as an independent prognostic factor for overall survival in LUAD. The nomogram demonstrated robust predictive performance and effectively estimated patient sensitivity to three commonly used conventional chemotherapeutic agents. In vitro and in vivo studies using A549 cells and their cisplatin-resistant derivative A549/DDP revealed aberrant expression of VIPR1, ADRB2, RXFP1, PDGFB, WNT3A, and SPRY1 in the resistant cell line and in corresponding xenograft tumor tissues. These findings suggest that glycolytic activity is closely associated with both drug resistance and clinical prognosis in LUAD.This study identifies a glycolysis-related gene signature with demonstrable utility for prognostic stratification and therapeutic response prediction in LUAD. The proposed integrative model holds promise for enhancing precision treatment decision-making through optimized risk assessment and rational selection of chemotherapeutic regimens.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Liu, Li, Zhang, Geng, Chen, Zhou, Fan, Wang, Zhang and Cao.
Intradermal injections of anti-canine immunoglobulin E (IgE) in healthy dogs have been utilized in preclinical drug testing to evaluate the efficacy of anti-allergic drugs used to treat canine atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the molecular effects of established canine anti-allergic drugs on this acute canine IgE-mediated atopic model remain largely uninvestigated. The objective of this study was to characterize the effect of proactive oclacitinib and prednisolone treatments on the immune and skin barrier transcriptome of IgE-mediated late-phase reactions (LPRs) in an acute model of canine AD. Sixteen healthy adult research-bred beagles were randomized to receive either oclacitinib or prednisolone orally for six days, followed by an intradermal anti-canine IgE injection. Biopsies were collected 24 h post-injection for RNA isolation and sequencing; previously analyzed transcriptomes (healthy skin, saline-injected skin, IgE lesions without drug modulation) from the same colony of dogs served as controls. Administration of prednisolone and oclacitinib prior to intradermal anti-IgE injections reduced the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in 24 h samples to 1251 and 1471, respectively. Both treatments resulted in a decrease in expression of several significantly upregulated T helper-(Th)1 (e.g., MX1, OAS1, STAT1), Th2 (e.g., CCL13, CCL8, IL13RA1, IL-33, IL5RA, OSM), chemokine and receptor (e.g., CCL19, CCL2, CCL3, CCR1, CCR3) genes in comparison to the untreated IgE-mediated lesions. Interestingly, only prednisolone treatment significantly reduced IL-13 upregulation, an important gene in the Th2 immune response. In conclusion, both prednisolone and oclacitinib reduced the transcriptomic changes observed in the acute lesions of the canine IgE-induced atopic dermatitis model, with prednisolone inducing a broader inhibitory immune response.
Dry eye disease (DED), a prevalent ocular condition, has seen rising incidence rates. Aberrant inflammation and immune dysregulation are key pathogenic factors in DED. However, the underlying mechanisms linking autoimmunity to DED therapy remain incompletely understood. Herbal medicine's potential in treating DED warrants further exploration due to rendering monotherapy insufficient for clinical needs.DED-related datasets and genes were initially identified from the GEO database and other public repositories. After retrieving the data, differential gene expression analysis and functional enrichment analysis were performed. Subsequently, a protein-protein interaction network was constructed to identify core modules and hub genes. To enhance the reliability and diagnostic value of these findings, the hub genes were further validated using independent external datasets and refined through machine learning algorithms (LASSO and SVM-RFE) to extract characteristic genes. These characteristic genes were then used for reverse prediction of potential Traditional Chinese Medicine natural products, leading to the construction of a gene-natural products network. Following this, molecular docking was employed to screen for promising natural products based on binding affinity. In parallel, immune cell infiltration was estimated using CIBERSORTx, and single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed to elucidate cell-type-specific expression patterns of the characteristic genes. Finally, the therapeutic potential of the top-predicted natural product was validated using an in vitro cellular model of DED.GSE44101 was selected as the base dataset. Differential gene analysis identified 1089 differential genes and 3504 DED-related genes from five databases, with 235 overlapping genes. Enrichment analysis linked DED to Cytokine-Cytokine receptor interaction, PI3K-Akt, IL-17, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. The PPI network yielded 20 hub genes, validated and refined using other GEO datasets and machine learning, resulting in 10 characteristic genes: CDK1, CCNA2, CXCL13, CCR1, FEN1, CCR7, SELL, RAD51, CXCL1, and KIF11. Genistein was identified as the key TCM natural product. Molecular docking revealed stable interactions between Genistein and CDK1, IL-1β, CDC20, and CCNA2, with CDC20 showing the highest stability. CIBERSORT analysis demonstrated associations between characteristic genes and specific immune cell infiltration in DED. Single-cell RNA sequencing localized their expression to key corneal cell types, with IL-1β predominantly expressed in macrophages. Cell experiments confirmed that Genistein at a concentration of 12.5 μmol/L could protect human corneal epithelial cells from NaCl-induced hyperosmotic damage and TNF-α-induced immune injury, reducing the cell detachment rate and decreasing the area of cell death loss. Genistein downregulated the expression of CDK1, IL-1β, and CCNA2 at the RNA and protein levels, while upregulating the expression of CDC20.Genistein demonstrates therapeutic potential for DED, likely through regulating CDK1, IL-1β, CDC20, and CCNA2 to exert anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative stress, and anti-apoptotic effects.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammation is a key driver of atrophic Age-Related Macular Degeneration (aAMD), and also plays a role in Inherited Retinal Degenerations (IRDs), two major causes of irreversible visual loss. We previously demonstrated that the C-C chemokine receptor type 1 (CCR1) is upregulated in monocytes from AMD patients, and that it mediates the recruitment of neurotoxic macrophages and activates Müller glial cells in rodent model of photic retinal injury. Here we report that CCR1 is expressed in Müller glia in eyes affected by AMD and that variants in CCR1 are potentially associated with the rate of macular atrophy progression in AMD. We also show that Ccr1 deletion is associated with reduced inflammation, and with rescue of photoreceptor integrity and function in Crb1rd8/rd8 mice and in Pde6brd10 mice, two models of genetically-driven retinal degeneration. Finally, we demonstrate that treatment with small molecule CCR1 antagonists delayed photoreceptor loss in Pde6brd10 mice. These data suggest that CCR1 is a mediator of retinal inflammation and injury in different forms of retinal degeneration, and that CCR1 may serve as a novel therapeutic target for atrophic AMD and IRDs.© 2026. The Author(s).
During inflammation, megakaryocytes (MKs) can expand from hematopoietic stem cells, yet the specific driving factors remain unclear. We investigated whether C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 5 (CCL5) influences this process in murine and human iPSC-derived bone marrow organoid (BMO) models. Acute CCL5 administration to mice increased hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) populations and increased MKs, including the expansion of MHC II-expressing MKs, characteristic of the immune MK subpopulation. Mechanistically, MK progenitors upregulated CCR1 and CCR5, and MKs showed increased phosphorylation of JAK1, SRC, and STAT1-5. Phenotypically, transcriptomic profiling revealed enhanced expression of genes associated with the cell cycle, inflammatory pathways, and mitochondrial metabolism in MKs isolated from CCL5-treated mice, which was functionally supported by increased mitochondrial activity. Similarly, in human BMOs, CCL5 treatment increased MK numbers. Together, these findings implicate CCL5 as a direct mediator of acute megakaryopoiesis and immune MK expansion during inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The transition from ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) to invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) is a critical but poorly understood step in breast cancer progression. This study characterizes the dynamic remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME) during this transition, focusing on tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) and chemokine signaling.Using an integrated multi-omics approach-including multiplex immunofluorescence of a clinical cohort, public single-cell and spatial transcriptomics data, and a longitudinal syngeneic mouse model (EO771)-we investigated spatiotemporal TME evolution.Our findings reveal that TLS reorganization during the DCIS-to-IDC shift is closely associated with the CCL5-CCR1 axis, which is implicated in macrophage-CD8+ T cell interactions and correlates with terminal T-cell exhaustion. Longitudinal modeling confirmed CCL5 network dysregulation alongside progressive CD8+ T cell dysfunction. Through an integrative machine-learning framework, we developed a robust 21-gene TLS signature that independently predicted patient outcomes in multiple cohorts, even after adjusting for clinical confounders. Finally, molecular docking identified cucurbitacin derivatives as candidate compounds nominated by exploratory in silico analysis targeting the CCL5 network.This work highlights CCL5-CCR1 axis-related TLS dysregulation as a key spatiotemporal feature of invasion, provides a clinically applicable prognostic signature for early risk stratification, and nominates actionable targets to intercept invasive progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
The perithyroidal adipose tissue (PAT), given its direct anatomical proximity to the thyroid gland, has long been postulated as a modulator of the thyroid tumor microenvironment. However, its cellular composition, functional heterogeneity, and specific roles in thyroid cancer progression remain unknown. To address these knowledge gap, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing of PAT from patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and multinodular goiter (MNG), combined with machine learning, proteomics, immunofluorescence, ex vivo assays, and human serum analysis. We constructed the first high-resolution atlas of human PAT, revealing an immune-rich niche and previously unrecognized adipocyte heterogeneity, including thermogenic subpopulations (BL-Ad1, BL-Ad2, OXPHOS-Ad) from distinct progenitors. Functionally, the PAT secretome from PTC substantially enhanced thyroid cancer cell proliferation compared to MNG. Integrated analyses identified a pathogenic adipokine triad characterized by loss of ADIPOQ and gain of NAMPT and IGF1. Restoring ADIPOQ signaling or inhibiting NAMPT/IGF1 suppressed tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, we identified CCL14, down-regulated in PTC-derived OXPHOS-Ad, as a key immune regulator. Reduced CCL14-CCR1 signaling impaired CD80 expression in M1-like macrophages, disrupting CD80-CD28 costimulation and consequently diminishing T cell proliferation and recruitment. Consistently, circulating CCL14 levels were reduced in PTC patients. In conclusion, PAT acts as a dynamic endocrine and immunomodulatory component of the tumor microenvironment that promotes thyroid tumor growth through adipokine-mediated and immune-dependent mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Qiaoyun Long et al.
Sodium overload has recently emerged as a critical metabolic stressor involved in cancer progression; however, its molecular characteristics and clinical relevance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remain unexplored. RNA-seq data sets, clinical annotations, and mutational profiles of AML patients were annotations from The Cancer Genome Atlas and integrated with Genotype-Tissue Expression normal samples. Sodium overload-related genes (SORGs) were obtained from GeneCards. Differentially expressed SORGs (DESORGs) screened by applying the limma statistical model, followed by univariate Cox proportional hazards regression, consensus clustering, functional enrichment, immune infiltration analysis, and pathway evaluation. A prognostic signature was developed through least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression followed by multivariate Cox modeling. The model's performance was further verified in two external GEO data sets (GSE71014 and GSE37642). Nomogram construction, subgroup analysis, tumor mutational burden (TMB) assessment, drug sensitivity prediction, transcription factor (TF) analysis, and competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network analyses were also performed. A total of 57 DESORGs were identified, and 2 sodium overload-related molecular subtypes exhibited distinct survival, immune infiltration, and inflammatory pathway activation. A robust four-gene signature (DOCK1, GABRE, HTR7, ACSM1) stratified patients into high- and low-risk categories with significantly different survival across training and validation cohorts. High-risk patients displayed increased immune infiltration, higher TMB, reduced sensitivity to multiple chemotherapeutic drugs, and inferior predicted response to PD-L1 blockade. TF and ceRNA networks revealed multilayered transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of the signature genes. This study identifies sodium overload-related molecular heterogeneity in AML and establishes a validated four-gene prognostic signature that integrates genomic, immunologic, and therapeutic features, offering potential utility for personalized risk assessment and treatment optimization.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
New efficacious and safe therapies are needed for patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most common type of pancreatic cancer. A bioinformatic approach comparing human PDAC tumors to normal pancreas identified differentially expressed G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The GPCRs with higher differential expression in PDAC included the histamine H1 receptor (HRH1), which, on average, is ~20-fold higher expressed in PDAC tumors. HRH1 is readily targetable by approved H1-antihistamines. Studies with human and murine PDAC tumor cells revealed that HRH1 agonists increase intracellular calcium in cancer cells and promote their migration and invasion. Fexofenadine, an H1-antihistamine, decreased pancreas tumor size and altered expression of cancer relevant genes in a mouse model of PDAC. These findings complement data for HRH1 and H1-antihistamines, especially second generation cationic amphiphilic antihistamines, observed in numerous other cancers. Studies are needed to determine if H1-antihistamines can augment anti-tumor response by current therapeutics and improve outcomes for PDAC patients. These findings with HRH1 suggest that other differentially expressed GPCRs with approved drugs may be therapeutic targets for PDAC and other cancers.
Background: Spinal cord injury (SCI) triggers secondary injury processes involving neuroinflammation and systemic immune remodeling. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) has been implicated in neuroimmune regulation, but its transcriptional relationship with immune remodeling and its translational relevance in human SCI blood remain incompletely defined. Methods: A cross-species discovery-validation-translation framework was applied using a rat spinal cord discovery cohort (GSE45006), an independent mouse validation cohort (GSE171441), and a human peripheral white blood cell cohort (GSE151371). Analyses included differential expression profiling, ECS-focused assessment, cross-species comparison, immune-cell signature scoring, ECS-immune correlation analysis, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, LASSO-based biomarker prioritization, network analysis, disease enrichment, drug-gene interaction querying, and transcription factor/microRNA regulatory annotation. Results: ECS-related transcriptional remodeling was identified across rodent and human datasets in a compartment-dependent manner. In human SCI blood, CNR2, PTGS2, and DAGLB were significantly altered and showed biomarker-prioritization potential. Human SCI blood also showed innate immune enrichment, adaptive immune depletion, and significant ECS-immune correlations. The integrated 28-gene SCI-ECS immune panel formed a functionally coherent protein-protein interaction (PPI) network enriched in immune-response pathways. Disease enrichment supported an immune/inflammatory pathological context, whereas DGIdb identified hypothesis-generating drug-gene relationships involving ECS-related targets. ChEA 2022 revealed nominal transcription factor annotations that did not survive multiple-testing correction, and miRNet identified database-derived miRNA regulators of panel genes. In a secondary sensitivity analysis, the combined ECS signature also retained discriminatory performance against non-CNS trauma controls, suggesting that the observed transcriptional pattern was not fully attributable to generalized trauma-related responses. Conclusions: This study proposes an ECS-associated immune remodeling signature in SCI with translational biomarker-prioritization and pharmacologic target-annotation context in human peripheral blood. These findings are exploratory and require prospective and functional validation.
Polyphyllin II, a natural steroidal saponin extracted from Paris polyphylla, exhibits potent antitumor activity in thyroid cancer. In the present study, bioinformatics analysis, molecular docking, Drug Affinity Responsive Target Stability assay, Cell Counting Kit‑8 assay, flow cytometry, Transwell assay, wound‑healing assay, reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR, western blotting and xenograft experiments were performed to investigate the antitumor effects and molecular mechanism of polyphyllin II in thyroid cancer. Polyphyllin II significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while inducing apoptosis more prominently in TPC‑1 cells and causing cell cycle arrest in both TPC‑1 and 8305C cells. By using integrated bioinformatics screening and experimental validation, histamine receptor H1 (HRH1) was identified as a key oncogenic target that is highly expressed in thyroid cancer and contributes to malignant progression. With regard to its mechanism of action, polyphyllin II suppressed HRH1‑mediated activation of the Wnt/β‑catenin signaling pathway, reduced β‑catenin nuclear accumulation and downregulated the expression levels of downstream pathway‑related genes. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that polyphyllin II attenuates thyroid cancer progression by targeting HRH1 and blocking Wnt/β‑catenin signaling, highlighting its potential as a promising candidate for targeted therapy.
Protein detection is a cornerstone of life science research. Here, we present Cell Lysate Fluorescence Anisotropy (CFAST), a versatile and accessible alternative cellular protein detection method. CFAST measures cellular protein levels through changes in fluorescence anisotropy of a long lifetime triangulenium dye-labeled nanobody probe. The minimal steps of centrifugation and nuclease incubation remove unwanted cellular components. We demonstrate that CFAST robustly detects cellular PARP1, MK2, and GFP protein levels. Coupling small molecule incubation and thermal shift with CFAST (thermal shift-CFAST) enables detection of cellular protein-small molecule interactions through quantification of thermally stabilized target protein. Thermal shift-CFAST successfully detects cellular PARP1 and MK2 inhibitor binding in a dose-dependent manner. High-throughput thermal shift-CFAST screening identified a small molecule binder of undruggable transcription factor SOX2. This screening method also enabled development of a bifunctional PROTAC that simultaneously degrades membrane-bound oncogene EGFR and inhibits immune modulating target HRH1. CFAST is rapid, taking a minimum of 2-3 hours to execute. It is also straightforward, utilizing common lab equipment and reasonably priced reagents. Our work suggests that CFAST is a viable alternative method to enhance protein detection as well as drug and probe discovery that is scalable, fast, and economical.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Pruriception is crucial for defense against external stimuli but can lead to chronic pruritus, a debilitating condition affecting millions worldwide. Our understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms behind the sensation of itch has been hindered by the lack of functional human models. Here, we address this limitation by developing a protocol to generate induced pruriceptors (iPruriceptors) from human-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). We compared two differentiation approaches: a direct method via forced expression of transcription factors (TFs) in iPSCs and a 2-step process through expression of TFs in iPSC-derived neural crest cells (NCCs). The 2-step protocol proved superior in inducing a transcriptional program enriched for features of human pruriceptors. Our optimized protocol employs forced expression of NGN1 and ISL1 to drive differentiation from NCCs into pruriceptors, enhancing the expression of known pruritogen receptors such as IL31RA, which pairs with OSMR, and HRH1. The induction of this transcriptional program leads to functional maturation of iPruriceptors. Accordingly, iPruriceptors exhibit robust responses to itch stimuli and in vivo-like itch pharmacology such as treatment with ABT-317, a JAK1 inhibitor tool compound, similar to those targeting intensive pruritus in atopic dermatitis (AD). Importantly, iPruriceptors can be generated without viral vectors or safe-harbor gene editing, using a PiggyBac-based transfection method that simplifies scalability. Our protocol offers a robust platform for investigating itch biology, modeling chronic pruritus, and enabling high-throughput screening for therapeutic target discovery.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cucumber is a globally significant vegetable crop whose production and market value are affected by fruit quality and resilience to diverse environmental stressors. Despite the identification of numerous Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) over the last two decades, their direct application in breeding has been hindered by inconsistent genomic positions and broad confidence intervals. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive Meta-QTL (mQTL) analysis by integrating 647 initial QTLs from 40 independent studies published between 2003 and 2024. Using a high-density consensus map containing 9,299 markers, we projected 531 QTLs, identifying 38 robust mQTLs associated with fruit quality, biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. The identified mQTLs exhibited a significant reduction in the average confidence interval (CI) by 5.3-fold, compared to the average CI of the original QTLs and phenotypic variance explained values reaching up to 49.81% (mQTL 6.8). Our results identifying specific genomic hotspots on chromosomes 1, 3, 5, and 6 that harbor high-confidence candidate genes responsible for stress tolerance and fruit quality. Comparative analysis with seven independent genome-wide association studies validated 16 mQTL regions, confirming their stability across diverse genetic backgrounds. Biotic stress resilience was linked to immune regulators such as LRK10L2 and MLO-like protein 12, while abiotic stress tolerance was anchored by genes like NCED5 (cold), ClpB1 (heat), and MYB44-like (waterlogging). Furthermore, we identified key drivers of fruit quality, including Expansin-A4 and CNR2 for dimensions, CsWOX9 for epidermal spine initiation, and Hd3a for flowering phenology. Transcriptomic profiling provided robust expression support for these prioritized candidate genes within the target mQTL intervals. The markers linked to these genes serve as robust tools for marker-assisted selection and fine mapping, offering precise targets for the development of climate-resilient, high-quality cucumber cultivars.© 2026. The Author(s).
The neurocognitive dysfunction observed in Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) is related to a complex interplay between genetic, neurobiological, and environmental factors. The μ-opioid receptor (MOR), encoded by the OPRM1 gene, modulates reward processing, stress responsivity, and excitatory-inhibitory activity within prefrontal-limbic and hippocampal circuits implicated in neurocognition. The common A118G (Asn40Asp, rs1799971) polymorphism alters MOR expression and signaling, but its contribution to domain-specific cognitive functioning in AUD, particularly among Veterans, has received limited investigation.Veterans (n = 127) in residential treatment for AUD completed a neurocognitive battery assessing the following domains of functioning: auditory-verbal and visuospatial learning and memory, executive function, and working memory. Participants were genotyped for OPRM1 A118G, and A homozygotes and G-allele carriers (AG/GG) were compared on the above measures, using bootstrapped generalized linear models, adjusted for age, education, biological sex, race, pre-study alcohol consumption, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) (rs6265) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) (rs4680) genotypes, which have been previously shown to be associated with neurocognition.G-allele carriers demonstrated significantly worse performance than A homozygotes on measures of auditory-verbal learning and memory, cognitive flexibility/set shifting, auditory working memory, and on a composite average of all measures. BDNF or COMT genotypes were not associated with any measure, and there were no significant interactions among OPRM1, BDNF, and COMT genotypes.Findings suggest that altered MOR signaling in G-allele carriers may be associated with differences in prefrontal network efficiency, potentially justifying future studies investigating the relationship between OPRM1 and glutamatergic plasticity. The results highlight a potential genetically influenced contributor to the neurocognitive heterogeneity in AUD and underscore the possible value of integrating MOR-related biological markers into neurocognitive assessment of individuals with AUD.Published 2026. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the United States.
This study aims to elucidate the material basis and mechanism of action of the Aconitum pendulum Busch product processed with highland barley wine against rheumatoid arthritis(RA). UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS was employed to preliminarily identify 55 compounds from the product. Through network pharmacology, 19 potential active ingredients and 140 corresponding targets were screened out. The drug targets were intersected with 89 RA targets collected from the OMIM database to yield a set of potential intervention targets. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via STRING and topological analysis was conducted via Cytoscape, which identified eight core targets: PPARG, EGFR, SLC6A3, OPRM1, PRKCA, CYP2D6, HTR1A, and HMGCR. Gene Ontology(GO) functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses performed in the Metascape database revealed that these targets were significantly enriched in processes such as TRP channels, the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) signaling pathway, and neutrophil extracellular traps(NETs) formation. An integrated &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-target-pathway&quot; network was constructed, which selected seven core ingredients(dehydrolucidusculine, linoleic acid, pyraconitine, 16-epipyroaconitine, delphinine, 1-monopalmitin, and songorine) for molecular docking with the eight core targets. The results demonstrated favorable binding activity between each ingredient and the targets. Animal experiments showed that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine alleviated joint swelling and inflammatory pathological changes of synovial tissue in the rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis(AA) in a dose-dependent manner. In terms of the serum inflammatory cytokine levels, it downregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-17A(IL-17A), and interleukin-6(IL-6). Furthermore, the product significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and its downstream signaling molecule Akt of knee synovial tissue in the rat model of AA. In conclusion, this study preliminarily reveals that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine may exert anti-RA effects through multi-ingredient, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms, particularly by regulating the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and inflammatory responses.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) is heritable, yet most genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have focused on European populations, leaving the genetic architecture of OUD in non- European populations underexplored.We conducted GWAS of OUD across three ancestries using electronic health records and genomic data from 52,357 All of Us Research Program participants (8,912 cases; 43,445 matched opioid-exposed controls; 48.5% female). Participants were stratified into European (EUR), African (AFR), and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups for logistic regression GWAS, with independent replication in the Million Veteran Program. We then applied the deep- learning model AlphaGenome to predict the tissue-specific transcriptomic and splicing consequences of top risk variants across 13 reward-pathway brain regions.We identified and replicated a novel DDX6 risk locus, alongside established OPRM1 and FURIN signals. AlphaGenome predicted the DDX6 regulatory allele downregulates the stress-resistance gene FOXR1 in the nucleus accumbens, while the protective OPRM1 variant (rs1799971) upregulates OPRM1 expression across reward networks. Other signals of interest included IL6R and SHISA9 (EUR); GHR (AFR); and ASTN2 (AMR).This study identifies DDX6 as a novel OUD risk locus, replicates associations with OPRM1 and FURIN , and highlights biologically plausible ancestry-specific signals in AFR and AMR populations. We also replicated top variants in an independent population. Finally, integrating GWAS with deep-learning annotations provides specific, localized biological hypotheses to guide future experimental validation and targeted therapeutics.
We generated time-series data for 105 morphine- and naloxone-related traits across ~700 BXD mice (64 diverse strains for both sexes) for 3 hr after a single morphine injection. Variations in responses were mapped using genome sequencing-based genotypes. The locomotor responses to morphine mapped to the µ opioid receptor gene (Oprm1) on chromosome (Chr) 10 with a peak linkage of 12.4 (-logp). The B allele inherited from C57BL/6J was associated with up to 60% higher activity. This effect climaxed at 75 min but was exhausted by 160 min. A second major modulator of locomotion emerged after approximately 100 min. This locus was located on Chr 16 with peak linkage of 10.6 in females and included one compelling candidate, fibroblast growth factor 12 (Fgf12). A strong and transient epistatic interaction existed between the Oprm1 and Fgf12 loci during a short time window (45-75 min). In heterogeneous stock rats, we demonstrated that Oprm1 and Fgf12 were co-expressed in one subtype of Drd1+ medium spiny neuron. A Bayesian network analysis supported an Oprm1-to-Fgf12 network that involves a MAP kinase cascade that modulates FGF12 phosphorylation and locomotor activation. OPRM1 and FGF12 networks in human genome-wide association study (GWAS) data highlight enrichment of signals associated with substance use disorder. This study represents the first demonstration of a time-dependent epistatic interaction modulating drug response in mammals and the first linkage of Fgf12 to opioid-induced behavior.© 2025, Lemen et al.
Opioid dependence is a complex disorder influenced by multiple factors, including aging and genetic factors. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This in silico study integrated transcriptomic profiling, transcriptomic aging clock modeling, and GWAS analysis of brain samples to investigate molecular mechanisms associated with opioid dependence. One-hundred sixty-one DEGs were identified, including 147 upregulated and 14 downregulated genes in individuals with opioid dependence, which are involved in immune and inflammatory pathways (TNF signaling pathway). Network centrality analysis highlighted CCL2, CD44, THBS1, TIMP1, CD163, IL6, IL1B, and MYC as potential hub genes. FAM174B was downregulated in older individuals with opioid dependence, whereas ZNF256 was upregulated in younger individuals. A transcriptomic aging clock showed moderate predictive performance (r=0.686, MAE=5.16) and revealed significant differences in age-prediction residuals between younger and older groups, suggesting altered age-related transcriptional states in opioid dependence. Two genes (PHYH and LUCAT1) were strongly associated with age-prediction residuals. An analysis of six GWAS studies identified 223 SNP associations, including genome-wide significant variants in ADGRV1, OPRM1, CNIH3, RGMA, GPRIN3, GAPDHP15, SRP72P1, and CTCF-DT genes implicated in neuronal signaling and opioid pharmacology. Together, these findings highlight immune pathways, neuronal signaling, and aging-related molecular processes as key components of opioid dependence.
Amyloid-β accumulation, aberrant tau protein, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress are some of the main pathogenic characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a degenerative illness characterized by cognitive deterioration. The majority of current AD therapies provide symptomatic alleviation with significant adverse effects, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic approaches.This study examines nefopam, a centrally acting analgesic with NMDA antagonist and monoaminergic properties, as a potential treatment for AD using in silico methods like Network Pharmacology, Docking, and Molecular Dynamics Simulation studies.Using network pharmacology, 90 molecular targets shared by the AD and nefopam pathways were identified. Following the selection of important hub proteins for further analysis, eight proteins with accessible 3D structures were put through molecular docking and MMGBSA computations. Nefopam demonstrated significant binding affinities, especially to 5HTR2A, GRIN1, 5HTR2C, SLC6A4, SLC6A3, and MAOB, whereas OPRM1 displayed weaker interactions, consistent with its lower MM-GBSA value (-37.04 kcal/mol) and docking score (-2.963). Molecular dynamics simulations of particular complexes over 100 ns revealed stable contacts and minimal structural changes for SLC6A3, SLC6A4, and 5HTR2A, suggesting strong and long-lasting binding.The findings suggest that nefopam exhibits significant multi-target interactions with several proteins involved in AD pathogenesis, particularly those associated with neurotransmission, neuroprotection, and neuroinflammatory pathways. Its stable binding behavior and favorable interaction profiles support its potential role in modulating disease progression beyond symptomatic management.Overall, this computational analysis confirms that nefopam can target multiple proteins linked to AD. These results show that more experimental research is necessary to validate nefopam's therapeutic potential and provide positive support for its repositioning in AD treatment.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Neuropathic pain (NP) arises from diverse conditions, including peripheral nerve injury, spinal cord injury (SCI), and painful diabetic neuropathy, yet these disorders share oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, lipid dysregulation, and altered neuronal excitability. We investigated whether dietary omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids modulate ferroptotic stress-associated pathways, defined as lipid peroxidation susceptibility and impaired antioxidant defense rather than overt ferroptotic cell death. Female Sprague-Dawley rats received either a soy oil control diet (SOD) or fish oil omega-3-enriched diet (FOD) before chronic constriction injury (CCI). Behavioral outcomes were assessed using Hargreaves and CatWalk testing, followed by dorsal root ganglion (DRG) RNA sequencing, RT-PCR, and GPX4 ELISA. Previously generated SCI metabolomics and human diabetic serum metabolomic/lipidomic datasets were re-analyzed for shared pathways. FOD attenuated CCI-induced thermal hypersensitivity and improved gait parameters. DRG transcriptomics showed reduced injury-associated transcriptional disruption, enrichment of selenoamino acid metabolism, nonsense-mediated decay, and ribosomal quality-control pathways, and reduced mitochondrial dysfunction pathway activity. Omega-3 increased Gpx1/Gpx4 expression and GPX4 protein, reduced pain-associated genes including Scn10a, Piezo2, Trpa1, and Oprm1, and aligned with selenoamino acid enrichment in SCI and human datasets. Human lipidomics showed MG/DG/PC/PE pathway remodeling. These findings support ferroptotic stress as a plausible shared downstream mechanism modulated by omega-3 supplementation across NP models.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42507555
Opioid-induced respiratory depression (OIRD) is mediated, in part, by μ-opioid receptor (μOR) signalling in the respiratory rhythmogenic preBötzinger complex (preBötC). However, it has been unclear whether opioids affect excitatory or inhibitory neurons, which ion channels are modulated, and by what signalling mechanism. This study clarifies these questions. We quantify Oprm1 (μOR gene) expression in preBötC glutamatergic, GABAergic, and glycinergic neurons and show that 67%-77% of each subpopulation express Oprm1 at commensurate levels, suggesting that all preBötC neurons may respond to opioids. We demonstrate that μOR agonist DAMGO increases passive K+ conductance in glutamatergic neurons, specifically via membrane-delimited modulation of Kir3 channels. Inhibitory neurons do not respond to DAMGO despite Oprm1 expression. These results suggest that opioid modulation of Kir3 reduces excitability of glutamatergic preBötC neurons, which may contribute to OIRD. We propose that therapies that attenuate membrane-delimited Gβγ signalling may prevent fatal apnoea while circumventing limitations of μOR antagonists like naloxone. KEY POINTS: μ-Opioid receptor activation depresses excitability only in glutamatergic interneurons of the respiratory rhythmogenic preBötzinger complex. Whole-cell and single-channel patch clamp recordings show that μ-opioid receptor agonist DAMGO increases Kir3 conductance by increasing channel activity through a membrane-delimited signalling mechanism. New interventions that reverse opioid-induced respiratory depression could target signalling molecules downstream from the μ-opioid receptor and attenuate Gβγ-Kir3 interactions as an alternative to conventional receptor antagonists.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology © 2026 The Physiological Society.
Chemokine and chemokine receptors (CKRs) regulate cell growth, tumor immunity, migration, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We evaluated associations of inherited chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent primary melanomas among patients with a previous melanoma. Our population-based cohort included 2458 incident single primary and 1205 multiple primary melanoma (MPM) cases. We examined 215 a priori candidate polymorphisms selected based on prior evidence and predicted functional relevance, along with nine haplotype blocks. Logistic regression estimated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals, adjusting for age at diagnosis, sex, age-by-sex interaction, and study center. Thirty variants across 14 genes were nominally associated with MPM (P < 0.05), with effect sizes ranging from 16 to 80%. Five haplotypes in CXCL12, CCL18, CXCR2, and CCR9 were significantly associated with MPM (Pglobal < 0.03) with stronger effects than individual-effect alleles. Functional annotation identified 160 associated index variants and linkage disequilibrium proxies acting as skin expression quantitative trait loci for CXCR2, XCR1, BCL9L, FYCO1, PNKD, RUFY4, and RP11-378A13.1 (P < 1.06E-05 to 4.3E-34). These variants were classified functionally as candidate causal variants based on convergent regulatory annotation and skin‑specific expression quantitative trait locus evidence, linking chemokine/CKR variants and haplotypes to downstream genes involved in epithelial-mesenchymal-like transition, matrix remodeling, and other tumorigenic processes, thereby implicating immune regulatory mechanisms in melanoma development. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate an association of a priori chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent melanoma risk. Validation and evaluation of associations with tumor characteristics and survival are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Melatonin (MTN) plays a direct role in fish ovulation, and we hypothesized that aligning ovulation with an endogenous MTN peak levels could improve reproductive performance. To that, in experiment 1, we assessed circadian variation of plasma MTN in pacu (Piaractus mesopotamicus) females. In experiment 2, pacu females were divided into two groups: one receiving the hypophysation dose at 7 pm (dark onset) and the other at midnight (five hours after dark). Experiment 1 showed that circulating MTN levels increased at 7 pm and remained stable through the dark phase. In experiment 2, no differences in latency or reproductive performance were observed between groups. However, MTN levels at ovulation increased significantly only in the 7 pm group. Strong positive correlations between MTN levels at ovulation and reproductive parameters, such as fertility, hatching rates, and fecundity, were observed. These results confirm that PGF2α and DHP peaks at ovulation are associated with successful ovulation in pacu, consistent with literature that shows that MTN influences ovulation by acting through the Mtnr1a receptor, triggering arachidonic acid release and prostaglandin synthesis. Our findings indicate that the timing of spawning induction influences MTN levels at ovulation, which are positively correlated with reproductive success. This is the first report linking plasma MTN levels at ovulation to successful reproductive performance in fish induced by hypophysation, highlighting the relevance of spawning timing for pacu reproduction.Copyright © The Author(s).
The risk allele (G) of MTNR1B rs10830963 has been associated with impaired glucose tolerance, increased fasting glucose and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Late evening eating, when endogenous melatonin levels are elevated, is associated with impaired glucose control in MTNR1B risk carriers. Endogenous melatonin levels remain elevated into the morning so may influence glucose response to breakfast.To investigate the interaction of MTNR1B genotype and type of breakfast on postprandial glucose response in a real-world setting.Following an overnight fast, participants consumed either a standard carbohydrate-rich or protein-enriched porridge breakfast. Post-prandial glucose levels were recorded for two hours using a continuous glucose monitor (CGM). One week later, participants repeated the protocol consuming the alternate breakfast. A two-way mixed ANOVA determined the effect of breakfast and genotype on post-prandial glucose levels.Fifty-four adults completed the study. Fasting glucose was significantly higher (p = 0.008) in GG (5.53 ± 0.43 mmol/L) compared to CC or CG participants (5.02 ± 0.42 and 5.19 ± 0.52 mmol/L). Post-prandial iAUC was significantly greater following the carbohydrate-rich breakfast compared to the protein-enriched breakfast (p < 0.001). Following the carbohydrate-rich breakfast iAUC was significantly greater in GG participants compared to CC (p = 0.026) and CG participants (p = 0.029). There was no significant difference between genotype groups following the protein-enriched breakfast (p > 0.05).The study findings demonstrate, in a relatively young and healthy population, MTNR1B genotype significantly affects markers associated with T2D risk. Personalised genotype-based advice to adjust timing and composition of meals consumed when endogenous melatonin levels are increased may reduce subsequent T2D risk.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Extreme photoperiods in the Arctic (polar day, polar night, and spring equinox) can disrupt circadian rhythms and impact metabolism and health. The study was aimed to assess the association between the phase angle of physical activity relative to received blue light (ψPA-BL) and the lipid profile. The study included 64 participants who underwent seasonal 7-day actigraphy with an RGB sensor, as well as genotyping for CLOCK rs1801260 and MTNR1B rs10830963 polymorphisms. Multiple regression analysis adjusting for photoperiod, age, and sex showed that ψPA-BL is a predictor of total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol levels only in individuals with the TT/CC genotypes (p < 0.0001). This TT/CC combination exhibited the strongest association with total cholesterol (r = -0.684, explained variance = 47%) and LDL cholesterol (r = -0.623, explained variance = 39%).© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504374 is a review article
Despite the incorporation of atezolizumab, an anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibody, into first-line chemotherapy regimen, survival in patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) remains poor. Given the role of dendritic cells (DCs) in modulating responses to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibodies, a promising avenue is the development of vaccines based on DCs, together with the evaluation of how DC phenotypic modifications shape treatment efficacy.This is a single-arm, phase Ib/II, open-label clinical trial investigating the safety and activity of combining autologous tumor lysate pulsed DCs administered intradermally with intravenous atezolizumab as maintenance therapy for patients with ES-SCLC. Following leukapheresis, monocytes were differentiated ex vivo into mature DCs and loaded with irradiated autologous tumor lysate. After standard induction therapy (four cycles of carboplatin, etoposide, and atezolizumab), patients received up to six doses of mature DCs intradermally, along with intravenous atezolizumab 1,200 mg every 3 weeks, until disease progression.20 patients were enrolled, including six patients with brain metastases. 18 patients received DC vaccination, with a median of three doses (range 1-6). Most grade 3-4 treatment-related adverse events were hematological and related to chemotherapy. DC vaccination was well tolerated, with only grade 1-2 transient skin irritation at the injection site. Among 18 evaluable patients, 17 (94.4%) achieved an objective response. After a median follow-up of 31.4 months, progression-free survival at 2 years (PFS2y) was 20% (95% CI 6.4% to 39.1%), median overall survival (OS) 11.2 months (95% CI 6.3 to 26.0) and OS3y 22.5% (95% CI 6.8% to 43.6%). Six patients achieved long survival (median 30.5 months, range 23.4-36.2). Expansion of conventional type DC1 (cDC1s) XCR1+ and stem-like progenitor-exhausted (CXCR5+PD-1+) CD8+ T cells following chemotherapy plus atezolizumab was associated with improved PFS (HR 0.94, 95% CI 0.90 to 0.99 and HR 0.59, 95% CI 0.39 to 0.89).DC immunization combined with atezolizumab maintenance following standard chemotherapy plus atezolizumab treatment is well tolerated. Its clinical activity cannot be definitively determined in this study, as it was administered as maintenance therapy; however, the observed rate of long-term survivors suggests a potential benefit. Our findings suggest a pivotal role for cDC1s in mediating the antitumor activity in long-term survivors.NCT04487756.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The development of unconventional αβ T cells, including invariant natural killer T (iNKT) and mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, in the thymus is distinct from conventional T cells. Unconventional αβ T cells adopt a memory phenotype, acquire effector functions, and can reside in the thymus long-term. It is well-established that positive selection of these unconventional T cells from CD4+CD8+ double-positive (DP) precursors depends on interaction with other DP cells. However, postselection, the regulation of their maturation and effector differentiation is less well understood. Professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) are thought to have a role, but their roles have only been partially investigated previously. In this study, we investigate the impact of perturbing thymic dendritic cell (DC) and macrophage populations on intrathymic iNKT and MAIT effector subsets in C57BL/6 mice. We show that conventional type 1 DCs (cDC1s) support iNKT1 cells, while CX3CR1- and Mgl2-expressing cDC2s and macrophages support MAIT17 cells. Lastly, we show that disrupting the XCR1-XCL1 axis, which was previously shown to control cDC1 localization to the thymic cortex, alters the balance between iNKT and MAIT cells in the thymus, where there is augmentation of the iNKT cell compartment at the expense of MAIT cells. These findings further highlight the roles of hematopoietic APCs in supporting intrathymic unconventional αβ T cells.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Immunology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a complex metabolic disorder with a substantial genetic component; however, whether lipid species mediate the impact of genetic susceptibility on GDM risk remains unclear. This study aimed to characterize genetic architecture of GDM and evaluate whether lipid species mediate the genetic risk.A cohort and case-cohort design were implemented within the Anqing Pregnant Women Cohort. Maternal blood was collected at 15-20 gestational weeks, and GDM was diagnosed at 24-28 weeks. A Meta-GWAS of GDM was performed using regression-based methods, and polygenic risk score (PRS) was constructed. Lipidomic analysis was performed to identity differential lipid species. Risk Ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were estimated via weighted Poisson regression. Weighted co-abundance network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to cluster lipids into co-abundance modules. Mediation analyses were used to estimate the extent to which lipid species statistically accounted for the association between genetic risk and GDM. A nested 5-fold cross-validation framework was used to explore predictive models and to evaluate the incremental value of PRS and lipid features.The Meta-GWAS of 536 GDM and 2,051 controls identified one genome-wide significant risk locus (LIPF) and eight suggestive loci, including two novel signals (IL17B, RPL15P2). Implicated genes were enriched in glycerolipid metabolism pathways. Lipidomic analysis in a case-cohort of 102 GDM and 111 controls identified 134 differential lipid species. WGCNA yielded 14 distinct co-abundance modules, five of which were significantly associated with GDM. Lipid mediators, including specific triacylglycerols, phosphatidylethanolamines, and hexosylceramides, collectively accounted for approximately 31.10% of the overall genetic effect on GDM. Modules enriched for these lipids showed varying degrees of statistical mediation for rs16885782 (CDKAL1), rs11236507 (DGAT2) and rs10830963 (MTNR1B), with mediation effect ranging from 10.30% to 22.07%. The incorporation of lipid biomarkers significantly improved GDM prediction (AUC = 0.849, P = 0.001), whereas further adding PRS did not show significant improvement (AUC = 0.858, P = 0.095).Genes involved in lipid metabolism are associated with GDM susceptibility. Lipids potentially mediate the genetic risk of GDM, and lipid biomarkers showed potential for improving predictive performance. These findings require further validation in independent cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s).
The Angiotensin II type-2 receptor (AGTR2) is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that mediates vasodilatory, anti-proliferative, and cardioprotective responses as part of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). However, the precise structural dynamics underlying its ligand-specific activation remain incompletely understood. In this study, we performed long-timescale molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to investigate how Angiotensin peptides differentially modulate the structural dynamics of AGTR2 in both inactive- and active-like conformations and to elucidate ligand-specific modulation of AGTR2 in the RAS protective arm. Ang II stabilized a 'Locked Active State' through compact TM3-TM6 distances, persistent hydrogen bonding (PHE8-LYS2155.42), salt bridges (ARG2-ASP2796.58, ARG2-ASP2977.32), hydrophobic contacts (TRP1002.60, MET1283.36), and rotameric locking of micro-switches. These interactions stabilized Helix 8, enhancing dynamic network connectivity and supporting ligand-dependent activation-related conformational tendencies rather than a full canonical GPCR activation transition. Conversely, Ang1-7 induced a 'Flexible Intermediate State' characterized by weaker interactions (PRO7-THR1253.33), dynamic instability at the Helix 8 interface, and increased conformational sampling. Activation motif analyses (CWxP, PIF, E/DRY, NPxxY), DCC maps, CP, DRIN metrics, and PCA confirmed distinct signaling features for each ligand. This study provides a dual functional profile for AGTR2, where Ang II acts as a strong conformational stabilizer promoting activation-related dynamic features, while Ang 1-7 serves as a dynamic modulator. These findings contribute to a structural and dynamic framework for understanding AGTR2 signaling and supporting its therapeutic potential in fine-tuning cardiovascular responses within the RAS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Detailed classification of equine dendritic cells (DC) is necessary to address various research questions, such as the role of DC subsets in immune-mediated diseases of horses.We applied single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on DC enriched from the blood of two horses.All main DC subsets were detected by key gene expression, including conventional DC type 1 (cDC1; XCR1) and type 2 (cDC2; FCER1A, CD1E), as well as plasmacytoid DC (pDC; TCF4). In addition, we detected a small cluster of hematopoietic progenitors, as well as transitional DC (tDC; FCER1A, TCF4) and putative DC type 3 (DC3; FLT3, CD163). Our data confirms the previously reported phenotype of equine pDC (Flt3+MHC-IIlowCADM1lowCD172aint), cDC1 (Flt3+MHC-IIhighCADM1highCD172alow-int), and cDC2 (Flt3+MHC-IIhighCADM1intCD172ahigh), while also highlighting considerable CD14 expression for cDC2. Two subclusters of equine cDC2 were found to be enriched in FCER1A or CX3CR1 transcripts (cDC2.1 and cDC2.2, respectively), with suggested enhanced extravasation and T-cell stimulatory capacities of the latter. Conservation of DC subsets across species (horse, pig, human, mouse) was illustrated by enrichment analyses with subset-specific gene signatures and by cross-species data integration with publicly available scRNA-seq datasets.Our atlas of equine blood DC is a valuable resource for comparative analyses, and it forms the foundation for understanding the involvement of distinct DC subsets in infections and immune-mediated pathologies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society of Immunology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565097 is a review article
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common skin cancer, is driven by UV-induced DNA damage and shaped by immune surveillance. Although GWAS has identified over 140 risk loci, their cell-type-specific effects remain obscured by tissue-level averaging.We integrated BCC GWAS summary statistics from a UK-based cohort (17,416 cases, 375,455 controls) with single-cell expression quantitative trait locus (sc-eQTL) data from 12 immune cell types in the OneK1K resource. Using the OTTERS framework combined with ACAT-O, we performed single-cell transcriptome-wide association analysis (scTWAS); bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood served as a conventional tissue-averaged benchmark for comparison, rather than a definitive gold standard. Functional enrichment was conducted via Gene Ontology (GO).Bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood identified 35 BCC-associated genes (FDR < 0.05), including MC1R and CASP8. In contrast, single-cell transcriptome-wide association study (scTWAS) across 12 OneK1K cell types revealed 207 non-redundant susceptibility genes, predominantly in CD4ET, MONOC, and BIN. Functional enrichment uncovered cell-type-specific programs: MHC class II antigen presentation (CD4ET), PRR-mediated innate immunity (MONOC), and pro-inflammatory secretion (BIN)-all absent in bulk results.Our exploratory scTWAS using healthy donor PBMC-derived eQTLs uncovered cell-type-specific BCC associations missed by bulk analyses, providing hypothesis-generating insights into immune-related genetic effects in BCC. This underscores how single-cell resolution can overcome signal dilution from cellular heterogeneity, though validation in tumor-derived immune populations is warranted.Copyright: © 2026 Du et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) remains a critical global health burden, and a substantial proportion of patients exhibit insufficient responses to conventional monoaminergic antidepressants. Selective inhibition of the two-pore domain potassium channel TREK1 has emerged as a promising antidepressant strategy; however, the regulatory mechanisms controlling TREK1 trafficking-particularly its functional coupling with G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs)-remain poorly understood. Here, we established a cell-based screening platform using a biomolecular luminescence complementation (BiLC) assay to monitor agonist-induced changes in membrane-associated TREK1. Using this platform, we identified a TREK1-5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (HTR4) complex in vitro and in native hippocampal tissues using biomolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and proximity ligation assays (PLA). Live-cell imaging demonstrated that treatment with the HTR4 agonist mosapride induces redistribution/internalization of a plasma membrane-associated TREK1-HTR4 pool into intracellular compartments. Electrophysiological recordings further confirmed that mosapride reduces TREK1 channel activity in an HTR4-dependent manner. In vivo, oral administration of mosapride for five days ameliorated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depressive-like behaviors in mice and preserved markers associated with hippocampal neurogenesis. Notably, viral expression of the TREK1 C-terminal interaction domain (C1), which competitively disrupts the TREK1-HTR4 complex, attenuated the neurogenic and behavioral effects of mosapride, supporting a causal role of TREK1 regulation in mediating these antidepressant-like actions. Collectively, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism in which HTR4 dynamically regulates TREK1 trafficking and function, and they highlight GPCR-based modulation of TREK1 as a potential therapeutic strategy for depressive disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Signaling downstream of the receptor of parathyroid hormone (PTH1R) exerts two major skeletal effects: increases bone remodeling and, when stimulated intermittently, induces bone anabolism. Osteocytes express the PTH1R and are critical for the action of teriparatide/parathyroid hormone 1-34 (PTH). However, it is unknown whether they also mediate the effects of abaloparatide (a 34 amino acid synthetic analog of human parathyroid hormone-related protein, ABL), and whether actions on osteocytes are required for the increase in remodeling and/or the bone gain induced by PTH/ABL in diabetes. We addressed these questions by treating with PTH or ABL control or diabetic (DM) mice lacking the PTH1R in DMP1-Cre expressing cells that targets all osteocytes (cKO). Both PTH and ABL increased bone mass and improved or corrected cortical and trabecular bone microarchitecture only in fl/fl littermates but not in cKO, control or DM mice. Further, PTH/ABL increased bone strength and microindentation resistance only in control or DM fl/fl mice. In contrast, PTH/ABL increased serum P1NP and bone formation on cancellous, periosteal and endocortical surfaces, in control or DM mice of both genotypes. Moreover, serum CTX and osteoclast surface were increased by PTH/ABL in fl/fl and cKO, control or DM mice. Thus, actions on DMP1-Cre expressing cells are required for bone gain, microarchitecture restoration, strength and resistance to fracture, exerted by PTH and ABL under physiological and DM conditions, but not for the increase in bone remodeling. These findings demonstrate the dissociation of bone gain from bone remodeling and reveal that actions on DMP1-Cre expressing cells drive the gain in bone mass and strength induced by PTH and ABL.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Eggshell quality is a critical trait in poultry production, as it directly influences economic outcomes. The genetic architecture underlying this trait remains poorly characterized. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Chinese Wenshang Barred chickens at 43 weeks of age to identify genomic loci and candidate genes associated with eggshell quality. This analysis revealed 87 significant SNPs and 14 candidate genes. Genes including MC2R, CDC73, LYSMD2, TNFAIP8L3, and CYP19A1 were associated with eggshell weight; PHEX, ATM, STXBP6, SLIT3, and RALY with eggshell thickness; and SOCS5 and ATG4C with eggshell strength. Notably, three SNPs emerged as the most promising markers for eggshell quality, though their functional roles in laying hens require further investigation. This study advances our understanding of the genetic basis of eggshell quality and holds significant practical implications for improving this trait through targeted breeding strategies.
Plumage coloration in birds is a complex genetic trait involving both direct pigmentation genes and their modifiers. The Columbian pattern, characterized by black feathers restricted to the neck, wing tips, and tail, remains poorly understood at the genetic level. This study aimed to conduct a genome-wide association study of the Columbian pattern across 29 chicken breeds of diverse origins. Blood samples were collected from breeds with (n = 11) and without (n = 18) the Columbian pattern. Genotyping was performed using the Illumina Chicken 60K SNP chip, and GWAS was conducted using EMMAX with Bonferroni correction. A total of 10 significant and nine suggestive SNPs on chromosomes GGA1, 2, 5, 7, 10, and 11 were identified. Eight significant SNPs mapped to a ~0.7 Mb region on GGA11 containing MC1R and multiple functionally diverse genes involved in melanocyte adhesion (CDH1), signaling (WWP2, NFAT5), transcription (ZFHX3, TCF25), protein degradation (PSMD7, ATXN1L), and vesicular trafficking (AP1G1). On GGA2, a significant SNP within a lncRNA gene was located in a QTL for yellow plumage, with positional candidates (ROCK1, GREB1L, CABLES1, TMEM241, ANKRD29) suggesting links to pheomelanin deposition. A suggestive locus near DLK1 on GGA5 was also identified. This study refines the genetic architecture of the Columbian pattern, implicating a core region on GGA11 modulating melanocyte function and a distinct locus on GGA2 involved in pheomelanin synthesis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510724 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42503281 is a review article
Parathyroid hormone (PTH), a well-established regulator of calcium homeostasis and bone remodeling, has been implicated in central nervous system (CNS) modulation beyond its classical peripheral endocrine functions. Utilizing multiple murine models of hyperparathyroidism, this study demonstrated that elevated PTH produces distinct behavioral phenotypes contingent upon disease etiology and progression. Administration of hPTH(1-34) elicited sexually dimorphic behavioral responses - enhanced locomotor activity in males and anxiety-like behavior in females - the latter being independent of estrus cycle phase yet potentiated by ovariectomy. Metabolic analyses further revealed that PTH modulates energy expenditure and respiratory exchange ratio without altering food consumption. Employing a newly generated PTH1R-Cre mouse line, widespread PTH receptor-1 (PTH1R) expression was identified across diverse neuronal and non-neuronal cell populations, including brain vasculature and circumventricular organs. Collectively, these findings support a CNS-mediated mechanism underlying PTH's neurobehavioral effects, warranting further investigation into the specific neural substrates involved.© 2026 The Authors.
Urban environments impose novel selective pressures that can drive rapid phenotypic and genetic change in wild populations. While previous studies have focused on broad urban-rural contrasts or cross-city comparisons, less is known about how phenotypic traits vary across fine spatial scales within cities, where environmental gradients and geographic features may create localized heterogeneity. We studied spatial variation in coat colour morph of the eastern grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) across the Montreal Metropolitan Area, focusing on grey and melanic morphs, the latter of which is caused by an incompletely dominant MC1R mutation. We conducted standardized scan sampling surveys across 197 parks and supplemented this data with citizen science observations from iNaturalist and SquirrelMapper. As an archipelago segmented by major waterways, Montreal exhibits a spatial mosaic where phenotypic gradients are partitioned by physical barriers. We examined variation in melanism in relation to urbanization, local environmental conditions (e.g. temperature and canopy cover) and geographic structure. Unlike patterns in many cities where melanism peaks in urban cores, melanism in Montreal was generally negatively correlated with urbanization, but the strength and direction of urban-rural clines varied sharply across the city's complex island landscape. Abrupt shifts in morph frequency corresponded with major waterways, including the Saint-Lawrence River and its tributaries, suggesting that rivers might act as partial barriers to dispersal which partition the landscape into distinct phenotypic regions. Consistent with the thermoregulatory advantages of melanism, melanic morph frequency increased most in areas with cooler winter temperatures and higher canopy cover. Structural equation modelling revealed that urbanization indirectly suppresses melanism by altering these two variables. Our results suggest that phenotypic patterns within cities are not uniform but are instead shaped by fine-scale environmental heterogeneity and geographic barriers, highlighting the need to move beyond simple urban-rural contrasts when predicting phenotypic variation in urban populations.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Animal Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Ecological Society.
Among poultry species, only waterfowl (e.g., goose and duck) possess the external genitalia. Normal erection of the external genitalia in male geese is directly related to mating capability, but its underlying genetic mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we conducted a multi-omics study on male geese with normal erection (NE) and erectile dysfunction (ED) external genitalia phenotypic, to identify key candidate genes and main molecular networks contributing to external genitalia development differences. Here, we present a comprehensive genome resource for male geese, including a high-coverage (20×) whole genome of 259 samples from Sichuan White Goose × Lande Goose F2 resource population. The genome-wide association study (GWAS) analyses of NE and ED male geese indicated that PCDH7, TFPI, CALCRL, HIBCH, COL3A1, and CAVIN2 may be related to the differences in erectile function of external genitalia. At the transcriptomic level, we identified 318, 629, 2482, and 901 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hypothalamus, pituitary gland, testis, and external genitalia cartilage between NE and ED groups, respectively. Further analysis demonstrated that PCDH7 was identified by both SNP-GWAS and transcriptomic analysis. Integrated with transcriptome data, it was revealed that PCDH7 involved in the function of male goose external genitalia cartilage development may be through MAPK signaling pathway. Collectively, our multi-faceted analysis suggests that PCDH7 affects male geese external genitalia erection may be through the MAPK signaling pathway. Our findings not only provide new insights into the development of external genitalia but also contribute to improving the reproductive performance of male geese.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) pain is the most common orofacial pain with limited effective treatments. Here, we observed elevated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a bioactive lipid, in blood, trigeminal ganglion (TG), and peri-temporomandibular joint (TMJ) tissues in mouse models of TMD-like pain induced by TMJ inflammation or masseter muscle injury. Notably, LPA levels were also elevated in TMD patients' blood and positively correlated with their pain intensity. LPA receptors (LPAR) 1 and 3 were expressed in mouse and human TG neurons and upregulated in TMD-like pain models. Inhibition or knockout of LPAR1 or LPAR3 attenuated TMD-like pain, while LPA injection into the TMJ or masseter muscle evoked pain. Furthermore, we demonstrated that LPA/LPAR signaling upregulates and sensitizes PIEZO2, a mechanosensitive ion channel, in TG neurons via extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Specific deletion or inhibition of PIEZO2 and suppression of ERK activation in TG neurons mitigated TMD-like pain. These findings suggest that LPA/LPAR signaling drives TMD-like pain via PIEZO2, offering potential therapeutic targets.
The Karan Fries (KF), a newly developed dairy cattle (Holstein Friesian × Tharparkar), after nine generations of inter se mating (mating among crossbreds) by maintaining a stable, composite breed structure, is expected to preserve some heterosis or hybrid vigour through the retention of heterozygosity and selective pressure for performance traits. Although a decline in productivity is generally seen from F1 to later inter se generations, the rate of loss of heterosis slows down, allowing the population to reach a new equilibrium. This seems to be an interesting proposition. Therefore, to assess the retained heterosis and to evaluate the current status of the KF population, the present study was conducted, which included a sizeable phenotyped and genotyped animals (n = 355). The analysis identified a stabilized genomic architecture with a mean exotic inheritance of 64.34 ± 0.74% (predominantly Holstein Friesian) and an indigenous contribution of 35.66 ± 0.95% (primarily Tharparkar). Genomic indicators of heterosis revealed a mean Genomic Retained Heterosis (RHg) of 59% which accounts for 15.82% of the total observed KF average yield (4153.14 ± 167.32 kg). Genomic Retained Heterozygosity (RHETg) of 0.44%. Notably, a near-perfect correlation (r = 0.98) was observed between these two metrics, indicating that RHETg can be used interchangeably with RHg to assess heterosis and its effects in instances where parental genotypic records were absent. Linear regression analysis demonstrated that RHg was a primary driver of productivity, with Total Milk Yield (TMY) increasing by 1113.81 ± 301.91 kg per unit increase in RHg (p < 0.001). The impact on TMY was significantly larger than on 305-day milk yield (339.08 ± 282.92 kg), suggesting that genomic heterosis specifically enhances lactation persistence and environmental robustness. A joint-model GWAS identified 182 SNPs with significant additive effects and 117 SNPs with significant dominance effects for TMY. Functional annotation revels candidate genes for milk synthesis (SLC25A1, PIP4K2A, LATS2), heat stress resilience (DNAJB5, DNAJC1), and immunological defence (ARHGAP15, LPAR3). Protein network analysis identified the Mitochondrial Ribosomal Protein (MRP) family, specifically hub gene MRPL22, as the central driving gene for both additive and dominance components. These findings confirm that KF cattle effectively leverage retained heterosis to integrate high production potential with robust tropical climatic adaptability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP)-positive nerve fibers are the major type of sensory neurons innervating the trabecular meshwork (TM) and Schlemm's canal (SC). Upon activation, these neurons secrete CGRP locally. Here, we determined the role of CGRP in regulating homeostatic TM functions and the relation of CGRP-positive neurite innervation to segmental outflow regions.CGRP receptor expression in primary human TM (HTM) and primary human SC (HSC) cells in culture was determined by western blot analysis. HTM cells were treated with CGRP (0.1-3 µM) and fluorescent beads for 24 hours or were treated with CGRP (1 µM), TGFβ2 (5 ng/mL), and CGRP+TGFβ2 for 48 hours and processed for western blot analysis of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and collagen type 1 alpha 1 (COL1A1) expression. Segmental flow regions were determined in 9-month-old C57BL/6J mice using fluorescent tracer beads. Anterior segment flatmounts were co-labeled with antibodies against CGRP, CALCRL (CGRP receptor), and PECAM-1 (SC endothelium) and imaged by confocal microscopy. The density of CGRP neurites and CALCRL expression in each flow region were quantified by ImageJ analysis.CGRP receptors are expressed in human TM and SC cells. CGRP treatment significantly increased phagocytosis and blocked TGFβ2-induced COL1A1 and α-SMA expression. Significantly more CGRP-positive neurites were identified in high-flow regions compared to all other flow regions. CALCRL expression was significantly associated with high-flow and moderate-flow regions compared to no-flow regions.These data suggest that CGRP modulates important homeostatic mechanisms of TM function and may influence the development and regulation of segmental regions of aqueous humor outflow.
Biological age (BA) has emerged as a promising integrative indicator of physiological state and welfare, but its use within aquaculture remains underdeveloped. Previous genome-wide analysis in gilthead sea bream revealed skeletal muscle markers with inverse age-related expression and methylation patterns. Specifically, psmd2, ramp1, sirt1 and smad1 were up-regulated and hypomethylated with age, while atp1a2, bmp1, calcrl, col5a1, spred2 and thrb exhibited down-regulation coupled with hypermethylation. Here we assessed the responsiveness of this gene set across multiple aquaculture-relevant challenges using a real-time PCR array. Environmental stressors (e.g. increased temperature and high stocking density with low O2 concentration) induced transcriptional profiles resembling muscle gene-expression patterns of older individuals. Conversely, cold exposure and nutritional interventions, including restricted feeding and feed supplementation with bioactive protein hydrolysates, microalgae meal with a PUFA-rich lipid source, or fat emulsifiers promoted signatures aligned with those observed in younger animals. Although the direct reversal of stress-induced aging signatures was not tested, results indicate that dietary interventions elicit opposing transcriptional patterns, highlighting potential strategies to mitigate environmentally mediated aquaculture stress through targeted nutrition. These findings provide preliminary evidence of a potential relationship between BA and aquaculture stressors in farmed fish, underpinning a genomics-based framework for welfare assessment and adaptive management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Shaoxing Huangjiu, a traditional Chinese rice wine, is renowned for its distinctive aroma. However, the key compounds responsible for its pleasurable sensory experience remain unclear. This study integrates GC-MS data, molecular docking, network pharmacology, and sensory evaluation to identify the aroma compounds and their receptor mechanisms. Among 100 identified volatiles, 34 emotion- or reward-related receptors (e.g., DRD2, HRH3, GPR119, and S1PR1) were targeted. Molecular docking revealed that benzyl benzoate (BB) exhibited the strongest affinity (-9.2 kcal/mol), interacting with multiple receptors via hydrophobic and π-π interactions. Sensory evaluation confirmed that BB and 2-phenylethyl acetate elicited the highest hedonic scores. These findings identify key aroma compounds responsible for Huangjiu's pleasurable aroma and propose a molecular framework linking aroma perception with receptor-level interactions. This study provides new insights for optimizing the flavor and functional properties of traditional fermented beverages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Chronic exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation induces excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in dermal fibroblasts, leading to cellular senescence and skin photoaging. Ageing skin is characterised by disruption of the immune microenvironment, including impaired macrophage polarisation and reduced M2 macrophage activity. However, the contribution of M2 macrophages to fibroblast photoaging remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated whether M2 macrophages attenuate UVB-induced fibroblast senescence through ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 2 (ENPP2)-dependent lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)signalling. UVB-induced L929 fibroblasts were treated with conditioned media derived from polarised RAW264.7 macrophages, with or without ENPP2 silencing. UVB exposure induced marked senescence, oxidative stress, and mitophagy impairment, whereas conditioned medium from M2 macrophages significantly alleviated these effects compared with M1-derived conditioned medium. Notably, ENPP2 depletion in M2 macrophages substantially reduced these protective effects. M2 macrophage-derived conditioned medium contained elevated LPA levels and restored UVB-suppressed LPAR1 and LPAR3 expression in fibroblasts. Pharmacological inhibition of LPAR1/3 attenuated the protective effects of M2 macrophages, while exogenous LPA supplementation restored these effects under ENPP2-deficient conditions. These changes were associated with enhanced PINK1/Parkin-related mitophagy signalling and reduced oxidative stress. Collectively, these findings identify M2 macrophage-derived ENPP2/LPA signalling as a critical paracrine mechanism that mitigates UVB-induced fibroblast photoaging.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Endotoxemia represents a life-threatening clinical disorder driven by an aberrant host immune response to pathogenic infection, often resulting in severe multiple organ dysfunction. Among its most devastating complications are acute lung injury (ALI) and endotoxemia-associated encephalopathy (EAE), both of which are associated with elevated mortality and currently lack effective targeted interventions. This study evaluated the therapeutic efficacy and underlying molecular mechanisms of recombinant human thymosin β4 (rhTβ4) in a murine model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced endotoxemia. Our results showed that treatment with rhTβ4 markedly enhanced survival rates and diminished the systemic overproduction of diverse proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in endotoxemic mice. These systemic protective actions were achieved through the inhibition of the TLR4/NF-κB signaling cascade, the reduction in M1 macrophage polarization, and the simultaneous alleviation of mitochondrial impairment and oxidative stress. Moreover, rhTβ4 treatment significantly rescued EAE-related cognitive deficits and attenuated neuronal damage, primarily through the suppression of neuroinflammation and microglial overactivation. Integrative transcriptomic profiling and functional assays identified lysophosphatidic acid receptor 3 (LPAR3) as an important contributor, suggesting that rhTβ4 suppresses microglial-mediated neurotoxicity at least in part through LPAR3 downregulation. In conclusion, rhTβ4 confers robust multi-organ protection against endotoxemic injury by orchestrating the inhibition of systemic and central neuroinflammatory cascades, positioning it as a promising candidate for the treatment of endotoxemia-induced ALI and EAE.
The aim of the present study was to explore the reparative effects of spermidine combined with umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs) on endometrial injury in mice. First, bioinformatic results suggested that endometrial damage is closely linked to immune mechanisms, a finding that was corroborated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction results. Next, an endometrial injury model was established by injecting 95% ethanol into the uterus, and spermidine combined with UC-MSCs was used for treatment. We found that the combination of spermidine and umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (S+UC-MSCs) significantly reduced CD36 expression while significantly increasing the expression of the proteins THBS2, TIMP3, CLU, and CFH. In addition, S + UC-MSCs significantly increased the number of Tregs and the protein levels of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interleukin-10 (IL-10), whereas the protein levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-2 (IL-2), and interleukin-17 (IL-17) decreased significantly. Furthermore, S + UC-MSCs also improved the morphology of mouse endometria by regulating angiogenesis (microvessel density [MVD] and vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF]) and receptivity (HOXA10, LIF, LPAR3, and αvβ3). These results indicated that the combined therapy of spermidine and UC-MSCs promotes angiogenesis, enhances uterine receptivity, regulates the IL-10/Treg-mediated immune microenvironment to restore endometrial morphology, and shows a tendency to increase the pregnancy rate in mice.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Lysosomes are essential for intracellular degradation and recycling, and changes in their function significantly contribute to tumor growth. Nonetheless, the exact role of lysosome-related genes (LRGs) in the pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is still inadequately comprehended.Differentially expressed LRGs (DE-LRGs) between AML and control groups were identified using AML-related data extracted from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The LRGs-related prognostic genes were identified and the risk model was established using univariate COX regression analysis and machine learning algorithms, based on the data obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Subsequently, we performed comprehensive analyses regarding clinical features, functional pathways, immune microenvironment, and chemotherapeutic drugs sensitivity between the high- and low-risk groups. Reverse transcription Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot were adopted to validate the expression of prognostic genes in human bone marrow-derived cell line HS-27 A and human AML cell line MOLM-13.Through comprehensive analysis, a risk model was developed utilizing ten LRGs (ATP6V0E2, CALCRL, TMEM165, GZMB, HCK, TCIRG1, CD1D, GPRASP1, ABCA1, and NAGA), and this model was further validated using GEO datasets. Significant differences in clinical characteristics, functional pathways, immune microenvironment characteristics, and chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity were observed between the two risk groups In vitro validation experiment illustrated that the expression trends of ATP6V0E2, TMEM165, and ABCA1 were consistent with our bioinformatics analysis.Our study demonstrates that lysosome-associated signature might forecast the prognosis of AML patients and offer guidance for subsequent immunotherapy and chemotherapy strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune evasion in lung cancer is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. This study identifies key epigenetic drivers of immune escape in lung cancer and elucidates how they remodel the tumor microenvironment to induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion. We performed a CRISPR-negative screen targeting 159 epigenetic regulators (mEpi driver library) in a mouse model of lung metastasis and used single-cell sequencing, cell-based experiments, and chromatin analyses to identify mechanisms of immune escape. SET domain-containing protein 2 (SETD2) emerged as a critical suppressor of immune evasion. Loss of SETD2 markedly increased lung colonization and metastasis in mice with intact T cells, whereas this effect disappeared after T cell depletion. Mechanistically, SETD2 recruited adenine-thymine-rich interaction domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) to maintain a repressive chromatin state at genes encoding the chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, 2, and 5. Loss of the SETD2-ARID2 axis increased secretion of these chemokines and recruited polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, which inhibit T cell responses. These cells increased expression of free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), depleted arginine from the tumor environment, and impaired signaling required for T cell activation, driving cytotoxic T cells into terminal exhaustion. Depleting polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells or conditionally deleting FFAR2 in these cells restored T cell function and reduced metastasis of SETD2-deficient tumors. These findings show that loss of SETD2 creates an arginine-depleted, immunosuppressive tumor environment through a chemokine-FFAR2 pathway, revealing an epigenetic-metabolic immune checkpoint that may inform combination treatments for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xuyu Gu et al.
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539514 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530981 is a review article
Current therapies for allergic rhinitis primarily provide symptomatic relief but fail to establish durable antigen-specific immune tolerance. Here, we developed an oral nano-dietary fiber (NDF) platform that integrates allergen delivery with microbiota-driven immunomodulation, using dextran as both an antigen carrier and a fermentable substrate for intestinal bacteria. NDF enabled coordinated allergen release and sustained short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production in the gut, promoting SCFA-FFAR2-dependent expansion of regulatory B and T cells and their trafficking to the nasal mucosa. In murine models, NDF slowed disease progression, improved airway function, and reduced allergen-specific IgE levels. Together, these findings establish NDF as an oral tolerogenic vaccine that provides durable protection against allergic airway disease through the gut-nasal axis.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Vitamin B12 deficiency during pregnancy and lactation is common, yet its mechanistic impact on reproductive outcomes and offspring health remains poorly understood. Here, we show that maternal dietary vitamin B12 deprivation not only impairs maternal glucose metabolism and reproductive outcomes but also exacerbates high-fat-diet-induced obesity in offspring. These effects are mediated by gut microbiota and associated with a marked reduction of Bifidobacterium pseudolongum (B. pseudolongum) in both dams and their offspring. Maternal vitamin B12 deprivation limits early-life acquisition of B. pseudolongum in offspring during lactation, subsequently intensifying obesity and metabolic dysregulation. Early-life restoration of B. pseudolongum or its key metabolite, acetate, effectively ameliorates this aggravated obesity. Mechanistically, acetate acts through the Ffar2 receptor to upregulate Ehhadh expression. Together, these data establish that perinatal nutrition imprints long-term metabolic phenotypes in offspring via early-life acquisition of the gut microbiota, with a critical window during lactation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Free fatty acid receptor (FFAR)-mediated signaling plays a critical role in cancer pathogenesis. Within the tumor microenvironment (TME), stromal cells support cancer cell functions under hypoxic conditions, thereby promoting malignant progression. This study investigated whether FFAR1 contributes to stromal cell-induced malignancy in cancer cells under hypoxic conditions (1% O2), using highly invasive A549-M8 cells derived from lung cancer A549 cells. A549-M8 cells exhibit approximately eightfold higher invasiveness than A549 cells. Under 1% O2, FFAR1 expression was upregulated in A549-M8 cells but downregulated in A549 cells. A549-M8 cell invasion was markedly promoted by culturing at 1% O2, whereas A549 cell invasion decreased. TUG-770 (FFAR1 agonist) stimulated A549-M8 cell invasion, whereas GW1100 (FFAR1 antagonist) suppressed it. In contrast, A549-M8 cell invasion was inhibited by TUG-891 (FFAR4 agonist). Co-culture with mouse-derived endothelial F2 cells, which lack Ffar1 expression, further stimulated A549-M8 cell movement and motility relative to A549 cells. Under hypoxic co-culture conditions, A549-M8 cells exhibited significantly increased invasion, which was associated with elevated FFAR1 expression. These results suggest that FFAR1-mediated signaling is a key driver of tumor progression in highly invasive lung cancer cells under hypoxic conditions, with stromal cell interactions promoting FFAR1 induction and enhancing malignancy, whereas FFAR4 activation exerts a suppressive effect on invasive activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Conventional magnesium supplementation relies on passive diffusion in the small intestine, resulting in poor bioavailability. To address this, we developed an oxidized starch-chitosan-Mg2+ composite gel that directs more Mg2+ to the colon, where resistant polysaccharides are fermented to SCFAs that may actively enhance absorption. Mg2+ incorporation increased the gel's resistant component to 52.42 ± 0.63%. Increasing Mg2+ from 0.5% to 2% reduced cumulative upper gastrointestinal release from 70.61 ± 0.79% to 43.62 ± 1.01% (p < 0.05), with higher concentrations showing no further improvement. In Mg2+-deficient mice, the gel dose-dependently restored serum Mg2+ to healthy levels. Comparison at equal Mg2+ doses revealed that the polysaccharide carrier independently contributed to enhanced absorption. Mechanistically, resistant polysaccharides were associated with upregulation of SCFAs receptors (FFAR2/FFAR3/HCAR2) and Mg2+ transporters (TRPM6/TRPM7/CNNM4), with immunofluorescence indicating TRPM7 upregulation. This work provides proof-of-concept evidence for a paradigm shift from passive supplementation to active regulation via SCFAs-associated transporter modulation.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Free Fatty Acid Receptor-1 (FFAR1) agonists are promising candidates for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus due to their glucose-lowering ability. Previously, we have shown that a benzyloxyphenylpropanoic acid derivative QS-619 (5d) containing a (-)-borneol residue acts as an effective FFAR1 agonist and exerts a hypoglycemic effect in mice. To establish the initial structure-activity relationships (SAR) for this chemotype, with a particular focus on the critical role of the terpene fragment's stereochemistry, we synthesized a series of its structural analogues with variations in the configuration of stereocenters and the position of substituents in the aromatic rings. The effect of borneol stereochemistry on hypoglycemic activity was studied. The cytotoxicity of the synthesized compounds was evaluated on HepG2 and HEK293T cell lines. The hypoglycemic activity of these compounds was assessed in an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in mice at doses of 15 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg. The most potent hypoglycemic agent identified was compound 5e which bears a (+)-bornyl moiety. It demonstrated a strong effect at both doses, showed no cytotoxicity (CC₅₀ >100 µM), but exhibited acute toxicity at a dose of 1000 mg/kg. Compounds 5f and 5g, containing (-)- and (+)-isobornyl moieties, respectively, showed a less pronounced hypoglycemic effect compared to the bornyl derivatives 5d and 5e. The cyclohexyl derivative 5h was active only at the 30 mg/kg dose. Furthermore, co-administration of an FFAR1 antagonist was found to suppress the hypoglycemic activity of the studied compounds in the OGTT, supporting an FFAR1-mediated mechanism of action.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To elucidate the diagnostic value and clinical relevance of protein kinase D3 (PRKD3) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we analyzed data retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, which revealed high expression of PRKD3 in HCC tissues. Subsequently, we collected a total of 392 clinical plasma samples from healthy individuals, patients with cirrhosis or decompensated cirrhosis, and patients with HCC. Plasma PRKD3 levels were then determined across HCC patients and individuals at high risk of developing the disease. The results revealed significantly elevated PRKD3 concentrations in patients with cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis, and HCC compared to healthy controls (P<0.01). The areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for these three groups were 0.8107, 0.7899, and 0.7177, respectively. To further evaluate the efficacy of PRKD3 as an adjunctive diagnostic biomarker for HCC, we employed a panel of machine learning algorithms as primary classifiers, including extra trees (ET), gradient boosting (GB), random forest (RF), and support vector machine (SVM). A multi-parameter joint diagnostic model was constructed by combining PRKD3 expression data with a set of clinical parameters, including gender, age, total bilirubin (TBIL), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), albumin (ALB), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and prothrombin induced by vitamin K absence-II (PIVKA-II). This integrated approach exhibited substantially improved diagnostic performance, achieving an accuracy of 0.861, sensitivity of 0.863, specificity of 0.925, and precision of 0.862. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential of PRKD3 as an integral component of a comprehensive diagnostic tool for the early identification of HCC.
Social stress, beneficial for evaluating threats and resource opportunities, influences the development of anxious and depressive disorders. Stress responses are initiated via a pro-stress circuit in the anterior region of the basolateral amygdala (aBLA). This circuit contains pyramidal glutamatergic neurons that express genetic markers Camk2α, Rspo2, and Hcrtr1, which enhance stress-vulnerable behaviors via Orx1R activity, and are inhibited directly by Orx2R activation on Gad1, Hcrtr2, Cck GABAergic neurons. Our results have suggested stress circuitry in BLA is modulated by Orx1R and Orx2R activity, which counterbalance stress responsivity via Rspo2-positive glutamatergic neurons in aBLA, but whether these effects are consistent with systemic delivery is unknown. These receptor-dependent biases contribute to behavioral, physiological and molecular outcomes associated with psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Administration of a selective orexin receptor cross-over (SORCO; Orx1R antagonist and Orx2R agonist combination) treatment alleviates anxiogenic behavioral outputs in socially stressed mice, by decreasing escape latency in stress-vulnerable (Stay) mice (phenotypic reversal; vulnerable to resilient), and reducing the time spent freezing in response to the presence of a social aggressor (socially induced) in stress resilient (Escape) mice. Behavioral results coincided with a decrease in Rspo2 and an increase in Hcrtr2 gene expression in aBLA of SORCO-treated Stay mice, and an increase in Akt3 and Mtor transcription in Stay mice treated with an Orx2R agonist (YNT-185). Our findings indicate that a combination of OrxR drugs (SORCO) provides potentially therapeutic outcomes through modifications of stress neurocircuitry, triggered by increasing expression of genes associated with neuroplasticity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Many neuropsychiatric disorders involve dysregulation of the dopaminergic (DA) input to the forebrain. Of particular relevance are DA afferents from the midbrain ventral tegmental area (VTA). A key neuromodulatory influence onto DAVTA neurons arises from lateral hypothalamic area hypocretin/orexin (OX) neurons. Despite being a major input, the differential actions of OX peptides A and B on their receptors (OX1R and OX2R) in DA neurons is poorly understood.Using genetically engineered mice whose DA cells selectively lack OX input via Hcrtr1 (DAOx1R-KO) or Hcrtr2 (DAOx2R-KO), we assessed DAVTA neuron intrinsic excitability ex vivo, and evaluated behavioral phenotypes across socio-emotional and cognitive domains.We discovered previously unrecognized effects of OX peptides on DAVTA cell response. While OXA enhanced DAVTA neuron firing via OX1R, OXB diminished firing via OX2R. Behaviorally, DA OX1R loss generated anxiety-like responding and context-dependent hyperactivity, while DA OX2R loss decreased sociability and compromised aversion-driven learning. Loss of either OX1R or OX2R in DA cells elicited impulsivity and compulsivity-like behavioral patterns.We evidence distinct functions of OX1R vs OX2R signaling in modulating the intrinsic excitability of DAVTA neurons, and influencing DA-related behaviors. Our data implicate OX→DA signaling pathways in neuropsychiatric endophenotypes relevant to obsessive-compulsive, attention-deficit/hyperactivity, and autism spectrum disorders, and inform therapeutic strategies targeting orexin receptors.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Transient Receptor Potential Melastatin 7 (TRPM7) is a 'chanzyme' with dual functions, acting both as a channel for divalent ions and as a serine/threonine kinase. Overexpression of TRPM7 has been linked to the development of various diseases, particularly cancers, making it a promising molecular target. Despite its relevance in oncogenesis, the phospho-regulatory network of TRPM7 remains largely unexplored, with limited evidence on its upstream kinases, downstream substrates, and site-specific phospho-regulated functions.To address this knowledge gap, we employed a co-differential detection-based strategy to analyse publicly available phosphoproteomics datasets.Through the analysis of 569 phosphoproteomics profiling datasets and 116 differential abundance datasets, we identified 55 and 38 Class I phosphosites in TRPM7, of which 13 have not been previously reported. Among the Class I phosphosites, S1504, S1255, S1513, S1477, and S1387 emerged as the predominant phosphosites in TRPM7. Furthermore, all known interactors and substrates of TRPM7 were associated with broad cellular functions such as protein phosphorylation, chromatin remodeling, transcriptional regulation, intracellular signal transduction, DNA damage response, and apoptosis, whereas the co-differentially regulated interactors and substrates of TRPM7 were associated with more specialized functions, including positive regulation of stem cell population maintenance, regulation of mRNA splicing via the spliceosome, and regulation of the G2/M phase transition of the cell cycle. Finally, we identified potential upstream kinases for TRPM7, including PRKCD, CLK2, STK39, PKN2, MAST3, PRKD3, and MAP4K4.These findings provide a comprehensive resource of TRPM7 phosphosites, their potential regulatory kinases, and associated biological functions, laying the groundwork for future mechanistic and therapeutic studies.Copyright © 2026 Palollathil, Mahin, Gopalakrishnan, Sambreena, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Plasma proteomics and metabolomics snapshots reveal a molecular signature in circulation delineating pathophysiology of major and minor neurocognitive disorder. To identify new cues to disease aetiology and diagnostic approach, we applied plasma proteomics and metabolomics profiling platforms to samples collected in a population-based study of the Singapore Longitudinal Ageing Studies Wave 2 (SLAS-2). In this longitudinal study, blood samples were analysed with standard clinical chemistry, plasma proteomics (Sengenics) and metabolomics (Nightingale) panels. Participants were followed up for the development of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia for 3-5 years. Of the total 1,892 molecules in all assay types, 463 demonstrated significant associations with baseline prevalent MCI and dementia. We trained an automatic linear modelling of predictors for follow-up new-onset MCI and dementia. The best model consists of 10 variables including ZSCAN18, PRKD3, SPANXN4, DDX43, saturated fatty acids, PPP3CA, NFATC4, IL-8, PAK6, and PDGFB. In terms of molecular function, these molecular markers are involved in immunological dysfunction and inflammatory reaction, protein coding, lipids, DNA-binding transcription factor activity, and nervous system development. In conclusion, our current research has identified an omics signature linked to new-onset mild cognitive disorder and dementia, which we hope can help enhance the accuracy of their diagnosis using circulating blood samples.© 2026. The Author(s).
Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) are typically epigenetically silenced but can contribute to tumorigenesis upon reactivation under immunodeficient conditions. However, the precise physiological triggers and microenvironmental mechanisms driving ERV-mediated oncogenesis in vivo remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that B cell receptor (BCR) signaling triggers ERV (specifically Emv10) reactivation and promotes lymphomagenesis in T cell-deficient B6-Ly5.1 mice. The resulting tumors exhibited a distinct germinal center B cell-like (GCL) phenotype with somatic hypermutations and harbored recurrent eMLV proviral insertions near the Plch2 locus on chromosome 4, associated with aberrant activation of Plch2. In vivo, chronic antigen stimulation with NP-Ficoll significantly accelerated lethal GCL development, accompanied by systemic accumulation of malignant cells. Crucially, in a model where direct BCR stimulation was restricted to a minor subset of λ+ B cells, the accelerated malignancies arose predominantly from non-stimulated λ- B cell clones. These findings suggest that physiological BCR activation may promote lymphomagenesis through a non-cell-autonomous mechanism. Our model highlights a novel, vital role for T cell-mediated immune surveillance in restricting ERV-driven tumor propagation across the host B cell compartment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The study aimed to explore PRKD3 protein expression in colorectal cancer and its clinical implications.PRKD3 expression was assessed in 189 paired colorectal cancer tissues and their corresponding adjacent non-cancerous counterparts using tissue microarray-based immunohistochemistry. The associations of PRKD3 expression with clinicopathological parameters and patient prognosis were analyzed. PRKD3 mRNA levels were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and its protein expression in colorectal cancer cell lines was detected by Western blot analysis. To investigate the functional role of PRKD3 in cell proliferation, its expression was knocked down using siRNA transfection, followed by proliferation assays.Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that PRKD3 protein was predominantly localized in the cytoplasm of both colorectal cancer and adjacent normal epithelial cells (sampled from > 5 cm beyond the tumor margin). The positive expression rate was 51.8% (72/139) in adjacent normal tissues and 68.7% (114/166) in colorectal cancer tissues, showing a statistically significant increase in cancer tissues (p < 0.05). PRKD3 expression was significantly associated with the clinical diagnosis (colon vs. rectal cancer) (p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis demonstrated that patients with high PRKD3 expression had a significantly longer postoperative survival than those with low expression (p < 0.05). Furthermore, cell proliferation assays showed that knockdown of PRKD3 significantly enhanced proliferation ability compared with the control group.Taken together, the positive expression of PRKD3 may be associated with better prognosis. These findings suggest that PRKD3 may be involved in the development and progression of colorectal cancer and could represent a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for this disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
BACKGROUND: Antler is an important economic trait of sika deer (Cervus nippon), capable of rapid growth without signs of tumorigenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying its unique growth pattern remain poorly understood. This study conducted a combined transcriptomic, proteomic, metabolomic and single-cell transcriptomic analysis of tip mesenchyme of antler at three key growth stages, early, middle, and late growth (EG, MG, LG), to explore the molecular characteristics during antler growth. RESULTS: Active post-transcriptional and post-translational regulation likely occurred during antler growth, as characterized by significant alternative splicing (AS) events and significant enrichment of post-transcriptional and post-translational regulatory functions at the protein level. The multi-level regulatory network constructed based on differentially expressed genes, proteins, and metabolites (DEGs, DEPs, DEMs) indicated continuous and extensive metabolic reprogramming in the glycerophospholipid metabolism pathway. PLA2G3, MBOAT2, LPCAT3, DGKI, and EPT1 were positioned at core nodes within this pathway. The qRT-PCR confirmed that these genes were predominantly expressed in MG, suggesting their role as crucial candidate genes involved in regulating the metabolic reprogramming. Analysis of single-cell transcriptomic data revealed that the MBOAT2, LPCAT3, DGKI, and EPT1 genes were expressed in key cell types such as chondroblasts, chondrocytes, osteoblasts, and mesenchymal cells. CONCLUSIONS: Integrated multi-omics analyses indicated that the rapid growth of antlers is closely associated with continuous metabolic reprogramming, involving multi-layered regulation of glycerophospholipid metabolism. This study established a foundational multi-omics resource, providing new perspectives for elucidating the molecular mechanisms of antler growth and for subsequent functional studies, while also offering novel insights for research on organ and tissue growth in animals.
Exposure to excessive selenium (Se) is hazardous to human health, while Se is also an essential trace element. Therefore, exploring the appropriate exposure dose of Se has received widespread attention. Currently, the impact of Se exposure on blood lipids remains uncertain, and the potential mechanism is still unclear. Evidence from our earlier study pointed to PLCH2 as a potentially pivotal element in the association between Se exposure and total cholesterol (TC). This study aims to explore the appropriate exposure dose of Se on blood lipids, and effects of PLCH2 gene on the relationship between Se exposure and blood lipids through a longitudinal epidemiological study. Repeated measurements of urinary Se (Se-U) for 6260 participants with 9347 observations from the Wuhan-Zhuhai cohort were performed, and a U-shaped relationship between Se-U and TC was observed, the turning point of Se-U was 2.229 μg/mmol Cr. When lower than the turning point, Se-U was negatively associated with TC, while higher than the turning point, Se-U was positively associated with TC. Then, 2985 participants (6026 observations) were genotyped, and all 109 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within PLCH2 gene were included. Significant interaction (Pint<0.05) was observed between a haplotype of the PLCH2 and Se-U on TC: the U-shaped relationship was still observed in the PLCH2-ATCTCA haplotype carriers but not in the haplotype non-carriers. The results suggested PLCH2 gene can modify the U-shaped relationship between Se exposure and TC, which showed a new gene-environment interaction and will provide a new perspective on the relationship between Se exposure and TC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cancer remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide and a significant barrier to improving quality of life across all populations. The protein kinase D family, including PRKD3, has been demonstrated to play a crucial role in cancer development through its involvement in regulating key cellular processes. Although growing evidence highlights the role of PRKD3 in the tumorigenesis of certain cancers, a comprehensive pan-cancer analysis of PRKD3 remains unavailable. To address this, we performed an integrative pan-cancer analysis of PRKD3 using multi-omics datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas, the Genotype-Tissue Expression project, and cBioPortal. We examined PRKD3 expression, copy number variation, mutation, and DNA methylation, and evaluated their associations with clinicopathological features, patient survival, and diagnostic potential across 33 cancer types. Immune relevance was further assessed through correlations with immune infiltration, checkpoint gene expression, and immunotherapy response-related genomic biomarkers. Our results revealed that PRKD3 expression was highly heterogeneous, showing significant upregulation in liver cancer, gastric cancer, and adrenocortical carcinoma, and downregulation in others. Elevated expression was consistently associated with poor prognosis and increased stromal, neutrophil, and cancer-associated fibroblast infiltration in adrenocortical carcinoma, liver cancer, and stomach cancer, whereas paradoxical associations with favorable outcomes were observed in kidney clear cell carcinoma. PRKD3 expression also correlated with immune checkpoint molecules including PD-1, PD-L1, and CTLA-4, supporting an immunosuppressive role, while context-dependent associations with TMB and MSI highlighted its potential influence on tumor immunogenicity and responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these findings identify PRKD3 as a potential context-dependent modulator of tumor biology, prognosis, and immune interactions, underscoring its potential as a biomarker of diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic relevance in precision oncology.Copyright: © 2026 Loaiza-Moss, Leitges. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565973 is a review article
The ability to tightly regulate and maintain a warm core body temperature (Tb) is a defining characteristic of homeotherms. Moving to a thermally preferred place is an energetically efficient first-line thermoregulatory mechanism. We optimized a mouse binary thermal preference assay, selecting floor plate temperatures of 38°C vs 25°C for males and 39°C vs 30°C for females as having no baseline preference. Warm preference was increased in females, by fasting, and with age. Genetic manipulations that increased warm preference included ablation of uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) or of all four adenosine receptors (Adora1, Adora2a, Adora2b, Adora3). Ablation of estrogen receptor α (Esr1) reduced the preference for the warmer side in females but had no effect on preference in males. Mice treated with the β3 adrenergic receptor agonist CL-316243 or the adenosine receptor 3 agonist MRS5698 sought the cooler surface. Thermal preference assays complement the measurement of Tb, providing information about whether a change in Tb reflects a new target or setpoint Tb caused by the intervention, or if the mouse is trying to maintain an unchanged Tb. Thermal preference can be more sensitive than baseline Tb for detecting changes in thermal physiology.
Exogenous angiotensin (Ang) (1-7) supplementation and MAS1 receptor activation have been implicated in pain regulation; however, the effects of pharmacological activation of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which promotes endogenous Ang (1-7) production, on neuropathic pain remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the antihyperalgesic effects of diminazene aceturate (DIZE), an ACE2 activator, and its underlying mechanisms in chronic constriction injury (CCI) mice. DIZE (15 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered once daily after CCI surgery, and mechanical and thermal sensitivity were assessed using the von Frey and Hargreaves tests, respectively. DIZE significantly attenuated CCI-induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. CCI itself did not alter the expression levels of Ang-generating system components in the dorsal root ganglion or spinal cord, whereas DIZE increased ACE2 expression in the spinal cord. Immunofluorescence analysis showed increased ACE2 expression in the spinal dorsal horn, particularly in laminae I-II. Intrathecal administration of the MAS1 receptor antagonist A779 suppressed the antihyperalgesic effects of DIZE. Pharmacological ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel opening with diazoxide attenuated CCI-induced hyperalgesia, whereas blockade of these channels with glibenclamide induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in naïve mice. DIZE attenuated glibenclamide-induced hyperalgesia, and this effect was reduced by A779. Furthermore, MAS1 receptor immunoreactivity overlapped with that of KATP channel subunits, including SUR1, SUR2A, and Kir6.1, in the spinal dorsal horn. These findings suggest that DIZE attenuates neuropathic pain-related hyperalgesia through activation of the spinal ACE2/MAS1 receptor axis and the involvement of KATP channels.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent metabolic bone disease characterized by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence implicates that natural killer cells and immunomodulator-related genes (NIRGs) were involved in its pathogenesis; however, systematic exploration of NIRGs remains limited.To explore the role of natural killer (NK) cells and immunomodulator-related differentially expressed genes (NIRDEGs) in osteoporosis.Two osteoporosis datasets (GSE56815 and GSE7429) were integrated after batch effect correction and normalization. Natural killer cell-related genes (NRGs) and immunomodulator-related genes (IRGs) were curated from GeneCards. And NIRDEGs were identified by intersecting co-differentially expressed genes (Co-DEGs) across datasets. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, GSEA, GSVA) and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Then, diagnostic models were developed using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, validated by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC), and nomograms. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks and regulatory networks were generated using bioinformatic tools.Twelve NIRDEGs were identified, and they were enriched in regulation of inflammatory response, myeloid cell homeostasis, negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity, homeostasis of number of cells, and I-κB kinase/NF-κB signaling. A diagnostic model comprising seven genes (IDO1, PTMA, RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) exhibited moderate accuracy (0.7 < AUC < 0.9). The protein-level expression of the six candidate genes was further validated in osteoporosis medol rats. Specifically, the IDO1 and PTMA was obviously elevated in the osteoporosis rat model, while the RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, and HMOX1 was markedly decreased. Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct patterns of 20 immune cell types between high and low BMD groups, especially monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils. The PPI network indicated that five key genes were interconnected (IDO1, PTMA, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) and that there were 20 functionally related proteins. Regulatory networks highlighted interactions with 26 transcription factors (TFs), 28 miRNAs, 26 RBPs and 32 therapeutic compounds.This study establishes NIRDEGs as critical players in osteoporosis pathogenesis and provides a clinically translatable seven-gene diagnostic model for early osteoporosis detection. The integration of multi-omic analyses uncovered key pathways, immune dynamics, and regulatory networks. These findings provide novel insights into immune-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for osteoporosis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Phthalate esters are pervasive endocrine-disrupting chemicals associated with metabolic disorders, but their contribution to metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) remains unclear. We investigated shared targets and pathways linking eight phthalate-related compounds to MAFLD using network toxicology, transcriptomic data mining, molecular docking, and cellular validation. Integrated analysis identified 75 predicted phthalate-related targets, including 41 MAFLD-associated genes enriched in lipid metabolism and inflammatory pathways. Cross-analysis of three GEO datasets prioritized 14 candidate genes, with PPARG, PTGS2, ESR1, PPARA, and BCL2 showing high network centrality. Molecular docking predicted favorable interactions between the tested compounds and candidate proteins, with monobenzyl phthalate (MBeP) showing the highest predicted affinity. In palmitic acid-oleic acid (PA-OA) -treated HepG2 cells, MBeP increased lipid accumulation, reactive oxygen species generation, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization and altered selected candidate genes. In primary mouse hepatocytes, MBeP similarly increased lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species generation and altered PTGS2 and PPARA protein expression. These findings identify candidate targets and pathways potentially involved in MBeP-associated hepatic lipid dysregulation and support further mechanistic investigation of phthalate-related effects in MAFLD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Triclosan (TCS), a widely used antimicrobial agent, is persistently detected in aquatic environments (up to 1.14 μM in pore water) and human matrices, raising concerns about its developmental toxicity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying TCS-induced cardiac malformations remain largely unresolved. Here, we report that exposure of zebrafish embryos to TCS at concentrations including environmentally relevant levels (62.5 nM to 1 μM) induced cardiac morphological abnormalities and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, accompanied by transcriptomic alterations in genes associated with cardiac development and apoptosis. Mechanistic investigations revealed that TCS activated ERα and the membrane estrogen receptor GPER, resulting in sustained ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Pharmacological blockade of ER or ERK signaling, as well as genetic knockdown of esr1/esr2a, effectively rescued TCS-induced cardiac malformations and apoptotic responses, supporting the involvement of ER-ERK signaling in TCS-associated cardiac abnormalities. Notably, ER-ERK activation triggered profound mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by excessive mitochondrial ROS generation, dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, and ultrastructural mitochondrial damage, ultimately leading to cleaved-caspase-3-dependent apoptosis. The mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant MitoQ significantly alleviated ROS generation, mitochondrial injury, and cardiac defects. Furthermore, molecular docking analysis supported strong binding affinities between TCS and key components of the ER-ERK signaling axis, suggesting potential molecular interactions. Overall, this study identifies a previously unrecognized ER-ERK-mitochondrial apoptotic pathway as a central mechanism driving TCS-induced cardiac developmental toxicity, providing mechanistic insight into the cardiovascular developmental risks posed by environmental endocrine disruptors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560566 is a review article
Urination, a vital and conserved process of emptying urine from the urinary bladder in mammals, requires precise coordination between the bladder and external urethral sphincter (EUS) that is tightly controlled by a complex neural network. However, the specific subpopulation of neurons that accounts for such coordination remains unidentified, limiting the development of target-specific therapies for certain urination disorders, for example, detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia. Here, we find that cells expressing estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1+) in the pontine micturition center (PMC) initiate voiding when activated and suspend ongoing voiding when suppressed, each at 100% reliability. Transection of the pelvic nerve does not impair PMCESR1+ neurons' control of the EUS via the pudendal nerve, whereas transection of the pudendal nerve does not impair their control of the bladder via the pelvic nerve. Anatomically, PMCESR1+ neurons consist of three distinct spinal-projection-based subpopulations: one targeting the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, one innervating the dorsal gray commissure, and a third that projects to both regions, thereby enforcing the coordination of bladder contraction and sphincter relaxation in a rigid temporal sequence. Thus, we identify a cell type in the brainstem that controls the bladder-urethra coordination for urination.© 2024, Li et al.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer metastasis remains the leading cause of disease-related mortality, yet the regulatory mechanisms enabling tumor cells to adapt to distant tissue environments remain poorly defined. Here, we generated a multi-omic resource integrating transcriptomic (RNA-seq) and chromatin accessibility (ATAC-seq) profiles from estrogen receptor-positive primary breast tumors and matched liver and lung metastases obtained from the same patients, including diagnostic and postmortem specimens. This design enabled direct intra-patient comparisons of primary and metastatic regulatory landscapes. We identified extensive reprogramming of chromatin accessibility and gene expression in metastatic lesions relative to primary tumors, indicating widespread regulatory remodeling. Peak-to-gene correlation analysis uncovered thousands of metastasis-associated enhancer-gene linkages, with metastatic samples exhibiting significantly increased enhancer connectivity. These rewired enhancer networks preferentially targeted clinically relevant genes, including RIPK4 , ISYNA1, and RAB3D, which were associated with three or more enhancers in metastases but not in primary tumors. Furthermore, ATAC-seq footprinting combined with gene expression analysis revealed distinct, tissue-specific transcription factor activity profiles in liver and lung metastases, including ESR1, that were not explained by transcription factor expression levels alone. Together, these data provide a resource of metastasis-specific regulatory elements and their cognate transcription factors, revealing new regulatory vulnerabilities that may be therapeutically exploitable. Implications: These findings support a model in which breast cancer metastasis is driven by enhancer regulatory reprogramming, allowing tumor cells to adapt to a variety of microenvironments.
For the first time, the potential of electrical asymmetrical flow field-flow fractionation (EAF4) coupled online to a multidetector platform (UV-vis, MALS, and ICP-MS) for the comprehensive characterization of metallic nanoparticles (NPs) in biomedically relevant media is demonstrated. Beyond size determination, this technique provides insights into surface charge, a critical parameter governing NP's stability and behaviour. The inclusion of ICP-MS significantly enhances its selectivity, enabling discrimination among different NP populations within complex, polydisperse matrices at low, biomedically relevant concentrations. Furthermore, the data are obtained in a size-resolved way, surpassing the limitations of currently available batch techniques. As a case study, gold (AuNPs) and platinum (PtNPs) NPs have been analysed after incubation in biological media representing different levels of complexity, i.e., bovine serum albumin (BSA), fetal bovine serum (FBS), and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) to evaluate their transformations (e.g., protein corona formation) and their impact on physicochemical properties. The proposed approach enables simultaneous determination of hydrodynamic radius (Rh), gyration radius (Rg), shape-related parameters, electrophoretic mobility (μ), and zeta potential (Z-potential) under mild, biocompatible fractionation conditions, achieving recoveries >70%. Size-resolved data revealed broader NP populations and significant modifications in surface charge due to protein corona formation, showing differences between simple protein scenarios and complex biological matrices. Overall, the study highlights the unique capability of EAF4 hyphenated with complementary detectors as a powerful analytical tool for multidimensional NP characterization in biological environments, providing valuable insights into NP-bioentity interactions and supporting the development and safety assessment of nanomaterials for biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The pursuit of portable glucose monitoring has stimulated growing interest in interstitial fluid (ISF) as an alternative diagnostic medium, due to its strong correlation with blood glucose levels and reduced interference from macromolecular substances. However, the transition toward ISF-based sensing technologies, particularly those employing colorimetric microneedle (MN) patches, has been hindered by the inherent instability of natural enzymes such as horseradish peroxidase (HRP), which undergo significant activity loss under fluctuating environmental conditions. To overcome this critical limitation, we engineered a colorimetric MN patch that leverages the copper oxide nanozymes (CuO NPs) with robust peroxidase-mimicking activity and high stability. The patch was fabricated from a gelatin methacryloyl (GelMA) hydrogel matrix co-embedded with glucose oxidase (GOx) and the chromogenic agent 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB). We demonstrated that within the developed microneedle patch, the nanozyme-enabled system enables glucose level assessment suitable for preliminary screening or trend monitoring across the clinical range of 1.7-21 mmol/L by converting ISF glucose levels into colorimetric signals in mice, with performance showing good agreement with commercial assay kits. The CuO nanozyme-based colorimetric MN patch is easy to operate and requires no professional expertise or large-scale equipment, which suggests potential applicability for future clinical diagnosis and daily monitoring pending additional validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Microalgae's distinct biochemical characteristics and environmental benefits have made them an environmentally acceptable and sustainable platform for the synthesis of nanoparticles (NPs). The current work is in accordance with the principles of green chemistry. This study aims to establish, for the first time, an environmentally sustainable and rapid synthesis route for Fe2O3 using ethanolic extracts of Heterosigma akashiwo (H. akashiwo) and Prorocentrum micans (P. micans) microalgal species. The extracts of H. akashiwo and P. micans serve as natural surfactant-solvent systems for the preparation of Fe2O3/Ha and Fe2O3/Pm NPs respectively. We comprehensively evaluate the structural characteristics, antioxidant potential, and anticancer efficacy of the synthesized NPs. The size of NPs was reported to be 37.8 and 34.9 nm for Fe2O3/Ha and Fe2O3/Pm NPs respectively with varied forms and morphologies. Fe2O3/Ha and Fe2O3/Pm NPs showed moderate antioxidant activity. At 100  µg/mL, their ABTS radical scavenging rates were 54.5 % and 65.9 %, respectively. For DPPH activity, they reached 60.2 % and 59.1 % at 100 µg/mL. In the SOD assay, Fe2O3/Ha and Fe2O3/Pm achieved 21.5 % and 43.8 % scavenging, respectively, compared to 78.2 % for vitamin C. Furthermore, the ability of Fe2O3/Ha and Fe2O3/Pm NPs to suppress the proliferation of HCT-116 (IC50 = 51.54 ± 2.9 and 34.77 ± 2.2  μg/mL, respectively) and HepG-2 (IC50 = 73.13 ± 3.8 and 45.87 ± 2.7  μg/mL, respectively) cancer cells demonstrate their anticancer activity. Fe2O3/Ha and Fe2O3/Pm show reduced cytotoxicity toward normal WI-38 cell line. The results demonstrate the significant antioxidant and anticancer activity of prepared NPs, making them promising candidates for further research and development in biomedical and pharmacological studies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567071 is a review article
Immobilizing ultrasmall metal nanoparticles without aggregation remains challenging. By exploiting the surface chemical asymmetry of halloysite nanotubes (HNTs), we developed an in-situ confinement strategy for the immobilization of palladium nanoparticles (Pd NPs) within the nanotube lumen. In this study, closo-[B12H12]2- clusters were selectively anchored onto the inner surface of HNTs through a vacuum-assisted process, driven by electrostatic interactions and hydrogen bonding. These surface-anchored clusters subsequently orchestrate the in-situ reduction of Na2PdCl4, yielding uniformly dispersed Pd NPs confined within the HNTs cavity. This approach effectively suppresses nanoparticle aggregation during synthesis, markedly enhancing catalytic activity. The resulting catalyst with an ultralow Pd loading of only 0.02 wt% (Pd0.02%@B12H12@HNT) accomplishes the complete reduction of 4-nitrophenol (4-NP) within 75 s, with a turnover frequency (TOF) as high as 59.60 min-1. Furthermore, the catalyst demonstrates exceptional operational stability, sustaining its high catalytic performance over 15 consecutive recycling cycles. Notably, the closo-[B12H12]2- clusters serve a dual function as both an in-situ reducing agent and a stabilizing/protective species, enabling the generation of Pd NPs while preventing their aggregation. This work establishes a versatile and promising paradigm for the rational design of supported metal nanocatalysts with ultralow noble metal loading and superior catalytic efficiency.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566896 is a review article
The hyaluronic acid receptor is typically overexpressed in cancer cells, and hyaluronic acid targeting has gained attention in cancer treatment. In this work, cytotoxic potential of magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles co-conjugated with hyaluronic acid and limonene in the MDA-MB-231 cell line was characterized. Physicochemical characteristics of the nanoparticles were studied by FT-IR, XRD, TEM, SEM-EDS, DLS, zeta potential and VSM analyses. Cytotoxic effects of Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NPs in cancer and normal cells were studied by MTT assay. Flow cytometry and AO/PI staining were employed to study cell cycle phases and cell apoptosis levels in the cancer cells. ROS levels in the treated and control cells were also quantified. According to physicochemical characterization, Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NPs were correctly synthesized and exhibited spherical shape, particle diameter of 29 to 69 nm, surface charge of -52.5mV, hydrodynamic size of 245.4 nm and magnetic saturation of 60.607emu/g at 9000Oe. The 24 -hour IC50 of Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NPs in the MDA-MB-231 cell line was 227 µg/mL and Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NP displayed lower cytotoxicity in the normal cell line (24-hour IC50=483 µg/mL), which is potentially attributed to hyaluronic acid receptor targeting and induction of significant oxidative stress in cancer cells. Treatment of cancer cells with Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NPs caused cell cycle arrest mainly at the S and G2/M phases. Moreover, exposure to Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NPs elevated ROS levels in the cancer cell line by 9.27 folds. This study demonstrates the promising cytotoxic potential of Fe3O4@Glu-HA-LIM NPs in the MDA-MB-231 cell line, which can be considered for chemotherapy of triple-negative breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
For centuries, natural extracts such as Aloe vera have been used in wound care due to their soothing, anti-inflammatory, and healing properties. However, their clinical efficacy can be limited by instability, low bioavailability, and restricted antimicrobial potency. Nanotechnology offers promising strategies to enhance and complement the therapeutic benefits of herbal extracts. In this study, we investigated the wound-healing potential of Aloe vera gel combined with ZnO/SWCNT/Ag (zinc oxide-single-walled carbon nanotubes-silver nanoparticles) nanocomposite. Forty full-thickness excisional wounds (15 mm) were created on the dorsum of 20 Sprague Dawley rats and divided into four treatment groups: ZnO/SWCNT/Ag alone (1 mg/mL), Aloe vera gel (30 mg/mL), the combination of Aloe vera gel with the NPs, and control (saline 0.9%). Wound areas were tracked at days 0, 3, 10, 15, and 21 using calibrated imaging, and skin samples were harvested for histopathological analysis. The ZnO/SWCNT/Ag nanocomposite alone accelerated wound closure compared to Aloe vera and saline control, while combining Aloe vera with the nanocomposite improved wound healing compared to Aloe vera alone at day 10 (p < 0.05). Although wound closure was similar across all groups by day 21, nanoparticle-treated wounds showed less variability and more uniform healing. Scar area analysis revealed significant reductions for ZnO/SWCNT/Ag based treatment and the combination compared to Aloe vera (p < 0.05), whereas differences versus saline control were not statistically significant. Additionally, the formulations demonstrated strong antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli and enhanced antioxidant properties. These findings suggest that ZnO/SWCNT/Ag nanoparticles may serve as a supportive platform to enhance the wound-healing behaviour of Aloe vera.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565648 is a review article
The combined effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and nanoplastics (NPs) on rice oxidative stress remain unclear, particularly regarding the synergistic or antagonistic nature of their interaction in different organs. This study investigated the interactive effects of AMF (Funneliformis mosseae) inoculation and polystyrene nanoplastic (PS-NP, 0.5 g kg-1 soil) exposure on oxidative stress, antioxidant systems, and gene expression in rice (Oryza sativa L.) roots and leaves.NP treatment alone increased leaf photosynthetic pigments but caused malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulation. AMF alone did not significantly alter leaf MDA levels; however, under combined NP + AMF treatment, leaf MDA increased by 153.8%, indicating synergistic damage. In roots, AMF exerted a clear protective effect, increasing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity by 137% and phenolic content by 39.1%, while partially reducing NP-induced proline accumulation. Gene expression analysis revealed that AMF upregulated OsCAX family genes and antioxidant genes (OsPOD, OsAPX) in roots whereas, in leaves, antioxidant genes (OsFe-SOD, OsCAT, OsPOD) were predominantly suppressed. Correlation analysis confirmed a strong negative link between suppression of leaf antioxidant genes and elevated lipid peroxidation.This study demonstrates that AMF and NPs produce opposite effects in rice roots and leaves: antagonistic protection in roots versus synergistic damage in leaves. These findings provide theoretical support for managing microplastic pollution in agriculture and for the targeted application of AMF. © 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.
Candida parapsilosis sensu stricto has emerged as a major cause of healthcare-associated candidemia, with increasing reports of fluconazole resistance worldwide. This resistance is most commonly associated with amino acid substitutions in Erg11p, particularly Y132F; however, regional variation in resistance mechanisms and clonal dissemination remains not fully understood. This study investigated the molecular epidemiology and genomic landscape of fluconazole-resistant C. parapsilosis in Paraná, Southern Brazil, over a 10-year period. A total of 54 resistant isolates identified between 2014 and 2024 were retrospectively analyzed; 51 viable isolates were confirmed by species identification, antifungal susceptibility testing, and microsatellite genotyping. A subset of 18 representative isolates underwent whole-genome sequencing for phylogenomic analysis. Variants in genes associated with azole resistance, including ERG11, MRR1, TAC1, CDR1, MDR1, ERG3, and ERG6, were characterized. Fluconazole resistance emerged in 2018 and increased thereafter. Phylogenomic analysis revealed two geographically structured lineages: a dominant clone circulating across multiple healthcare institutions in the Curitiba metropolitan area and a second lineage restricted to the northern region of the state. The dominant clone showed minimal genomic diversity (0-5 SNPs), consistent with long-term persistence. A conserved resistance profile was observed, with 17 of 18 sequenced isolates harboring the K143R substitution in Erg11p, while all retained the wild-type residue at position 132. The single isolate lacking ERG11 mutations carried a novel C849Y substitution in the Mrr1p regulator. These findings demonstrate the emergence and persistence of a highly clonal fluconazole-resistant C. parapsilosis lineage in Southern Brazil, characterized by a conserved K143R substitution independent of Y132F. The detection of closely related isolates across different hospitals underscores the need for regional genomic surveillance of hospital-adapted fungal pathogens.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to persistent motor deficits, and effective strategies to enhance neural repair remain limited. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been reported to promote neuroplasticity, but its effects on corticospinal remodeling after SCI are not fully understood. In this study, adult female rats were assigned to Sham, SCI, or rTMS groups. High-frequency rTMS was applied daily for 28 days starting 1 day after injury. Motor function was assessed using Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan scoring and gait analysis. Corticospinal conduction was evaluated by motor evoked potentials (MEPs). Histological changes, plasticity-related proteins, and MEK/ERK signaling were examined in the spinal cord and primary motor cortex (M1). Corticospinal tract (CST) remodeling was evaluated using anterograde tracing. rTMS significantly improved locomotor recovery and gait coordination, enhanced MEP responses, and reduced tissue damage compared with SCI controls. These functional improvements were accompanied by increased CST projections distal to the lesion. rTMS also increased phosphorylation of MEK and ERK, together with partial restoration of GAP-43, SYN1, and PSD-95 expression in both spinal cord and M1. These findings indicate that high-frequency rTMS facilitates functional recovery after SCI, which is accompanied by enhanced corticospinal remodeling and plasticity-related signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the urgent need for effective and selective therapeutic agents. In this study, novel phenylalanine and tryptophan-derived hydrazone hybrids (9a-h and 10a-h) against lung cancer were designed, synthesized and characterized via analytic and spectral methods (FT-IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR APT, and LC-MS/HR-MS). Cytotoxic activities of synthesized compounds were evaluated against human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (A549 and PC9) cells and human healthy lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Among the hydrazone hybrids, phenylalanine derivative compound 9d exhibited the most potent and selective cytotoxic effect against NSCLC cells, with IC50 values of 15.60 μM for A549 and 22.49 μM for PC9, and high selectivity indices (SI = 76.92 and 53.36, respectively). Mechanistic studies revealed that these compounds induce apoptosis in A549 cells, with a concomitant decrease in VEGF-A levels and downregulation of VEGFR-1 and 2 expression; this indicates a direct modulation of the tumor-autonomous VEGF signaling axis. Additionally, the compounds significantly activated caspase-3/7, 8, and 9 enzymes, confirming the triggering of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. Furthermore, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) depolarization were distinctly induced by compounds 10d and 10g, suggesting an additional mitochondrial stress-mediated mechanism of action within this series. Molecular docking simulations were performed to evaluate binding affinity within the VEGFR-2 active site. In vitro and in silico results identified compound 9d as a promising lead structure for further optimization of selective lung cancer therapeutics. Future studies were targeted at further optimizing drug-like properties and exploring downstream signaling kinetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model organism with a long history of use in biomedical research, including investigating diseases with an immune component. However, prior to this effort, there has been a lack of sufficiently validated tools to quantify inflammatory markers in the common marmoset using a multiplex approach. We provide a cross-species reactivity validation of a human-specific multiplex analysis strategy that allows for the assessment of 20 distinct inflammatory analytes in a small volume of plasma isolated from common marmoset blood. We used this novel approach to perform an assessment of the impact of sex as a biological variable on a subset of these inflammatory analytes. We found that endogenous plasma levels of the following analytes are not significantly different between female and male marmosets: CRP, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-13, IL-8, MIP-1β, IFN-g, IL-4, VEGF-A, FLT-1, and bFGF. These findings demonstrate the utility of our validated method for quantifying marmoset inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
People with Acute Pancreatitis (AP) who also have Metabolic Dysfunctionassociated Fatty Liver Disease (MAFLD) are more likely to experience worse consequences. However, the mechanisms that link MAFLD and AP are not fully understood. Our study identified shared biomarkers utilizing bioinformatics and machine learning techniques.We selected datasets for AP and MAFLD from the GEO database. Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs) were identified from the AP dataset. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was conducted on the MAFLD dataset to identify the module highly correlated with the disease. Subsequently, we obtained shared genes by taking the intersection of the DEGs and the module genes. The shared genes were analyzed for GO and KEGG enrichment. A Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network and machine learning techniques were used to identify diagnostic genes, which were evaluated for diagnostic efficacy using ROC curves.The AP dataset yielded 454 upregulated and 380 downregulated DEGs. WGCNA identified 715 module genes in MAFLD, producing 42 shared genes. Enrichment analyses implicated inflammatory responses, calcium signaling, and lipopolysaccharide-related immune pathways. FPR1 and S100A9 emerged as the final diagnostic candidates, with AUC values exceeding 0.7 across all datasets.FPR1 and S100A9 are involved in immune activation, inflammatory signaling, and oxidative stress, suggesting roles in the pathogenesis of both AP and MAFLD. MAFLD may indirectly worsen AP severity through inflammatory and lipid pathways.FPR1 and S100A9 are promising common biomarkers for AP and MAFLD, and may provide important insights into common mechanisms and therapeutic opportunities.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Understanding how adverse life events trigger stress-related behavioural changes remains an unresolved challenge. The amygdala is integral to emotion and stress responses1 and comprises astrocytes, neurons and other cells. Here we show that amygdala astrocytes contribute to stress-related behaviours through signalling mechanisms related to their primary cilia2. Amygdala astrocytes are altered during stress at the protein and gene expression level, display reduced expression of molecules related to primary cilia3,4 and have morphologically short primary cilia5,6. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are central to astrocyte7 and primary cilia2,8,9 function. Therefore, we speculated that GPCR signalling activation might be beneficial in stress-related behavioural disorders. We identified amygdala astrocyte GPCRs as regulators of responses following stress. Chemogenetics and targeting of native sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1) GPCRs led to the restoration of astrocyte primary cilia length, corrected molecular alterations and improved stress-related behaviours. Cilium-related genes were abundantly expressed in human amygdala astrocytes, with many displaying disrupted expression in stress-related brain disorders. S1PR1 was also highly expressed in amygdala astrocytes from human tissue. Selective genetic disruption of amygdala astrocyte primary cilia in mice altered some stress-related behaviours and gene expression of astrocytes and parenchymal cells. These data confirm that astrocytic cilia have important roles in this brain nucleus. In summary, amygdala astrocytes and their primary cilia are disrupted during stress, and their restoration is accompanied by stress-related molecular and behavioural improvements. Astrocyte primary cilia-related mechanisms may therefore provide new treatment strategies for stress-related and other brain disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Enterovirus A71 (EV-A71), a member of the genus Enterovirus within the family Picornaviridae, induces neuroinflammation; however, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study demonstrates that the C5a-C5aR1 axis plays a pivotal role in EV-A71-induced blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption and neuroinflammation, primarily by regulating neutrophil migration. Using human brain specimens and a mouse model, we observed pronounced inflammatory cell infiltration in the brainstem and BBB disruption following EV-A71 infection. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed robust activation of the C5a-C5aR1 axis in fatal EV-A71 cases. Notably, C5aR1 knockout (KO) mice displayed reduced Evans blue extravasation and preserved tight junction protein expression after infection. Immunopathological examination of fatal human cases further confirmed perivascular neutrophil (CD177⁺) infiltration in the brainstem. Importantly, C5aR1 deficiency significantly attenuated neutrophil accumulation and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) release. Given that peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is a key enzyme driving NET formation, we generated neutrophil-specific PAD4 knockout mice (PAD4 Ne-KO) by crossing S100A8-Cre and PAD4fl/fl lines. As anticipated, neutrophil-specific PAD4 deletion or pharmacological NET blockade substantially ameliorated BBB injury and neuroinflammation following EV-A71 infection. Overall, our findings underscore a critical role for the C5a-C5aR1-neutrophil/NETs pathway in EV-A71 encephalitis pathogenesis and support its targeting as a therapeutic strategy for critically ill patients.Copyright: © 2026 Zhu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Complement releases glutamate from the spinal cord glutamatergic synaptosomes through mechanisms involving amino-acid transporters (EAATs) and G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), as suggested by the efficiency of the EAAT blocker dl-t-BOA and of entrapped Pertussis toxin (PTx) to half its releasing activity. The GPCR-mediated component involves C5aR1s since the C5aR1 non-competitive negative allosteric modulator DF2593A and the orthosteric antagonist W54011 concentration-dependently prevent the complement-evoked release of preloaded [3H]D-aspartate. Antagonism, however, emerged only after the prolonged exposure of synaptosomes to these ligands, suggesting a multiple-phase model of receptor antagonism. Consistent with the involvement of this receptor, spinal cord synaptosomal lysates showed C5aR1 immunostaining corresponding to a dimeric assembly of the protein. We next examined mice suffering from the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), at the acute stage of the disease (21 ± 1 days post immunization). Spinal cord homogenates from these mice show decreased MOG immunopositivity, suggestive of diffuse demyelination, but increased GFAP, vimentin, CD11b and CD45 staining, predictive of ongoing astrocytosis, microgliosis and infiltration of lymphocytes. These signs were paralleled by the overaccumulation of C1q, C3 and C5 components and increased C5aR1 staining, but conserved GLT1 one, in synaptosomal lysates. Lastly, the complement-evoked [3H]D-Aspartate overflow from spinal cord synaptosomes was amplified when compared to controls, but still significantly reduced by DF2593A. These findings prove the existence of presynaptic release-regulating DF2593A-sensitive C5aR1s in spinal cord glutamatergic terminals, opening the road to therapeutic application of C5aR1 modulators to control symptoms associated with altered synaptic transmission during multiple sclerosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rare and undiagnosed genetic disorders affect millions of patients globally, and many patients endure years of inconclusive testing. Conventional genomic interpretation can be insufficiently sensitive and costly and is rarely repeated as knowledge evolves.We conducted a retrospective multicohort reanalysis using a large language model (LLM)-assisted workflow that ingests clinician notes, Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) terms, and a filtered variant table to propose explanation-rich candidate hypotheses for expert adjudication under American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics and Association for Molecular Pathology criteria. A diagnosis was defined a priori as a variant classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic, confirmed in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments-certified laboratory, and returned to families. Secondary outputs included "rediscoveries" of externally established diagnoses not yet available locally and hypothesis generation signals.Across four cohorts, new local diagnoses were made in 10 of 100 rare disease neurodevelopmental cases (10.0%, [exact binomial: 95% confidence interval (CI), 4.9 to 17.6]), 4 of 61 neuromuscular cases (6.6%, [CI, 1.8 to 16.0]), 2 of 200 cases of sudden unexpected death in pediatrics (1.0% [CI, 0.1 to 3.6]), and 2 of 15 early psychosis cases (13.3% [CI, 1.7 to 40.5]) for an overall diagnostic yield of 18 of 376 (4.8%, [CI, 2.9 to 7.5]). We identified seven rediscoveries in which pathogenic or likely pathogenic findings had been established externally but were not available in the local research record at the time of review. In one case, the model's synthesis of genotype-quality patterns and phenotype concordance triaged a putative 22q11.2 deletion that was subsequently confirmed by whole-genome sequencing. The workflow also generated testable biological hypotheses, including a candidate association between the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 gene (S1PR1) and vitiligo.In retrospective reanalysis, an explanation-first LLM applied to routine HPO terms and variant tables produced clinically relevant gains in diagnostic yield, surfaced overlooked pathogenic findings, and generated biologically grounded hypotheses. These results motivate prospective multicenter evaluation with predefined end points, calibration reporting, and comparator baselines. (Funded by the U.S. National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and others.).
The diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) currently relies on subjective clinical assessments, highlighting a critical need for objective biological markers. The sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) signaling pathway, a pivotal regulator of neuro-immune interactions, has emerged as a potential contributor to MDD pathophysiology, yet its role remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate plasma levels of S1P and its key receptors, S1PR1 and S1PR3, as potential diagnostic and predictive biomarkers for MDD, with a specific focus on sex differences and treatment effects.Patients with MDD (n = 56) underwent an 8-week treatment protocol were enrolled, alongside 42 healthy controls (HCs). Depression severity was evaluated using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-24) and Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) at baseline and 8-week visit. The plasma levels of S1P, S1PR1 and S1PR3 were measured at baseline and week 8.At baseline, plasma concentrations of S1P, S1PR1, and S1PR3 were significantly elevated in patients with MDD compared to HCs. All three markers significantly decreased and trended toward normal levels after 8 weeks of antidepressant treatment. Notably, a significant sex-specific difference was observed for the receptors, baseline elevations of S1PR1 and S1PR3 were more obvious in female patients than in male patients. Furthermore, baseline S1P levels significantly predicted symptom improvement-as measured by changes in both HAMD-24 and PHQ-9 scores-whereas baseline S1PR levels alone did not. In addition, a combined panel of S1P, S1PR1, and S1PR3 yielded high diagnostic accuracy, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.9575.Our data demonstrate a significant, sex-dependent dysregulation of the peripheral S1P signaling pathway in MDD, which is responsive to antidepressant treatment. The ability of baseline S1P to predict clinical outcomes and the encouraging diagnostic precision of the S1P-S1PR1-S1PR3 panel strongly support their potential as clinically applicable biomarkers. These results imply that the S1P pathway plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression, offering new possibilities for diagnosis and personalized treatment strategies in psychiatry.© 2026. The Author(s).
Insomnia is a common clinical sleep disorder, for which current medications only relieve symptoms symptomatically and highly specific therapeutic targets are limited. This study integrates multi-omics analysis and machine learning to screen and identify novel, safe, and efficient potential therapeutic targets for insomnia, thereby providing new insights for its targeted drug development and precision diagnosis and treatment.We intersected a druggable gene set with blood, brain, and plasma Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) data, using insomnia and its comorbidities as Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) outcomes. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was used to assess causality, followed by sensitivity testing. The Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE208668 was used for differential expression analysis and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA). Cross-validation and machine learning (LASSO regression and random forests) were employed to screen key hub genes and evaluate their diagnostic efficacy. Summary-data-based Mendelian Randomization (SMR), colocalization, and immune infiltration analyses were performed, and potential drugs were predicted via databases and molecular docking simulations.Through multi-omics analyses including Mendelian randomization, transcriptome profiling and WGCNA, we identified 10 candidate genes, which were further refined by machine learning to five key hub genes: HLA-G, S1PR1, LGALS3, VIM, and PIK3CG. These genes were upregulated in insomnia patients and had high diagnostic AUC values. They showed extensive genetic associations with the risk of comorbidities such as depression, anxiety, hypertension, and diabetes. SMR and colocalization analyses provided convergent suggestive causal evidence for HLA-G, while the remaining four genes were supported as candidate targets rather than causal drivers. Immune infiltration analysis showed that key genes were associated with altered immune cell subsets. Drug prediction screened potential intervention compounds like decitabine and tamibarotene.These findings provide robust evidence for novel druggable targets in insomnia, which exert regulatory effects via immune-inflammatory pathways and link insomnia to comorbidity risks. Their diagnostic potential and functional implications further underscore their translational value for clinical application and drug development, but all conclusions remain preliminary due to lack of independent validation.This study identified five core genes, among which HLA-G shows suggestive causal links to insomnia, while the others are supported as promising candidate targets. They show promising diagnostic and drug development value, providing insights into insomnia pathogenesis and a theoretical basis for novel biomarkers and targeted therapies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE) is a life-threatening neuroinflammatory complication of sepsis for which effective treatment remains unavailable. A major challenge is that most therapeutics cannot efficiently cross the blood-brain barrier or simultaneously address the coupled pathological processes driving disease progression, namely microglial pyroptosis and impaired neurotrophic support. Here, we report an ultrasound-gated nanobubble platform designed for SAE that enables sequential pyroptosis blockade and mechanotransduction-mediated neurorepair. The platform consists of sphingosine-1-phosphate-functionalized, disulfiram-loaded nanobubbles (S1P@DSF-NBs), which actively accumulate in inflamed cerebral vasculature via the S1P-S1PR1 axis and serve as a localized reservoir for ultrasound-programmed intervention. Under a dual-ultrasound regimen, low-intensity pulsed ultrasound first induces stable nanobubble oscillation, mechanically activating Piezo1-dependent CREB-BDNF signaling in microglia to restore neurotrophic support. Subsequent high-intensity pulsed ultrasound triggers nanobubble destabilization and localized disulfiram release, leading to gasdermin D inhibition, suppression of pyroptosis, and attenuation of inflammatory amplification. In a murine SAE model, ultrasound-programmed S1P@DSF-NBs reduced systemic and hippocampal inflammation, decreased neuronal loss by 40 %, and improved cognitive performance by 2.24-fold, while reprogramming microglia toward a neuroprotective phenotype and disrupting the pyroptotic inflammatory cascade. These findings demonstrate that ultrasound-programmed nanobubble therapy can concurrently interrupt inflammatory injury and restore neuroprotective signaling in SAE. This work establishes an actively targeted, ultrasound-responsive biomaterials strategy for ultrasound-programmed intervention in SAE and offers a versatile framework for the treatment of other neuroinflammatory disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolism is critical for immune cell functions. Tumours shape their microenvironment to render it metabolically hostile for infiltrating immune cells. While targeting immunometabolism emerges as a promising way to reinvigorate anticancer immunity, a deeper understanding of the metabolic disturbances of immune cells is needed. Here, we explored how the metabolic status of T cells governs immune skewing from circulating and tumour-infiltrating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells of melanoma patients at a single-cell level using the SCENITH method and targeted metabolomics. Circulating and tumour-infiltrating T cells from patients displayed a decreased mitochondrial dependency associated with an enhanced glycolytic capacity and a skewed metabolic reprogramming upon stimulation. Such metabolic disturbances were linked to the activation status, immune checkpoint profile and functional orientation of T cells, underlining critical connections between T-cell features and metabolic patterns. Targeted metabolomics within sorted CD4+/CD8+ T cells identified a decrease in citrulline, cysteine and threonine within all subsets in patients, together with a sharp rise in sterol cholesterol CE(20:2) and ceramide dhCer(d18:0/22:0) within tumour-infiltrating CD4+ T cells, and in glycerolipid DG(16:0/16:0) within CD8+ T cells in blood and tumour. We further outlined a metabolic-checkpoint-based signature composed of six genes coding enzymes/transporters connected to the imbalanced metabolites found within tumour-infiltrating T cells (LIPA, DGKA, GLUL, SLC38A1, SLC7A7, GCH1) that shape patients' clinical outcome. These findings outline the skewed bioenergetic profiles of T cells and depict metabolic checkpoints associated with immune subversion. Harnessing metabolic pathways is promising for developing innovative therapies to restore optimal anti-tumour responses and improve clinical success.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548795 is a review article
Human papillomavirus (HPV)-negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is known for high levels of disease recurrence and resistance to conventional fractionated radiation therapy. In an analysis of primary patient HPV-negative HNSCC biopsies from our institutional tumor bank, we observed circulating and tumor-resident monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs) were enriched in patient samples from recurrent HPV-negative HNSCCs relative to treatment-naïve samples. To determine if radiation exposure alters myeloid chemotaxis to the tumor site, we measured myeloid chemotactic factor transcript expression in eight cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) and EpCAM-expressing patient-derived malignant cell lines. In malignant cell lines, radiation exposure increased transcriptional expression of CCL5 and C-X-C ligand receptor 2 (CXCR2) ligands CXCL2 and CXCL8 (IL-8). Based on this finding, we evaluated whether an antagonist of CXCR2 (SB225002) in combination with radiation blocked murine MDSC chemotaxis in vivo and in vitro. Antagonism of CXCR2 signaling with SB225002, in combination with radiation, suppressed tumor growth, improved survival, and reduced intra-tumoral macrophages in a murine MOC1 model. Additionally, radiation-induced MDSC chemotaxis was inhibited by SB225002 in a transwell assay. Together, these data suggest CXCR2 inhibition in combination with radiation has therapeutic potential for treatment of HPV-negative HNSCC.
The SARS-CoV-2 virus significantly evolved with several new strains identified. Transmissibility has increased with each strain, corresponding with a decrease in mortality. We previously demonstrated novel dysfunctional neutrophil responses in alpha COVID-19 patients compared to community acquired pneumonia controls. We investigated if strain variation altered our previously observed neutrophil dysfunction. Patients with COVID-19 not requiring intensive care were recruited between January 2021 and May 2022 from the Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham; 41 patients with alpha, 32 delta and 14 omicron. Neutrophils isolated from whole blood were investigated for phagocytosis of labelled Streptococcus pneumoniae, transwell migration towards interleukin-8, neutrophil extracellular (NET) formation and surface phenotype. Neutrophil phagocytosis was significantly increased in delta variant (vs alpha p=0.0012, vs omicron p=0.0209). Transwell migration was also significantly reduced in omicron patients (vs alpha p=0.0002, vs delta p=0.0129). There was a significant reduction in NET formation from omicron patients (vs alpha p=0.0031, vs delta p=0.0231). Compared to alpha patients, neutrophils from omicron patients had reduced expression of CD10 (p=0.0004), CD54 (p=0.0015), CD62L (p=0.0013) and CD11c (p<0.0001). CXCR2 expression was higher in neutrophils from omicron compared to alpha patients (p=0.0001). Neutrophil function and phenotype differ between the variants of COVID-19 infection in hospitalised patients. Neutrophil changes suggest more accurate migration in omicron patients, leading to decreased neutrophil host-mediated tissue damage. This may contribute to the overall milder clinical omicron phenotype. Ongoing research and review of therapies remains important alongside viral evolution.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Cholesterol is a key membrane component that regulates G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) function, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we combine chemical extraction of membrane sterols with functional signaling assays and single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (smFRET) to define how cholesterol controls activation of chemokine receptors. Reduction of membrane cholesterol in mammalian cells selectively decreased constitutive and agonist-induced signaling across CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR4, while it activated ACKR3, and did not affect CXCR3, revealing receptor-specific dependence on membrane sterols. Mechanistically, cholesterol regulation partly required the conserved class A GPCR residue Trp 4.50 and shifted agonist-bound CXCR4 toward active conformational states, providing a molecular explanation for its functional effects. In contrast, replenishment with oxidized cholesterol species failed to restore receptor activity, distinguishing cholesterol from oxysterols as modulators of receptor activation. Our findings identify cholesterol as an allosteric regulator of chemokine receptors and suggest that oxysterols may reshape inflammatory signaling by selectively modulating GPCR activity.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42538204
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is associated with cigarette smoking, yet the relationship between the tobacco-specific nitrosamine nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone (NNK) and IPF-associated lung transcriptional remodeling remains incompletely understood. Here, we developed an exposure-informed computational framework integrating multi-database target prediction, lung single-cell and single-nucleus transcriptomic analysis, co-expression network analysis, bulk lung cohort projection, and exploratory structure-based modeling. Putative human protein targets of NNK were predicted from ChEMBL, PharmMapper, and SwissTargetPrediction, yielding 2,505 nonredundant targets. These targets were intersected with IPF-associated intramodular hub genes identified from cell type-specific weighted gene co-expression network analysis, defining a focused 42-gene ExposureA-core gene set. Projected ExposureA-core scores showed the clearest IPF-control differences in endothelial and epithelial pseudo-bulk profiles. Functional annotation of the training-derived epithelial ExposureA-core Top30 signature highlighted MAPK and p38 MAPK signaling, PI3K-AKT signaling, angiogenesis or vasculature regulation, cell-substrate adhesion, and membrane-, adhesion-, and cytoskeleton-related cellular components, suggesting remodeling- and adhesion-related epithelial transcriptional features in IPF. The fixed epithelial ExposureA-core Top30 signature remained detectable in independent bulk lung transcriptomic cohorts without gene re-selection, coefficient fitting, or score optimization, with exploratory ROC analyses showing apparent IPF-control separation in GSE110147 and GSE92592. Exploratory docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations of selected epithelial Top30-encoded candidates showed that modeled ECE1-NNK, MMP7-NNK, and TGM2-NNK complexes reached dynamic equilibrium, with relatively stable RMSD, radius of gyration, solvent-accessible surface area, residue-level fluctuation, and low-energy conformational states, supporting their structural plausibility as candidate modeled complexes. Overall, this study defines a focused exposure-informed IPF-associated transcriptional framework and prioritizes epithelial remodeling-related candidate features for future experimental validation. These findings support hypothesis-generating computational prioritization rather than direct evidence that NNK drives IPF pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type 2 inflammation (T2I) drives chronic airway diseases such as eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis (eCRS) and asthma, which are frequently accompanied by coagulation activation and platelet recruitment. However, whether and how these associated processes actively contribute to shaping inflammation remain largely unknown. Here, using single-cell transcriptomic profiling of human nasal polyp samples from eCRS patients with or without comorbid asthma, we identified a TGM2hi macrophage population enriched in inflamed tissues and strongly correlated with local eosinophilia and systemic disease burden. Using dust mite-induced type 2 airway inflammation models in mice, we showed that the loss of Tgm2, either globally or in macrophages, selectively impaired alternative macrophage activation and attenuated both eosinophilic inflammation and epithelial remodeling. Mechanistically, TGM2 catalyzes the recently described histone modification H3Q5 serotonylation (H3Q5Ser), promoting an epigenetically permissive chromatin state for alternative macrophage activation. We further revealed a transcellular circuit driven by the activated platelet-derived monoamine metabolite serotonin (5-HT), which acts as a critical paracrine signal to fuel this epigenetic reprogramming of macrophages. Crucially, pharmacological inhibition of platelet 5-HT release or TGM2 activity ameliorated both nasal and pulmonary pathology in a mouse model of type 2 inflammation, underscoring the therapeutic potential of this pathway. Our findings establish a serotonin-TGM2-H3Q5Ser axis that couples platelet activation to macrophage epigenetic programming. This transcellular mechanism drives type 2 inflammation and reveals novel therapeutic opportunities across airway diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigates the molecular mechanisms of renal clear cell carcinoma (RCC) induced by Aristolochic acid A (AAA) using machine learning, deep learning, and molecular docking approaches.To identify AAA target genes associated with RCC, differential expression analysis was performed on multiple datasets. Network toxicology, machine learning, deep learning, and molecular docking were used to explore the binding interactions between AAA and target proteins. The top candidate gene was validated using molecular dynamics simulation and in vitro Western blot assays.A total of 74 genes were identified as potential targets in AAA-induced RCC. Subsequent machine learning analysis identified seven core genes as key regulators of RCC. Deep learning classification further highlighted five of these seven genes, including PYGL, ADH1B, PTGS1, EDNRA, and AURKA. Additionally, molecular docking simulations revealed strong binding affinities between AAA and these target proteins. Molecular dynamics simulation demonstrated the binding stability of the AAA-PYGL complex, and in vitro studies highlighted PYGL as a potential target of AAA. Elevated expression of PYGL was observed in both 786-O and AAA-induced HK-2 cells. Moreover, treatment with CP-91149 (a PYGL inhibitor) or PYGL knockdown restored the expression of E-cadherin, an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker, in HK-2 cells.By combining advanced computational methods with in vitro studies, this work elucidates a key toxicity mechanism of AAA in RCC. Our approach provides a feasible and efficient framework for toxicological studies, offering significant value for toxicologists with limited access to clinical specimens.Copyright © 2026 Li, Liao, Chen, Lin, Gong, Huang, Bi, Wang, Chia, Chen, Xu, Liu, Hao and Qi.
Ambient particulate matter (PM2.5) exposure is a major environmental risk factor for cardiopulmonary disease, but its effects on erythroid homeostasis remain incompletely understood. Although prior in vitro work indicates that PM2.5 can damage circulating red blood cells (RBCs), whether exposure alters erythropoiesis and the coordinated clearance of senescent RBCs has not been fully explored. Using a mouse model of whole-body exposure to concentrated ambient PM2.5 (CAP), we investigated associations between inhaled PM on erythroid output, splenic macrophage function, and lipid mediator signaling. CAP exposure was associated with suppressed erythropoietin levels, reduced circulating reticulocytes, and decreased erythroid precursor populations in the bone marrow, consistent with impaired erythropoiesis. Despite preserved splenic architecture, CAP-exposed mice exhibited reduced splenic iron and heme content, consistent with diminished erythrocyte turnover and processing. Targeted lipidomic profiling revealed broad suppression of proresolving lipid mediators in the spleen, with lipoxin A4 (LXA4) among the most consistently reduced species. Expression of the LXA4 receptor, ALX/FPR2, was also downregulated with prolonged exposure. Importantly, removal of CAP and return to filtered air resulted in normalization of splenic lipid mediator profiles, restoration of LXA4 levels, and recovery of erythroid parameters, including reticulocyte abundance and RBC stress markers. Together, these findings suggest that altered resolution signaling contributes to PM2.5-induced disruption of erythroid homeostasis and implicate macrophage-lipid mediator pathways in the hematologic response to environmental stress.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534550 is a review article
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) remains a severe inflammatory lung disorder with limited disease-modifying therapies. Lipoxin A4 (LXA4) is an endogenous specialized pro-resolving mediator that can modulate macrophage responses; however, its role in bacterial ARDS-like injury and the underlying ALX/FPR2-associated mechanism remain incompletely defined. To determine whether post-injury LXA4 attenuates Escherichia coli (E. coli)-induced ARDS-like lung injury in mice and whether these effects are associated with ALX/FPR2-dependent macrophage reprogramming.Male C57BL/6J mice were randomized to PBS, ARDS, LXA4, or LXA4 + WRW4 groups (n=6 per group per time point). Mice were challenged intratracheally with E. coli (2 × 10^6 CFU in 50 μL) and treated 4 h later with intravenous LXA4 (7 μg /kg), with or without intraperitoneal WRW4 (1.8 mg/kg) administered at the time of LXA4 dosing. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), plasma, and lung tissue samples were collected at 24 h and 72 h for histology, injury scoring, BALF protein, bacterial burden, cytokine and lipid mediator ELISA, ROS, and HO-1 analyses. In vitro, MH-S alveolar macrophages were stimulated with LPS (1 μg/mL) and treated with LXA4 (200 nM), with or without WRW4 (10 μM), to assess cytokine secretion, STAT1/STAT3 expression, iNOS/CD206 markers, and cell-associated GFP-E. coli uptake.LXA4 reduced macroscopic and histological lung injury, the lung wet weight-to-body weight ratio, BALF IL-6, IL-1β and TNF-α levels, BALF protein leakage, and BALF bacterial burden after E. coli challenge. LXA4 also increased circulating LXA4 while decreasing LTB4, LTC4, and PGE2, reduced lung ROS, and enhanced HO-1 expression. In MH-S cells, LXA4 decreased pro-inflammatory cytokine release, increased IL-10, promoted an M2-like marker profile, and enhanced cell-associated GFP-E. coli uptake. WRW4 attenuated these effects, supporting pharmacological involvement of ALX/FPR2 signaling.LXA4 alleviates bacterial ARDS-like lung injury in mice and promotes pro-resolving macrophage features, with effects attenuated by ALX/FPR2 antagonism. These findings support LXA4/ALX-FPR2 signaling as a preclinical pro-resolving strategy that warrants validation in cell-specific and clinically representative ARDS models.© 2026 Zhang et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42517695 is a review article
This study presents an in-depth analysis of an interactome comprising approximately 1033 nodes, focusing on its topology, reliability, and functional implications, with particular attention to the small mitochondrial proteins of the Humanin family and their nuclear-encoded MTRNR2Lx paralogs. The analysis, conducted through stringent high-reliability filters and experimentally supported interaction data, produced a curated network model in which approximately 70% of the retained interactions were supported by experimental evidence, providing a solid basis for network-based functional interpretation. The topology of the interactome showed scale-free and modular network characteristics, with hub and bottleneck nodes defining highly connected stress-response and regulatory modules. Humanin-related proteins, positioned at the periphery of the interactome, emerged as candidate modulatory nodes linking peripheral signaling interfaces to broader functional modules. Mitochondrial Humanin may contribute to early cytoprotective responses, including pathways associated with BAX-dependent apoptosis regulation, whereas nuclear MTRNR2Lx proteins appear to be connected to more sustained regulatory networks involving neuroprotection- and apoptosis-associated modules under chronic stress conditions. In particular, the MTRNR2Lx-FPR2/G-protein module, including GNB1, emerged as a candidate signaling interface that may contribute to the downstream organization of Humanin-related responses. This network-based distinction supports the view that Humanin-family peptides may operate as modulators of stress-response networks rather than as isolated effectors of intrinsic mitochondrial functions. Overall, the methodological approach, results, and proposed model provide new insights into the systems-level organization of Humanin biology and identify prioritized molecular candidates for future in vitro and in vivo validation in the context of neurodegeneration, apoptosis, and cellular stress.
Sustained Hippo/Yes-associated protein (YAP) activation drives triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but druggable upstream regulators remain unclear. We investigated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) as membrane inputs for YAP activation. TCGA-based Hippo/YAP signature analysis, marketed-drug GPCR annotation, and siRNA screening using connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) identified endothelin receptor type A (EDNRA). EDNRA function was tested by knockdown, overexpression, endothelin-1 (ET-1) stimulation, and atrasentan blockade in TNBC cells and xenografts. YAP regulation was examined by immunoblotting, RT-qPCR, TEAD reporter assays, subcellular localization, docking, co-immunoprecipitation, mutagenesis, ChIP-qPCR, and CRISPRi. EDNRA correlated with Hippo/YAP signatures, adverse clinical features, and poor outcome. EDNRA depletion or atrasentan suppressed proliferation, migration, stem-like populations, and xenograft growth, whereas EDNRA overexpression or ET-1 had opposite effects. Mechanistically, EDNRA reduced YAP Ser127 phosphorylation, promoted nuclear YAP accumulation, and enhanced TEAD transcription through Gαq/11-Rho/ROCK-LATS signaling. Mutating predicted EDNRA-Gαq/11 interface residues impaired YAP activation and tumor-promoting activity. Reciprocally, YAP/TEAD4 enhanced EDNRA transcription through an enhancer-associated region. Atrasentan also sensitized TNBC cells to paclitaxel and produced positive zero interaction potency (ZIP) synergy scores. EDNRA establishes a druggable positive feedback loop with Hippo/YAP signaling and represents a potential therapeutic vulnerability in YAP-driven TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
FGFR2b is an emerging therapeutic target in HER2-negative advanced gastric cancer (AGC). However, diagnostic concordance between FGFR2b immunohistochemistry (IHC) and genomic assays has been inconsistent due to tumor heterogeneity. The clinical relevance of FGFR2 fusion also remains unclear given its low prevalence. This study assessed the diagnostic concordance and clinical significance of FGFR2b overexpression and FGFR2 genomic alterations using whole-slide surgical specimens. A total of 113 AGC gastrectomy specimens underwent FGFR2b IHC (FPR2-D antibody) and tissue-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) with the TruSight Oncology 500 assay. FGFR2b positivity followed FORTITUDE criteria (≥ 10% moderate-to-strong membranous staining). FGFR2b IHC positivity was 10.6%, and FGFR2 amplification was detected in 13.3% of cases. Surgical specimens demonstrated substantial concordance between IHC and NGS (κ = 0.62), which further improved when FGFR2 fusion was incorporated (κ = 0.67). FGFR2 fusion was relatively rare (5.3%) but associated with both amplification and FGFR2b overexpression (83% and 67%, respectively). Fusion-positive patients showed significantly worse overall survival (p = 0.02). In conclusion, adequate surgical tissue enables strong concordance between FGFR2b IHC and NGS. FGFR2b IHC is an effective frontline screen, while NGS is essential for detecting rare FGFR2 fusions that define an aggressive, poor‑prognosis subtype.© 2026. The Author(s).
Candida keratitis (CK) is a vision-threatening corneal infection. Although host immune responses are essential for eliminating fungal pathogens, they can also contribute to corneal tissue damage. The Annexin A1 (AnxA1)-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway has been widely studied in infectious disease models for its protective role in regulating immune cell recruitment and inflammatory responses; however, its precise involvement in CK remains insufficiently understood. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway to the pathogenesis of CK.Transcriptomic analysis was performed to characterize the dynamic immune landscape in a Candida parapsilosis-induced CK mouse model. Bioinformatic analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), perform functional enrichment analysis, and evaluate immune cell infiltration, with particular emphasis on the activation and immunoregulatory role of the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway. Changes in the expression of relevant pathway components were further assessed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), immunohistochemistry (IHC), Western blotting (WB), and flow cytometry (FACS). To evaluate the functional role of this pathway, CK mice were treated with the Fpr2 agonist Ac2-26 (an AnxA1 mimetic peptide) and compared with PBS-treated controls through slit-lamp examination, immunofluorescence staining, and WB analysis. In addition, Fpr2 knockout (KO) mice were used to disrupt AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling, and disease progression was assessed using slit-lamp examination, WB, and IHC. Furthermore, co-culture experiments of immune cells with C. parapsilosis were performed to identify the principal immune effector cells involved in the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling pathway.CK mice exhibited dynamic immune responses consistent with clinical findings, transcriptional changes, and immune cell infiltration, with peak activity at 1-day post-infection (dpi). As the disease progressed, marked alterations in metabolic pathways, immune responses, and corneal repair processes were observed. Innate immune cell infiltration showed distinct temporal patterns: macrophages and dendritic cells gradually increased, whereas neutrophils peaked early and declined during inflammation resolution. Infected corneas displayed elevated expression of AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling components. Treatment with Ac2-26 significantly reduced corneal inflammatory infiltration and inflammatory mediator expression. In contrast, Fpr2 deficiency aggravated CK progression, resulting in more severe clinical manifestations and enhanced inflammation. Furthermore, total Fpr2 expression and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production were markedly upregulated in neutrophils following co-culture with C. parapsilosis.This study characterizes the dynamic immune responses in CK and highlights the critical role of AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX signaling in the pathogenesis of fungal keratitis. These findings provide new insights into host immune regulation and suggest that targeting the AnxA1-Fpr2/ALX pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for CK.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits a desmoplastic stroma with context-dependent tumor-restraining and tumor-promoting functions, highlighting the need to selectively reprogram stromal states. Extravascular coagulation is a prominent feature of the PDAC tumor microenvironment, yet whether it functions as an upstream regulator of fibrotic stromal states, rather than merely a byproduct of tumor-associated vascular dysfunction, has remained unclear. Here, we identify extravascular coagulation as a tumor-amplified regulatory module that stabilizes pro-fibrotic stromal states via tumor-intrinsic protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR1) signaling. To interrogate this axis mechanistically, we combined human tumor bioinformatics with microphysiological tumor-stroma (MPTS) models and in vivo systems. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed heterogeneous F2R (PAR1) expression across tumors, with elevated expression associated with fibrotic transcriptional programs and reduced survival. Consistently, thrombin induced coordinated pro-fibrotic programs in tumor cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which were recapitulated in microphysiological models where tumor-intrinsic PAR1 was required for amplification of extracellular matrix deposition and CAF activation. Mechanistically, PAR1 signaling amplified tumor-stroma communication, in part through induction of TGF-β1-dependent pathways, establishing a reinforcing feedback loop that stabilizes fibrotic remodeling. Pharmacologic inhibition of PAR1 selectively suppressed the fibrotic transcriptional program within myofibroblastic CAFs while reducing the abundance of other CAF subtypes, reprogramming stromal states and attenuating tumor progression across MPTS and in vivo models. These findings establish a coagulation-PAR1 axis as an upstream organizer of PDAC stromal architecture and identify pharmacologic PAR1 inhibition as a mechanistically grounded strategy for selectively reprogramming the tumor-promoting stroma.Extravascular coagulation drives PDAC stromal fibrosis through tumor-intrinsic PAR1 signaling. Pharmacologic PAR1 inhibition selectively reprograms fibrotic CAF subtypes rather than depleting the stroma, offering a mechanistically grounded, therapeutically actionable strategy for PDAC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534783 is a review article
Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion differentially regulates follicle-stimulating hormone β-subunit (Fshb) expression according to pulse frequency; however, the mechanisms by which pituitary gonadotropes decode GnRH pulsatility remain incompletely understood. GnRH activates both Gαs- and Gαq/11-mediated signaling pathways, and the transcriptional regulators cAMP response element-binding protein (Creb) and inducible cAMP early repressor (Icer) have been implicated in Fshb regulation. This study examined whether distinct G protein-dependent pathways regulate Creb and Icer in a GnRH pulse frequency-dependent manner.Murine gonadotrope-derived LβT2 cells were transduced with lentiviral shRNA targeting Gnas (Gαs), Gnaq/Gna11 (Gαq/11), or scrambled controls. Cells were perifused and stimulated with pulsatile GnRH (10 nM) at low (every 120 min) or high (every 30 min) pulse frequencies for 20 h. Creb and Erk1/2 phosphorylation were assessed by immunoblotting and Icer and Egr1 mRNA levels were measured by real-time PCR.GnRH induced pulse frequency-dependent signaling, with enhanced Creb phosphorylation at low pulse frequency and preferential Icer induction at high frequency. Gnas knockdown selectively attenuated Creb phosphorylation at low pulse frequency without affecting Icer expression. In contrast, Gnaq/Gna11 knockdown reduced Icer induction at high pulse frequency and markedly attenuated Erk1/2 phosphorylation and Egr1 expression at both frequencies.GnRH pulse frequency is decoded in gonadotropes through differential engagement of G protein-dependent signaling pathways. Gαs-mediated signaling pathways preferentially activate Creb at low pulse frequencies, whereas Gαq/11-mediated pathways promote Erk-dependent Icer and Egr1 induction at higher pulse frequencies, providing a mechanism for differential regulation of FSH and LH synthesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Hellenic Endocrine Society.
SMARCB1 (INI1)-deficient tumors are rare aggressive neoplasms characterized by biallelic inactivation of the SMARCB1 gene and loss of nuclear INI1 protein expression. Although melanocytic differentiation has occasionally been reported in SMARCB1-deficient tumors, intraocular presentations with histologically confirmed vertebral metastases in adults remain exceptionally uncommon and diagnostically challenging.A 21-year-old woman presented with progressive left retro-orbital pain and visual impairment. Ophthalmologic imaging revealed a choroidal lesion initially suspected to represent uveal melanoma. Enucleation of the left eye demonstrated a highly cellular malignant epithelioid neoplasm arising in the choroid with focal spindle-cell areas, rhabdoid features, marked cytologic atypia, and focal melanocytic differentiation. Immunohistochemistry showed diffuse positivity for S100 and Melan-A, focal HMB45 expression, retained BAP1 expression, and complete loss of INI1 expression. Molecular analysis identified a pathogenic truncating SMARCB1 alteration, c.656C>G, p.(Ser219*), associated with homozygous deletion of the SMARCB1 locus. Additional testing revealed no pathogenic alterations involving canonical uveal melanoma-associated genes, including GNAQ, GNA11, CYSLTR2, SF3B1, EIF1AX, and BAP1. One year after diagnosis, the patient developed multifocal painful vertebral lesions. Histopathological examination of a T8 vertebral biopsy revealed a poorly differentiated malignant neoplasm with extensive necrosis and rhabdoid morphology. Tumor cells demonstrated diffuse S100 positivity, focal HMB45 expression, complete loss of INI1, and absence of epithelial or myogenic differentiation (negative cytokeratins, desmin, and myogenin). Expert pathology review supported metastatic dissemination of a SMARCB1-deficient malignant neoplasm with melanocytic differentiation. The patient received palliative radiotherapy (30 Gy in 10 fractions to D7-D9) followed by systemic chemotherapy with etoposide and ifosfamide. Despite multimodal treatment, progressive disease occurred and the patient died three years after the initial diagnosis.This case expands the clinicopathologic spectrum of SMARCB1-deficient tumors and highlights the diagnostic complexity of neoplasms exhibiting melanocytic differentiation. Integrated histopathologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular assessment is essential to avoid diagnostic misclassification, particularly in unusual intraocular presentations.Copyright © 2026 Al-Hassana, Vincent, Alihonou, Christian, Souleymane, Mohammed and Laurent.
TACR3 encodes the receptor for neurokinin B, a key regulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Disruption of this pathway can impair gonadotropin release and male reproductive function. Given the genetic heterogeneity of male infertility, this study aimed to identify novel variants in TACR3 that may underlie asthenozoospermia and related hormonal abnormalities.Fifteen infertile men with confirmed asthenozoospermia were enrolled. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on genomic DNA from peripheral blood, and the candidate variant was validated by Sanger sequencing. Functional predictions were made using PolyPhen-2, SIFT, MutationTaster, and REVEL. TACR3 mRNA expression levels were assessed by real-time PCR in available samples.A novel splice-site variant, TACR3 (NM_001059.3:c.888 + 1G > A), was detected and found to segregate with infertility in one family, appearing homozygously in two infertile brothers and heterozygously in the proband with severe asthenozoospermia. The variant was absent in public and local genomic databases, suggesting its extremely rare frequency. Furthermore, RT-PCR showed a dramatic reduction or complete loss of TACR3 expression in affected individuals, confirming its deleterious effect on splicing and mRNA stability.We identified a previously unreported splice-site mutation in TACR3 (c.888 + 1G > A) that likely causes familial infertility by disrupting the neurokinin B/NK3R signaling pathway. While the heterozygous proband exhibited severe asthenozoospermia, the homozygous brothers displayed hormonal profiles typical of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. These findings extend the mutational landscape of TACR3 and highlight its essential contribution to male reproductive endocrinology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
The classification of superficial cavernous-pattern venous malformations (VMs) remains a subject of clinical debate due to overlapping morphologic features and a lack of defined molecular drivers, particularly for lesions traditionally termed "cavernous hemangiomas". This study aimed to delineate the molecular landscape of these lesions, focusing on the significance of GJA4 mutations. We evaluated 54 cases of superficial cavernous-pattern VMs. Molecular analysis was performed using MassARRAY and digital PCR to detect mutations in GJA4, TEK, PIK3CA, GNAQ, GNA11, and GNA14. Histologic reappraisal was conducted to correlate clinicopathologic features with molecular findings. Histologic stratification categorized the cohort into classic VM (cVM, n=7) and cavernous VM (CVM, n=47); the latter was further subdivided into classical (CL-CVM, n=32) and non-classical (nCL-CVM, n=15) subtypes. GJA4 (c.121G>T, p.Gly41Cys) mutations were identified in 94% (30/32) of CL-CVM cases but were entirely absent in all cVM and nCL-CVM cases. In contrast, cVMs frequently harbored TEK or PIK3CA mutations (71%, 5/7). The molecular drivers for nCL-CVM remained largely unknown, except for a single GNA11 mutation. Morphologically, CL-CVM was characterized by dermal localization, circumscribed margins, and "back-to-back" vascular channels with fibromyoid walls displaying circumferential SMA and h-caldesmon expression. Notably, 75% (24/32) of CL-CVM cases required a diagnostic revision from their original entries. Clinical follow-up data (n=50; range: 0.1-114 months) demonstrated that all patients with CL-CVM (n=29) and nCL-CVM (n=14) achieved no evidence of disease status. In contrast, 29% (2/7) of classic cVMs resulted in residual or recurrent disease. In conclusion, GJA4 p.Gly41Cys mutation is a highly sensitive and specific molecular marker for "classical" CVMs. Our findings support a genotype-phenotype reclassification of superficial CVMs, wherein GJA4 mutations define a distinct, non-infiltrating clinicopathologic entity, separating it from the broader spectrum of superficial cavernous-pattern vascular anomalies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Treatment options are limited, and outcomes remain poor for patients with metastatic uveal melanoma (MUM). We conducted an investigator-initiated, prospective, single-arm, single-institution, phase II study evaluating the combination of an FAK inhibitor (defactinib) with a RAF/MEK inhibitor (avutometinib) for the treatment of MUM. Methods: From February 2021 through January 2023, 12 patients with MUM were treated with the combination of defactinib and avutometinib. Defactinib was given 200 mg twice daily, and avutometinib was given 3.2 mg twice a week. Both drugs were given for 3 weeks on and 1 week off (28-day cycle). Disease control rate was the primary endpoint of this study. Results: Median lines of prior therapies for the patients were two. After two cycles, six patients achieved stable disease while six patients developed progressive disease (disease control rate of 50%). With a median follow-up of 20.0 months, the median progression-free survival was 3.0 months and the median overall survival was 20.0 months. The combination was quite tolerable for patients, with no patients requiring dose reduction or discontinuation. Trial enrollment was stopped early by study sponsors before the anticipated accrual of 18 patients due to no patients having a significant reduction in disease. Conclusions: This is the first study reporting on the use of an FAK inhibitor combination in MUM. Further research should seek to elucidate an optimal combination treatment strategy for MUM, such as FAK and PKC inhibitors, for improved blockade of the signaling pathways downstream of GNAQ/GNA11 driver mutations.
Background: Uveal melanoma (UM) represents the most prevalent primary intraocular malignancy in adults, yet patients harboring GNAQ/GNA11 mutations face particularly poor prognoses with median survival of merely 6-12 months following metastasis. Multi-targeted combination therapy offers a promising strategy to circumvent drug resistance. The present study investigated the synergistic anti-tumor efficacy and mechanistic basis of Isoliquiritigenin (ISL), Quercetin (Que) and Methylnissolin (Meth), three bioactive constituents from Astragalus membranaceus (Huangqi, a widely used traditional Chinese medicinal herb) against UM. Methods: Molecular docking and 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations assessed binding stability between the compounds and their respective targets (Gαq, MEK and YAP). Synergistic interactions were quantified using the Zero Interaction Potency (ZIP) model, a reference synergy model that compares observed combination effects to predicted non-interaction baselines across full dose-response matrices, based on CCK-8 assays. Cell cycle distribution, apoptosis and mitochondrial membrane potential were analyzed by flow cytometry. Western blotting detected target proteins and apoptotic markers. A male BALB/c nude mouse xenograft model validated therapeutic efficacy and systemic safety. Results: Molecular docking revealed binding energies <-7.0 kcal·mol-1 for all three drug-target pairs, with molecular dynamics trajectories confirming stable complex conformations (RMSD < 3 Å). In vitro, the ISL-Que-Meth (IQM) combination exhibited strong synergism (ZIP scores > 10), significantly increasing apoptotic rates, collapsing mitochondrial membrane potential and upregulating cleaved-caspase 9 expression compared with monotherapy, and a modest G2/M phase accumulation was also observed, although the magnitude was limited relative to apoptotic induction. In vivo, the triple combination achieved approximately 50% reduction in tumor growth compared with the control group, with effects comparable to or exceeding those of the clinical reference agent Trametinib, and reduced Ki67 proliferation indices while elevating cleaved-caspase 9 levels, without eliciting hepatorenal toxicity. While these data demonstrate therapeutic efficacy, they do not establish in vivo synergy, as single-agent and dual-combination arms were not included in the xenograft design. Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that IQM synergistically suppresses UM growth in association with coordinated modulation of Gαq/MEK/YAP axis components and caspase 9-dependent apoptosis via the intrinsic mitochondrial pathway, providing preclinical evidence for natural product-based multi-targeted therapy against UM.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508144 is a review article
Synthetic oxytocin (Pitocin) is the most commonly used pharmacologic agent for induction and augmentation of labor. Beyond its uterotonic effects, oxytocin plays a critical role in neurodevelopment and social behavior. Dysregulated oxytocin signaling has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), raising concern that perinatal exposure to exogenous oxytocin may have lasting neurodevelopmental consequences. This study aimed to determine whether offspring harboring a genetic predisposition for ASD are differentially impacted by perinatal oxytocin exposures, with a focus on long-term oxytocin signaling and autism-like behavior. Pregnant mice carrying offspring with heterozygous mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (Pten), a well-established monogenic risk factor for ASD, received continuous oxytocin versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) control via micro-osmotic pumps during late gestation. Wild-type (WT) offspring exposed to each treatment served as a secondary control. Adult offspring were assessed for oxytocin receptor (Oxtr) methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, oxytocin expression in the hypothalamus, serum oxytocin levels, and were subject to a battery of social and anxiety-related behavior tests. Perinatal oxytocin exposure produced genotype-dependent effects in offspring. Epigenetic analyses revealed bidirectional remodeling of Oxtr methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, with increased exon 1 methylation in WT mice and decreased methylation in Pten-mutant mice, resulting in significant genotype-treatment interactions. Hypothalamic oxytocin expression increased following treatment regardless of genotype, though baseline levels were higher in Pten-mutant mice. Neither oxytocin treatment nor genotype impacted long-term serum oxytocin levels. Behavioral outcomes were modest but context-specific: repetitive behaviors and cognition performance were unchanged, but oxytocin-treated Pten-mutant mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior alongside improved social memory. In contrast, oxytocin-treated WT mice showed reduced social novelty preference. Exploratory analyses suggested potential sex-dependent trends. Our findings support a model in which genetic susceptibility shapes the epigenetic encoding of early-life hormonal signals, thereby recalibrating oxytocin system function and downstream behavioral outcomes. Together, these data highlight the context-dependent effects of perinatal oxytocin exposure and argue against uniformly beneficial or detrimental effects, emphasizing the importance of gene-environment interactions in neurodevelopmental trajectories.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD), are progressive disorders with limited therapeutic options. Centella asiatica (C. asiatica), a medicinal and edible plant, has been reported to exert neuroprotective and anti-neuroinflammatory properties. Yet, the mechanisms underlying its effects against neurodegenerative diseases remain largely unclear.We employed an integrative strategy combining network pharmacology, transcriptomic analyses, machine learning and molecular docking to prioritize disease-associated molecular networks and candidate compound-target relationships in AD, PD and HD.Sixteen candidate constituents of C. asiatica met the predefined drug-likeness, gastrointestinal absorption and blood-brain barrier permeability criteria, yielding 370 unique predicted targets. Disease-gene mining identified 983 AD-associated genes, 1,103 PD-associated genes, and 3,316 HD-associated genes. Integration of compound targets, disease-associated genes, and transcriptomic profiles prioritized five hub genes in PD (CCKAR, MAPK8, PSEN2, SLC6A3, and TH), four in AD (APP, PGK1, PIK3CA, and TTR), and four in HD (CHRND, HSP90AA1, PRKCQ, and TH). Enrichment analyses highlighted disease-relevant processes involving neurotransmitter signalling, cAMP and calcium pathways, MAPK-related responses and inflammatory regulation. ROC analyses provided additional support for the discriminatory performance of the prioritized genes in independent datasets, whereas molecular docking identified favourable predicted Vina docking scores and structurally plausible interactions between selected compounds and hub targets.This integrative computational analysis prioritizes candidate C. asiatica constituents, putative disease-associated targets, and molecular pathways in AD, PD, and HD. The findings provide a foundation for subsequent biochemical, cellular, and in vivo validation.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The complexity of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) progression, coupled with the lack of effective immunotherapy, underscores the imperative to deepen our understanding of its mechanisms and identify suitable immune-targeted interventions. The G protein alpha subunit 15 (GNA15) is significantly upregulated in PDAC and correlates with poor prognosis in patients with PDAC. Mechanistically, our study demonstrates that TET3 upregulates GNA15 expression through demethylation in PCs, and the highly expressed GNA15 activates the phosphorylation of STAT3 via the GP130-JAK signaling pathway, thereby promoting the expression and release of CXCL8. Subsequently, CXCL8 released by PCs binds to CXCR1 or CXCR2 in macrophages to promote M2 polarization. Additionally, high GNA15 expression was associated with Gemcitabine resistance, and the combination of Reparixin and Gemcitabine has shown favorable antitumor efficacy in PDAC. Collectively, we elucidated that GNA15 drives PDAC progression and M2 macrophage polarization via the STAT3-CXCL8 axis and established targeting GNA15-STAT3-CXCL8 as a novel strategy to improve PDAC therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42520735 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42520170 is a review article
Maternal and paternal attachment may relate differently to adolescent depressive symptoms, but the potential contribution of oxytocin receptor (OXTR) gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to these associations remains unclear. This six-month longitudinal study included 746 seventh- and tenth-grade students (50.7% female) from Guangzhou, China. Parent-child attachment and saliva samples for genotyping were collected at baseline, and depressive symptoms were assessed at follow-up using the CES-D-10. Overall, 48.8% of adolescents screened positive for depressive symptoms. Compared with adolescents below the cutoff, those who screened positive reported lower parental trust/communication and higher alienation (all p < 0.01). In adjusted linear regression models, father-child trust/communication was negatively associated with subsequent depressive symptoms (β = -0.26, p < 0.01), whereas mother-child alienation was positively associated with subsequent depressive symptoms (β = 0.15, p = 0.02). Exploratory moderation analyses showed a nominal rs2254295 × mother-child alienation interaction before correction (β = -0.07, p = 0.046), but this effect did not survive FDR correction. Father-child trust/communication and mother-child alienation showed distinct associations with adolescent depressive symptoms. The possible moderating role of OXTR rs2254295 should be regarded as preliminary and requires replication in larger independent samples.
Natural products are a valuable source of antihypertensive agents; however, most studies have focused on multitarget effects or extract-level activity, limiting mechanism-specific interpretation and drug development. Here, a structure-driven screening strategy was applied to identify phytochemicals targeting CACNA1C, ADRB1, and AGTR1, key pharmacological targets of antihypertensive therapy. Quantitative structure-activity relationship models were developed using ChEMBL datasets (11,452 for CACNA1C, 612 for ADRB1, and 291 for AGTR1) and demonstrated robust predictive performance (AUC = 0.973), which was maintained under scaffold split and cross-validation. The SHAP-based interpretation revealed target-specific structural features, followed by pharmacophore profiling, chemical space analysis, and network-based prioritization. Overall, 10,586 natural compounds were screened and the top 5% per target (530 compound-target edges) were selected, revealing that 83.5% of the compounds were target-specific. Chemical space analysis revealed the predicted compounds occupied diverse and partially orthogonal regions compared with approved drugs, indicating scaffold diversification. Representative compounds selected based on docking, ADMET, and structural criteria predicted to form stable binding interactions in 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations, with consistent RMSD stabilization and favorable MM-PBSA binding free energies (-29.17 to -36.59 kJ/mol). Although source plants have reported antihypertensive effects, direct evidence in the literature linking individual compounds to specific pharmacological targets remains limited. Overall, this study presents a multilayer validation framework for the computational prioritization of antihypertensive phytochemicals, facilitating their potential integration of natural products into established pharmacological paradigms. This approach provides a strategy for prioritizing structurally diverse and computationally target-aligned candidates and may facilitate the translation of traditional herbal knowledge into modern target-based drug discovery.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic social isolation and loneliness are associated with several neuropsychiatric disorders including depression and anxiety. Given its ability to modulate a wide range of processes linked to social interactions, the therapeutic potential of the neuropeptide oxytocin has gathered interest. However, its effects are highly context-dependent, highlighting the need for preclinical models that better capture the breadth of human social interactions and the consequences of their loss. The socially monogamous prairie vole carries a high translational value due to its ability to form enduring social attachments. Here, we aimed at characterizing the role of the oxytocin neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in the negative consequences of social isolation in prairie voles. Following six weeks of isolation, females exhibited an avoidance of the open arms of an elevated plus maze EPM), lower NAc oxytocin receptor (OXTR) expression, and reduced activation of oxytocin neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) that project to the NAc. Using a combination of site- and projection-specific pharmacological and chemogenetic approaches, we show that the activation of oxytocin neurotransmission in the NAc originating from the PVN reverses the avoidance-related behaviors in the EPM induced by isolation in an OXTR-dependent manner, whereas its blockade promotes avoidance-related behaviors in group-housed control females. Altogether, our findings delineate a model in which the promotion of avoidance-related behaviors following social isolation in female prairie voles is mediated by a dampened response of PVN-to-NAc oxytocin projections, providing additional insights into the negative consequences of social isolation associated with anxiety disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and oxaliplatin (OXT) remains a major cause of treatment failure in colorectal cancer (CRC). Luteolin, a dietary flavonoid with anticancer properties, has shown therapeutic potential in various malignancies, but its effects on chemotherapy-resistant CRC remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether luteolin restores chemosensitivity in 5-FU-resistant (SNUC5/5-FUR) and OXT-resistant (SNUC5/OXTR) CRC cells and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. Luteolin reduced cell viability and induced apoptosis in both resistant cell lines. Mechanistically, luteolin suppressed β-catenin expression by downregulating ten-eleven translocation (TET) proteins, increasing DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) expression, enhancing CpG methylation, and reducing TET1 occupancy at the β-catenin promoter. Luteolin also decreased thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) expression, disrupted the TET1/TDG interaction, and reduced TDG recruitment to the β-catenin promoter. Consistently, knockdown of either TET1 or TDG decreased β-catenin expression, while luteolin further enhanced apoptosis in siTET1-or siTDG-transfected resistant cells. Additionally, luteolin attenuated intracellular reactive oxygen species accumulation and potentiated the cytotoxic effects of 5-FU and OXT in resistant CRC cells. These findings demonstrate that luteolin reverses chemoresistance by suppressing the TET1/TDG-β-catenin axis through epigenetic regulation and modulation of intracellular redox homeostasis, supporting its potential as an adjuvant for CRC chemotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494863 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42531559
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481317
Accurately quantifying vegetation carbon sink capacity and clarifying its driving mechanisms are crucial for addressing climate change and achieving carbon neutrality goals. Taking the Three-River Headwaters Region （TRHR） as the study area， this research utilizes vegetation net primary productivity （NPP）， meteorological data， and land use/cover change （LUCC） data from 2000 to 2020. This study also employs methods such as land use tracking analysis， spatiotemporal hotspot analysis， and partial correlation analysis to comprehensively investigate the impacts of LUCC and climate on vegetation carbon sequestration capacity. Additionally， by integrating multiple regression residual analysis and trajectory analysis methods， the study proposes the "contribution separation method" to assess and separate the relative contributions of climate change， LUCC， and other human activities to vegetation carbon sequestration capacity. The results indicate： ① From 2000 to 2020， the vegetation carbon sink capacity （expressed in C） in the Three-River Headwaters Region showed a significant fluctuating upward trend （multi-year average of 33.03 g·m-2）， with a spatial gradient pattern of "higher in the east and lower in the west，" where the sink was in the east， and the source was in the west. ② LUCC had a minor impact on changes in vegetation carbon sink capacity but a significant impact on the total vegetation carbon sink. In areas affected by LUCC， approximately 23.43% of the carbon sink change was driven by LUCC， primarily due to the conversion of bare land and other unused land into grassland and improvements in grassland quality， leading to an increase in the total vegetation carbon sink. ③ Climate change and other human activities contributed 34.33% and 63.59% of the total increase in vegetation carbon sink capacity， respectively， with their synergistic effects driving carbon sink growth. ④ Other human activities contributed significantly more to vegetation carbon sink capacity in carbon source areas than in carbon sink areas， while the contribution rates of climate change and LUCC were the opposite. The study provides new quantitative methods and scientific basis for the quantitative assessment of regional carbon sink capacity and its influencing factors.
Pachymic acid (PA) is a natural active component of Poria cocos(Schw.)Wol. Although PA exhibits antitumor activity in multiple cancers, its effects and mechanisms against glioma remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the anti-glioma effects of PA and identify its potential candidate core targets and pathways. Functional experiments demonstrated that PA significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of glioma cells and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Using network pharmacology, machine learning, and bioinformatics analysis, we screened six candidate targets: PDE4D, CAPN2, MAPK9, EPHB6, CCKBR, and FAAH. TCGA analysis confirmed that CAPN2 and PDE4D were upregulated in glioma, while the others were downregulated. Molecular docking, an in silico predictive approach, suggested that PA may potentially form favorable binding conformations with these core targets based on calculated binding energies. Further verification revealed that PA treatment was associated with reduced AKT and mTOR phosphorylation, suggesting that the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway may be involved in mediating its anti-glioma activity. In conclusion, PA exerts dose-dependent anti-glioma cellular effects through multi-gene regulation, and the suppressed activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway may correlate with its anti-tumor function. These results provide a theoretical basis for developing PA as a potential therapeutic agent for glioma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (TRHR1, encoded by Trhr, also referred to as Trhr1 in rodents) is a key component of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and has also been implicated in emotion, cognition, and stress-related regulation. However, the brain-wide distribution and cellular characteristics of Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells in the central nervous system remain incompletely understood. In this study, we generated Trhr-P2A-iCre; R26-tdTomato mice to genetically label Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells and combined this strategy with tissue clearing and volumetric imaging with synchronized on-the-fly scan and readout (VISoR) to construct a high-resolution brain-wide map. Quantitative analysis revealed that Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells were broadly distributed throughout the adult mouse brain, with marked regional heterogeneity. Higher densities were observed in the olfactory bulb, prefrontal cortex, striatum, hypothalamus, and amygdala, whereas lower densities were found in the hippocampus, thalamus, midbrain/brainstem, and cerebellum. Further immunofluorescence analysis indicated that Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells were predominantly neuronal in the examined regions, showing frequent co-localization with NeuN but not with Iba1 or GFAP. Many tdTomato-positive cells in selected cortical, amygdalar, and striatal regions co-localized with CaMKII, whereas overlap with PV or SST was limited; in the dentate gyrus, many co-localized with Prox1, indicating a granule-cell identity. Together, these findings provide a brain-wide anatomical map and region-specific cellular profile of Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells and establish a structural foundation for future studies of TRHR1-related neural circuits and functions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
To elucidate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Fuzi (Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata) against intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC).Fuzi-related targets were obtained from TCMSP, HERB, and ETCM databases, and ICC-related differentially expressed genes were retrieved from Gene Expression Omnibus. Common hub targets were identified using network pharmacology and machine learning, followed by functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses. Effects of aconitine, a major alkaloid of Fuzi, were validated in RBE cells using qPCR, Western blot, Transwell assays, and flow cytometry.Thirty-six common genes were identified, mainly enriched in metabolic and cancer-related pathways. Topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) and alpha1A-adrenergic receptor (ADRA1A) were identified as hub genes with high diagnostic value (area under curve>0.98). High TOP2A expression was linked to poor disease-free survival. Several immune cells, including regulatory T cells, showed altered infiltration in ICC and correlated with hub gene expression. Aconitine inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of RBE cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner (P<0.05 or P<0.01). It also induced G1 phase arrest and apoptosis, accompanied by modulation of Bcl-2 and Bax expression, and downregulation of TOP2A. TOP2A knockdown similarly reduced migration and invasion and altered Bcl-2/Bax expression, but had limited effects on apoptosis rate or cell cycle distribution.TOP2A was identified as Fuzi's potential therapeutic target in ICC, where its compound aconitine exerts antitumor effects by downregulating TOP2A, providing novel mechanistic insights and targeted therapy potential.© 2026. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The preBötzinger Complex is among the few neural circuits where selective elimination of defined neuronal subpopulation is sufficient to destabilize a core autonomic function and can fatally impair breathing. Within this circuitry, neurons expressing the neurokinin-1 receptor (Tacr1/NK1R) and somatostatin (Sst) are critical subpopulations; Tacr1 + neurons respond to the neuropeptide substance P and are necessary for maintaining inspiratory rhythms, and ablation of Sst + neurons results in apneas. To further dissect and analyze the specific roles for Tacr1 + and Sst + cell types, we conducted a comprehensive transcriptomic analysis using single-nucleus RNA sequencing of enriched preBötC from neonatal C57BL/6J mice. Because respiratory rhythmogenesis is an inherently electrophysiological process, we focused on the ion channel transcriptomes of Tacr1 + and Sst+ populations to resolve the molecular underpinnings of their distinct contributions to breathing. A balanced Random Forest classifier distinguished Tacr1+ from Sst+ neurons with higher accuracy, indicating a distinct and relatively homogeneous ion channel identity in Tacr1+ neurons. Differential expression analyses identified coordinated upregulation of Trpc5, Kcnc2 and Cacna2d2 genes in Tacr1+ neurons. Tacr1+ neurons further exhibited elevated expression of the NALCN channelosome subunits and selective enrichment genes of Htr2c and Adra1a neuromodulatory receptor genes. Together, these findings define a molecularly distinct ion channel composition of Tacr1+ neurons and imply convergent substance P linked mechanisms: TRPC5-mediated ICAN and NALCN-mediated sodium leak conductance supporting rhythmic inspiratory activity, providing a molecular framework for targeted interrogation of respiratory circuit function.
Neuroticism is an established risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms linking this personality trait to neurodegeneration remain poorly understood.We leveraged single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data from longitudinal cohort studies of cognitive aging (n = 655) to investigate the mechanisms mediating the association between neuroticism and AD.We identified two genes associated with neuroticism, both of which are downregulated in excitatory neurons: ADRA1B and LY6E-DT. In addition, we found that neuroticism is associated with enrichment of a specific excitatory neuron subpopulation: Exc.12. Further analysis revealed that Exc.12 partially mediates the relationship between neuroticism and AD, accounting for 12.2% of the total effect.The dysregulation of excitatory neurons may represent a key cellular change that links neuroticism to AD.
Prolactinomas are typically benign but represent a major cause of endocrine dysfunction. However, their molecular subtypes remain undefined, and clinical implications of such subtypes are unclear. The objective of this study was to characterize the genomic subtypes of prolactinomas and evaluate associated clinicopathological and immunological features.A retrospective analysis was conducted on 124 prolactinoma patients who underwent resection at a single center (December 2017-December 2023). Tumor specimens were subjected to RNA sequencing. Tumor immune microenvironment was evaluated using the Glasgow Microenvironment Score, with stromal and immune scores. Immune cell composition was assessed through computational deconvolution algorithms. Differentially expressed genes were validated with immunohistochemistry.Unsupervised clustering identified two distinct molecular subtypes. G1 (stemness subtype) was characterized by gene expression profiles associated with stemness, including SOX2, SOX9, S100B, WNT1, WNT5A, GAL, CCKBR, STAT5A, STAT6, and MAPK14. These tumors exhibited a robust immune microenvironment, evidenced by high Glasgow microenvironment, stromal, and immune scores. The other subtype, G2 (proliferative subtype), was defined by elevated expression of proliferation-related genes such as POU1F1, PRL, TP53AIP1, CCND1, CDK6, ALCAM, GNAI1, SLC1A1, ANGPT1, and CDKL5 and showed minimal immune infiltration. Clinically, G1 tumors were smaller, associated with lower preoperative prolactin levels, and displayed less aggressive behavior. In contrast, G2 tumors were larger, had significantly higher preoperative prolactin levels, and exhibited more aggressive features. All observed differences were statistically significant (p < 0.05).Genomic profiling revealed two distinct prolactinoma subtypes-stemness (G1) and proliferative (G2)-with divergent immune landscapes and clinical behaviors. These findings offer a foundation for molecularly informed, individualized therapeutic strategies.
Perceived control is a construct relevant to emotional and clinical outcomes among individuals with chronic illnesses. We previously demonstrated the reliability and validity of the Control Attitudes Scale-Revised (CAS-R), and it has been used extensively in research to measure perceived control. Yet, there is a gap in interpretation of CAS-R scores. A standardized cut point has not yet been established to facilitate classification of patients into distinct high- and low-perceived control categories. Identifying this cut-off point will be of significant value to clinicians and researchers.To identify an evidence-based cut point for the CAS-R to define lower and higher levels of perceived control among patients with a variety of cardiac diagnoses.In this psychometric secondary analysis, we used data from patients with heart failure or coronary heart disease, which included 4,555 patients from three countries. Data were collected on perceived control, depression and/or anxiety, and/or cardiac events (cardiac hospitalization and cardiac death). We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and area under the ROC area under the curve (AUC) to test the accuracy of using the CAS-R scores to separate the patients into anxious or non-anxious groups and depressed or non-depressed groups. Kaplan-Meier plots with log-rank tests and Cox-survival analyses were used to compare cardiac event-free survival outcomes between higher and lower perceived control groups.Two possible cut points were identified using ROC curves and AUC. Cut points were identified using anxiety or depression as the state variable and CAS-R scores as the test variable. Using Kaplan-Meier analyses and log-rank tests, we determined that 29 was the cut point that demonstrated patients in the higher CAS-R group had significantly better cardiac event-free survival than those in the lower CAS-R group. Using the cut point of 30, the differences in cardiac event-free survival between groups did not reach a significant level.Identifying a CAS-R cut point enhances the practical application of the CAS-R and makes it a valuable instrument for assessing the effect of targeted interventions among cardiac patients with lower perceived control.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study investigated the heterogeneity and molecular alterations of trabecular meshwork (TM) in glaucomatous non-human primates, aiming to identify potential pathogenic genes and signaling pathways involved in glaucoma.TM tissues were analyzed using 10x Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing on the Illumina platform. After quality control, dimensionality reduction and clustering were performed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using Seurat and DESeq2. Functional enrichment analyses were conducted via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Protein expression was assessed by Western blotting, mRNA levels by RT-PCR, protein localization and fluorescence intensity by immunofluorescence, and mitochondrial morphology by transmission electron microscopy.We classified the outflow tissue into 10 cell subtypes, and TM cells were further classified into three subtypes: Beam A, Beam B, and JCT. Beam A cells exhibited the most significant proportional changes, and GO analysis indicated their strong association with extracellular matrix regulation. MGP emerged as the most significantly upregulated gene in both the overall TM population and the Beam A subcluster. Dexamethasone (DEX) treatment induced MGP expression in human primary TM cells, while MGP knockdown partially restored Wnt/β-catenin signaling, decreased Wnt5a levels, and reduced ECM deposition.This study generated a transcriptional atlas of TM in glaucoma. MGP may contribute to TM dysfunction via the Wnt/β-catenin-Wnt5a-ECM signaling pathway, offering novel insights into potential therapeutic targets for glaucoma intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) plays an important role in calcium homeostasis and multiple physiological regulatory processes, and its Venus flytrap (VFT) domain is a key region for γ-glutamyl peptide binding. In this study, molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and molecular dynamics simulations were integrated to systematically investigate the binding behavior of 400 γ-glutamyl tripeptides with CaSR-VFT. The results showed that all 400 γ-glutamyl tripeptides could be accommodated in the central binding pocket of CaSR-VFT, with binding energies mainly ranging from -6 to -10 kcal mol-1. Interaction site analysis indicated that Ser272, Asn102, Arg66, Ser147, Asn64, and Ser170 were the major high-frequency interacting residues, among which Ser272 showed the highest occurrence frequency. The peptides with the strongest and weakest predicted binding abilities, γEYW and γECF, exhibited docking binding energies of -9.863 and -6.05 kcal mol-1, respectively. After Ser272Ala mutation, the absolute binding energies of γEYW and γECF decreased by 44.02% and 15.50%, respectively. SPR experiments confirmed that both γEYW and γECF could directly bind to purified CaSR-VFT protein, with KD values of 3.3 μM and 329.4 nM, respectively. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that γECF exhibited a more stable hydrogen-bond network and a more concentrated low-free-energy conformational distribution. Overall, this study screened and validated two novel γ-glutamyl tripeptides capable of binding to CaSR-VFT, providing a reference for the screening of CaSR-targeting peptides and the investigation of their binding mechanisms.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Bone remodeling depends on coordinated signaling between bone-resorbing osteoclasts and bone-forming osteoblasts through locally secreted coupling factors. Disruption of this balance leads to decreased bone mass, resulting in conditions such as osteoporosis. Osteoclast-derived anabolic factors, or clastokines, have emerged as attractive therapeutic candidates with the potential of selectively enhancing bone formation without suppressing resorption. Osteoblast-derived WNT5A is an established coupling factor promoting osteoclastogenesis; however, osteoclast-derived WNT5A specific contribution to bone homeostasis and the downstream mechanism by which it acts on osteoblasts remains undefined.This study aimed to address this gap using a myeloid-specific conditional knockout mouse that selectively targets osteoclast-derived WNT5A while leaving osteoblast-derived WNT5A intact. Wnt5a was conditionally deleted in osteoclast precursors and their progeny using LysM-Cre; Wnt5aF/F mice and both male and female knockout mice were characterized by μCT, histomorphometry, serum bone turnover markers, transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells, and in vitro focal adhesion and migration assays.Both male and female knockout mice displayed significantly reduced trabecular volume compared with controls. This low bone mass phenotype was driven by decreased osteoblast number and activity, with no significant changes in osteoclast number or resorptive function. Transcriptomic profiling of osteoblast-enriched cells revealed dysregulation of genes involved in focal adhesion, integrin binding, and cell communication, alongside upregulation of stress-related gene networks. Histological and functional analyses demonstrated that loss of osteoclast-derived WNT5A impaired extracellular matrix maturation and disrupted osteoblast focal adhesion assembly and migration.Together, our study establishes osteoclast-derived WNT5A as a clastokine that promotes bone formation in vivo by regulating osteoblast migration and adhesion dynamics. These findings establish a mechanistic link between osteoclast secretory activity and osteoblast function and highlight the context-dependent and cell-of-origin specific roles of WNT5A in skeletal homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Daponte, Gavva, Kapfhamer, Roberts, Henke and Drissi.
Quasi-solid-state batteries (QSSBs) employing high-voltage cathodes promise high energy density and safety, yet suffer from unstable cathode/electrolyte interfaces and cathode degradation. Here, we propose a competitive adsorption and structural reinforcement synergy (CASR) strategy to address these challenges. Specifically, a Cu-centered self-adsorption molecule is incorporate into the polymer electrolyte, which preferentially adsorbs at the cathode/electrolyte interface through competitive adsorption against solvent molecules, thereby reducing the solvent content on the cathode surface while promoting anion enrichment. This process induces the formation of a uniform F-rich cathode/electrolyte interphase with a LiF-rich outer layer and an inner layer containing Cu─F bonds, thereby effectively suppressing cathode degradation. Cathode structural stability is further reinforced through dynamic Cu doping into TM-deficient lattice sites during cycling. Under low-loading coin-cell conditions (2.0 mg cm-2), the resulting Li||LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2 QSSBs retain 80% of their initial capacity after 400 cycles at 4.6 V, and achieve 80% capacity retention over 1000 cycles under 10C and 4.5 V. A 1 Ah-level pouch-cell tested under 4.3 V and 1C charge/0.5C discharge conditions supports the potential of the CASR strategy. This work provides a promising pathway for synchronously stabilizing cathode/electrolyte interface and cathode structure in high-voltage QSSBs.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552162
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are natural mediators of intercellular communication through the transfer of cytoplasmic material from donor to recipient cells. The molecular mechanisms governing EV uptake and cargo delivery in recipient cells remain largely elusive. To address this gap, we performed a genetic screening interrogating 300 genes of the dynamic surfaceome for their involvement in EV uptake. Activators found in the screening establish a previously unknown connection between EV uptake and Wnt pathways. We then observed that, unlike WNT-naïve EVs that are primarily trafficked to lysosomes in recipient cells, WNT5A-bearing EVs linger in early endocytic structures. This rerouting is dependent on the expression of RYK, an established co-receptor for WNT5A. Our results depict a mechanism underlying EV functional heterogeneity as well as reveal a potential regulation system for noncanonical WNT signaling.
This study investigated the in vitro effects of varying extracellular calcium concentrations on the proliferation and multilineage differentiation of Stem Cells from Human Exfoliated Deciduous Teeth (SHEDs), aiming to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.SHEDs were cultured in induction media supplemented with extracellular calcium concentrations ranging from 1.8 mM to 16.2 mM. Proliferation was evaluated using cell viability assays. Osteogenic differentiation was quantified via Alizarin Red S assays, while adipogenic differentiation was assessed by Oil Red O staining. Quantitative real-time PCR (q-PCR) determined the transcript expression of osteogenic marker genes (RUNX2, COL1A1, ALP, OPN, OSX, OCN) and adipogenic marker genes (LPL and PPARγ). To identify the specific pathways involved, pharmacological inhibitors was executed using nifedipine (an L-type voltage-gated calcium channel [L-VGCC] blocker), NPS2143 (a calcium-sensing receptor [CaSR] antagonist), and U0126 (a MEK/ERK signaling inhibitor).Extracellular calcium concentration did not significantly affect SHEDs proliferation. Regarding osteogenesis, elevated calcium concentrations significantly enhanced physical calcium deposition and matrix mineralization, whereas concurrently downregulated the expressions of RUNX2 and COL1A1. Pharmacological assays showed that L-VGCC blockade significantly abolished calcium induced matrix mineralization. Regarding adipogenesis, elevated calcium consistently downregulated both LPL and PPARγ expressions. Application of the CaSR antagonist completely reversed this suppression. Conversely, L-VGCC inhibition partially restored LPL expression, while calcium supplementation successfully rescued LPL expression under conditions of MEK/ERK pathway blockade.Extracellular calcium exerts a dual, pathway specific regulatory control on SHEDs differentiation. It drives osteogenic mineralization predominantly through L-VGCC-mediated calcium influx while suppressing adipogenic lineage commitment via CaSR activation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer is strongly associated with chronic inflammation and dysregulated immune signaling. Molecules involved in purinergic and innate immune pathways, including Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), P2Y purinoceptor 2 (P2RY2), and pannexin-1 (PANX1), may contribute to gastric cancer biology; however, their combined clinical relevance remains unknown. This study included 45 patients with gastric cancer and 45 healthy controls. The gene expression levels of TLR3, P2RY2, and PANX1 were analyzed using RT-PCR, and serum protein concentrations were measured using ELISA. Group comparisons, logistic regression, and ROC analyses were performed to evaluate the diagnostic performance. TCGA-STAD-based immune infiltration analyses were conducted using the TIMER platform, and prognostic significance was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Although alterations in gene expression were observed, none reached statistical significance. At the protein level, PANX1 was significantly elevated in patients with gastric cancer and was independently associated with disease status, whereas TLR3 and P2RY2 showed no significant circulating alterations. TIMER analysis demonstrated positive correlations between TLR3 and PANX1 expression and several immune cell populations, whereas P2RY2 expression showed predominantly negative correlations with immune cell infiltration. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that high PANX1 and TLR3 expression levels were associated with improved overall survival. ROC analyses indicated limited diagnostic accuracy for each marker. Collectively, our experimental findings provide evidence only for elevated circulating PANX1 in patients with gastric cancer. In contrast, the observations regarding TLR3 and P2RY2 were not statistically significant in our cohort and should therefore be considered exploratory and hypothesis-generating. Complementary bioinformatic analyses suggest that these molecules may participate in immune-related signaling pathways in gastric cancer; however, these observations require validation in independent tissue-based and larger prospective studies.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S93104.].© 2026 Dove Medical Press.
Differential fecundity in goats is a complex trait governed by coordinated molecular regulation across reproductive and endocrine tissues. In this study, we performed integrated metabolomic profiling of follicular fluid, serum, thyroid tissue, and uterine luminal fluid together with transcriptomic sequencing of follicular, thyroid, and uterine horn tissues from high-fecundity (HF) and low-fecundity (LF) Yangtze River Delta White goats. In addition, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was conducted to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying differential litter size. High-fecundity goats exhibited enhanced follicular steroidogenesis, superior corpus luteum function, and more stable hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis activity, accompanied by increased uterine gland density and greater myometrial thickness. Metabolomic profiling identified 6640 metabolites displaying tissue-specific differential abundance patterns. Pathway enrichment analysis highlighted steroid hormone biosynthesis and energy metabolism in follicular fluid, PPAR signaling and tyrosine metabolism in thyroid tissue, and glycerophospholipid and one-carbon metabolism in uterine luminal fluid as major pathways associated with fecundity. Transcriptomic analysis identified 1596 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 20 genes shared across all examined tissues, constituting a systemic molecular signature associated with fecundity. WGCNA further revealed three functional tissue axes associated with follicular development (ELOVL4, INHA, NR5A2), thyroid endocrine regulation (GRHL2, NAPRT), and uterine receptivity (RSPO1, AGTR2, PTGER3). Low-fecundity-associated modules were predominantly concentrated in follicular and thyroid tissues, whereas the high-fecundity-specific module was mainly enriched in uterine horn. These findings provide a multi-tissue molecular framework underlying differential fecundity in goats and identify candidate hub genes and metabolites that may serve as candidate biomarkers for fecundity assessment and selective breeding programs.
Extracellular ATP (eATP) is an immunogenic danger signal. In this issue of Immunity, Hu et al. report that in the tumor microenvironment, eATP signals through the receptor P2RY2 on cancer cells, triggering the COX-PGE2 pathway and thereby immune suppression and immunotherapy resistance. These findings identify eATP as the upstream signal driving PGE2 expression, with therapeutic implications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Extracellular ATP (eATP) accumulates in the tumor microenvironment (TME), where its metabolite adenosine is implicated in promoting immunosuppressive pathways. We found that immunotherapy further increased eATP concentrations in the TME. eATP directly signaled through the purinergic receptor P2RY2 in tumor cells to suppress T cell function, independently of its metabolites. Mechanistically, eATP-P2RY2 signaling drove expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 and downstream accumulation of prostaglandin E2 (PGE₂). Genetic deletion or pharmacologic inhibition of P2RY2 reduced baseline intratumoral PGE₂ and prevented therapy-induced PGE₂ accumulation, changed the TME immune infiltrate, restored antitumor T cell responses, and overcame resistance to immune checkpoint blockade, CAR-T, and TCR-T therapies. A P2RY2 antagonist monoclonal antibody recapitulated the in vivo therapeutic benefit and enhanced human autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte responses against matched tumor cells ex vivo. Thus, persistent eATP-P2RY2 signaling in the TME drives a PGE₂-mediated immunosuppressive circuit that operates at baseline and is further amplified during immunotherapy, driving adaptive resistance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inflammatory diseases are known to lower the pH value of the extracellular microenvironment. However, the role of proton-activated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in the progression of intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) remains largely unexplored. In this study, we identified GPR4 as a key regulator of IVDD progression. Our analysis revealed a significant upregulation of GPR4 in degenerative human intervertebral discs. The expression of GPR4 was assessed using immunohistochemistry (IHC). Functional assays, including flow cytometry, immunofluorescence and WB, were performed to evaluate the impact of GPR4 on ferroptosis. We observed that GPR4 expression was significantly elevated in tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP)-treated degenerative nucleus pulposus cells. Proteomic sequencing further demonstrated that GPR4 overexpression altered gene expression related to the mitochondrial energy metabolism and ferritin homeostasis. Notably, knockdown of GPR4 via shRNA (shGPR4) enhanced the MAPK-mediated mitophagy while suppressing ferroptosis in TBHP-exposed NP cells. These findings suggested that GPR4 played a critical role in IVDD pathogenesis and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disc degeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are of increasing interest in the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia. In the nucleus accumbens (NAc), presynaptic mGluRs (largely group II and III) can regulate the activity of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) through control of glutamate release from extra-striatal regions. Given that inflammatory pathways can modulate glutamate and dopamine signalling, inflammation may influence these mGluR-mediated mechanisms in schizophrenia. Cellular expression of mGluR mRNAs in the NAc was investigated using a publicly available single-nucleus RNA sequencing dataset. Frozen NAc tissue from individuals with schizophrenia (n = 30) and controls (n = 30) were obtained from the New South Wales Brain Tissue Resource Centre. Protein levels of glutamate receptors, mGluR2, mGluR3, mGluR4, mGluR7, and a dopamine synthesis enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were quantified by western blot. mGluR transcripts were measured using qRT-PCR. Neuroinflammatory status was determined from levels of pro-inflammatory transcripts (SERPINA3, IL6, IL1β, and TNFα). TH protein levels were elevated in the NAc of individuals with schizophrenia. GRM1, GRM3, GRM4, GRM7 and GRM8 transcripts were strongly expressed in MSNs and inhibitory neurons. Gene and protein expression of the mGluRs did not differ between schizophrenia and controls. When the cohort was stratified into a high (n = 13) and a low (n = 42) inflammation group, GRM1 and GRM5 mRNAs were decreased in those with high inflammation. These data indicate that elevated inflammation, irrespective of schizophrenia diagnosis, is associated with a selective reduction of group I mGluR transcripts in the NAc. This suggests that inflammation may be a key modulator of glutamatergic signalling in this region.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Primary liver cancer (PLC) is a leading cause of global cancer mortality. Yangzheng Xiaoji Decoction (YZXJD), a traditional Chinese medicine based on "Fuzheng Xiaoji" principles, is used as adjunctive PLC therapy, yet its underlying molecular mechanisms require further characterization.Active compounds from 13 herbs were retrieved via the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) database (OB ≥ 30%, DL ≥ 0.18). After identifying drug-disease target intersections, a compound-target-disease network was constructed using Cytoscape. PPI, GO, and KEGG analyses were performed. Concurrently, 40 patients with PLC were assigned, in a non-randomized prospective controlled design, to conventional therapy (control, n=20) or conventional therapy plus YZXJD (observation, n=20) for 4 weeks. Biochemical markers (AFP, AST, ALT, ALB, PT) and TCM syndrome scores were evaluated.Network pharmacology identified 195 active compounds and 135 potential therapeutic targets. PPI screening revealed 25 core targets, with GRM5, TRPA1, ADRA1D, GRIA2, and NPY2R showing the highest connectivity. GO analysis yielded 215 enriched terms, while KEGG analysis highlighted 14 pathways, notably neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and cGMP-PKG signaling. Clinically, both groups showed within-group reductions in AST, ALT, and AFP, but under a Bonferroni-adjusted threshold (P < 0.01) the between-group advantage for the observation group was most clearly evident for prothrombin time (PT), which improved in the observation group while it worsened in the control group. TCM syndrome scores decreased significantly in the observation group (P < 0.001) but worsened in the control group (P = 0.004). The total effective rate was 80.0% in the observation group versus 65.0% in controls (P = 0.048).Network pharmacology suggests that YZXJD may act against PLC through multi-component, multi-pathway mechanisms. In this preliminary, non-randomized observation, the addition of YZXJD was associated with improvements in hepatic function markers, serum AFP, and symptom burden. These findings are hypothesis-generating; the computational predictions and clinical signals require confirmation in adequately powered, randomized, and experimentally validated studies before YZXJD can be recommended for routine integration into PLC management.© 2026 Yang et al.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) is a rare and severe mucocutaneous disorder often triggered by medications or infections. Our previous research identified that four key genes, Ikzf1, Ptger3, Mavs, and Tlr3 are involved in SJS susceptibility and the conjunctival epithelial innate immune response, demonstrating their role in regulating interferon-stimulated genes. However, the interplay among these regulatory factors remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the crosstalk mechanisms between the pathways regulated by these four genes in conjunctival epithelial cells. We constructed a comprehensive gene regulatory network using transcriptomic data from murine conjunctival epithelial cells under 16 distinct conditions, including polyI:C stimulation across wild-type, knockout, and transgenic backgrounds for the key genes. A targeted network analysis systematically identified numerous candidate genes mediating the crosstalk between the regulatory pathways initiated by Ikzf1, Ptger3, Mavs, and Tlr3. The identified candidates suggest the involvement of diverse signaling pathways previously unlinked to SJS pathology. Our findings suggest that the pathogenesis of SJS may arise not from the dysfunction of isolated genes but from the disruption of a balance maintained by intricate pathway crosstalk.© 2026. The Author(s).
The low response rate to immunotherapy in patients with lung adenocarcinoma is primarily due to tumor immune evasion. The tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment orchestrates this evasion, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we identify non-specific cytotoxic cell receptor protein 1 (NCCRP1) as a critical and previously uncharacterized regulator of this process.We first analyzed publicly accessible patient-derived single-cell RNA sequencing and RNA sequencing data to investigate the expression of NCCRP1 in lung adenocarcinoma and its impact on the tumor immune microenvironment. Subsequently, the Nccrp1 gene was knocked out in mouse lung adenocarcinoma cells using CRISPR-Cas9. The effect of NCCRP1 deletion on tumor growth was then evaluated using subcutaneous transplantation models in both NSG and C57BL/6 mice. Single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry and multiple targeted in vivo interventions were employed to assess the influence of NCCRP1 on the tumor immune microenvironment. To explore the underlying mechanisms by which NCCRP1 regulates the tumor immune microenvironment, we conducted co-immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down, ubiquitination assay, mass spectrometry, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation proteomics, dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, and ELISA.Loss of NCCRP1 inhibits lung tumor growth and prolongs survival in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mouse models. NCCRP1 deficiency upregulates CX3CL1 to recruit CX3CR1+ antitumoral macrophages. These macrophages subsequently secrete CXCL9 and CXCL10, enhancing the infiltration of CD8+ T cells and NK cells into the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, NCCRP1 and STAU1 competitively bind to NEDD4. NCCRP1 deficiency enhances the STAU1-NEDD4 interaction, promoting ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of STAU1, thereby increasing CX3CL1 messenger RNA stability. Remarkably, ablating NCCRP1 synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 or interferon-γ therapy, leading to complete tumor eradication.Our findings highlight NCCRP1 targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy to reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment and overcome the "cold tumor" phenotype in lung adenocarcinoma.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) encompasses several conditions that cause compression of the cervical spinal cord. While the pathobiology underlying compression-induced neural degeneration remains incompletely understood, microglial synaptic pruning, driven by CX3CR1, is thought to be a main contributor. The current study builds on previous work demonstrating that Cx3cr1-/- mice exhibit improved gait following DCM and seeks to determine if CX3CR1-mediated synaptic pruning underlies this improvement. We compared C57BL/6 (WT, wild-type) and Cx3cr1-/- mice across 12-weeks of DCM. Locomotor and pain function were assessed using CatWalk and Von Frey outcome measures, respectively. Synaptic and electrophysiological changes were characterized at baseline and after 4-weeks of DCM using pre- and post-synaptic markers, motor evoked potentials (MEPs), and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Cx3cr1-/- and WT mice showed differences in locomotion at baseline. Normalization of all groups revealed that Cx3cr1-/- mice exhibited improved locomotion across 12-weeks and greater mechanical sensitivity on Von Frey. 4-weeks post-DCM induction, the microglia of Cx3cr1-/- mice displayed reduced engulfment of excitatory and inhibitory synapses in the dorsal and ventral horns. This was accompanied by a disruption to the dorsal horn excitation-to-inhibition (E/I) balance, driven primarily by a loss of inhibitory transmission as confirmed by whole-cell patch clamp recording, and altered corticospinal-neuromuscular excitability, as confirmed by motor evoked potentials. Together, our findings reveal CX3CR1-mediated microglial synaptic pruning as a potential novel contributor to early DCM pathobiology. Specifically, our results suggest that an absence of pruning shifts the synaptic E/I balance in the dorsal horn, which may underlie the gait benefits observed in Cx3cr1-/- mice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Vascular endothelial dysfunction drives major ischemic diseases, yet current nanovesicle therapies lack precise targeting and fail to counteract severe oxidative stress. Here, we engineer a universal, dual-targeting therapeutic platform by functionalizing nanovesicles from induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived endothelial cells with antioxidant ceria nanozymes (CeO2-NMUiECs). These nanovesicles home to ischemic tissues via the CXCR4/SDF-1 axis and preferentially enter local endothelial cells through homotypic affinity. At the target site, CeO2-NMUiECs act synergistically: the nanozymes catalytically neutralize reactive oxygen species, while the vesicles deliver endogenous pro-angiogenic proteins to rescue endothelial function. Systemic administration successfully promoted angiogenesis, mitigated tissue damage, and restored organ function across diverse rodent models of ischemia, including osteonecrosis, skin flap injury, myocardial infarction, and stroke. This nanozyme-arming strategy provides a broadly applicable platform, advancing cell-derived nanovesicles from passive carriers into active microenvironment-modulating therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1755657.].Copyright © 2026 Li, Tamai, Shinzawa, Fujisawa, Tanabe, Utsunomiya, Nakagawa, Kurachi, Koura, Mizukoshi and Kurachi.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is rapidly induced after ischemic stroke, but its proposed cell-specific and sex-dependent functions during post-stroke inflammation remain insufficiently understood. Here, we investigated the role of microglia-derived TNF in the acute and subacute response to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Tnf expression was transiently upregulated after stroke, becoming significant at 4 h, peaking at 12-24 h, and returning to baseline by 5 days. In situ hybridization confirmed strong Tnf expression in the infarct and peri-infarct regions. Whole-brain transcriptomic profiling showed that global TNF deficiency reshaped the early post-ischemic response, shifting it from microglia-associated phagocytic and wound-healing pathways toward an interferon-related inflammatory signature. To define the specific contribution of microglial TNF, we used inducible Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice. Microglial TNF deletion had no effect on infarct volume in males at 24 h or 5 days after pMCAO, but significantly increased infarct size in females at both time points. In both sexes, brain TNF levels peaked at 24 h and were significantly reduced in Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice, confirming microglia as a major source of early post-ischemic TNF. However, downstream consequences diverged by sex. At 5 days, male Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice showed reduced microglial reactivity and 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) signal, with no change in T-cell infiltration, and exhibited increased density of mature oligodendrocytes. In contrast, female Cx3cr1CreER:Tnffl/fl mice displayed enhanced microglial reactivity, increased TSPO binding, higher peri-infarct T-cell infiltration, and reduced oligodendrocyte density and myelin integrity. Together, these findings identify microglial TNF as a sex-dependent regulator of post-stroke inflammation and myelin injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pain is a common neurological manifestation of COVID-19, yet the mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 spike protein fragments contribute to nociceptive processing remain poorly understood. We investigated whether spike-derived peptides directly activate spinal neuroimmune pathways involved in pain signalling.Male C57BL/6 mice received intrathecal administration of three synthetic SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides (PSPD2001, PSPD2002 or PSPD2003) or saline. Mechanical nociception was assessed using the von Frey test. The involvement of spinal Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), microglia and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling was investigated using pharmacological antagonists, TLR4 knockout mice, RT-qPCR, ELISA, immunofluorescence, CX3CR1GFP/+ mice, human C20 microglial cells and molecular dynamics simulations.All spike-derived peptides induced mechanical nociception, with PSPD2003 producing the most pronounced response. PSPD2003 increased spinal TLR4 expression, elevated TNF-α and IL-6 levels and promoted activation of dorsal horn microglia, demonstrated by increased TMEM119- and CX3CR1-positive cells. These nociceptive and neuroinflammatory effects were abolished by pharmacological inhibition of TLR4, microglia, p38 MAPK and NF-κB signalling, as well as in TLR4-/- mice, demonstrating that TLR4 signalling is essential for PSPD2003-induced pain. PSPD2003 also induced a hypertrophic phenotype in human microglial cells, while molecular dynamics simulations supported a stable interaction with the TLR4/MD-2 complex.These findings identify a previously unrecognized neuroimmune mechanism whereby a SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptide triggers spinal nociception through TLR4-dependent microglial activation and downstream p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling, highlighting the spinal TLR4-microglia axis as a potential therapeutic target for COVID-19-associated and post-viral pain.This study provides the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides directly activate a spinal TLR4-dependent neuroimmune pathway to induce nociception. By integrating behavioural, pharmacological, genetic, cellular and computational approaches, it identifies microglial activation and p38 MAPK/NF-κB signalling as key mechanisms linking viral peptides to pain, providing a mechanistic framework for COVID-19- and post-viral pain and supporting TLR4 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Pain published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Pain Federation ‐ EFIC ®.
ObjectiveThe aim of this study is to present a case report of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the globus pallidus internus (GPi) and ventral anterior nucleus of the thalamus (VA) in a patient with dystonic tremor due to progressive cerebellar atrophy of unknown etiology.BackgroundAlthough DBS has been shown to be effective in disorders of basal ganglia origin, its use for cerebellar origin disorders remains less understood. This case study presents a patient with dystonic tremor, ataxia, and psychiatric symptoms associated with cerebellar atrophy of unknown etiology. The patient was treated with DBS implantation in GPi and VA. Targets were selected using clinical observation and data obtained from stereoelectroencephalography (sEEG) depth electrode implantation and subsequent observation in an inpatient Neuromodulation Monitoring Unit (NMU).MethodsPreoperative and 1-year postoperative scores were examined to determine improvement in symptoms using Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS), Barry Albright Dystonia Scale (BADS), and Scale for Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA).ResultsAn improvement in movement symptomatology was seen 1 year after permanent electrode implantation and programming using the movement scales (BFMDRS movement preprocedure 15.5, postprocedure 8; BFMDRS disability preprocedure 13, postprocedure 8; BADS preprocedure 14, postprocedure 7; SARA preprocedure 20.5, postprocedure 14.5).ConclusionsDBS can have beneficial effects on multiple symptoms associated with cerebellar degeneration. We cannot exclude the possibility of other neurologic deficits in this patient, and thus the effect of DBS could be mediated through multiple mechanisms. This case report suggests the need for further exploration of the role of DBS in cerebellar-origin disorders.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with a 5-year survival rate of only 13%. Despite recent advances in diagnosis and treatment, the prognosis of PDAC remains poor, largely owing to its complex tumor microenvironment, epithelial heterogeneity, and therapeutic resistance. In this study, we integrated bulk transcriptomic datasets, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), spatial transcriptomics (ST), machine learning analysis, and functional validation to investigate candidate biomarkers associated with PDAC progression. By intersecting genes selected using LASSO and SVM-RFE algorithms, four candidate genes, DKK1, S100P, NMU, and IGFBP3, were identified. External validation showed that DKK1 and S100P retained stronger diagnostic performance than NMU and IGFBP3. Survival sensitivity analyses using optimal, median-expression, and quartile-based cutoffs supported DKK1 as the most robust prognostic marker, whereas S100P showed stable diagnostic performance and partial prognostic relevance. Single-cell analysis of inferCNV-defined malignant epithelial cells revealed that these genes were associated with distinct malignant epithelial programs and dynamic state transitions. DKK1 was preferentially linked to high-plasticity, invasive, or proliferative epithelial states, whereas S100P showed broader epithelial expression and was also enriched in differentiated epithelial states. CellChat and RCTD-based spatial analyses further suggested that DKK1-high and S100P-high epithelial states occupied distinct epithelial-microenvironmental communication contexts. Finally, functional experiments showed that knockdown of DKK1 or S100P significantly inhibited PDAC cell proliferation and migration. These findings highlight DKK1 and S100P as clinically and biologically relevant markers in PDAC, while NMU and IGFBP3 may reflect specific malignant epithelial or microenvironmental states requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aims to investigate the relationship between serum levels of integrin alpha M (ITGAM), CX3CR1, and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) (microglial activation markers) and the development and severity of postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) in elderly patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). This observational study included 246 patients aged 60-80 years undergoing CPB. Serum levels of ITGAM, CX3CR1, and iNOS were measured preoperatively and early postoperatively (within 6 hours after surgery). Cognitive function was assessed preoperatively and 7 days postoperatively using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and a comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was employed to evaluate the predictive value of the biomarkers. Among the participants, 94 patients developed POCD, while 152 did not. Patients with POCD exhibited significantly higher early postoperative serum levels of ITGAM, CX3CR1, and iNOS compared to non-POCD patients. ROC analysis indicated moderate predictive accuracy for each biomarker individually (AUC: ITGAM = 0.78, CX3CR1 = 0.72, iNOS = 0.74), with a notable improvement when biomarkers were combined (AUC = 0.87). MoCA scores at 7 days postoperatively showed significant negative correlations with biomarker levels, while positive correlations were observed between biomarker levels and serum neuron-specific enolase, a marker of neuronal injury. Elevated postoperative serum levels of ITGAM, CX3CR1, and iNOS are strongly associated with the development and severity of POCD in elderly patients undergoing CPB. These biomarkers show promise as predictive tools for early identification of at-risk patients and may represent potential therapeutic targets for mitigating POCD by modulating microglial activation.
The mechanisms underlying the interactions between disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) and their tissue microenvironment during metastatic colonization are currently poorly understood. We integrated multimodal single-cell and spatial profiling from liver cancer mouse models and human metastases to track the spatiotemporal dynamics of DTCs and their microenvironments from single-cell seeding to overt lung metastasis. We identified a residual population of quiescent Phgdhhigh DTCs that survived initial innate immune clearance and became transiently enriched in micrometastases. These cells shaped an immune-scarce microenvironment through PHGDH-dependent, H3K27me3-mediated epigenetic silencing of chemokine transcription, thereby promoting metastatic expansion. Cx3cr1high interstitial macrophages were also transiently enriched before DTC expansion, creating an immune-privileged niche for metastatic outgrowth by recruiting immunosuppressive cells. Inactivating the PHGDH-H3K27me3 axis in DTCs or depleting interstitial macrophages restored immune surveillance and inhibited metastatic colonization. These findings provide insights into the development of micrometastasis-targeting regimens.
Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) symptoms frequently overlap in neurological acute crises (ACs) presenting with seizures, stroke-like episodes (SLE), and headaches. Recent efforts to develop a prospective drug trial highlighted the need for a new outcome measure capable of quantifying these symptoms during an SWS AC. We aimed to develop such a measure and evaluate its practical application.The Sturge Weber Acute Crisis (SWAC) index was developed based on clinical care guidelines and experience. We retrospectively applied the SWAC to an open-label prospective drug trial published in 2020; SWAC scores were assigned for every AC during 6-month baseline and treatment phase periods.Six of 10 subjects experienced 670 ACs; only 78/670 ACs were included in the primary quantitative analyses (one subject was an extreme outlier) and 71/78 events were single-symptom while 7/78 included multiple symptoms. Three of six subjects experienced improved median seizure total score; all three improved their median SLE total score. Three of five subjects with headache improved their median headache total score. Poisson-log GLMM models demonstrated significant improvements in composite severity and total, SLE duration and total, and headache severity and total index scores.The newly developed SWAC index, applied retrospectively, reflected site-PI clinical experience, quantified the severity and duration of SWS ACs ranging from mild to severe, and better enabled comparison of treatment versus baseline responses. These results support additional studies with the SWAC index to further assess clinical utility and use in future treatment trials in SWS.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of the Child Neurology Society published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Child Neurology Society.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Intramuscular fat (IMF) in beef contains abundant sweet and umami compounds, which largely determine the flavor and commercial value of beef. Previous studies have demonstrated that lncBNIP3 regulates bovine IMF deposition; however, whether and how it affects the metabolism of flavor-related lipids remains poorly understood. In this study, we hypothesized that lncBNIP3 influences the lipid metabolic profile of intramuscular adipocytes. To test this, we performed an integrated metabolome-transcriptome analysis on bovine intramuscular adipocytes transfected with siRNA against lncBNIP3, aiming to characterize the metabolic shifts and identify candidate genes and pathways associated with lncBNIP3 function. Firstly, Quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) confirmed the efficient knockdown of lncBNIP3 using small interfering RNA (siRNA) in bovine intramuscular adipocytes. Subsequently, metabolomic sequencing was performed on lncBNIP3-knockdown intramuscular adipocytes on day 6 of differentiation. A total of 1433 metabolites were identified, including 101 differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs). These DAMs encompassed various phospholipids (e.g., Glycophosphoinositol) and unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) such as Docosapentaenoic acid (22n-6) and Docosahexaenoic acid. Functional enrichment analysis of DAMs highlighted key pathways: Glycerophospholipid metabolism, Phospholipase D signaling pathway, and Arachidonic acid metabolism. Integrated analysis of DAMs and previously identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) further confirmed the most significant enrichment in Glycerophospholipid metabolism. LncBNIP3 knockdown significantly reduced the levels of multiple phospholipids and while upregulating the mRNA expression of three phospholipid hydrolysis-related genes (PLA2G16, PLA2R1, and DGKG). Concurrently, most UFAs showed increased abundance, whereas the fatty acid desaturase genes FADS1, FADS2, and FADS3 were significantly suppressed. In conclusion, our integrative analysis reveals that lncBNIP3 knockdown is associated with enhanced phospholipid hydrolysis and increased UFA content, potentially mediated by altered expression of phospholipid hydrolysis-related genes and the FADS gene family. These findings provide a metabolic and transcriptomic landscape for lncBNIP3 function in bovine intramuscular adipocytes and offer a foundation for future mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Lymph node tuberculosis (LNTB) is the most common form of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (TB). The symptoms of LNTB lack specificity, making diagnosis difficult and increasing the likelihood of missed or incorrect diagnoses. Along with IFN-γ Release Assay (IGRA), the detection method using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) can simultaneously detect IFN-γ and interleukin-2 (IL-2). However, the diagnostic value and expression levels of IFN-γ and IL-2 in patients with LNTB remain unclear.A total of 95 patients with enlarged lymph nodes were enrolled. Baseline data were collected, including age, gender, history of TB, histopathology, microbiology test results, and blood levels of IFN-γ and IL-2. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to investigate the diagnostic effect of the IFN-γ and IL-2. A double antibody sandwich ELISA was used to detect the concentrations of IFN-γ and IL-2 in culture supernatants.Based on ROC curves, the cut-off values for IFN-γ/IL-2 for differentiating LNTB from non-TB-lymphadenopathy (LAP) were determined to be 58.267 and 12.207 pg/mL, respectively. In patients with LNTB and non-TB-LAP, the sensitivity of IFN-γ/IL-2 in parallel was 83.33% (95% CI: 71.71-90.99), significantly higher (p < 0.05) than that for IFN-γ alone. The highest specificity (93.10%) (95% CI: 75.78-98.8) was observed when IFN-γ and IL-2 were applied in tandem.The combined detection of IFN-γ and IL-2 showed good diagnostic efficacy in LNTB. In addition, in patients diagnosed with LNTB, the expression level of IL-2 may be related to the burden of MTB and the severity of TB infection.Copyright (c) 2026 Chun Zhang, Yu Chen, Jun Huang, Ying Liu, Hao Zhang, Tianxing Hang, Lili Huang, Jianqi Gao, Chunmei Hu.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the world's deadliest infectious diseases and is the leading infectious disease killer globally. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is currently the only licensed vaccine for TB prevention, but it has limitations in preventing latent infection and TB reactivation. To overcome these limitations, this study selected the secreted antigen Rv3904c (EsxE) to construct the recombinant prokaryotic expression plasmid pET21b-Rv3904c, and the recombinant protein rEsxE was expressed and purified. The antigen specificity of rEsxE was further confirmed by measuring cytokine levels released from peripheral blood cells of Mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected individuals upon rEsxE stimulation using a chemiluminescence assay. The results showed that rEsxE stimulated M. tuberculosis-infected individuals to produce high levels of Th1-type cytokines. Mice were immunized with rEsxE formulated in MnJ adjuvant, and serum specific antibodies, cytokine levels secreted by splenocytes, and the numbers of polyfunctional T cells in the spleen were assessed. The results demonstrated that the BCG prime-rEsxE/MnJ boost strategy induced the highest levels of specific IgG antibodies, with an IgG2c/IgG1 ratio greater than 1, indicating a Th1-skewed immune bias. Upon stimulation with rEsxE or BCG-PPD, splenocytes from this group secreted significantly higher levels of Th1-type cytokines (IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-2) than those from the BCG alone and rEsxE/MnJ groups. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that the BCG+rEsxE/MnJ group had the highest numbers of IFN-γ⁺/IL-2⁺ double-positive CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T cells in the spleen. The in vitro mycobacterial growth inhibition assay provided additional evidence that the prime‑boost regimen augments the capacity of splenocytes to restrict mycobacterial growth. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that rEsxE is immunogenic and that the BCG prime‑rEsxE/MnJ boost strategy elicits robust Th1‑biased immune responses as well as ex vivo mycobacterial growth inhibitory function, thereby supporting the further development of this approach as a candidate tuberculosis subunit vaccine.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamilies comprise 47 proteins that regulate immune signaling and T cell costimulation. While TNF inhibitors are established therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs), their efficacy is limited by primary non-response and secondary loss of efficacy. Preclinical data suggest that the TNF/TNFR members exhibit redundant and synergistic signaling, motivating combination targeting strategies.We have systematically evaluated TNF/TNFR combinations as potential immunotolerance targets using integrated computational and experimental approaches. We applied a gene prioritization framework incorporating transcriptomics, genetics, druggability, and pathway regulation data to derive disease association scores for the TNF/TNFR genes in rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these scores and T cell expression profiling, ten targets were prioritized for a combinatorial screen using clinical-stage and preclinical pharmacological inhibitors in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. The effects of the most promising combinations were further characterized by RNA sequencing.The combinatorial screen identified four drug combinations that significantly suppressed T cell production of IL-2 and IFN-γ: TNF+CD40L, TNF+OX40L, CD40L+OX40L, and CD40L+LTβ/LIGHT. Transcriptional profiling revealed that these combinations broadly downregulated genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production that were induced during the allogeneic response. Notably, the co-inhibition of TNF and CD40L (Adalimumab+Dapirolizumab) produced the most robust suppression, uniquely downregulating 337 genes enriched for key T cell activation pathways, including NF-κB and ERK1/2.These findings demonstrate that the combinatorial antagonism of TNF/TNFR superfamily members can potently suppress allogeneic T cell responses, with the TNF+CD40L combination showing particularly strong and broad effects. The results support the continued preclinical evaluation of combinatorial TNF/TNFR inhibition as a potential tolerance-inducing therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory IMIDs.Copyright © 2026 Veerasubramanian, Zang, Amancha, Wynn, Quan and Karlsson.
To establish a plaque immune microenvironment classification system and explore whether multimodal ultrasound may aid in the non-invasive identification of high-risk subtypes.This exploratory study investigated the association between PCA-derived immune subtypes and multimodal ultrasound features.This prospective study included 50 patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Seven immunohistochemistry (IHC) markers: interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), IL-2, cluster of differentiation 11b (CD11b), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and microvessel density (MVD) were assessed. Principal component analysis (PCA) and hierarchical clustering defined immune subtypes. Preoperative conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) evaluated vulnerability score, plaque thickness, and intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) grade.Hierarchical clustering revealed three functional modules: core pro-inflammatory (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-2, IFN-γ), angiogenesis-macrophage (CD11b, MVD), and MPO-alone. PCA classified 50 plaques into four subtypes: Type I (inflammation-dominated, n=8), Type II (angiogenesis-dominated, n=14), Type III (high inflammation and high angiogenesis, n=11), and Type IV (stable, n=17). Type III plaques had highest inflammatory factors and MVD, with 45.5% experiencing recent ischemic events. Ultrasound vulnerability score correlated with IL-6 (r=0.54) and MVD (r=0.52); IPN grade correlated strongly with MVD (r=0.69). Type III showed a "high-risk triad": high vulnerability score (median 5.0), increased thickness (0.45 cm), and high IPN grade (45.5% grade 3). Type II had isolated high IPN grade (71.4% ≥ grade 2).PCA-based immune subtyping of carotid plaques appears feasible. Multimodal ultrasound, particularly vulnerability score and IPN grade, may aid in the non-invasive identification of high-risk subtypes, suggesting a potential imaging strategy for plaque risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Restoring durable allergen tolerance remains a challenge in the treatment of allergic asthma. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) represent attractive therapeutic targets since they can potently restrain allergen-specific type 2 effector T cell (Th2) responses. Agents that expand Tregs and enhance their function, such as interleukin-2 (IL-2)-based therapies, have been explored, but limited specificity has constrained their efficacy. IL-2 muteins have been engineered to preferentially target Tregs but have not been studied in the context of allergic inflammation.We explored the effects of the IL-2 mutein Fc.mut24 on allergen-induced type 2 airway inflammation.C57BL/6 mice were injected subcutaneously with Fc.mut24 in a house dust mite model of allergic airway inflammation, and clinical, cellular, and molecular biomarkers of the disease were assessed.In naïve mice, Fc.mut24 induced a rapid and transient expansion of activated Tregs in the lung. Fc.mut24 treatment prior to allergen sensitization abrogated the emergence of allergen-specific Th2 cells in the lung and prevented allergic airway inflammation and airway hyperreactivity. Further, Fc.mut24-pretreated mice failed to mount a Th2 recall response and did not develop lung inflammation upon allergen rechallenge during the memory phase, suggesting long-term protection. Maintenance of this protection required Tregs, as deletion of Tregs abolished the protective effect of Fc.mut24. In contrast, Fc.mut24 administered during the memory phase did not suppress the Th2 recall response and did not prevent allergic airway inflammation following rechallenge.Fc.mut24 therapy prevented allergic airway inflammation when delivered before Th2 cell priming but was insufficient to overcome established allergen-specific type 2 responses, defining a time-dependent window for effective Treg-directed intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hepatitis-hydropericardium syndrome (HHS) caused by fowl adenovirus serotype 4 (FAdV-4) has led to substantial economic losses in the poultry industry. Subunit vaccines based on the knob domains of Fiber1 and Fiber2 (F1F2K) are safe but exhibit limited immunogenicity. To address this, we sought to enhance the immune response by presenting F1F2K on self-assembling Mi3 nanoparticles (F1F2K:Mi3) and to compare its efficacy with the F1F2K monomer. F1F2K was conjugated to Mi3 via the SpyTag/SpyCatcher system. Chickens were immunized twice with F1F2K:Mi3 nanoparticles, F1F2K monomer, Mi3, or PBS, and then challenged with a lethal dose of FAdV-4. Humoral and cellular immune responses were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), virus neutralization tests, and cytokine assays. Compared with the F1F2K monomer, F1F2K:Mi3 nanoparticles induced significantly higher antigen-specific IgG titers at 28 days post-vaccination (dpv) and a 2.5-log₂ increase in neutralizing antibody titers. Nanoparticle immunization also elicited stronger T helper 1/T helper 2 (Th1/Th2) cytokine responses (IFN-γ, IL-4, and IL-2). Following challenge, all chickens in both the nanoparticle and monomer groups survived. However, compared with the F1F2K monomer group, the F1F2K:Mi3 group exhibited less weight loss, lower tissue viral loads, reduced viral shedding, and markedly less liver damage, thereby more effectively blocking FAdV-4 pathogenicity in target organs. Our study demonstrates that displaying the F1F2K antigen on Mi3 nanoparticles synergistically enhances both humoral and cellular immune responses against FAdV-4, providing a promising next-generation nanoparticle vaccine strategy for HHS control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chimonanthus salicifolius has traditionally been used for the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders. In this study, a systematic phytochemical investigation of this plant was conducted, leading to the isolation and identification of two previously undescribed furan glycosides, salicifoliosides A (1) and B (2). Structurally, these compounds feature a rare structural motif consisting of an α,β-unsaturated furanone aglycone esterified with a p-coumaroyl unit, a combination scarcely reported in natural products. Spectroscopic and chemical analyses established that 1 and 2 are cis-trans geometric isomers, offering a unique framework to investigate configuration-dependent properties and expanding the structural diversity of furan glycosides. To evaluate their potential relevance to functional dyspepsia (FD), we adopted a prediction‑to‑validation strategy. Network pharmacology analysis and molecular docking identified matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) as a potential target. In a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated Caco‑2 cell model, compounds 1 and 2 significantly inhibited the secretion of MMP2 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), consistent with the earlier in silico predictions. Notably, compound 1 also reduced interleukin-2 (IL-2) levels, suggesting a configuration-dependent effect. This study highlights a previously unrecognized natural product scaffold and provides initial evidence linking its structure to anti-inflammatory activity, offering new insights into structure-activity relationship studies and drug discovery.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Cancer patient-derived T cells often exhibit impaired activation and functional responsiveness due to chronic antigen exposure and therapy-induced immune dysregulation, limiting the efficacy of current immunotherapies. Mechanical forces, such as fluid shear stress (FSS), are emerging as critical regulators of immune cell activation, yet their role in modulating activation of patient-derived T cells remains largely unexplored. In this study, primary T cells isolated from patients with metastatic prostate cancer were exposed to FSS using a cone-and-plate viscometer during ex vivo activation in the presence and absence of bead-bound anti-CD3/CD28 monoclonal antibodies. FSS alone was sufficient to induce NF-κB phosphorylation and intracellular cytokine synthesis, demonstrating that mechanical stimulation can independently initiate T cell activation signaling. Moreover, FSS combined with anti-CD3/CD28 stimulation produced a synergistic increase in activation signaling, IL-2 and IFN-γ production, and CD25/CD69 expression. While trends were consistent across donors overall, inter-patient variability reflected differences in baseline T cell phenotype, with naïve-like cells displaying greater mechanosensitivity. These results indicate that cancer patient-derived T cells retain mechanotransduction capacity despite reduced antigen responsiveness. Incorporating FSS as a co-stimulatory signal during ex vivo expansion may be more effective at priming patient T cells for activation, enhancing effector function, and improving the efficacy of adoptive cell therapies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) predicts poor prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Hypoxia is a critical tumor microenvironmental regulator, yet its detailed mechanism linking to VM formation remains poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the role of hypoxic endothelial cells in promoting NSCLC aggressiveness and VM formation. We integrated clinical data analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), transcriptomic profiling, and multiple in vitro and in vivo functional validations to consolidate our findings. Clinical NSCLC data revealed a positive correlation between endothelial expression of the hypoxia marker carbonic anhydrase IX (CA9) and VM activity. Conditioned medium from hypoxic HUVECs promoted NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, stemness, and VM network formation in vitro. Endothelial HIF-1α overexpression accelerated tumor growth and VM in vivo. Transcriptomics screening pinpointed the calcium channel gene Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3) as the core downstream effector in this hypoxic endothelial paracrine signaling. Follow-up mechanistic assays revealed that hypoxic endothelial supernatant and the ITPR3 inhibitor 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) activated calcium/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling to promote malignant phenotypes in NSCLC, and these effects were further validated by ITPR3 knockdown. In conclusion, hypoxia-activated endothelial cells drive NSCLC aggressiveness and VM through a paracrine axis involving ITPR3-mediated ER calcium activation. This HIF-1α/ITPR3 axis represents a potential therapeutic target for disrupting the tumor-vascular niche in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chondromyxoid fibroma (CMF) is a rare benign bone tumor characterized by lobulated growth, chondromyxoid stroma, and GRM1 rearrangement. Here, we describe 3 cases of CMF with limited or no chondromyxoid stroma. The patients (2 males and 1 female) were 14-18 years old and had lesions in the tibial diaphysis, rib, and pubic bone. The tumors measured 24-60 mm, and were central in 2 cases and juxtacortical in 1 case. Treatment included curettage and resection, and the tumors did not recur for 2 to 8 years after surgery. Histologically, all 3 tumors comprised sheets of uniform, non-atypical, ovoid or short spindle cells interspersed with numerous osteoclast-like giant cells. Delicate pericellular eosinophilic matrix was focally deposited in all cases, which showed chicken-wire calcification in 2 cases. Osteoid deposition in a conglomerate pattern was observed in 2 cases. Aneurysmal bone cystic changes were present in all cases. Chondromyxoid stroma was present only in ~ 10% and < 5% of the tumor volume in 2 cases, whereas it was absent in the remaining case. All 3 cases showed diffuse immunohistochemical expression of GRM1, and GRM1 rearrangement was confirmed with fluorescence in situ hybridization. CMF with limited or no chondromyxoid stroma is a rare variant that histologically overlaps with other giant cell-rich tumors. Recognition of this pattern is essential for appropriate clinical management, and the demonstration of GRM1 rearrangement and overexpression provides strong support for this challenging diagnosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Metabolic competition and nutrient restriction in the tumor microenvironment (TME) shape the immune infiltrate in tumors and subsequently tumor immunity. In this study we used the transgenic melanoma mouse model tg(Grm1)EPv, which spontaneously develops melanoma due to the ectopic expression of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (Grm1) in melanocytes to investigate if aberrant glutamate metabolism drives tumor formation and affects immune cell function.We performed liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based metabolomic analyses and RNA sequencing on tumor-free and tumor-bearing tg(Grm1)EPv tissues to characterize metabolic alterations associated with tumor progression. Flow cytometry was used to examine changes in immune cell subsets within the TME. To assess the functional relevance of glutamate metabolism, we inhibited glutathione metabolism using L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of glutamate-cysteine ligase that depletes cellular glutathione levels.LC-MS/MS-based metabolomic analyses and RNA sequencing revealed changes in glutamate and glutamine metabolism, a glycolytic shift (Warburg effect), and reduced ATP levels in advanced tumors compared with tumor-free tissue, suggesting respiratory chain dysfunction. These metabolic changes in the TME are advantageous for the tumor cells and unfavorable for immune cells, such as dendritic cells (DC). Indeed, flow cytometry analysis of myeloid subsets during tumor progression showed a decline in tumor-infiltrating conventional type 2 DC and macrophages, alongside an increase in neutrophil and monocyte populations in advanced lesions. Interference with glutamate metabolism using BSO induced immunogenic cell death, namely ferroptosis, in an tg(Grm1)EPv-derived cell line in vitro. Therefore, we evaluated the combination of this inhibitor with immunotherapy as a promising new approach for the treatment of tumors in the tg(Grm1)EPv mouse model. We observed that tumor growth could be delayed in vivo when BSO was combined with a therapy regimen boosting DC numbers and activation. This inhibition of tumor growth was supported by the infiltration of activated T cells.Overall, our findings provide novel insights into the importance of combining metabolic intervention with immunotherapy for the treatment of patients with melanoma, particularly those bearing glutamate pathway-active or immunologically cold tumors. This knowledge can drive the design of novel therapeutic strategies for patients with cancer.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
This study establishes a multidimensional screening-verification framework for the precise identification of umami peptides from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) proteins and the atomic-level elucidation of their dual-targeting mechanisms. By integrating bioinformatic virtual hydrolysis, ADMET-based safety profiling, and machine learning (Mlp4Umami) predictions, a 639-member peptide library was systematically prioritized. Molecular docking and 200 ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were employed to evaluate the binding landscapes of candidates with umami receptors T1R1/T1R3 and the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (GRM1). Experimental validation via electronic tongue and sensory evaluation identified a pentapeptide, AGPNY, as a potent flavor enhancer with a remarkably low threshold of 0.0625 mg/mLapproximately 4.8-fold more potent than monosodium glutamate (MSG). MM/GBSA binding free energy analysis and per-residue decomposition revealed that electrostatic interactions are the primary driving force for binding. Specifically, AGPNY is anchored within receptor pockets through an intricate hydrogen-bonding and salt-bridge network with key residues, notably Asp147 and Arg277 in T1R1. This integrated "computational prediction-molecular simulation-experimental validation" paradigm provides a high-precision methodological framework for the discovery of plant-derived flavor enhancers and offers significant implications for the rational design of functional food additives.© 2026 The Authors. Co-published by University of Science and Technology of China and American Chemical Society.
Pulmonary stenosis (PS) is a common form of congenital heart disease (CHD) that impairs cardiopulmonary function and can be life-threatening in severe cases. As a complex polygenic disorder, the genetic basis of PS remains incompletely understood.Rare pathogenic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) were identified from whole-exome sequencing (WES) data of 185 sporadic PS patients and 100 healthy controls using multiple pathogenicity-filtering strategies. Gene-level burden test was performed, with complementary analysis using sequence kernel association test-optimal (SKAT-O). Three machine learning algorithms-least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), random forest (RF), and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost)-were applied to prioritize candidate genes. The overlap between machine learning-based selections and burden test results was systematically evaluated. Final candidate genes were further prioritized through protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and their expression in human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAECs) was assessed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Comparative analyses showed that different machine learning algorithms exhibited distinct feature selection patterns, with RF demonstrating the highest concordance with burden test results. A total of 17 candidate genes were prioritized (HAND2, SETD2, KDM6B, NCOR2, FLNB, NOTCH3, DNAH5, PLEC, COL5A1, KIF7, CLTCL1, XRN1, ITPR2, SCRIB, PYGB, IQGAP3, and SHC2).These findings indicate that machine learning can complement conventional gene-based analyses of WES data. This study provides a set of candidate genes associated with PS and offers a basis for further investigation of its genetic architecture.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Liu, Yang, Zhao, Xu and Wu.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is an aggressive biliary tract cancer with limited treatment options, underscoring the need for breakthrough precision therapies. Neoantigen-based therapy is a promising novel strategy for cancer treatment. This study investigates the potential of neoantigen peptides in CCA, emphasizing their role in personalized immunotherapy and providing insights for vaccine design.Paired samples from 33 CCA patients underwent whole-exome sequencing and RNA sequencing to profile the mutational and neoantigen landscape. Besides, personalized neoantigen peptides were synthesized and immunogenicity was validated through enzyme-linked immunospot assay. Meanwhile, corresponding T cell receptor (TCR) sequences were predicted by bioinformatics.TP53 was the most frequently mutated gene (57.58%) and a significant positive correlation between tumor mutational burden and neoantigen load was observed (r = 0.6511, p < 0.0001). A total of 798 neoantigens were identified in 22 samples, predominantly characterized by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) A02:07 and A02:01. Additionally, 16 neoantigen peptides from three CCA patients were successfully synthesized and these peptides induced robust T-cell responses, with the most potent epitopes derived from UBN1, C2orf47 and ITPR2. Moreover, bioinformatic analysis further predicted in silico putative TCR sequences potentially associated with the candidate neoantigens. In Pt01, the Vβ5-6Jβ1-2 sequence had the highest predicted affinity; in Pt02, the Vβ2Jβ1-4 sequence had the highest predicted affinity; and in Pt03, the Vβ29-1Jβ2-7 sequence had the highest predicted affinity. The sequence motifs of the high-frequency TCR clusters were also demonstrated.Our findings show that candidate immunogenic neoantigen peptides can be identified in CCA and are supported by proof-of-concept functional validation. Together, these results provide a framework for the downstream validation of neoantigen targets and the development of personalized immunotherapy approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
The placenta shapes fetal brain development through metabolic and epigenetic regulation. The BTBR T+ Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) mouse provides a valuable model of neurodevelopmental vulnerability. This study investigates the cellular and spatial distribution of lipid metabolic and epigenetic alterations within the BTBR placenta.We analyzed mid-gestation (12.5 days post coitum) placentas from BTBR and control (C57BL/6J) mice. Using three-dimensional confocal microscopy and immunohistochemistry, we quantified lipid droplet (LD) architecture, the distribution of the phospholipase PLA2G4E, and specific histone modifications (H3K9 butyrylation and H3K4 trimethylation).Trophoblast giant cells in BTBR placentas exhibit a marked shift toward smaller lipid droplets, indicating altered lipid remodeling and fragmentation without a reduction in total lipid storage capacity. PLA2G4E displayed conserved, compartment-specific localization across placental layers. At the chromatin level, BTBR placentas showed increased H3K9 butyrylation in trophoblast giant cells and decidua, alongside decreased H3K4 trimethylation in the junctional zone and labyrinth compared to B6 placentas. These integrated metabolic and epigenetic alterations converge primarily within trophoblast giant cells.These findings define a metabolic-epigenetic placental phenotype in the BTBR mouse and support a model in which altered lipid droplet remodeling is associated with distinct chromatin states in key placental cell populations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Alveolar socket healing post-extraction is accompanied by alveolar bone loss, which is negative to subsequent prosthetic rehabilitation. Plant-derived exosome-like nanovesicles are extracellular vehicles with great potential for disease treatment and are advantageous for drug delivery and absorption. Herein, we report the mineralization-promoting effects of Drynaria roosii-derived exosome-like nanovesicles (DRDENs) on osteoblasts and in a mouse alveolar socket healing model. DRDENs were isolated and characterized. Treatment with DRDENs increased the formation of calcium nodules and the expression of osteogenic differentiation markers (ALP, RUNX2, and OCN) in osteoblasts. Compounds analysis of DRDENs revealed a previously unexplored component, naringenin chalcone. We evaluated the properties of naringenin chalcone and its bioactivity on osteoblast differentiation. In vivo studies confirmed the safety and efficacy of DRDENs and naringenin chalcone in bone regeneration. The mechanism was demonstrated in which DRDENs were endocytosed by cells, and naringenin chalcone was released to interact with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3) in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), thereby activating downstream calcium flux to enhance bone formation. Additionally, chalcone isomerase (CHI), a key enzyme involved in naringenin chalcone production in Drynaria roosii, was purified and functionally identified as a type I CHI with weak II CHI activity. Our findings provided a novel strategy for alveolar socket healing and shed light on the function of CHI in Drynaria roosii.© 2026. The Author(s).
Maternal immune activation (MIA) shapes fetal growth and neurodevelopment, in part by disrupting immune homeostasis at the maternal-fetal interface, thereby contributing to developmental abnormalities such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In women with a history of influenza A virus (IAV) infection, we found an enrichment off CD56dimCD16+CD49a- natural killer (NK) cells displaying enhanced NKG2D expression in the decidua basalis, as assessed at delivery. Using IAV- and poly I:C-induced MIA mouse models, we demonstrated that MIA significantly increases the proportion of NK cells at the maternal-fetal interface, characterized by elevated expression of NKG2D, with this local accumulation persisting until late gestation. Importantly, in the poly I:C model, blocking maternal NKG2D through two administrations alleviated prenatal cortical dysplasia, as well as enhancing dendritic plasticity, neural progenitor cells proliferation, and the morphological and transcriptomic changes in cortical excitatory neurons, accompanied by improved ASD-like behaviors in the offspring. However, a single peripheral NKG2D blockade failed to rescue neurodevelopment retardation. In addition, NKG2D blockade through two administrations altered neurodevelopment-related gene signatures, particularly in L2-4 Itpr1-expressing excitatory neurons. Key findings were further corroborated in the IAV model, highlighting NK cell modulation as a potential therapeutic strategy for maternal infection-associated neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and auriculocondylar syndrome 2A (ARCND2A) are distinct rare genetic disorders, each with characteristic clinical features. The simultaneous occurrence of these two syndromes is exceptionally rare and poses significant diagnostic challenges, especially in pediatric patients with complex phenotypes.We report a 3-year-old Turkish girl who presented with multiple café-au-lait macules and dysmorphic facial features. Initial single-gene sequencing revealed a variant in the NF1 gene; however, the presence of severe craniofacial anomalies prompted further investigation. Clinical exome sequencing identified a likely pathogenic PLCB4 variant, establishing a dual molecular diagnosis of NF1 and ARCND2A. Comprehensive radiological assessment, including brain and orbital MRI with temporal bone CT, and maxillo-mandibular computed cone beam tomography (CBCT), revealed both craniofacial anomalies and central nervous system lesions consistent with ARCND2A and NF1. Notable findings included dehiscence in the left superior semicircular canal, mandibular and left sphenoid wing hypoplasia, as well as NF1-related hamartomatous lesions and optic pathway involvement.The coexistence of NF1 and ARCND2A in a single pediatric patient complicates the clinical picture due to overlapping and atypical features. This dual diagnosis highlights the importance of considering multiple genetic etiologies when clinical findings cannot be fully explained by a single disorder. This case underscores the critical role of comprehensive genomic and radiological evaluation in children with unexplained or complex presentations. Recognizing the potential for multilocus genetic diagnoses is essential for accurate diagnosis, management, and genetic counseling.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Cervical cancer, the third most common cancer worldwide with 50% increase in mortality, is a growing public health concern. Recent research on non-coding RNAs including long coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and circular RNAs (circRNAs) highlights their key roles in carcinogenesis across different cancers; but the studies on lncRNA-circRNA-mRNA regulatory networks (tripartite network) are still lacking in cervical cancer. This study integrates transcriptomic data to analyse circRNA-lncRNA-mRNA interactions, focusing on immune signaling pathways. To further understand the biological relevance of these interactions, differentially expressed genes were identified using DESeq2/limma, followed by functional enrichment. A competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network was constructed in Cytoscape, with miRNA binding serving as the central connecting factor. The immune-focused subnetwork comprised 7 mRNAs, 14 circRNAs, and 80 lncRNAs. Different machine learning prognostic models based on the ncRNA network and individual RNAs including differentially expressed coding and non-coding RNAs were developed to assess prognostic performance. Among these, the LASSO model based on the circRNA-lncRNA-mRNA network showed the best overall performance, with AUC values of 0.77 in the training set and 0.89 in the test set. Model performance was also assessed using bootstrap resampling for internal validation to ensure robustness. DLEU1, ITPR1, hsa_circRNA_101206, and miR-210 were identified as key prognostic biomarkers. Docking, HPA validation, and immune infiltration analyses confirmed the miR-210:DLEU1:ITPR1 axis as a key immune regulator in cervical cancer. This network modelling approach establishes that combinatorial modelling of coding and non-coding elements outperforms individual approaches, providing a robust framework for prognostic stratification and therapeutic targeting in cervical cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Wilms tumor (WT) is the most common pediatric renal malignancy. Reliable prognostic markers are crucial for improving patient outcomes. Immune-related genes (IRGs) significantly influence tumor progression and the tumor microenvironment, yet their prognostic value in WT remains unclear. This study aimed to develop an immune-related prognostic model for WT and investigate its underlying molecular and immunological mechanisms. We analyzed RNA-seq data and clinical information from the TARGET-WT and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. Using differential expression analysis, we identified differentially expressed genes. We identified immune-related differentially expressed genes (DEIRGs) by intersecting differentially expressed genes with known IRGs. Using univariate and multivariate Cox regression along with Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression, we selected 4 DEIRGs and constructed a prognostic risk score model. We further analyzed the model's molecular and immunological characteristics. Four DEIRGs (epidermal growth factor [EGF], teratocarcinoma-derived growth factor 1 [TDGF1], leukotriene B4 receptor [LTB4R], and HLA-DMB) showed significant associations with overall survival in WT patients. The risk stratification model categorized patients into high- and low-risk groups, with significantly poorer survival in the high-risk group (P < .001). Enrichment analysis revealed that the high-risk group showed enrichment in oncogenic pathways (e.g., genome instability), whereas the low-risk group demonstrated enrichment in immune defense and homeostasis pathways. The high-risk group exhibited reduced tumor microenvironment (TME) immunoreactivity, with EGF and LTB4R emerging as key regulatory factors. Both EGF and LTB4R demonstrate differential expression across multiple tumor types and correlate significantly with TME scores. The immune-related prognostic model developed in this study elucidates the regulatory roles of EGF and LTB4R in Wilms tumor progression. This model effectively stratifies patients, enables accurate prognosis prediction, facilitates individualized treatment planning, and identifies potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Uveal melanoma is the most frequent primary intraocular malignancy in adults and is characterized by an aggressive clinical course, high propensity for hepatic metastasis, and poor survival after metastatic progression. Improvements in ocular imaging and local therapies have improved primary tumor control, but approximately half of patients will ultimately develop metastatic disease with poor treatment options. Recent advances in genomics and molecular biology have dramatically improved our understanding of uveal melanoma pathogenesis, with the discovery of activating mutations in GNAQ , GNA11 , CYSLTR2 , and PLCB4 as early oncogenic events that drive aberrant signaling through the protein kinase C (PKC), MAPK, PI3K/AKT, and Hippo-YAP pathways. Additional changes in BAP1 , SF3B1 , and EIF1AX as well as common chromosomal aberrations, contribute to tumor progression, metastatic risk and clinical heterogeneity. New insights into the distinct immune landscape of uveal melanoma, including low tumor mutational burden, immune-desert and immune-excluded phenotypes, a macrophage-dominant microenvironment, and hepatic immune tolerance, have provided important explanations for its poor response to conventional immunotherapies. This review summarizes current knowledge on the epidemiology, risk factors, molecular pathogenesis, tumor microenvironment, diagnostic innovations and prognostic biomarkers of UM. We also review novel developments in molecular profiling, liquid biopsy, artificial intelligence-assisted diagnostics, and precision oncology strategies, as well as novel therapeutic approaches such as tebentafusp, protein kinase C inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors, adoptive cell therapies, and liver-directed therapies. These advances are together changing the clinical management of uveal melanoma and provide new opportunities for personalized treatment, earlier detection of metastatic disease and improved patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
ObjectiveTo elucidate the role and underlying mechanism of bradykinin (BK) B2 receptor and its downstream inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (ITPR1)-mediated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release signaling in the development and maintenance of trigeminal neuropathic pain.MethodsA partial infraorbital nerve transection (pIONT) mouse model of trigeminal neuralgia was employed. Mechanical allodynia was assessed using von Frey filaments. The expression and localization of BK, B2 receptor, and related molecules in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), Western blot, and immunofluorescence staining. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed to evaluate TG neuronal excitability. Intracellular calcium signals induced by BK were monitored through Fluo-4 AM calcium imaging. Pharmacological and genetic interventions were conducted via local TG injection of B2 receptor antagonist Icatibant, ITPR1 inhibitor 2-APB, and Itpr1-siRNA.ResultspIONT induced persistent facial mechanical allodynia in mice, accompanied by a significant upregulation of BK mRNA and B2 receptor expression in the TG, which was primarily localized to myelinated neurons (NF200+), peptidergic neurons (CGRP+), and non-peptidergic neurons (IB4+). Local injection of Icatibant into the TG significantly alleviated mechanical nociceptive responses and reduced the hyperexcitability of nociceptive neurons. Calcium imaging showed that BK evoked ITPR1-dependent ER calcium release in TG neurons, which was abolished by both 2-APB and Itpr1-siRNA. Co-application of 2-APB also reversed BK-induced neuronal hyperexcitability and attenuated facial withdrawal responses.ConclusionFollowing peripheral nerve injury, the B2 receptor-ITPR1 signaling mediated ER calcium release represents an essential mechanism underlying the development and maintenance of trigeminal neuropathic pain. Targeting this signaling pathway effectively attenuates peripheral neuronal hyperexcitability, providing novel experimental evidence and potential therapeutic targets for the management of trigeminal neuralgia.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine and metabolic disorder that impairs ovarian function and fertility in reproductive-aged women. Despite extensive research, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying granulosa cell (GC) dysfunction and follicular arrest in PCOS remain incompletely understood. In this study, we identify PANoptosis-a newly characterized inflammatory programmed cell death pathway-as a critical driver of GC pathology in PCOS. Key PANoptosis regulators, including ZBP1, RIPK3, TLR4, and ITPR1, were markedly upregulated and predominantly localized within GCs from PCOS patients. Single-cell trajectory analysis further revealed that the expression of these genes progressively escalates during GC differentiation, indicating sustained PANoptotic stress along follicular maturation. Concurrently, gene set variation analysis demonstrated significant enrichment of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis pathways, underscoring PANoptosis as an integrated death mechanism contributing to GC failure. Molecular docking analysis identified baicalin, a bioactive flavonoid, as a potent binder of key PANoptosis effectors. To maintain physiological relevance, all functional validation experiments were carried out in primary human GC cultures supplemented with bovine follicular fluid (BFS), which preserves the native follicular microenvironment and ensures cellular viability and steroidogenic capacity; we further confirmed that baicalin's effects remained consistent under reduced BFS conditions, indicating that its activity is not an artefact of BFS components. Collectively, our findings elucidate a novel ZBP1-driven PANoptotic cascade underlying follicular arrest in PCOS. However, as the present work is exclusively based on in vitro data, we emphasize that baicalin should be viewed as a promising mechanistic lead rather than an established therapeutic agent; rigorous in vivo studies and clinical evaluation are indispensable prerequisites before any translational application can be considered. This study thus provides a solid molecular foundation for future intervention strategies, while highlighting the critical need for further validation in animal models and patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438055 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a substantial global health challenge due to high mortality rates. This study focused on constructing and validating a calcium metabolism-related genes (CAMRGs) signature for CRC outcome prediction.Transcriptomic and clinical data for CRC were integrated from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. A prognostic risk model was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-Cox regression analysis. The predictive performance of the model was validated using an external dataset (GSE17536). Furthermore, the expression levels of the identified prognostic genes were preliminarily assessed via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in clinical specimens.PRKCB, ATP2A3, PLCB4, and SLC25A6 were detected as prognostic genes and used to develop risk models. The risk model differentiated samples into high- and low-risk groups with notable variations in overall survival (OS) (P<0.0001), demonstrating favorable predictive performance [area under the curve (AUC) >0.6]. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) reflected marked enrichment of pathways related to metabolism and immune signaling (e.g., oxidative phosphorylation and chemokine signaling) between the two groups (P<0.05). Risk score, age, and pathological stage were defined as independent prognostic factors and the nomogram demonstrated strong predictive performance (AUC >0.8). Finally, RT-qPCR expression assessed the significantly lower expression of PRKCB and ATP2A3 and higher expression of PLCB4 in CRC patients compared to controls (P<0.05).A CAMRG signature was developed and preliminary examination of CRC prognosis prediction. This model might assist in risk assessment and inform individualized treatment strategies.© AME Publishing Company.
Neuronal synapses are eliminated during brain development and disease through pruning by glial cells. Individual synapses are marked for engulfment by 'eat-me' signals, which include externalized phosphatidylserine. In apoptotic cells, phosphatidylserine externalization is driven by caspase-dependent activation of Xkr scramblases1 and inactivation of specific flippases2. Localized caspase activation at neuronal synapses can mediate spatially-restricted synaptic phosphatidylserine exposure leading to synapse pruning by glial cells during development and neurodegeneration3-6. It is unknown which caspase-regulated flippases and scramblases promote synaptic phosphatidylserine exposure and whether there are any caspase-independent mechanisms of phosphatidylserine exposure relevant for synapse elimination. To address this question, we here develop a scalable CRISPR screening approach, COMPASS-seq (compartment-anchored sgRNA screen sequencing), to uncover the genetic underpinnings of subcellular phenotypes. COMPASS-seq is compatible with in vitro and in vivo systems and a wide range of subcellular compartments; we here apply it to the neuronal synapse. We discover that inhibition of the caspase-independent, calcium-activated anoctamin ANO3 (TMEM16C) is sufficient to increase synapse numbers in vivo. ANO3 co-localizes with IP3 receptor 1 (ITPR1), a calcium channel in the endoplasmic reticulum, to form a postsynaptic signaling platform that drives spatially restricted phosphatidylserine exposure at synapses. Activation of the ITPR1 calcium channel activity is sufficient to drive synaptic phosphatidylserine exposure via an ANO3-dependent but caspase-independent mechanism. Our results suggest a mechanism for integrating synaptic activity information to control synaptic pruning. The role of ANO3 in regulating synapses could shed light on the mechanisms underlying its numerous associations with both dementia7 and other neurological diseases8,9.
This study examines how testosterone levels and kisspeptin gene expression are affected in male Syrian hamsters following pinealectomy and photoperiod modification. By examining the rhythmic changes in these parameters under long (16L: 8D) and short (8L: 16D) photoperiods, we aim to elucidate the role of melatonin and photoperiod in regulating seasonal reproductive physiology. One hundred and ninety-two male Syrian hamsters were equally divided into four groups (n = 48/group). Two groups were pinealectomized (pinx) and the other two groups were sham-operated (control). Treatment and control groups were then exposed to either a long photoperiod (LP) of 16 hours light/8 hours dark or a short photoperiod (SP) of 8 hours light/16 hours dark for 30 days and then sampled at specific temporal intervals (ZT0, ZT4, ZT8, ZT12, ZT16, and ZT20) at which hypothalamic tissues and serum samples were collected. Kiss1 mRNA expression and protein levels were measured using qPCR and Western blotting, while testosterone and melatonin levels were determined via ELISA. Under a long photoperiod, Kiss1 mRNA expression and protein levels exhibited significant diurnal variation, peaking during the light phase (P < 0.05). Pinealectomy disrupted these rhythms, leading to altered testosterone levels. Under a short photoperiod, a marked change in Kiss1 expression and testosterone was also observed, emphasizing photoperiod and melatonin's role in synchronizing reproductive rhythms. These findings highlight the central role of melatonin not just in modulating levels, but also in synchronizing the daily reproductive rhythms necessary for seasonal adaptation.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) is a member of the endocrine subfamily of fibroblast growth factors. In mammals, FGF21 regulates glucose and lipid metabolism, and energy balance. Fgf21 was recently demonstrated to stimulate feed intake and regulate energy balance in zebrafish. The physiological mechanisms that regulate energy balance are tightly interlinked with reproduction. As a first step to extend our original findings on Fgf21 and energy balance, this research aimed to determine whether Fgf21 regulates the reproductive axis in zebrafish. Using quantitative PCR, we demonstrate the expression of fgf21, its receptor fgfr1c, and co-receptor β-klotho; and FGF21-like immunoreactivity (immunohistochemistry) in the zebrafish ovary and liver cells. These results suggest local production of FGF21 and possible actions within the ovary. Single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 1, 10, or 100 ng/g bodyweight FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated reproductive hormone genes in the brain; gonadotropin-releasing hormone isoforms (sgnrh/cgnrh-III) and kisspeptin (kiss1), and gonads; aromatase (cyp19a1a) and gonadotropin receptors (fshr, lhr) that are critical for reproductive success. FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated vitellogenin transcript levels and total vitellogenin concentration (ELISA) in zebrafish liver cells at 1 h and 24 h post-incubation, respectively. Lastly, at 100 ng/mL, FGF21 induced (ANOVA P < 0.05) oocyte maturation in vitro (determined by germinal vesicle breakdown quantification). These results support a very strong positive role for Fgf21 in the reproductive endocrine axis of zebrafish.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kisspeptin signaling is recognized as a metastasis-suppressive pathway, but its role in oncogenic HRAS-driven tumor progression remains incompletely understood. This study investigated whether kisspeptin signaling suppresses HRASG12V-induced tumorigenic and metastatic phenotypes in NIH3T3 cells and examined the involvement of SP1-dependent transcription of N-cadherin.NIH3T3 cells expressing HRASG12V, KISS1, and KISS1R were analyzed for proliferation, migration, invasion, luciferase reporter activity, anchorage-independent growth, and in vivo tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis. N-cadherin expression was examined by RT-PCR and immunoblotting. N-cadherin promoter regulation was analyzed using luciferase reporter and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays.Kisspeptin signaling reduced NIH3T3 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and activated SRF reporter activity through the KISS1R-Gaq/11-p63RhoGEF-RhoA pathway. In HRASG12V-expressing NIH3T3 cells, KISS1 reduced N-cadherin expression and suppressed anchorage-independent colony formation. HRASG12V increased N-cadherin promoter activity, whereas KISS1 reduced both basal and HRASG12V-induced promoter activation. Deletion of the SP1-responsive region abolished these effects, and chromatin immunoprecipitation showed reduced SP1 binding to the N-cadherin promoter. In vivo, KISS1 suppressed HRASG12V-induced tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis, and N-cadherin expression reversed these effects.Kisspeptin signaling suppresses HRASG12V-induced tumor growth and metastasis in NIH3T3 cells by inhibiting SP1-dependent transcription of N-cadherin.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Genotype-first screening compares patient genomes to a standard reference. The GRCh38 linear assembly contains reference minor alleles (RMAs), posing a critical structural vulnerability for automated clinical variant classification. To determine whether RMAs systematically generate false-positive annotations, we conducted an observational case series of 20 healthy adults undergoing preventive genome sequencing. Automated bioinformatic processing was performed using the GRCh38 linear reference to identify "high-impact" variant annotations generated at loci where GRCh38 differs from the population consensus major allele. Among all 20 participants (100%), linear alignment to GRCh38 systematically misclassified functional major alleles as false-positive "high-impact" annotations at three distinct loci (SLC37A4, CIMIP2A, and GPR33). These artifacts occurred solely because analysis software mathematically defined the healthy wild-type state as a deviation from the rare RMA. Cross-referencing with gnomAD confirmed these as population-dominant benign alleles. Furthermore, this inherent reference bias introduces a theoretical risk of false-negative classifications if RMAs mathematically mask true pathogenic variants. Automated pipelines using linear references systematically misclassify healthy alleles as high-impact functional annotations. While downstream population-frequency filters manage false-positive artifacts, this retrospective patching creates an unsustainable bottleneck for population-scale screening. Transitioning to graph-based pangenome references represents a highly promising approach to directly resolve these diagnostic vulnerabilities at the alignment level, though computational and standardization challenges must first be addressed to ensure the accuracy of large-scale aging research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Membranous nephropathy (MN), a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome, is associated with hypercoagulability and an increased risk of thromboembolic events; however, the relationship between coagulation-related alterations and the immune microenvironment remains incompletely understood. In this study, microarray datasets (GSE73953 and GSE140713) and single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE233275) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and a broad set of coagulation-related genes was retrieved from GeneCards. Differentially expressed coagulation-related genes (DECGs) between peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from MN patients and healthy controls were identified. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed, and candidate hub genes were prioritized using multiple topological algorithms. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed exploratorily to evaluate the cellular distribution and disease-associated expression patterns of hub genes across immune cell populations. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the apparent discriminatory performance of hub genes between MN and healthy control PBMC samples in an exploratory manner. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using CIBERSORTx, and correlations between hub genes, immune cell subsets, and coagulation-related genes were evaluated. In addition, glomerular proteomics data from PXD054062 were independently analyzed to explore potential links between systemic PBMC alterations and the local renal microenvironment. A total of 413 DECGs were identified, and five hub genes (CCL5, CYBB, C3AR1, JUN, and TIMP1) were prioritized. Among them, C3AR1 was closely associated with monocyte-related signatures and was positively correlated with the coagulation-related gene F2R. Glomerular proteomics analysis indicated enrichment of complement- and coagulation cascade-related proteins in MN samples, suggesting that local complement-related alterations may coexist with procoagulant or thrombo-inflammatory features in the kidney. Taken together, this study proposes a hypothesis-driven model in which C3a/C3AR1-related monocyte activation and F2R/PAR-1 expression may be interrelated with procoagulant and inflammatory features in MN. This model remains exploratory and requires direct validation in patient samples and mechanistic experiments. These findings may help generate testable hypotheses for future studies on MN-associated hypercoagulability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The photoperiod, an essential environmental factor influencing the growth, reproduction, and physiological functions of teleosts, exhibits effects that are highly species-specific. This study investigates the impact of five distinct photoperiod treatments on the growth performance, gonadal development, and hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis regulation in Phoxinus lagowskii, a high-latitude cold-water fish with significant aquaculture potential. Through comprehensive analyses of growth indices, serum sex hormone levels, gonadal histology, and gene expression, we demonstrate that photoperiod significantly affects the physiology of P. lagowskii. Females exhibited optimal growth and gonadal development under a 16L:8D photoperiod, with increased expression of key genes (gnrh2, gnrh3, kiss1, kiss2, cyp19a1, and foxl2) and elevated levels of gonadotropins (Fsh, Lh) and estradiol (E2). In contrast, males showed enhanced reproductive performance under an 8L:16D photoperiod, characterized by higher testosterone (T) levels and upregulated expression of dmrt1 and sox9a. The inverse relationship between the hepatosomatic index (HSI) and gonadosomatic index (GSI) suggests an energy trade-off between hepatic energy reserves and reproductive investment. Moreover, melatonin further regulates the HPG axis by affecting the synthesis and release of GnRH and kisspeptins, highlighting its role in mediating photoperiodic effects on reproduction. These findings underscore the sex-specific responses of P. lagowskii to photoperiod and provide critical insights into the physiological mechanisms underlying photoperiod regulation in cold-water fish. This study offers practical strategies for optimizing aquaculture practices to enhance growth and reproductive efficiency.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Food deprivation (FD) seriously affects puberty onset and oogenesis in female fishes. It has been suggested that meal-responsive peptides interact with hypothalamus-pituitary-ovary (HPO) functions; however, current knowledge regarding the integration of metabolism with reproduction remains inconclusive. In the present study, we investigated the effects of 7 days absolute FD on the reproductive system of adult female goldfish (Carassius auratus). The number of nonvitellogenic oocytes was higher in the food-deprived goldfish than in fed goldfish, whereas the number of vitellogenic oocytes was lower (P < 0.05). However, FD had no effects on gonadosomatic index, ovarian reserve, oocyte diameter at different growth stages, and circulating levels of 17-β estradiol and testosterone. Analysis of hypothalamus-pituitary hormones revealed no significant changes in kiss1, gprg54, or gnrh3 mRNA levels in the food-deprived goldfish, whereas circulating luteinizing hormone (Lh) level was increased (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that the FD-induced increase in Lh level was not mediated by activation of the Kiss-Gnrh system. Ovarian transcript of ghrelin O-acyltransferase (goat) mRNA, which encodes the enzyme that octanoylates ghrelin, was also increased in the food-deprived goldfish, along with decreases in hepatosomatic and viscerosomatic indices. Taken together, our results show that FD inhibits the growth of developing oocytes along with enhancement of posttranslational modification of ghrelin in the ovary. This study provides novel insight into the integration of metabolic signals with HPO hormones in the female fish.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Food deprivation (FD) seriously interferes with the female reproductive system. Our findings show FD-inhibited growth of developing oocytes along with decrease in hepatosomatic index, and increase in the ovarian goat mRNA encoding the enzyme for the acyl-modification of ghrelin. Sex steroid levels and kiss1, gpr54, and gnrh3 mRNAs remained unchanged, whereas circulating Lh was increased under FD. This study provides novel information to better elucidate integrative physiology of hypothalamus-pituitary-ovary with oocyte growth under FD.
Puberty is a key maturational process, highly dependent on energy resources. Ghrelin, a key orexigenic hormone that is increased during conditions of energy insufficiency, has been shown to partially inhibit puberty, acting via the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR). The hepatic peptide, LEAP2, has recently emerged as a potential GHSR antagonist involved in energy homeostasis, but its eventual function in pubertal regulation remains unexplored.To investigate the role of LEAP2 in the control of pubertal maturation using an integral translational approach combining clinical data and preclinical models.Circulating levels of LEAP2 were measured in prepubertal girls with obesity and in a preclinical model of overweight associated with advanced puberty. The impact of central acute and chronic administration of LEAP2 on various pubertal parameters was explored in female rats under distinct metabolic and hormonal conditions. The effects of LEAP2 on hypothalamic Kiss1 expression and Kiss1 neurons calcium activity were studied in rodent models.Circulating LEAP2 levels were elevated in prepubertal girls with obesity and in a preclinical model of overweight associated with advanced puberty. Central injection of LEAP2 increased luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in a dose-dependent manner in peripubertal female rats, either fed ad libitum or after 24-hour fasting, a condition known to elevate circulating ghrelin. Chronic central administration of LEAP2 in prepubertal female rats significantly advanced puberty onset; a phenomenon also observed in immature females subjected to 20% food restriction. The stimulatory effect of central LEAP2 on LH secretion was associated with increased hypothalamic Kiss1 expression. Analyses in brain slices from Kiss1-GCaMP mice showed that LEAP2 could attenuate ghrelin effects on calcium activity in RP3V and ARC Kiss1 neurons, which express Ghsr, supporting a modulatory effect at the level of the Kiss1 circuitry which drives GnRH release.Our data provide the first evidence of the role of LEAP2 in the metabolic control of pubertal maturation, acting potentially via Kiss1 neurons.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aging-associated knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is a degenerative joint disease with limited disease-modifying treatment options. Increasing evidence suggests that iron accumulation in aging joints drives oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation, potentially contributing to cartilage degeneration through ferroptosis. However, the cellular targets and molecular mechanisms underlying iron-driven ferroptotic injury in articular cartilage remain largely unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether menaquinone-7 (MK-7) acts as a mechanism-based intervention targeting GPR68 to protect Prg4⁺ chondrocytes from iron-driven ferroptosis and to define the underlying signaling mechanisms in aging-associated KOA.Clinical cartilage and synovial samples were analyzed to characterize iron accumulation and redox alterations in aging-associated KOA. Synovial metabolomic profiling was performed to identify changes in iron-related metabolic pathways. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, in vivo and ex vivo osteoarthritis models, including murine and equine systems, were established to examine ferroptosis-related changes in Prg4⁺ chondrocytes using histological, biochemical, and imaging-based analyses. GPR68 knockout mice were employed to determine the role of GPR68 in mediating iron-driven ferroptosis. Subsequently, in vitro experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of MK-7 on iron-induced ferroptosis in chondrocytes. Molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) were used to assess the interaction between MK-7 and GPR68. Downstream signaling analyses were performed to elucidate the involvement of the GPR68/MAPK/GPX4 axis.Clinical analyses and synovial metabolomic profiling revealed that aging-associated osteoarthritic joints exhibited marked iron accumulation accompanied by depletion of vitamin K2-related metabolites, suggesting profound redox remodeling in the joint microenvironment. Iron overload was preferentially associated with ferroptosis-like injury in Prg4⁺ superficial chondrocytes, characterized by enhanced lipid peroxidation, impaired GPX4-dependent antioxidant defense, and early extracellular matrix (ECM) damage. Mechanistically, iron overload selectively activated GPR68 and triggered a pathological MAPK/GPX4 feed-forward loop that amplified ferroptotic vulnerability in Prg4⁺ chondrocytes. Genetic ablation of GPR68 attenuated iron-driven ferroptotic injury and alleviated cartilage degeneration, confirming its critical role in this process. Among vitamin K2 isoforms, MK-7 directly bound to GPR68, restored GPX4-dependent redox homeostasis, and suppressed MAPK hyperactivation under iron overload. In vivo and ex vivo murine and equine models further demonstrated that intra-articular MK-7 administration reduced chondrocyte ferroptosis, preserved ECM integrity, and attenuated osteoarthritic progression.This study identifies iron-driven ferroptotic stress in Prg4⁺ superficial chondrocytes as a key pathological feature of aging-associated osteoarthritis. We demonstrate that GPR68 functions as a critical sensor linking iron-induced microenvironmental alterations to MAPK activation and GPX4-dependent redox imbalance, thereby promoting ferroptosis-associated cartilage degeneration. Importantly, we further show that MK-7 directly targets GPR68 to restore redox homeostasis, suppress ferroptotic injury, and preserve cartilage integrity in both in vivo and ex vivo models. These findings not only provide mechanistic insights into the role of iron-driven ferroptosis in osteoarthritis progression but also highlight MK-7 as a promising mechanism-based therapeutic candidate for disease modification in aging-associated KOA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Ion fluxes, regulated by membrane potential (Vm), are vital to white fat adipocyte (WFA) function and adipogenesis. These processes present a novel target to intervene in obesity. To explore this possibility we applied transcriptomics, immunohistochemistry, electrophysiology and adipogenesis assays alongside siRNA and pharmacological tools to identify the chloride-permeable channel(s) that determine Vm of WFA and to test whether those channels: specifically SWELL1 (Lrrc8 family), TTYH2/3 and EAAT1 regulate adipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis. RNA sequencing and qPCR indicated confirmed the existence of Lrrc8a, Lrrc8b, Lrrc8c, Lrrc8d, Ttyh2, Ttyh3, Slc1a1 and Ano1 transcripts across different primary fat depots of rats, mouse, as well as a subset within 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The corresponding protein products: SWELL1 (Lrrc8x), TTYH2/3 (Ttyh2/3) and, EAAT1 (Slc1a1) were found in both the plasma-membrane and cytoplasm of primary and differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes whereas TMEM16A protein was only in primary adipocytes and undifferentiated 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes. Functional studies showed that although siRNA knockdown or pharmacological blockade of SWELL1, TTYH2/3, or EAAT1 proteins did not affect Vm or electrophysiological characteristics, SWELL1 and TTYH2/3 knockdown significantly suppressed adipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis. Together, these findings reveal a role for SWELL1, TTYH2/3, and EAAT1 in adipogenesis and highlight their potential as targets for therapeutic strategies in obesity management. Although the precise chloride permeability responsible for adipocyte Vm remains to be defined, this work advances our understanding of adipocyte biology.© the author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546175 is a review article
Spontaneous phasic contractions (SPCs) in the epididymal duct play an important role in transport and maturation of sperm. In proximal cauda of the rat epididymis, platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRα)-positive smooth muscle cells (SMCs) generate ANO1 Ca2+-activated chloride channels (CaCCs)-dependent spontaneous transient inward currents (STICs) to electrically drive SPCs.Here, we explored whether epididymal ANO1+, PDGFRα+ cells may have region-specific functions in generating SPCs.Patch clamp technique was applied to isolated epididymal cells dispersed from the rat epididymis. Membrane potential changes and SPCs were recorded from epididymal tissue preparations using an intracellular microelectrode and video imaging, respectively. To verify ANO1 currents in PDGFRα+ SMCs, patch clamp recordings and immunohistochemistry were performed using PDGFRα-eGFP mice.Rat epididymal cells of both proximal cauda and caput developed spontaneous transient depolarizations (STDs) that were inhibited by Ani9 (3 µM), the ANO1-specific inhibitor, CPA (10 µM), a sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) inhibitor, or nifedipine (1 µM), an L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel (LVDCC) inhibitor. Ani9 (10 µM) slowed slow waves and associated SPCs in proximal cauda but not the caput. In the mouse epididymis, the proximal cauda consisted of a few layers of SMCs where SMCs in the innermost layer primarily expressed PDGFRα, whereas the caput was composed of one or two layers of PDGFRα+ SMCs. In both regions, Ani9 (3 µM) abolished STICs in PDGFRα+ SMCs that co-expressed ANO1. However, Ani9 (10 µM) slowed SPCs in the proximal cauda but not the caput.Despite the fact that epididymal PDGFRα+ SMCs in both the proximal cauda and caput develop ANO1-dependent STICs, they appear to serve as pacemaker cells driving SPCs in the proximal cauda, whereas corresponding cells in the caput have a role other than SPCs' pacemaking.© 2026 The Author(s). Andrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Spontaneous calcium (Ca2+) waves play a critical role as internal stimuli in the early developing auditory system before the onset of sensory experiences. However, neither the spatiotemporal control of spontaneous Ca2+ waves nor their impacts on auditory development are well understood. Here we report that a lateral array of inner supporting cells (ISCs) beneath the inner hair cells displays a spontaneous ultra-long, ultra-fast, transient Ca2+ flash, termed "Ca2+ lightning", which triggers a series of simultaneous bursts of Ca2+ waves in the whole cochlea, before the ear canal opening. The Ca2+ lightning margins the cochlear ISCs at different developmental stages that correspondingly exhibit different Ca2+ activities. Triggered by an ATP-induced high-level Ca2+ wave, the Ca2+ lightning rapidly propagates laterally into neighboring ISCs through the intricate interplay of the T-type Ca2+ channel, Anoctamin 1 (Ano1) Ca2+-activated Cl- channel and Connexin 26 (Cx26). The genetic deletion of Cav3.2, Ano1, or Cx26 abrogates Ca2+ lightning flashes and dysregulates cell development and functions in peripheral cochleae. We propose that cochlear Ca2+ lightning flashes orderly with Ca2+ waves together orchestrate the spatiotemporal maturation processes of the peripheral auditory system before the onset of hearing.© 2026 The Author(s). Exploration published by Henan University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511699 is a review article
Mitoxyperilysis is a recently described lytic cell death pathway linked to innate immune activation and metabolic disruption. Its clinical and biological relevance in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. This study aimed to develop a mitoxyperilysis-related signature (MRS) for prognostic stratification and to characterize its associated tumor microenvironmental features.Bulk transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA, GSE17536, and GSE29621 were used to construct and validate the MRS through an integrated machine-learning framework. Survival analysis, nomogram construction, pathway enrichment, immune deconvolution, ESTIMATE analysis, immunophenoscore-related assessment, and drug-response prediction were performed. Single-cell RNA sequencing and cell-cell communication analyses were used to define the cellular context of the MRS-associated phenotype. ANO1 was further evaluated by pan-cancer and CRC-specific analyses and validated by in vitro and in vivo experiments.The MRS consistently stratified overall survival across the training and validation cohorts and improved individualized risk prediction when incorporated into a nomogram. The MRS-high subtype was associated with extracellular matrix remodeling, invasion-related pathways, stromal enrichment, immune infiltration, and increased expression of inhibitory immune checkpoints. Single-cell analysis linked the adverse phenotype to epithelial cells with higher proliferative, metastatic, stress-adaptive, and immune-interactive features. These cells showed enhanced communication with stromal and immune compartments, particularly through FN1-, MK-, CXCL-, and CCL-related signaling. ANO1 was identified as a candidate downstream effector associated with the MRS-high state. Functionally, ANO1 knockdown suppressed CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and xenograft tumor growth.Mitoxyperilysis-related transcriptional programs are associated with a clinically aggressive and immune-remodeled ecosystem state in colorectal cancer. The MRS serves as a reliable tool for prognostic stratification and provides a transcriptional framework for characterizing CRC states linked to epithelial aggressiveness, microenvironmental remodeling, intercellular communication, and adverse clinical outcome. ANO1 may function as an important downstream effector associated with this MRS-high ecosystem state.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Sun, Lin, Ding, Zhou, Xu, Dai, Fan, Lu, He, Yang and Zheng.
Tannic acid (TA) is a hydrolysable plant secondary metabolite known to influence multiple physiological processes in animals; however, its role in regulating brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis remains poorly understood. Notably, the overwinter food caches of Brandt's voles predominantly consist of Artemisia species, which are rich in TA. This study aimed to determine whether TA contributes to cold tolerance in Brandt's voles by activating BAT thermogenesis. Adult male voles were administered TA, after which the masses of BAT and inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT) were measured, and temperature changes in BAT, the body surface, and the rectum were recorded following exposure to - 20 °C. In addition, transcriptomic analyses of BAT were performed, and the expression and protein levels of key thermogenic markers were assessed.The results showed that TA reduced iWAT mass while exerting minimal effects on BAT mass. TA-treated voles exhibited significantly elevated temperatures in BAT, the body surface, and the rectum after cold exposure. Histological analyses revealed that TA treatment reduced adipocyte area in iWAT while increasing the number of nuclei in brown adipocytes in BAT. In BAT, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in voles receiving a low TA dose were significantly enriched in pathways related to fat digestion and absorption and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling. In contrast, DEGs in voles administered a high TA dose were predominantly associated with brown adipocyte differentiation and the upregulation of cold-induced thermogenesis. Moreover, TA administration increased the expression of FFAR4 and UCP1, as well as the protein levels of PGC-1α, PPARγ, and UCP1 following cold exposure.Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TA enhances cold tolerance in Brandt's voles by promoting thermogenic gene expression and stimulating brown adipocyte differentiation in BAT, providing novel insights into the role of plant secondary metabolites in mammalian cold adaptation and herbivore-plant interactions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Maintenance of glucose and lipid homeostasis is essential for metabolic health, and its dysregulation, driven by complex gene-environment interactions-underlies various metabolic disorders. Free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4) has been proposed to link dietary signals with genetic metabolic predisposition, yet the precise mechanisms underlying the pathophysiological function of FFAR4 remain elusive and lack of the highly selective FFAR4 agonists. Our study shed light on the pivotal role of FFAR4 in metabolic homeostasis within metabolic organs. Hepatic FFAR4 deficiency in mice exacerbates lipid accumulation and promoted severe steatosis, whereas its overexpression ameliorates diet-induced metabolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, suppression of hepatic FFAR4 promotes lipogenesis by enhancing co-activation of the nuclear receptor Nr1h3 and PPARγ. Furthermore, we identify bavachalcone, a non-carboxylated compound isolated from the traditional Chinese medicine Psoralea corylifolia L., as a functionally effective FFAR4 agonist, which could robustly attenuate metabolic dysfunction. Structural analysis using cryo-electron microscopy reveals the binding mode of bavachalcone within the FFAR4-Gαiq complex and illuminated the underlying mechanisms. In conclusion, our findings highlight an indispensable role of hepatic FFAR4 in counteracting metabolic dysregulation and identify bavachalcone as a selective and translatable FFAR4 agonist worthy of further clinical evaluation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450047 is a review article
Kidney stone disease (KSD) is multifactorial, and the genetic basis is poorly understood among the East Asian population. This study aims to elucidate comprehensive genetic factors associated with KSD.We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Taiwanese Han Chinese individuals from the Taiwan Biobank to investigate genetic predispositions to KSD. A total of 108,483 participants were included, of whom 7,635 reported having KSD. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) leveraging the National Health Insurance Research Database was used to verify GWAS findings and explore disease associations. We also assessed individual genetic risk for KSD using a polygenic risk score (PRS).Our analysis identified significant associations with KSD at single-nucleotide polymorphisms rs1481012 (odds ratio = 1.13, p = 5.53 × 10-11) and rs12872074 (odds ratio = 1.16, p = 4.77 × 10-17) on chromosomes 4 and 13, respectively. We pinpointed ABCG2, DGKH, and a novel locus PKD2. Biological pathways, including protein dimerization and CD4+ T-cell regulation, were identified in gene-set analysis. PheWAS confirmed the association of these lead variants with calculus of kidney and various phenotypes. PRS reached an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.97 on the discovery sample.This comprehensive study highlights the significant genetic contributors to KSD in an East Asian population. Our findings underscore the potential of using a national health database to validate our analyses and reveal novel disease correlations, which supported immune dysregulation in disease pathogenesis. PRS highlights the contribution of genetic variants to KSD risk and suggests potential for future clinical application, although validation in independent populations will be required to determine its predictive utility.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Metabolic disorders represent a global health challenge requiring novel therapeutic strategies targeting the gut-liver axis. This study investigates the protective effects and mechanisms of lentinan, a bioactive polysaccharide from Lentinus edodes, against high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic dysfunction. HFD-fed mice were treated with lentinan. Comprehensive phenotypic assessments, metagenome sequencing, hepatic transcriptomics, and correlation analyses were performed to elucidate mechanisms. Lentinan intervention significantly ameliorated dyslipidemia, hepatic steatosis, systemic inflammation, and intestinal barrier dysfunction in HFD-fed mice. Mechanistically, lentinan induced taxonomically selective gut microbiota remodeling, characterized by substantial enrichment of Parabacteroides goldsteinii (positively correlated with hepatic Plppr3 expression) and reduction of Romboutsia ilealis (negatively correlated with Dgkh and Nfat5), while paradoxically decreasing Akkermansia muciniphila despite metabolic improvements. Hepatic transcriptomics revealed significant downregulation of glycerolipid metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation pathways, directly correlating with reduced lipid accumulation and improved serum biochemistry. Unlike conventional prebiotics, lentinan functions as a precision modulator of specific microbial metabolic functions, particularly L-arginine and uridine 5'-monophosphate (UMP) biosynthesis pathways, which interface with host inflammatory and lipid metabolism. These findings establish lentinan as a promising therapeutic candidate for metabolic syndrome management through coordinated gut microbiota-liver axis modulation, providing a conceptual framework for developing precision microbiome-targeted interventions.Copyright © 2026 Cao, Huang, Zhang, Zhang, Zhao, Long, Zhu and Li.
Adhesion GPCRs are activated by an intramolecular agonist known as the Stachel sequence. In the intact receptor, this sequence interacts with both the GPCR autoproteolysis-inducing (GAIN) domain and the seven transmembrane domain (7TMD). In contrast, synthetic Stachel-derived peptides used in experimental settings only need to bind to the 7TMD to activate the receptor. We therefore hypothesized that natural Stachel sequences have evolved under dual structural constraints, interacting with both domains, and that removing the GAIN domain constraint could allow the rational design and optimization of more effective ligands. Using a curated dataset of 13,611 vertebrate adhesion GPCR sequences, we performed large-scale conservation and entropy analyses that revealed strong evolutionary constraint at specific Stachel core positions, particularly X0.47, X0.48, and X0.50. Structure-guided in silico design with ProteinMPNN, applied separately to GAIN- and 7TMD-bound conformations, generated thousands of Stachel variants and demonstrated that single-domain optimization explores sequence space not sampled in natural orthologs. Guided by these analyses, we designed two 11-mer peptides targeting ADGRG2. Both peptides were readily soluble and exhibited substantially increased potency in cAMP assays compared with WT-derived Stachel peptides. Structural modeling suggests that backbone constraint at position X0.45, polar interactions at X0.48, and hydrophobic anchoring at X0.50 contribute critically to enhanced 7TMD engagement. Interestingly, analogous design for ADGRF5 did not yield active peptides. Together, our findings support the concept that separating GAIN- and 7TMD-imposed constraints can enable receptor-selective optimization of Stachel-derived ligands. This strategy provides a framework for exploring previously inaccessible sequence space, while highlighting receptor-specific trade-offs between potency and specificity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
HOMER family proteins are extensively expressed across human tissues, exhibiting aberrant expression patterns that are specific to tissues and diseases. HOMER1 has been linked to neurodevelopmental disorders, HOMER2 to hearing loss, and HOMER3 has been implicated in oncogenic processes across various malignancies [1, 2]. Homer Scaffold Protein 3 (HOMER3), a scaffold protein comprising 361 amino acids, is encoded on human chromosome 19p13.11. However, its role across different cancers remains inadequately characterized. This study aims to comprehensively evaluate the expression landscape, prognostic significance, drug sensitivity associations, and immune-related features of HOMER3 across diverse cancer types, with a particular focus on colorectal cancer (CRC), to support its potential as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in CRC.Transcriptomic and clinical data for 33 cancer types, encompassing both tumor and normal tissue samples, were obtained from public databases, including TCGA and CCLE. Differential expression of HOMER3, prognostic relevance, immune-related characteristics, and correlations with drug sensitivity were systematically assessed between tumor tissues and adjacent non-tumor counterparts. The differential expression pattern and clinical significance of HOMER3 were further validated in CRC specimens.HOMER3 expression is significantly elevated in multiple malignancies and correlates with poor prognosis, with the most pronounced increase observed in CRC. Furthermore, HOMER3 is significantly associated with immune cell infiltration, as well as with drug sensitivity and tumor-associated pathways across various cancer types.Integrated pan-cancer analyses suggest that HOMER3 may serve as a prognostic biomarker in multiple cancer types. In CRC, HOMER3 presents as a promising candidate for prognostic assessment and therapeutic targeting.© 2026. The Author(s).
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a leading global cause of mortality, yet the predictive accuracy of conventional risk models is limited. Here, we integrate conventional risk factors, polygenic risk scores, and large-scale proteomics to develop a unified model for enhanced CAD risk prediction.Using data from UK Biobank, participants with plasma proteomics and genetic risk data were included after excluding prevalent CAD. Participants from England were split into training (n=32 330) and internal validation (n=13 857) sets, and Scotland/Wales participants formed an external validation set (n=5775). Incident CAD was ascertained from linked health records. A 202-protein proteomic risk score was derived by least absolute shrinkage and selection operator Cox regression, and CatBoost models were trained using conventional risk factors alone and with incremental addition of polygenic risk scores and protein proteomic risk scores; Shapley Additive Explanations-guided forward selection identified a compact protein panel.Across cohorts, the median age was 58 years and ∼45% were men. Protein proteomic risk score was dose-dependently associated with CAD risk. Compared with conventional risk factors alone, integrating polygenic risk scores and protein proteomic risk scores improved discrimination, with the area under the curve increasing from 0.750 (95% CI, 0.732-0.767) to 0.789 (95% CI, 0.772-0.805) in internal validation and from 0.717 (95% CI, 0.683-0.750) to 0.762 (95% CI, 0.732-0.791) in external validation. A 9-protein panel (GDF15 [growth differentiation factor 15], MMP12 [matrix metalloproteinase 12], NPPB [natriuretic peptide B], PGF [placental growth factor], REN [renin], ADGRG2 [adhesion G-protein coupled receptor], ACE2 [angiotensin-converting enzyme 2], CDCP1 [CUB domain-containing protein 1], CXCL17 [C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17)]) captured most proteomic predictive information.Our findings demonstrate that integrating conventional risk factors, polygenic risk scores, and proteomic data improves CAD risk prediction. This study highlights the utility of proteomics in precision cardiovascular medicine and simplified risk stratification tools.
Pulpitis, a prevalent inflammatory dental disease, primarily results from bacterial infection, yet its epigenetic regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), a class of small non-coding RNAs known to maintain genomic stability, have not been investigated in the context of pulpitis.This study aimed to profile piRNA expression patterns in pulpitis and to elucidate the functional role and underlying mechanism of a specific piRNA, piR-36241 and its target gene ADGRG2 in disease progression.piRNA and mRNA sequencing were performed on pulp tissues from patients with irreversible pulpitis and healthy controls. Potential piRNA targets were predicted bioinformatically. The interaction between piR-36241 and the 3'UTR of ADGRG2, an orphan adhesion G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), was validated using dual-luciferase reporter assay, quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), Western blot (WB), hematoxylin-eosin staining (HE), immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Functional analyses were conducted in LPS-stimulated human dental pulp cells (HDPCs) through gain-of-function and rescue experiments.We identified a distinct piRNA expression profile in pulpitis, with 21 piRNAs differentially expressed. piR-36241 was notably upregulated. It directly targeted the 3'UTR of ADGRG2 and suppressed its expression. ADGRG2, hypothesised to exert protective and homeostatic functions, was downregulated in pulpitis tissues and LPS-induced HDPCs. Overexpression of piR-36241 inhibited ADGRG2 expression and promoted the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8). Conversely, knockdown of ADGRG2 similarly enhanced inflammatory responses. Rescue experiments demonstrated that piR-36241 primarily regulates inflammation through ADGRG2 silencing.Our study reveals a novel pathogenic axis in pulpitis whereby upregulation of piR-36241 exacerbates inflammatory progression by repressing the protective receptor ADGRG2. These findings provide the first evidence of piRNA-mediated epigenetic regulation in pulpitis and highlight the piR-36241/ADGRG2 pathway as a potential therapeutic target for preserving pulp vitality.© 2026 British Endodontic Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To investigate the effects of the combined administration of dexmedetomidine and eszopiclone on sleep in mice, and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms at the gene expression level.Taking the loss of righting reflex in mice as sleep indicator, the drug interactions between dexmedetomidine and eszopiclone were systematically evaluated at nine ratios by the Chou-Talalay method. Transcriptome sequencing was applied to screen for key pathways and genes through differentially expressed genes analysis, GO functional annotation and KEGG enrichment analysis. Additionally, qRT-PCR was used to validate the screened key genes.dexmedetomidine and eszopiclone exhibited synergistic hypnotic effects at ED50 ratios of 2:8, 3:7, 4:6, 5:5, 6:4, 7:3, 8:2 and 9:1, with the strongest synergism occurring at the equal ratio (5:5). The combination group showed significant enrichment in the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway. Within this pathway, expression of the genes Gh and Prl was significantly upregulated, whereas that of Glra1, Npsr1 and Trpv1 was significantly downregulated. These expression changes were confirmed by qRT-PCR.The study reveals that co-administration of dexmedetomidine and eszopiclone produces a significant synergistic hypnotic effect in mice, with the strongest synergy demonstrated when the drugs are combined at the equal ratio. The underlying mechanism mediating their synergistic modulation of sleep may be associated with the upregulation of Gh and Prl genes as well as the downregulation of Glra1, Npsr1 and Trpv1 genes in the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study investigated whether electroacupuncture at "Zhisanzhen" (EA-ZSZ) alleviates cognitive impairment in vascular dementia (VD) rats by regulating the astrocyte-synapse axis, reshaping the hippocampal secretory microenvironment, and preserving synaptic structural integrity.Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into sham, VD, VD+EA, and VD+Nim (nimodipine) groups. The VD model was established via a modified bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2-VO). After 21 days, learning and memory were evaluated using the Morris water maze. Hippocampal CA1 histopathology and ultrastructure were assessed by H&E and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). RNA-seq identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and pathways. GFAP, BDNF, bFGF, and cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α) were measured via immunofluorescence, Western blot, and ELISA.Compared to sham group, VD rats exhibited cognitive impairment, neuronal disorganization, and synaptic disruption. EA-ZSZ markedly alleviated cognitive deficits, outperforming nimodipine in spatial learning/memory, and restored synaptic ultrastructure (showing clearer clefts and increased vesicle abundance on TEM). RNA-seq showed that EA-ZSZ normalized pathways associated with cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions and synaptic signaling, restoring key "reversal genes" (Mdk, Homer1, and Npas4). These changes were accompanied by reduced GFAP, upregulated hippocampal BDNF/bFGF, and suppressed systemic cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α).EA-ZSZ exerts significant neuroprotective effects in VD rats by modulating the astrocyte-synapse axis, suppressing neuroinflammation, and enhancing neurotrophic/structural support within the hippocampal microenvironment. This highlights its multi-target advantage over monotherapies in repairing damaged synaptic architecture, supporting its clinical use.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cerebral edema (CE) is a major determinant of poor outcomes after traumatic brain injury (TBI). CE affects approximately 60% of patients with mass lesions on head computed tomography (hCT) and confers a tenfold increase in mortality. Despite this burden, no validated biomarkers exist to identify patients at risk for early CE worsening or to elucidate the biological processes underlying divergent edema trajectories. We conducted high-throughput plasma proteomic profiling in a prospective moderate-severe TBI cohort with evidence of intracranial blood on the initial post-injury hCT scan (n=123 patients) to (1) identify a clinically feasible set of biomarkers plus a predictive model that could be used to assess CE risk at admission, and (2) conduct a mechanistic, hypothesis-generating analysis to identify the molecular networks involved in CE progression in the first hours post-injury. Plasma collected within 3 hours of injury was analyzed using the Olink Explore platform (5394 proteins), and patients underwent head CT imaging upon presentation and at 6 hours. Two complementary analytic pathways, reflecting the study's two goals, were pursued in parallel. First, logistic regression with false discovery rate (FDR) correction identified a conservative 12-protein set associated with baseline CE. When combined with targeted clinical variables (i.e., age, sex, admission GCS, pupil reactivity, admission glucose, admission alcohol), this panel supported high-performing supervised classifiers for predicting CE worsening by 6 hours post-baseline scan (best model: XGBoost, AUC = 0.78; recall = 0.83). Second, a broader 60-protein panel, selected via bootstrapped elastic-net regression, was used to interrogate the mechanistic architecture of CE worsening using random forest SHAP attribution and protein-protein interaction modeling. Proteomic signatures diverged sharply between patients whose CE did and did not worsen. The CE worsening group was characterized by a coherent neuronal-synaptic injury axis dominated by ELAVL4, CEND1, NEFL, NECAB2, GFAP, CHGB, RPH3A, HPCAL4, and HOMER1, proteins involved in neuronal structural integrity, vesicular trafficking, synaptic vesicle cycling, calcium signaling, and axonal degeneration. These reciprocal proteomic states suggest that early edema progression may be driven by coordinated disruption of neuronal and synaptic resilience programs. Together, these findings suggest (1) a hyperacute biomarker panel plus predictive model with potential for prospective validation and (2) mechanistic evidence for a distinct neuronal-synaptic injury network that associates with early edema worsening after TBI.
The EVH1 domain of the Homer1 scaffold protein interacts with the proline-rich region of Shank3, forming a key network within the postsynaptic density. While two mutations (M65I and S97L) in the EVH1 domain have been suggested to be associated with autism spectrum disorder, our results show that neither mutation has a substantial effect on the overall structure or the partner binding properties of Homer1. Compared to the S97L variant, the M65I mutant exhibits larger chemical shift perturbations both upon the mutation itself and during partner binding, while also showing signs of thermal destabilization. Finally, integration of computational and NMR data suggests that both mutations perturb the μs-ms timescale internal motions of the EVH1 domain.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Letters published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565088 is a review article
Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand of the ghrelin secretagogue receptors (GHSRs). Although the GHSRs are densely expressed in the dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells (GCs), their roles in the DG GCs remain to be fully understood. We probed the actions of ghrelin on the DG GCs with whole-cell recordings and its effects on short-term spatial memory using the Y-maze spontaneous alternation test. Application of ghrelin excited the DG GCs by depressing the G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels and ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels, activating the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels and a TTX-resistant, persistent Na+ channel. Adenylyl cyclase and EPAC2 were required, whereas phospholipase C and protein kinase A were not needed for the ghrelin-mediated excitation of DG GCs. Overnight fasting augmented the excitability of the DG GCs via activation of GHSRs, suggesting a role for endogenously released ghrelin. Ghrelin also enhanced synaptic recruitment of action potentials in DG GCs. Microinjection of ghrelin into the DG increased the alternating sequences in the Y maze test via GHSR-mediated elevation of cAMP and EPAC signals. Our results provide an action mode to explain the roles of GHSRs in improving cognitive functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Biology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune skin disorder marked by IL-17-producing γδ T cell (γδT17) and pruritus, but immunoregulatory roles of itch-inducing neurons in this context remain unclear. This study addressed whether non-peptidergic (NP) afferents bearing the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor D (MrgprD/NP1) and MrgprA3/NP2 subsets had differential effects on psoriasiform immunopathology. Data show human NP1 and NP2 neurons basally expressed an array of pattern recognition and cytokine receptor genes, and psoriatic human skin had a profound dysregulation of neuropeptides and their receptors. In mice, imiquimod (IMQ) application reduced the density of MrgprD+ skin afferents, whereas NP1 neuron ablation exacerbated IMQ-induced disease. Strikingly, NP1 activation using either optogenetics or β-alanine before IMQ exposure significantly reduced epidermal thickness, psoriatic clinical score, and γδT17 cell accumulation. In stark contrast, NP2 activation increased the numbers of γδT17 cells that co-expressed amphiregulin (Areg) and exacerbated IMQ-driven skin pathology. Instead, pre-emptive NP1 stimulation shifted γδ T cell profiles away from being IL-17 and Areg dominant to IL-13+ γδ T cells expressing the transcription factor GATA3 accompanied by IL-10 secretion. Importantly, IL-10 signaling blockade reversed β-alanine-induced suppression of IMQ-induced dermatitis and γδT17 cell responses. These data show that sensory neuron subsets can distinctly modulate inflammatory skin disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550283 is a review article
Although exposure to violence has been linked to executive functioning impairments, the biological mechanisms underlying this association remain unclear. This study examined CpG sites associated with executive functions in 78 young adults and their links to family (psychological and physical) and community violence during childhood. The scales used were Conflict Tactics (family violence); Things I Have Seen and Heard (community violence); Barkley Deficits in Executive Functioning. Mean differences (Mann-Whitney-U/Kruskal-Wallis) and Spearman correlations were assessed. An epigenome-wide association study identified differentially methylated CpGs, and linear regressions examined associations with violence exposures. Girls reported more family and psychological violence. Black participants experienced higher family violence. Executive dysfunction (ED) correlated with psychological family and community violence, and family violence forms were interrelated. Differentially methylated positions highlighted genes tied to key biological processes: MRGPRD (sensory neurons development); DPPA3 (germ-cell development); UNKL (cell differentiation); GPR6 (learning and memory); DUSP5 (cell proliferation and differentiation); and CAPN13 (signal transduction, cytoskeletal remodeling and cell differentiation). Candidate gene analysis found associations between executive dysfunction and methylation levels in these genes. Exploratory pathway analysis suggested enrichment of neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity, intracellular trafficking and cytoskeletal remodeling, genome stability and cellular stress responses, and neuroimmune and inflammatory signaling. These findings suggest associations between ED, childhood violence exposure, and differential DNA methylation in cognition- and health-related genes, suggesting that epigenetic markers may be associated with pathways linking early adversity to later outcomes, although no causal inference can be drawn.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Psychobiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509440 is a review article
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play crucial roles in the onset and progression of cardiovascular disease, particularly atherosclerosis. However, the role of PARD3-AS1 in atherosclerosis remains largely uncharacterized. This study therefore aimed to investigate the impact of the PARD3-AS1/miR-668-3p axis on atherosclerosis. The expression levels of PARD3-AS1 and miR-668-3p in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). HUVEC proliferation was assessed using a Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation, and migratory and invasive capacities were evaluated using wound healing and Transwell assays. The interaction between PARD3-AS1 and miR-668-3p was confirmed by bioinformatics analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assays. In addition, serum samples were collected from patients diagnosed with atherosclerosis, and ApoE⁻/⁻ C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet for 8 weeks to establish a model of atherosclerosis. PARD3-AS1 expression was significantly reduced in the serum of patients with atherosclerosis, whereas miR-668-3p levels were markedly elevated, and the two were negatively correlated. Subsequent experiments confirmed that miR-668-3p effectively reversed the promotion effects of PARD3-AS1 on HUVEC proliferation and migration. In vivo, histological staining showed that the PARD3-AS1 overexpression group exhibited improved endothelial repair. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PARD3-AS1 directly interacts with miR-668-3p to modulate HUVEC proliferation, migration, and invasion, suggesting that PARD3-AS1 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune skin disorder marked by IL-17 producing gamma delta T cell (γδT17) and pruritus, but immunoregulatory roles of itch-inducing neurons in this context remain unclear. This study addressed whether non-peptidergic (NP) afferents bearing the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor D (MrgprD/NP1) and MrgprA3/NP2 subsets had differential effects on psoriasiform immunopathology. Data show human NP1 and NP2 neurons basally expressed an array of pattern recognition and cytokine receptor genes and psoriatic human skin had a profound dysregulation of neuropeptides and their receptors. In mice, imiquimod (IMQ) application reduced the density of MrgprD+ skin afferents, whereas NP1 neuron ablation exacerbated IMQ-induced disease. Strikingly, NP1 activation using either optogenetics or β-alanine before IMQ exposure significantly reduced epidermal thickness, psoriatic clinical score and γδT17 cell accumulation. In stark contrast, NP2 activation increased the numbers of γδT17 cells that co-expressed amphiregulin (Areg) and exacerbated IMQ-driven skin pathology. Instead, pre-emptive NP1 stimulation shifted γδ T cell profiles away from being IL-17 and Areg dominant to IL-13+ γδ T cells expressing the transcription factor GATA3 accompanied by IL-10 secretion. Importantly, IL-10 signaling blockade reversed NP1-mediated suppression of IMQ-induced dermatitis. These data show that inflammatory skin disease can be distinctly modulated by sensory neuron subsets.
Subplate neurons (SpNs) are among the earliest-born and maturing neurons in the developing cerebral cortex. They arise from multiple origins and can be classified into several subgroups based on morphology, connectivity, and gene expression. These neurons play essential roles in cortical circuit formation, yet their cellular diversity and transcriptional dynamics remain incompletely understood. Here, we characterized transcriptomic profiles of SpN subpopulations in embryonic mouse cortex using Lpar1-EGFP and NeuroD1/Cre-ERT2 (D1B) reporter lines. We applied complementary approaches of gene expression profiling, including bulk microarray analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and Visium spatial transcriptomics. At embryonic day 17 (E17), scRNA-seq identified 10 distinct Lpar1-EGFP-positive SpN clusters, which spatial transcriptomics mapped to specific cortical regions. While many markers showed enrichment within the subplate region, others extended into the hippocampus and ventral pallium (including the amygdala, claustrum, and endopiriform nucleus). Integrated analysis of Lpar1-EGFP and D1B lines revealed both overlapping and unique gene expression signatures, highlighting dynamic markers of subplate identity. Comparisons between E15 and E17 datasets showed substantial transcriptional shifts, suggesting rapid developmental changes in SpN subgroups. Validation with in situ hybridization and RNAscope confirmed the selectivity of key markers, including Cryab, Cdh13, Nr4a2, and Lmo3. Together, these findings provide a molecular framework for further classifying SpN subtypes and identifying candidate markers for transient versus persistent populations, thereby advancing our understanding of early cortical development.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Anatomy published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Anatomical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515816 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42347060 is a review article
This study presents a genetic analysis of three-generation family exhibiting terminal 19p13.3 duplication resulting from a maternal balanced translocation, t (19; 21) (p13.3; p12). Additionally, we reviewed previously reported cases with similar aberrations.Peripheral blood or amniotic fluid samples from six family members were comprehensively analyzed using G-banding, N-banding, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and copy number variation sequencing (CNV-seq). Furthermore, a genomic mapping analysis was performed on 23 cases of terminal 19p13.3 duplication, combining our findings with those from previously reported cases.The results demonstrated that the maternal balanced translocation resulted in three offspring inheriting the 19p13.3 terminal duplication. The proband presented with typical clinical features such as intrauterine growth restriction, microcephaly, intellectual disability, developmental delay, and facial abnormalities, in addition to precocious puberty, autism spectrum disorder (ASD) features, and a shortened lingual frenulum. The precocious puberty phenotype is postulated to be associated with the KISS1R gene within the duplicated region. Genomic mapping identified a minimal overlapping region (MOR) of approximately 313 kb (chr19:3,223,850-3,536,224), encompassing four OMIM genes (CELF5, NFIC, DOHH, FZR1) and two protein-coding genes (SMIM24, SMIM44).This study clarifies the genetic mechanism of pure terminal 19p13.3 duplication in offspring resulting from a parental balanced translocation involving D/G group chromosomes. It also defines a novel critical region based on case samples with 19p13.3 terminal duplication, providing new insights into the genotype-phenotype correlations associated with terminal pure 19p13.3 duplications.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Cai, Chen and Ge.
Congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH) is a rare disorder characterized by deficient production, secretion, or action of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), the central regulator of the reproductive axis. We report two siblings from a consanguineous family with CHH caused by a homozygous nonsense mutation (c.182C > A; p. Ser 61Ter) in exon 1 of KISS1R gene. The 15-years-old male proband presented with absent puberty, micropenis, and gynecomastia. Endocrine evaluation revealed low gonadotropin levels and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed pituitary hypoplasia. His 12-years-old sister exhibited puberty delays, with absent breast development and pubic hair. The male patient received 1 year of pulsatile GnRH therapy, resulting in significant clinical improvements, including markedly increased testicular volume (from 0.9 to 5.6 mL), penile growth, and the resolution of gynecomastia. Notably, follow-up imaging demonstrated morphological recovery of the pituitary gland, with an increase in height from 3.5 to 4.5 mm, accompanied by the successful induction of spermatogenesis. This excellent response to GnRH underscores its efficacy in restoring fertility, particularly when initiated in early adolescence, and highlights the value of genetic diagnosis in consanguineous families.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Lei, Peng, Zhu, Chen and Long.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42123334 is a review article
The neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plays a vital role in the modulation of reproductive function by controlling gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion. Most kisspeptin neurons, which are key regulators of GnRH neurons, coexpress GABA and other neuropeptides. However, whether the expression of the vesicular GABA transporter (Vgat) in kisspeptin cells contributes to the reproductive phenotype of mice remains unclear.Brain slices from female vesicular GABA transporter-Cre/GFP (Vgat-Cre/GFP) mice were used to assess GABAergic coexpression in kisspeptin neurons during diestrus and proestrus. Mice carrying conditional ablation of Slc32a1 (referred to as Vgat) in Kiss1-expressing cells (Kiss1-Cre/Vgat flox/flox mice) were generated to study possible effects on reproduction and metabolism.50-60% of kisspeptin neurons in the anteroventral periventricular and rostral periventricular nuclei are GABAergic. However, the percentage of GABAergic kisspeptin neurons did not differ between proestrus and diestrus stages. Deletion of Vgat in kisspeptin cells was sufficient to downregulate Gnrh1 and Kiss1r expression in the rostral periventricular region of female mice. In contrast, Cartpt mRNA expression in the mediobasal hypothalamus was downregulated only in male mice compared with controls. Body composition, puberty onset, and fertility were preserved in both sexes; however, female Kiss1-Cre/Vgat flox/flox mice exhibited significantly lower serum luteinizing hormone levels at proestrus.These findings indicate that Vgat expression in kisspeptin neurons may contribute to LH surge generation but is not essential for the onset of puberty or for the maintenance of fertility in either female or male mice.Copyright © 2026 Vieira, Ferrufino, de Sousa, Alves, Martins, Donato and Frazao.
It is widely known that kisspeptin receptor (KISS1R) plays central regulatory roles in the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonad (HPG) axis, whose premature activation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of central precocious puberty (CPP). The aim of our present study was to verify the contributions of the three most examined KISS1R gene variants (rs184749, rs350132, and rs3746146) to pubertal timing.Sanger sequencing was applied to genotype the KISS1R gene variants in 422 healthy girls and 384 CPP girls, all from Hubei province. Moreover, the data from previous related studies and present study were integrated and meta-analyzed.The case-control study revealed that rs184749 G allele (P=0.004, OR=1.42, 95%CI=1.12-1.79) and rs350132 A allele (P=0.007, OR=1.38, 95%CI=1.09-1.75) acted as the risk factors for CPP susceptibility, and haplotype GAC carrying the rs184749 (G) and rs350132 (A) was associated with an increased CPP risk among Hubei Chinese girls (P=0.005, OR=1.44, 95%CI=1.12-1.86). The subsequent meta-analysis confirmed the effect of rs350132 on CPP susceptibility in Asian girls under the genetic models of A vs. T and AA vs. AT+TT. The expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis revealed that KISS1R gene mRNA is differentially expressed in clinical tissues across rs350132 genotypes.The present findings suggested that the KISS1R gene rs350132 may serve as a susceptible locus in CPP pathogenesis among Asian girls, which warrants confirmation and reinforcement in future studies.
Kisspeptin is a peptide that plays a pivotal role in the central regulation of gonadotropins. It is regarded as a key regulator of reproductive processes, including follicular and luteal development and endometrial remodelling. The objective of this study was to investigate the expression of KISS1, its receptor KISS1R and the proliferation marker Ki-67 in the uterus, oviduct and ovary of bitches at different stages of the oestrous cycle using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry. Thirty-five healthy female dogs were divided into five groups based on reproductive stage as follows: anestrus, proestrus, estrus, diestrus and prepubertal. Each group consisted of an equal number of animals (n = 7). KISS1 mRNA expression was significantly elevated in estrus, while KISS1R mRNA expression remained consistently low across all tissues. Ki-67 mRNA expression increased significantly in the uterus during estrus, whereas the highest levels in the oviduct and ovary were observed in anestrus. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked increase in KISS1 expression in the endometrium during estrus, accompanied by elevated Ki-67 positivity in the uterus, oviduct and ovary, particularly in glandular epithelial and luteal cells. Conversely, KISS1R protein showed strong localisation during estrus despite low transcript levels, suggesting possible post-transcriptional regulation. The synchronised upregulation of KISS1 and Ki-67 in the endometrium during estrus supports their coordinated roles in endometrial proliferation and remodelling. These findings emphasise the significance of local kisspeptin signalling in canine reproductive tissues and suggest its contribution to tissue adaptations during the estrous cycle. The results provide new insights into the peripheral functions of the kisspeptin system and highlight its potential as a target for improving reproductive management in bitches.© 2026 The Author(s). Reproduction in Domestic Animals published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Gene tests play an important role for controlling monogenetic diseases because they reveal a genotype for each tested dog and thereby allow for the selection of animals with a lower genetic burden. For some complex inherited diseases and anomalies so called risk-tests are available and may support the selection of breeding animals. They analyze DNA-sequence variants which render a higher risk for carriers to develop a disease or anomaly. The usefulness of a risk-test for congenital idiopathic megaoesophagus (CIM-test) in German shepherds was analyzed in the closely related breed of White Swiss shepherds. The results showed clearly that the CIM-test in this breed is almost not informative, and a selection would probably not reduce the prevalence but only lower the genetic variability. Breeders and owners should be informed accordingly.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39540076 is a review article
Despite the significant personal and societal burden of tic disorders (TDs), treatment outcomes remain modest, necessitating a deeper understanding of their etiology. Family history is the biggest known risk factor, and identifying risk genes could accelerate progress in the field.Expanding upon previous sample size limitations, we added 4800 new TD cases and 971,560 controls and conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis with 9619 cases and 981,048 controls of European ancestry. We attempted to replicate the results in an independent deCODE genetics GWAS (885 TD cases and 310,367 controls). To characterize GWAS findings, we conducted several post-GWAS gene-based and enrichment analyses.A genome-wide significant hit (rs79244681, p = 2.27 × 10-8) within MCHR2-AS1 was identified, although it was not replicated. Post-GWAS analyses revealed a 13.8% single nucleotide polymorphism heritability and 3 significant genes: BCL11B, NDFIP2, and RBM26. Common variant risk for TD was enriched within genes preferentially expressed in the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuit (including the putamen, caudate, nucleus accumbens, and Brodmann area 9) and 5 brain cell types (excitatory and inhibitory telencephalon neurons, inhibitory diencephalon and mesencephalon neurons, and hindbrain and medium spiny neurons). TD polygenic risk was enriched within loss-of-function intolerant genes (p = .0017) and high-confidence neurodevelopmental disorder genes (p = .0108). Of 112 genetic correlations, 43 were statistically significant, showing high positive correlations with most psychiatric disorders. Of the 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms previously associated with TDs, one (rs2453763) replicated in an independent subsample of our GWAS (p = .00018).This GWAS was still underpowered to identify high-confidence, replicable loci, but the results suggest imminent discovery of common genetic variants for TDs.Copyright © 2024 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39057584 is a review article
Sperm storage capacity (SSC) determines the duration of fertility in hens and is an important reproduction trait that cannot be ignored in production. Currently, the genetic mechanism of SSC is still unclear in hens. Therefore, to explore the genetic basis of SSC, we analyzed the uterus-vagina junction (UVJ) of hens with different SSC at different times after insemination by RNA-seq and Ribo-seq.Our results showed that 589, 596, and 527 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 730, 783, and 324 differentially translated genes (DTGs), and 804, 625, and 467 differential translation efficiency genes (DTEGs) were detected on the 5th, 10th, and 15th days after insemination, respectively. In transcription levels, we found that the differences of SSC at different times after insemination were mainly reflected in the transmission of information between cells, the composition of intercellular adhesion complexes, the regulation of ion channels, the regulation of cellular physiological activities, the composition of cells, and the composition of cell membranes. In translation efficiency (TE) levels, the differences of SSC were mainly related to the physiological and metabolic activities in the cell, the composition of the organelle membrane, the physiological activities of oxidation, cell components, and cell growth processes. According to pathway analysis, SSC was related to neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, histidine metabolism, and PPAR signaling pathway at the transcriptional level and glutathione metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, calcium signaling pathway, cell adhesion molecules, galactose metabolism, and Wnt signaling pathway at the TE level. We screened candidate genes affecting SSC at transcriptional levels (COL4A4, MUC6, MCHR2, TACR1, AVPR1A, COL1A1, HK2, RB1, VIPR2, HMGCS2) and TE levels(COL4A4, MUC6, CYCS, NDUFA13, CYTB, RRM2, CAMK4, HRH2, LCT, GCK, GALT). Among them, COL4A4 and MUC6 were the key candidate genes differing in transcription, translation, and translation efficiency.Our study used the combined analysis of RNA-seq and Ribo-seq for the first time to investigate the SSC and reveal the physiological processes associated with SSC. The key candidate genes affecting SSC were screened, and the theoretical basis was provided for the analysis of the molecular regulation mechanism of SSC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a cyclic neuropeptide that regulates food intake, energy balance, and other physiological functions by stimulating MCHR1 and MCHR2 receptors, both of which are class A G protein-coupled receptors. MCHR1 predominately couples to inhibitory G protein, Gi/o, and MCHR2 can only couple to Gq/11. Here we present cryo-electron microscopy structures of MCH-activated MCHR1 with Gi and MCH-activated MCHR2 with Gq at the global resolutions of 3.01 Å and 2.40 Å, respectively. These structures reveal that MCH adopts a consistent cysteine-mediated hairpin loop configuration when bound to both receptors. A central arginine from the LGRVY core motif between the two cysteines of MCH penetrates deeply into the transmembrane pocket, triggering receptor activation. Integrated with mutational and functional insights, our findings elucidate the molecular underpinnings of ligand recognition and MCH receptor activation and offer a structural foundation for targeted drug design.© 2024. The Author(s).
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH), and somatolactin (SL) in the hypothalamus-pituitary axis are associated with body color regulation in teleost fish. Although these hormones' production and secretion respond well to light environments, such as background color, little is known about the effects of different water temperatures. We investigated the effects of water temperature, 10°C, 20°C, and 30°C, on body color and the expression of these genes and corresponding receptor genes in goldfish. The body color in white background (WBG) becomes paler at the higher water temperature, although no difference was observed in black background (BBG). Brain mRNA contents of proMCH genes (pmch1 and pmch2) increased at 30°C and 20°C compared to 10°C in WBG, respectively. Apparent effects of background color and temperature on the pituitary mRNA contents of a POMC gene (pomc) were not observed. The pituitary mRNA contents of the SLα gene were almost double those on a WBG at any temperature, while those of the SLβ gene (slb) at 30°C tended to be higher than those at 10°C and 20°C on WBG and BBG. The scale mRNA contents of the MCH receptor gene (mchr2) in WBG were higher than those in BBG at 30°C. The highest scale mRNA contents of MSH receptor (mc1r and mc5r) on BBG were observed at 20°C, while the lowest respective mRNA levels were observed at 30°C on WBG. These results highlight the importance of temperature for the endocrinological regulation of body color, and darker background color may stabilize those endocrine functions.
Binge eating disorder (BED) is the most common eating disorder, yet its genetic architecture remains largely unknown. Studying BED is challenging because it is often comorbid with obesity, a common and highly polygenic trait, and it is underdiagnosed in biobank data sets. To address this limitation, we apply a supervised machine-learning approach (using 822 cases of individuals diagnosed with BED) to estimate the probability of each individual having BED based on electronic medical records from the Million Veteran Program. We perform a genome-wide association study of individuals of African (n = 77,574) and European (n = 285,138) ancestry while controlling for body mass index to identify three independent loci near the HFE, MCHR2 and LRP11 genes and suggest APOE as a risk gene for BED. We identify shared heritability between BED and several neuropsychiatric traits, and implicate iron metabolism in the pathophysiology of BED. Overall, our findings provide insights into the genetics underlying BED and suggest directions for future translational research.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
The Min pig is a famous native pig breed in northeast China, which has the special genetic character of villi hair growth in cold seasons. At present, little research has focused on the genetic mechanism of villi hair growth in Min pigs. Copy number variations (CNVs) are a type of variant that may influence many traits. In this study, we first investigated the phenotype of Large White × Min pigs' F2 pig villi hair in detail and then performed a CNV-based genome-wide association study (GWAS) between CNVs and pig villi hair appearance. Finally, a total number of 15 significant CNVRs were found to be associated with Min pig villi hair. The most significant CNVR was located on chromosome 1. Nearest gene annotation analysis indicated that the pig villi hair traits may be associated with the biological process of the G-protein-coupled receptor signaling pathway. QTL overlapping analysis found that among the CNVRs, 14 CNVRs could be co-located with known QTLs. Some genes such as MCHR2, LTBP2, and GFRA2 may be candidate genes for pig villi traits and are worth further study. Our study may provide a basic reference for the selection and breeding of cold-resistant pigs and outdoor breeding.
Interstitial 6q deletions are associated with rare genetic syndromes characterized by different signs, including developmental delay, dysmorphisms, and Prader-Willi (PWS)-like features. Drug-resistant epilepsy, a relatively rare finding in this condition, is often a challenge in terms of therapeutic approach. Our aim is to present a new case of interstitial 6q deletion and to conduct a systematic review of the literature with an emphasis on the neurophysiological and clinical traits of afflicted individuals.We report a patient with an interstitial 6q deletion. Standard electroencephalograms (EEG), video-EEG with polygraphy and MRI features are discussed. We also conducted a literature review of previously described cases.We describe a relatively small interstitial 6q deletion (2 Mb circa), detected by CGH-Array, not encompassing the previously described 6q22 critical region for epilepsy occurrence. The patient, a 12-year-old girl, presented with multiple absence-like episodes and startle-induced epileptic spasms since the age of 11, with partial polytherapy control. Treatment with lamotrigine induced the resolution of startle-induced phenomena. From the literature review, we identified 28 patients with overlapping deletions, often larger than our patient's mutation. Seventeen patients presented with PWS-like features. Epilepsy was reported in 4 patients, and 8 patients presented abnormal EEG findings. In our patient, the deletion included genes MCHR2, SIM1, ASCC3, and GRIK2, but, interestingly, it did not encompass the 6q22 critical region for epilepsy occurrence. The involvement of GRIK2 in the deletion may play a role.Literature data are limited, and specific EEG or epileptological phenotypes cannot yet be identified. Epilepsy, although uncommon in the syndrome, deserves a specific diagnostic workup. We speculate on the existence of an additional locus in the 6q16.1-q21 region, different from the already hypothesized q22, promoting the development of epilepsy in affected patients.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
TAK-243, an inhibitor of the ubiquitin-activating enzyme UBA1, impairs the ubiquitination of proteins. We investigated its effects on the intracellular Ca2+ dynamics of human prostate cancer cells DU-145. Live-cell Ca2+ imaging with Fura2 showed that DU-145 cells exhibited spontaneous Ca2+ transients that were largely independent of the activity of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger but were abolished by extracellular Ca2+ removal, La3+, Gd3+, BTP2 (Orai channel blocker), and thapsigargin (which depletes endoplasmic reticulum -ER- Ca2+ stores). They were also sensitive to U73122 (a phospholipase C inhibitor) and dantrolene (a ryanodine receptor blocker), suggesting the contribution of both store-operated Ca2+ channels and intracellular Ca2+ release pathways in the generation and maintenance of these Ca2+ spikes. At 0.2 μM, TAK-243 augmented the cytosolic concentration of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i), boosted the Ca2+ spiking activity, whereas at 10 μM it caused a constitutive Ca2+ entry through BTP2-sensitive Ca2+ channels, which further augmented [Ca2+]i but reduced the number of spontaneously active cells. Experiments conducted with the genetically encoded Ca2+ dye CEPIA1er showed that TAK-243 did not empty the ER Ca2+ stores. Moreover, Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) experiments on HEK-293 cells transfected with Orai1-CFP and STIM1-YFP indicated that it caused the relocalization of STIM1 and its coupling with Orai1. TAK-243 also increased the membrane potential and the Ca2+ buffering capacities of mitochondria. Taken together, treating DU-145 cells with TAK-243 to prevent the ubiquitination of proteins activates the entry of Ca2+ through store-operated Ca2+ channels independently of the ER Ca2+ stores and alters mitochondrial functions.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529076 is a review article
The Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ (CRAC) channel mediates store-operated calcium entry (SOCE), a ubiquitous pathway essential for many cell types, including immune cells. Three Orai (Orai1/2/3) proteins constitute the plasma membrane pore-forming units of CRAC channels that are activated by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+-sensing STIM1/2 proteins when ER Ca2+ stores are depleted. Orai1/2/3 are differentially expressed across primary cells with discernible differences in their structures and biophysical properties. Further, Orai1 has two alternatively translated isoforms: long mammalian-specific Orai1α and the 63-residue shorter Orai1β, which is evolutionarily older and conserved across vertebrates. Whether Orai1α/1β/2/3 produce unique cytosolic Ca2+ signatures that bias transcriptional responses through effectors like NFAT is unclear. Here, we used HEK293 cells engineered to express one native Orai isoform and show that all Orai isoforms couple to NFAT1/4 induction. The magnitude of NFAT1/4 induction for each Orai isoform matches that of SOCE, with the following profile: Orai1β>Orai1α>>Orai2>Orai3. Near-native re-expression of either Orai1α or Orai1β in primary murine Orai1 -/- CD4+ T cells restored SOCE, NFAT activation, cytokine production and promoted near identical transcriptional responses enriched for immune activation pathways. An analysis of genetic and clinical data of human individuals showed that homozygous null mutations selectively abolishing Orai1α are not associated with disease resembling CRAC channelopathy. Primary T cells from individuals homozygous or heterozygous for an Orai1α null mutation showed enhanced, rather than impaired, SOCE and NFAT induction. Our data indicate that NFAT activation and transcriptional outputs are primarily driven by the graded strength of SOCE mediated by each isoform of the Orai quartet.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42503223 is a review article
Sarcopenia, the age-related loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength, is a major cause of frailty and disability, with neuromuscular denervation as a key contributor. Bioactive lipid mediators, including lipid hydroperoxides and oxylipins, contribute to denervation-induced muscle atrophy and dysfunction. Here, we identify calcium-independent phospholipase A2β (iPLA2β) as a novel regulator of store-operated calcium ion (Ca2+) entry (SOCE), a critical process for maintaining Ca2+ homeostasis via stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1) and Orai1 coupling in skeletal muscle. Using muscle-specific iPLA2β knockout (miPLA2βKO) mice, we show that iPLA2β interacts with STIM1-Orai1 coupling to modulate SOCE. Denervation elevates iPLA2β, hyperactivating SOCE and causing Ca2+ overload through oxidative impairment of regulators such as SERCA. iPLA2β deletion normalizes SOCE, preserves Ca2+ homeostasis, and protects against denervation-induced muscle mass (5%) and strength loss (50%). These findings reveal that iPLA2β may be a critical link between oxidative stress and Ca2+ dysregulation and a promising target for mitigating muscle dysfunction during denervation.
The calcium (Ca2+) channel Orai1-the pore-forming subunit of the Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ channel-is opened by its physiological activator, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident Ca2+ sensor stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1) upon ER Ca2+ store-depletion. STIM1 primarily engages the Orai1 C-terminus, relaying an activation signal from the channel periphery via all transmembrane (TM) domains to the Ca2+-conducting pore. We previously demonstrated that STIM1 coupling elicits conformational changes in the Orai1 TM3/TM4-interface inducing pore opening. Here, we reveal that a subtle balance of steric and hydrophobic interactions around V181 (TM3), F250 and F253 (TM4) is required for proper physiological function. We show that side chain volume and hydrophobicity in this region jointly determine not only the stability of the channel complex in the closed state, but also the extent of Ca2+ influx. In physiological settings, this fine-tuning around V181 permits sufficient activation, while preventing excessively large Ca2+ current.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417334 is a review article
Inhalation of house dust mite-derived allergens is a major factor leading to the development of asthma both in children and adults. Allergens stimulate Ca2+-dependent pro-inflammatory cytokine and chemokine gene expression through the opening of ORAI1 Ca2+ channels in the surface membrane of various immune cell-types within the lung. ORAI1 participates in a signalosome with the scaffolding protein A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)79/150 (encoded by the Akap5 gene), which binds numerous protein kinases, calcineurin and transcription factors required for cytokine expression. However, the role of AKAP79/150 in immune cell activation and the development of airway inflammation in response to allergens has not been established. We found that AKAP79/150 is expressed in mast cells and macrophages, where it has a pivotal role in driving pro-inflammatory cytokine production in response to house dust mite challenge. By contrast, AKAP79/150 expression in T cells was low and had little impact on cytokine release following T cell activation. Akap5-/- mice exhibited significantly reduced type 2 inflammation in the lungs following HDM exposure compared with wild-type controls. Our data demonstrate that AKAP79/150 is an important co-ordinator of inflammation within the lung in response to airborne allergens, through actions primarily on cells of the innate immune system.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Tubular aggregate myopathy (TAM) and Stormorken syndrome (STRMK) are clinically overlapping disorders characterized by muscle weakness, thrombocytopenia, spleen anomalies and short stature. They are due to mutations affecting the Ca2+ sensor STIM1 or the Ca2+ channel ORAI1 and leading to aberrant Ca2+ homeostasis. Therapeutic approaches aiming to rebalance intracellular Ca2+ levels largely rescued the multi-systemic phenotype in Stim1R304W/+ mice harboring the most common TAM/STRMK mutation. However, the currently used biomarkers to follow disease progression are costly and inadequate for longitudinal studies. Here, we investigated the suitability of MYOM3 to serve as a robust blood-based biomarker for TAM/STRMK. Using only minimal blood volumes, we detected highly elevated circulating MYOM3 levels in plasma samples from Stim1R304W/+ mice and TAM/STRMK patients with different mutations, and we found that the MYOM3 levels were normalized in Stim1R304W/+ mice undergoing efficient therapies. We also identified skeletal muscle as the primary source of circulating MYOM3, a structural protein of the contractile unit in myofibers, and uncovered that MYOM3 is primarily expressed in regenerating muscle fibers and in fast-twitch type IIa fibers. Overall, this work emphasizes the utility of MYOM3 as a minimally-invasive biomarker for disorders involving myofiber degeneration, and highlights the ability of MYOM3 to detect early muscle dysfunction in TAM/STRMK and evaluate therapeutic efficiency.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42393693 is a review article
Although immune checkpoint inhibitors show promise in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), their efficacy is limited by immune resistance. This study constructed a prognostic model based on genes associated with the sensitivity of tumor cells to T cell-mediated tumor killing (GSTTKs) to evaluate their role in prognostic prediction for PTC.Differentially expressed genes between PTC and normal tissues were identified from the TCGA dataset and intersected with GSTTKs to obtain TTK-related differentially expressed genes. A prognostic model was constructed through regression analysis, and predictive performance was evaluated using ROC curves. The impact of model genes on the malignant progression of PTC was validated through cell experiments, and the regulatory relationship between key transcription factors and target genes was verified using ChIP-qPCR.A prognostic model constructed based on five TTK-related genes (including B3GLCT, EPS15L1, and FGFR4) exhibited robust predictive performance in PTC. EPS15L1, P2RY11, and B3GLCT may serve as candidate therapeutic targets for PTC, whereas knockdown of PSORS1C1 repressed malignant progression of PTC cells under the transcriptional regulation of PRDM10.A prognostic model built on genes associated with intrinsic T-cell killing sensitivity of tumor cells enables risk stratification of PTC patients independent of immune cell infiltration abundance, and the identified drug-target interactions as well as the PRDM10/PSORS1C1 regulatory axis offer novel insights for precision therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41825304 is a review article
Gut microbes secrete specialized small molecules that broadly influence human physiology. Despite their potential significance, the variety of functional small molecules known in the gut is relatively limited. Here, we screened the supernatants from human fecal-derived bacterial cultures to explore their agonist effects on the human G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), melatonin receptor types 1A and 1B (MTNR1A, MTNR1B). Chemical analysis of the supernatant-soluble molecules of Clostridium sporogenes, a prominent gut commensal identified in the screen, led to the characterization of agonists for these two melatonin receptors. Specifically, through bioactivity-assisted isolation and characterization, we identified three small molecules, 1-3, including two previously uncharacterized metabolites, which were synthesized to confirm their structures. While the structure of 1 features a urea core symmetrically disubstituted with tryptamine moieties, 2 and 3 harbor a monomeric tryptamine functionalized with methyl carbamate and N-acetyl groups, respectively. These structural characterization efforts illuminated downstream functional consequences of tryptamine metabolism in C. sporogenes. Additional GPCR screening analyses revealed that 2 activates melatonin receptors and the purinergic P2RY11 receptor, whereas 1 serves as an agonist for the semiorphan receptor GPR55. Interestingly, 1 also exhibits significant inhibitory activity against inflammatory soluble epoxide hydrolase with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration of 420 nM. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of the gut tissue from mice orally treated with 1 relative to the solvent vehicle control revealed that 1 specifically decreased the frequency of GPR55- and granzyme K-expressing effector-like CD8 T cells in the intraepithelial lymphocyte population. Overall, this study broadens our understanding of tryptamine-derived signaling at the human-microbe interface.
To explore the associations of novel serum autoantibodies with disease activity and organ injuries in patients with lupus nephritis (LN).This study included 75 patients with active LN (5 class II, 37 class IV, and 33 class V). Indirect immunofluorescence was used to measure serum anti-dsDNA; ELISA was used to measure serum anti-PLA2R and anti-C1q, and the Luminex method was used to measure 58 novel serum autoantibodies, with a median fluorescence intensity (MFI)/threshold ≥ 1.5 as the antibody positivity cutoff.The positivity rates for 11 novel antibodies (anti-PLA2R, anti-P2RY11, anti-DEXI, anti-HARS, anti-TUBA1B, anti-KRT8, anti-TUBB, anti-NCL, anti-HSPB1, anti-AGRN, and anti-LGALS8) were highly associated with SLE activity and were inconsistent with those for anti-dsDNA and anti-C1q. Anti-TUBA1B and anti-AGRN positivity may independently influence LN with extrarenal organ involvement (OR = 6.73, 95% CI = 1.19 ~ 38.09; OR = 6.11, 95% CI = 1.32 ~ 28.25, respectively). The positivity rate for anti-PLA2R as detected by the Luminex platform was 40%, whereas the rate among those detected by ELISA was 12.7%. Twenty-one patients who achieved renal remission were retested, and the positivity rates of anti-PLA2R (42.9% vs. 9.5%, P = 0.014), anti-KRT8 (47.6% vs. 4.8%, P = 0.001), and anti-AGRN (38.1% vs. 4.8%, P = 0.008) also significantly decreased from baseline.On the basis of Luminex technology, the present study revealed multiple novel autoantibodies related to SLE activity and organ injury, especially anti-PLA2R, anti-KRT8, and anti-AGRN, thereby providing novel serological markers for the assessment of activity in patients with LN. Anti-TUBA1B and anti-AGRN are strongly associated with extrarenal involvement. Key Points • The Luminex method is highly sensitive and high-throughput for detecting serum autoantibodies. • LN patients with anti-TUBA1B and anti-AGRN positivity are more likely to be complicated by extrarenal organ involvement. • Serum anti-PLA2R, anti-KRT8, and anti-AGRN reflect the activity of SLE and provide novel serological markers for the evaluation of LN patients negative for anti-dsDNA and anti-C1q.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Purinergic receptor P2Y11, a G protein-coupled receptor that is stimulated by extracellular ATP, has been demonstrated to be related to the chemotaxis of granulocytes, apoptosis of neutrophils, and secretion of cytokines in vitro. P2Y11 mutations were associated with narcolepsy. However, little is known about the roles of P2RY11 in the occurrence of narcolepsy and inflammatory response in vivo. In this study, we generated a zebrafish P2Y11 mutant using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing and demonstrated that the P2Y11 mutant replicated the narcolepsy-like features including reduced HCRT expression and excessive daytime sleepiness, suggesting that P2Y11 is essential for HCRT expression. Furthermore, we accessed the cytokine expression in the mutant and revealed that the P2RY11 mutation disrupted the systemic inflammatory balance by reducing il4, il10 and tgfb, and increasing il6, tnfa, and il1b. In addition, the P2RY11-deficient larvae with caudal fin injuries exhibited significantly slower migration and less recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages at damaged site, and lower expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines during tissue damage. All these findings highlight the vital roles of P2RY11 in maintaining HCRT production and secreting anti-inflammatory cytokines in the native environment, and suggested that P2RY11-deficient zebrafish can serve as a reliable and unique model to further explore narcolepsy and inflammatory-related diseases with impaired neutrophil and macrophage responses.© 2024. The Author(s).
Nucleotides are potent extracellular signaling molecules during homeostasis, infection, and injury due to their ability to activate purinergic receptors. The nucleotide ATP activates P2X receptors (P2RXs), whereas the nucleotides ADP, ATP, UTP, and UDP-glucose selectively activate different P2Y receptors (P2RYs). Several studies have established crucial roles for P2 receptors during intestinal inflammatory and infectious diseases, yet the most extensive characterization of purinergic signaling has focused on immune cells and the central and enteric nervous systems. As epithelial cells serve as the first barrier against irritants and infection, we hypothesized that the gut epithelium may express multiple purinergic receptors that respond to extracellular nucleotide signals. Using the Human Protein Atlas and Gut Cell Survey, we queried single-cell RNA sequencing (RNAseq) data for the P2 purinergic receptors in the small and large intestines. In silico analysis reveals robust mRNA expression of P2RY1, P2RY2, P2RY11, and P2RX4 throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Human intestinal organoids exhibited a similar expression pattern with a prominent expression of P2RY1, P2RY2, and P2RX4, but this purinergic receptor repertoire was not conserved in T84, Caco2, and HT29 intestinal epithelial cell lines. Finally, P2YR1 and P2YR2 agonists elicited robust calcium responses in human intestinal organoids, but calcium responses were weaker or absent in the cell lines. These findings suggest that the gastrointestinal epithelia respond to extracellular purinergic signaling via P2RY1, P2RY2, P2RY11, and P2RX4 receptors and highlight the benefit of using intestinal organoids as a model of intestinal purinergic signaling.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Several studies have revealed crucial roles for P2 receptors during inflammatory and infectious diseases, however, these have largely been demonstrated in immune cells and the enteric nervous system. Although epithelial cells serve as the first barrier against infection and inflammation, the role of purinergic signaling within the gastrointestinal tract remains largely unknown. This work expands our knowledge of purinergic receptor distribution and relative expression along the intestine.
Pathophysiological response after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is described as a three-stage model involving temporal phenotypic modifications of both immune cells and fibroblasts: a primary inflammatory phase, followed by a reparative phase and a fibrous scar maturation phase. Purinergic receptors, particularly the P2Y11 receptor, have been reported to be involved in the regulation of inflammation after ischemia and could act for the resolution of inflammation after AMI. For the first time, we characterized the immuno-inflammatory and P2Y11 expression profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from AMI patients and analyzed the consequences of presenting these cells to cardiac fibroblasts in vitro. PBMC from 178 patients were collected at various times after reperfused ST-segment elevation AMI, from H0 to M12. Expression level of P2RY11 and genes involved in tolerogenic profile of dendritic cells and T cell polarization were evaluated by RT-PCR. P2Y11 protein expression was assessed by flow cytometry. PBMC and human cardiac fibroblasts (HCF) were cocultured and α-SMA/vimentin ratio was analyzed by flow cytometry. Within the first 48 h after AMI, expression levels of HMOX1, STAT3 and CD4 increased while IDO1 and TBX21/GATA3 ratio decreased. Concomitantly, the expression of P2RY11 increased in both T and B cells. In vitro, PBMC collected at H48 after AMI induced an increase in α-SMA/vimentin ratio in HCF. Our results suggest that human PBMC display an evolving inflammatory profile with reparative characteristics the first two days after AMI and secrete soluble mediators leading to the fibroblastic proteins modification, thus participating to myocardial fibrosis.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
The anti-obesity thyroid hormone, triiodothyronine (T3), and irisin, an exercise- and/or cold-induced myokine, stimulate thermogenesis and energy consumption while decreasing lipid accumulation. The involvement of ATP signaling in adipocyte cell function and obesity has attracted increasing attention, but the crosstalk between the purinergic signaling cascade and anti-obesity hormones lacks experimental evidence. In this study, we investigated the effects of T3 and irisin in the transcriptomics of membrane-bound purinoceptors, ectonucleotidase enzymes and nucleoside transporters participating in the purinergic signaling in cultured human adipocytes. The RNA-seq analysis revealed that differentiated adipocytes express high amounts of ADORA1, P2RY11, P2RY12, and P2RX6 gene transcripts, along with abundant levels of transcriptional products encoding to purine metabolizing enzymes (ENPP2, ENPP1, NT5E, ADA and ADK) and transporters (SLC29A1, SCL29A2). The transcriptomics of purinergic signaling markers changed in parallel to the upsurge of "browning" adipocyte markers, like UCP1 and P2RX5, after treatment with T3 and irisin. Upregulation of ADORA1, ADORA2A and P2RX4 gene transcription was obtained with irisin, whereas T3 preferentially upregulated NT5E, SLC29A2 and P2RY11 genes. Irisin was more powerful than T3 towards inhibition of the leptin gene transcription, the SCL29A1 gene encoding for the ENT1 transporter, the E-NPP2 (autotaxin) gene, and genes that encode for two ADP-sensitive P2Y receptors, P2RY1 and P2RY12. These findings indicate that anti-obesity irisin and T3 hormones differentially affect the purinergic signaling transcriptomics, which might point towards new directions for the treatment of obesity and related metabolic disorders that are worth to be pursued in future functional studies.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35386996 is a review article
Narcolepsy type 1 (NT1) is associated with hypocretin neuron loss. However, there are still unexplained phenotypic NT1 features. We investigated the associations between clinical and sleep phenotypic characteristics, the NT1-associated P2RY11 polymorphism rs2305795, and P2Y11 protein levels in T lymphocytes in patients with NT1, their first-degree relatives and unrelated controls.The P2RY11 SNP was genotyped in 100 patients (90/100 H1N1-(Pandemrix)-vaccinated), 119 related and 123 non-related controls. CD4 and CD8 T lymphocyte P2Y11 protein levels were quantified using flow cytometry in 167 patients and relatives. Symptoms and sleep recording parameters were also collected.We found an association between NT1 and the rs2305795 A allele (OR = 2, 95% CI (1.3, 3.0), p = 0.001). T lymphocyte P2Y11 protein levels were significantly lower in patients and relatives homozygous for the rs2305795 risk A allele (CD4: p = 0.012; CD8: p = 0.007). The nocturnal sleep fragmentation index was significantly negatively correlated with patients' P2Y11 protein levels (CD4: p = 0.004; CD8: p = 0.006). Mean MSLT sleep latency, REM-sleep latency, and core clinical symptoms were not associated with P2Y11 protein levels.We confirmed that the P2RY11 polymorphism rs2305795 is associated with NT1 also in a mainly H1N1-(Pandemrix)-vaccinated cohort. We demonstrated that homozygosity for the A risk allele is associated with lower P2Y11 protein levels. A high level of nocturnal sleep fragmentation was associated with low P2Y11 levels in patients. This suggests that P2Y11 has a previously unknown function in sleep-wake stabilization that affects the severity of NT1.© Sleep Research Society 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Sleep Research Society.
Mas-Related GPCR X4 (MRGPRX4) is a sensory neuron-restricted receptor for cholestatic itch. Here, we identify MRGPRX4 as an unexpected melanoma driver. MRGPRX4 is upregulated in melanoma and is confined to invasive, neural-crest-like and pre-EMT states associated with dedifferentiation and therapy resistance. Ectopic MRGPRX4 expression in mouse melanocytes drives 100% penetrant, highly metastatic melanoma, demonstrating oncogenic behavior. MRGPRX4 promotes melanoma cell proliferation and invasion through basal, ligand-independent, PI3K-AKT-MAPK activation. Multi-omics links MRGPRX4 expression to a mesenchymal/neural-crest-like program that defines a distinct invasive MRGPRX4+ niche. Comparing transcptomics of MRGPRX4-driven tumors shows a broad overlap with BRAF/NRAS-driven tumors; however, the MRGPRX4 model also enriches an ECM-rich, invasive neural crest-like melanoma state. MRGPRX4 further remodels the tumor microenvironment toward an immunosuppressive, checkpoint-high state enriched in suppressive myeloid cells. Pharmacologic MRGPRX4 inhibition suppresses basal signaling and limits melanoma growth and invasion. In sum, melanoma exploits MRGPRX4 to acquire an invasive and immunosuppressive phenotype, nominating this somatosensory GPCR as a promising therapeutic target.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42232646 is a review article
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) presents a growing global health challenge, underscoring the need for effective therapies. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) represents a promising therapeutic target against MASH. This study reported the rational design of a novel non-carboxylic steroidal FXR agonist, compound 27, which demonstrated effective FXR agonistic activity (TR-FRET: EC50 = 10 ± 3 nM; Luciferase Reporter: EC50 = 128 ± 9 nM) alongside reduced activation of the off-target receptor MRGPRX4 compared to OCA. Compound 27 exhibited high oral bioavailability in rats (F = 70.30%) and activation of hTGR5 (HTRF: EC50 = 1360 nM). In vivo studies confirmed its efficacy: attenuated collagen deposition in the CCl4-induced liver fibrosis model and improved steatosis and inflammatory foci in the MASH model. In summary, compound 27 achieves its promising efficacy and safety profile by the dual-path strategy that enhances FXR/TGR5 activity while suppressing MRGPRX4, supporting its further development as a novel therapeutic agent for MASH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42095223 is a review article
Chronic itch, particularly in cholestatic and uremic conditions, poses a notable clinical burden, yet treatment options remain inadequate. MRGPRX4 (hX4), a bile-acid-sensing G-protein-coupled receptor predominantly expressed in human sensory neurons, has emerged as a critical mediator of cholestatic pruritus. Here we identified and characterized HEP-50768, a potent and selective small-molecule inverse agonist of hX4 through high-throughput screening and structure-activity optimization. Structural elucidation through cryo-electron microscopy of the hX4-inverse agonist complex structure revealed the unique binding mode and inhibitory mechanism of HEP-50768. In hX4-humanized rats, HEP-50768 robustly suppressed bile-acid-induced pruritic behaviors. Comprehensive preclinical absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and safety profiling was performed in both rats and monkeys, and these findings establish HEP-50768 as a promising therapeutic candidate for chronic itch, supporting its advancement to clinical evaluation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Cholestatic pruritus is a debilitating symptom in paediatric liver disease with a complex and poorly understood pathogenesis. Recent evidence implicates the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X4 (MRGPRX4)-a bile acid receptor expressed in human dorsal root ganglia-as a potential mediator of itch signalling. Although MRGPRX4 harbours multiple single nucleotide variants (SNVs), their role in modulating cholestatic pruritus remains unexplored.We conducted a case-control study at a single paediatric tertiary care center, enrolling patients with Alagille syndrome, Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis (PFIC), biliary atresia, and Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis (PSC). Cases were defined as individuals with a history of pruritus; controls had no reported pruritus. Clinical data included peak total and fractionated bile acid levels. Targeted sequencing of the MRGPRX4 coding region was performed to evaluate associations between SNVs and pruritus status.Among 36 participants (17 cases, 19 controls), all harboured at least one coding-region SNV in MRGPRX4. Eleven unique SNVs were identified, with recurrent variants at positions p.Phe8Leu, p.Asn25Lys, p.Val47Val, p.Tyr54Cys, p.Ala182Val, and p.Tyr215Tyr. While no single SNV was significantly associated with pruritus overall, the co-occurring Phe8Leu, Asn25Lys, and Tyr215Tyr variants are less frequent in patients with pruritus, and a rare Lys11Glu variant was exclusively found in patients without pruritus.The functional significance of MRGPRX4 variants remains unknown. However, some of the variants, including Phe8Leu, Asn25Lys, and Lys11Glu, may alter receptor activity, potentially modulating susceptibility to cholestatic pruritus. Further studies with larger cohorts are warranted to elucidate the mechanistic and clinical relevance of these variants in cholestatic pruritus.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a bile acid-activated nuclear receptor that represents an important therapeutic target for gut-liver diseases and metabolic disorders. Recently, FXR partial agonists have gained attention for their potential to minimize side effects resulting from receptor over-activation. In this study, we report the design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of novel obeticholic acid (OCA) derivatives as selective FXR modulators. Structural modifications at the C3α position and the side chain of the bile acid scaffold led to the identification of valine derivatives 2 and 16 as metabolically stable and safe FXR modulators with reduced agonist efficacy. Further molecular dynamics simulations revealed that these compounds induce distinct conformational changes within the FXR ligand-binding domain, consistent with their partial agonist behavior and resulting in moderate modulation of FXR target genes. Unlike OCA, both compounds failed to activate other steroid-responsive receptors, including MRGPRX4 (hX4), a G-protein-coupled receptor implicated in itching in cholestatic patients, supporting their potential as safer FXR modulators with a reduced risk of pruritus-related side effects. Overall, this study elucidates key structure-activity relationships governing FXR partial agonism and hX4 binding and offers valuable chemical tools for the development of FXR-targeted therapeutics with improved safety profiles.© 2026 The Author(s). ChemMedChem published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Here, we report a general and modular strategy for the diverse synthesis of oxaheterocycles via a Pd-catalyzed migratory 1,n-cycloannulation reaction (MCAR, n > 2) of alkenes. Employing readily available (homo)allylphenols and 2-iodophenols as starting materials, this method enables the efficient construction of a broad range of 5- to 8-membered oxaheterocycles with good functional group tolerance. The key to achieving high reactivity and controlling ring-closure is the kinetically favored formation of a para-quinone methide (p-QM) intermediate rather than an ortho-quinone methide (o-QM) intermediate during the migration process, which facilitates selective single-site cyclization at the less sterically hindered site and suppresses competing pathways. The synthetic utility of this strategy is further demonstrated by the efficient preparation of several bioactive oxaheterocyclic compounds including a cytotoxic flavan and an MRGPRX4 inhibitor, highlighting its potential in both synthetic and medicinal chemistry.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
The human MAS-related G-protein-coupled receptors (MRGPRs) represent a promising therapeutic target for managing chronic itch and pain. Among them, MRGPRX4 is activated by bile acids in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and contributes to the cholestatic itch. Here, we report the design, synthesis, and in vitro evaluation of a focused library of functionalized terpene-based thiazole hydrazines targeting MRGPRX receptors. Functional assays identified two compounds, 1C and 3G, as negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) of MRGPRX4 with IC50 values of 337 nM and 15.5 μM, respectively, and showed weak activity at MRGPRX2. Computational analysis suggested a putative NAM binding site adjacent to the orthosteric pocket involving key interactions with residues H923.22, K963.26, and R1594.62. The resulting site overlaps with the receptor activity-modifying protein 2 (RAMP2) interaction region, where RAMP2 antagonizes MRGPRX4 as a NAM. These findings provide a foundation for developing selective MRGPRX4 NAMs as novel therapeutic agents for chronic itch and pain.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Cholestasis-associated pruritus is a distressing symptom. Bile salts and bilirubin are often implicated in the etiology of pruritus. We evaluated whether these compounds activate known itch receptors.Activation of the established pruriceptors TRPA1, TRPV1, TRPV3, TRPV4, MRGPRX4 in cells overexpressing these receptors, by monitoring cytosolic free Ca2+. TGR5 activation was assayed by means of cAMP ELISA in TGR5 overexpressing cells. Serum from 43 cholestatic patients and 15 controls was analyzed for receptor activation; plasma bile salt concentrations were quantified by HPLC-MS.Plasma levels of conjugated bile salts and their sulphated and glucuronidated derivatives correlated with pruritus intensity; most unconjugated bile salts did not. TRPA1 and MRGPRX4 were activated by bile salts only at high concentrations. Bilirubin only weakly activated MRGPRX4. However, physiological levels of albumin completely abrogated these activations. Incubation of receptor-expressing cells with patient serum (containing albumin) did not activate any of the itch receptors. In contrast, physiological concentrations of albumin reduced but did not completely abrogate bile salt-induced TGR5 activation, and the extent of this activation correlated with pruritus intensity. However, TGR5 activation was also induced by plasma from NTCP-deficient individuals.While TGR5 activation correlates with pruritus, this receptor was also activated by plasma of NTCP deficient patients who do not suffer from pruritus, indicating that activation of TGR5 is not a dominant factor. The absence of receptor activation in the presence of physiological concentrations of albumin indicates that bile salts and bilirubin do not play a direct role in activation of these receptors.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The understanding of anaphylaxis has evolved over time beyond the classical IgE-mediated paradigm. This review examines the role of Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) in non-IgE-mediated mast cell activation, a mechanism increasingly recognized in mast cell activation, anaphylaxis, and other mast cell-driven conditions.Recent studies have identified MRGPRX2 as a key receptor in rapid mast cell degranulation in response to a broad range of cationic ligands such as drugs, neuropeptides, and host defence-related peptides. Structural and signalling insights have clarified its dual coupling to Gi and Gq pathways. Clinically, MRGPRX2 has been implicated in immediate reactions to antibiotics, neuromuscular blocking agents and other compounds, often occurring upon first exposure. Additionally, emerging evidence suggests roles in chronic urticaria, neurogenic inflammation, and host defence, as well as growing interest in MRGPRX2 as a therapeutic target.MRGPRX2 represents a paradigm shift in mast cell biology, providing a solid base for non-IgE-mediated hypersensitivity. Improved understanding of this pathway may enhance diagnostic accuracy and enable the development of targeted therapies, although significant challenges remain in distinguishing activation mechanisms in clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Anaphylaxis attributable to non-immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated mechanisms represents an increasingly recognized and clinically challenging subset of severe hypersensitivity reactions. This review synthesizes recent advances in the understanding of IgE-independent pathways, with emphasis on literature published in the last 18 months, and highlights their implications for precision diagnostics and therapeutic targeting.Major IgE-independent mechanisms have attracted substantial recent attention. First, the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) has been consolidated as a central mediator of IgE-independent drug reactions, with new humanized knock-in mouse models revealing its capacity to amplify both IgE-dependent and IgE-independent systemic anaphylaxis. Second, clonal mast cell disorders-including systemic mastocytosis and monoclonal mast cell activation syndrome-are now recognized as major risk amplifiers for severe and fatal anaphylaxis, particularly following Hymenoptera venom exposure, reinforcing the role of the KIT D816V mutation in lowering the mast cell activation threshold. Third, a comprehensive biomarker meta-analysis confirms that tryptase, platelet-activating factor (PAF), and urinary prostaglandin D2 each contribute differentially to non-IgE reactions, with PAF and PAF-acetylhydrolase emerging as particularly relevant in IgE-independent severity pathways.Non-IgE-mediated anaphylaxis encompasses mechanistically distinct entities that demand tailored diagnostic algorithms. Recognizing MRGPRX2 activation, complement and IgG-dependent pathways, and clonal mast cell disease in the clinical work-up of unexplained or recurrent anaphylaxis is relevant. Emerging biomarkers and therapeutic targets - including MRGPRX2 antagonists - hold promise for transforming the management of this underdiagnosed condition.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Anaphylaxis during pregnancy is uncommon but remains one of the most critical emergencies in obstetric medicine because maternal deterioration and fetal hypoxia evolve simultaneously. Despite established treatment recommendations, diagnostic uncertainty and persistent concerns regarding epinephrine use continue to contribute to jeopardize preventable morbidity/mortality. This review examines recent advances in the recognition, management, and prevention of pregnancy-associated anaphylaxis, with emphasis on emerging concepts that may improve maternal-fetal safety.Physiological pregnancy-related cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations can obscure classic manifestations of anaphylaxis, creating important diagnostic blind spots and increasing the risk of delayed recognition. Growing evidence indicates that maternal hypotension and hypoxemia represent the main threats to fetal wellbeing. Epinephrine hesitancy remains common in clinical practice. New insights into mast cell disorders, hereditary alpha-tryptasemia, and MRGPRX2-mediated reactions are refining risk stratification and expanding understanding of severe and perioperative anaphylaxis. Recent epidemiological studies also highlight the predominance of drug-related and cesarean-associated triggers and support the implementation of multidisciplinary care pathways, allergy evaluation, and targeted prevention strategies.Maternal anaphylaxis should be viewed as a time-critical obstetric emergency in which prompt recognition and immediate epinephrine administration are essential to optimize maternal and fetal outcomes. Future progress will depend on pregnancy-adapted diagnostic approaches, improved risk identification, systematic prevention efforts, and coordinated multidisciplinary management across obstetric, anesthetic, emergency, and allergy services.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a common and debilitating disease with a lifetime prevalence of 20%. Recently, the mast cell Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor B2 (MrgprB2) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of pruritus in ACD. Huanglian Ointment (HLO) demonstrates significant clinical efficacy in promoting skin healing, treating eczema, and alleviating skin inflammation and itching. However, the mechanism underlying the antipruritic effects of HLO has not yet been elucidated.This study aims to elucidate the potential mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of HLO against ACD via the MrgprB2-mediated neuroimmune axis.In this study, scratching behavioral assays, transgenic mice (MrgprB2-/- mice), histopathological analysis, immunofluorescence, whole-cell patch-clamp technique, HPLC analysis, UHPLC-MS/MS, molecular docking and Bio-layer Interferometry (BLI) were employed to investigate the potential antipruritic mechanisms of HLO and berberine.Here, we demonstrated that HLO ameliorated pruritus in the oxazolone-induced ACD model by inhibiting mast cell activation and the subsequent release of tryptase, thereby reducing the abnormal excitability of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. In addition, knockout of MrgprB2 receptor could significantly reduce oxazoline-induced pruritus, tryptase release, and the abnormal excitability of DRG neurons. Notably, the therapeutic effect of HLO was significantly weakened in MrgprB2-/- mice, indicating that the mechanism underlying the antipruritic effect of HLO is potentially related to the MrgprB2-mediated neuroimmune axis. Furthermore, component analysis of HLO combined with molecular docking screening suggested that berberine could serve as one of the potential key bioactive components. BLI assays implied a relatively preferable binding interaction between berberine and MrgprX2 protein. Further data also indicated that berberine might mitigate pruritus in ACD model, and such anti-pruritic activity is presumably correlated with the MrgprB2 receptor.In conclusion, our findings indicated that HLO could effectively alleviate pruritus, and this effect may be linked to the MrgprB2-related neuroimmune axis. Berberine may potentially act as an active component involved in HLO's antipruritic pharmacological effects.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Biosensors inspired by biological sensory systems are valuable tools for detecting physiological and environmental stimuli with high degrees of specificity and sensitivity. An itch irritant biosensor to detect environmental changes or pruritogenic substances in human blood or tissues highly associated with inflammation and prevalent conditions like atopic dermatitis (AD) has not been developed. To address this gap, we developed a novel bioelectronic sensor by integrating the human itch receptor Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) with a graphene field-effect transistor (GFET). This MRGPRX2-GFET biosensor covalently immobilizes functional receptors, enabling direct conversion of ligand-binding events into quantifiable electrical signals. We demonstrate that the sensor can detect known MRGPRX2 agonists with exceptional sensitivity and specificity, achieving a detection limit for SP at approximately 7 pM. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and mutational effects reveal that ligand binding induces cytoplasmic conformational rearrangements in MRGPRX2, strengthening receptor-graphene coupling and providing a mechanistic basis for signal transduction. Importantly, the biosensor effectively distinguishes plasma samples from AD patients and healthy controls by capturing different electrical signal responses. In our study, we establish a versatile platform for diagnosing and subtyping chronic itch disorders and offer a generalizable strategy for developing membrane receptor-based multiplexed "itch-print" biosensors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509489 is a review article
The emergence of drug resistance in gastric cancer presents a critical challenge in oncological treatments, often leading to therapy failure and reduced patient survival. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in modulating drug resistance through various mechanisms, including altering the expression of genes involved in drug metabolism, DNA repair, and apoptosis. This study aimed to elucidate the role of miR-3529-5p in cisplatin resistance in gastric cancer by investigating its interaction with the gene F2RL3, which was identified as significantly overexpressed in cisplatin-resistant gastric cancer cells. Using RNA sequencing data and bioinformatics tools, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between cisplatin-resistant and sensitive cell lines, with F2RL3 emerging as a key gene overexpressed in resistant cells. The overexpression of miR-3529-5p using the pbud-egfb vector in AGS cells was conducted, followed by MTT assays to assess cell viability and resistance to cisplatin. qPCR was used to compare the expression of apoptosis-related genes between AGS/cis cells and AGS/miR-3529-5p/cis cells, while flow cytometry was employed to examine apoptosis levels. The results confirmed that increased miR-3529-5p expression leads to reduced F2RL3 levels, enhancing cell sensitivity to cisplatin. Cell viability assays showed a decrease in the IC50 of cisplatin in miR-3529-5p-overexpressing cells, indicating heightened drug sensitivity. Furthermore, gene expression analysis and apoptosis assays demonstrated that miR-3529-5p modulates apoptosis-related genes, promoting apoptosis in the presence of cisplatin. In conclusion, miR-3529-5p plays a significant role in reversing cisplatin resistance in gastric cancer by targeting F2RL3, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target to enhance cisplatin efficacy in gastric cancer treatment.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Association of Clinical Biochemists of India 2024. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
During early pregnancy, maternal blood surrounds the embryo before the placenta is fully developed, requiring tight regulation of maternal blood flow into the placental vasculature. We identify placental microthrombi (PMTs) as essential structures guiding this process. PMTs contain platelets, coagulation factors, and complement proteins, and their formation depends on maternal platelet activation by thrombin through the protease-activated receptor PAR4 (F2rl3). Deficiency of PAR4 abolished PMTs and caused excessive bleeding at the implantation site. C3 deficiency also led to increased bleeding events, indicating that complement activation contributes to thrombosis in the placental circulation. Conversely, dysregulated complement activation in CMP-sialic acid synthase-deficient (Cmas-/-) mice led to widespread thrombosis and failed placental development. Strikingly, platelet activation via PAR4 was necessary to localize complement activation to trophoblast surfaces, thereby coupling coagulation and complement in PMT formation. Depletion of maternal platelets mitigated complement-driven thromboinflammation in Cmas-/- pregnancies, restoring placental growth. These findings uncover a critical cooperation between platelets, coagulation, and complement in establishing maternal blood flow to the placenta. Successful pregnancy therefore requires not only activation but also tight regulation of these systems to balance necessary PMT formation with the prevention of pathological thrombosis.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and TRPV (transient receptor potential vanilloid) channels are crucial for signal transduction in physiological processes, including neurotransmission, pain, and itch. Downstream effectors of GPCR signaling can directly stimulate TRPV channels or enhance their sensitivity to stimuli, a process known as TRPV sensitization. Traditionally, GPCRs are activated at the cell surface by extracellular agonists, triggering signaling cascades. Recent evidence suggests GPCRs continue to signal from intracellular organelles. The human Mas-related G-protein coupled receptor X1 (MrGPRX1) is a GPCR expressed in primary sensory neurons involved in nociception and pruritus. Recent studies demonstrated how intracellular GPCR signaling regulates neuronal activity. However, there is no evidence characterizing MrGPRX1 trafficking or intracellular signaling. Herein, we characterized MrGPRX1 signaling within the endosomal network and its role in sensitizing TRPV1 channels to enhance itch signaling. Utilizing subcellular targeted biosensors, we demonstrated MrGPRX1 can traffic and signal from endosomes. Immunofluorescence analysis showed that MrGPRX1 internalizes following BAM8-22 stimulation. BRET assays revealed that MrGPRX1 activation induces Gα q and β-arrestin-1 recruitment to the plasma membrane and early endosomes. Inhibition of dynamin or clathrin blocked BAM8-22-induced MrGPRX1 endocytosis and decreased nuclear extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling. Calcium signaling confirmed that MrGPRX1-mediated TRPV1 sensitization is mediated by protein kinase C and ERK activation. Our findings reveal a novel role for MrGPRX1 endosomal signaling in TRPV1 sensitization. Understanding the mechanisms of MrGPRX1 signaling offers valuable insights into differentiating between pain and itch pathways, aiding in the development of targeted therapies for chronic pain and persistent itch.Copyright © 2026 Duran, Retamal, Ferreira, Trevett, Chen and Jensen.
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) is a mast cell-mediated inflammatory disease marked by recurrent wheals and/or angioedema in the absence of identifiable external triggers. Once considered idiopathic, CSU is now recognized as a heterogeneous immunological disorder that results in mast cell activation. Two major endotypes have been described: autoallergic (type I) CSU, mediated by IgE autoantibodies directed against self-antigens, and autoimmune (type IIb) CSU, mediated by IgG autoantibodies targeting IgE or FcεRI on mast cells and basophils. Type IIb CSU is associated with higher disease severity, autoimmune comorbidities, low total IgE levels, and reduced responsiveness to antihistamines and omalizumab. Beyond classical autoantibody-mediated mechanisms, increasing evidence supports the contribution of non-IgE-dependent pathways in CSU pathogenesis. These include Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) - mediated mast cell activation, neuroimmune interactions, activation of coagulation and complement cascades, and persistent low-grade inflammation. Alterations of the gut microbiome and impaired barrier function have also been implicated in sustaining systemic immune activation and lowering mast cell activation thresholds in subsets of patients. Recent therapeutic advances, including biologics targeting type 2 inflammation and small-molecule inhibitors of intracellular signaling pathways such as Bruton's tyrosine kinase, highlight the clinical relevance of these mechanistic insights. However, a substantial proportion of patients remain inadequately controlled, underscoring the need for improved biomarkers, refined endotype stratification, and disease-modifying treatment strategies. This review summarizes current insights into the multifactorial pathophysiology of CSU, highlights remaining knowledge gaps, and discusses how emerging concepts may inform more precise, personalized, and potentially disease-modifying therapeutic approaches.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of retinoic acid receptor responder 2 (RARRES2) on osteoclast differentiation in postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.A rat model of PMOP was induced by bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) method, and an in vitro osteoclast differentiation model was induced by treating RAW264.7 cells with nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL) and macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Femoral bone structure, biomechanical properties, histology, osteoclast activity, co‑localization of RARRES2/CMKLR1 with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes, gene expression, Fe2+ levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS) level, and lipid peroxidation level were detected.OVX model rats exhibited significant trabecular bone loss, compromised bone biomechanical properties, increased osteoclast numbers, elevated osteoclast differentiation markers, and upregulated RARRES2 expression compared with Sham controls. Co‑localization immunofluorescence revealed that RARRES2 was predominantly co‑localized with TRAP+ osteoclasts and Perilipin‑1+ bone marrow adipocytes. In vitro, RARRES2 knockdown markedly suppressed osteoclast differentiation, as evidenced by decreased osteoclast-related markers (NFATc1, CTSK, c-Fos, and F-actin) and reduced TRAP activity. Mechanistically, RARRES2 knockdown increased ferroptosis in osteoclasts, manifesting by decreased Nrf2, GPX4, HO-1, NQO1, and FTH1, along with increased ACSL4, Fe2+ accumulation , ROS production, and lipid peroxidation. These findings were also confirmed in vivo. Activation of Nrf2 with DMF partially reversed the ferroptotic alterations and osteoclast‑inhibiting effects induced by RARRES2 knockdown both in vitro and in vivo.RARRES2 knockdown inhibits osteoclast differentiation and alleviates PMOP progression by suppressing the activation of Nrf2/GPX4 and promoting osteoclast ferroptosis.
In metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), abnormalities in post-translational modification (PTM) are both a consequence of the pathological process and a driving force for disease progression. Therefore, this study intends to characterize the PTM features (acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation) of MASH, which will provide a crucial theoretical basis for the diagnosis and development of new targets for MASH. In this study, protein/modification profiles of clinical liver tissues from Normal and MASH were analyzed by LC-MS to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and differentially modified proteins (DMPs) with acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation. This study found that acetylation and lactylation occurred mainly in K, whose upstream and downstream amino acids consisted of A, G, K, R, and V. Phosphorylation occurred mainly in S and T, whose upstream and downstream ones consisted of D, E, P, R, and S. Proteomics with ordinary, acetylation, lactylation, and phosphorylation identified 468, 433, 434, and 1,471 DEPs/DMPs, respectively, which mainly regulate cytoskeleton, immunity, proliferation, oxidative stress, inflammatory cascades, various metabolisms (sugars, amino acids, lipids, and carbon). CMKLR1, CYP2E1, GLRX, and XRCC1 were identified as key regulators in the shared DEPs of ordinary proteomics and modification proteomics. Notably, the differences in expression of the four proteins in clinical liver tissues from Normal and MASH were consistent with the proteomics results. In conclusion, this study systematically reveals the global dysregulation of PTM, emphasizing CMKLR1, CYP2E1, GLRX, and XRCC1 as the key proteins/modification sites, and provides new perspectives for targeted intervention in MASH.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Regulatory T cells play a pivotal role in shaping immune interactions, limiting antitumor immunity, and impairing the activity of engineered effector cells. Overcoming regulatory T (Treg) cell-mediated immunosuppression is critical to unlock the full therapeutic potential of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-cell therapies. Here, we develop "armored" anti-CD19 CAR-NK cells coexpressing GITR ligand (GITRL) (CAR19-GITRL-NK) to both target malignant B cells and locally counteract Treg-mediated suppression. GITR is highly expressed on Tregs, and engagement by its ligand GITRL can modulate their function, providing a rational strategy to reprogram the tumor microenvironment.We generated anti-CD19 NK-92 and primary peripheral blood NK (PB-NK) cells with or without GITRL coexpression using lentiviral vectors, and evaluated their functionality and therapeutic potential. CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 cells were analyzed regarding their expansion, metabolism, cytotoxicity, cytokine secretion, degranulation, and in vivo antitumor potential. The cytotoxic activity of CAR19-GITRL PB-NK cells was examined, and their growth was measured in the presence of T CD4⁺ cells transduced with FoxP3 expression vector (iTreg-FoxP3) used as a model for Treg cells.CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 cells displayed superior expansion and enhanced metabolic fitness. Functionally, both CAR constructs increased the cytotoxicity of NK-92 and cytokine secretion against CD19⁺ Nalm-6 and Namalwa cells in vitro. RNA-Seq revealed 54 upregulated and 34 downregulated genes in CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 versus CAR19-NK-92 cells, with enrichment of pathways linked to immune activation, proliferation, chemotaxis, and cytotoxicity, including increased expression of NCR2, CD2, CMKLR1, IRF5, KIT, and PTPN3. In vivo, CAR19-GITRL-NK-92 cells achieved superior tumor control and the longest overall survival. In primary NK cells, CAR19-GITRL enhanced killing of CD19⁺ targets, and GITRL expression attenuated iTreg-FoxP3 mediated inhibition in CAR-NK cells, indicating a resistance mechanism to Treg suppression.Collectively, these data position CAR19-GITRL-NK cells as a potent and innovative strategy that couples direct tumor targeting with active undermining of Treg-driven immunosuppression for the treatment of B-cell leukemias and lymphomas.Copyright © 2026 Schmidt, Ebrahimabadi, Tirapelle, Garcia Ferreira, dos Santos, Biggi, da Silva Januário, Calado and Picanço-Castro.
Trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) agonists are being investigated as potential new treatments for schizophrenia, a disorder characterized by striatal hyperdopaminergia and dysregulated cortical and hippocampal glutamatergic function. Current evidence suggests that TAAR1 agonists reduce elevated striatal dopamine synthesis capacity and release, likely through direct inhibition of presynaptic dopaminergic neurons and modulation of upstream glutamatergic signaling. However, their impact on postsynaptic striatal neuronal dynamics and associated behaviors remains largely unexplored. Here we investigated the effects of TAAR1 agonists, RO5166017 and clinical drug candidate ulotaront, on in vivo calcium dynamics of D1- and D2-receptor expressing medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in freely behaving mice, under normal and phencyclidine (PCP)-induced, psychosis-like conditions. Both ulotaront and RO5166017 mitigated PCP-induced alterations in locomotor behavior, MSN activity levels and spatiotemporal dynamics. Interestingly, the neural effects were dependent on both locomotor activity and the psychosis-like state. While ulotaront and RO5166017 differentially affected neuronal activity levels under normal conditions, they both produced a similar increase in the PCP state, specifically during movement, with comparable effects observed in D1 and D2 MSNs. Although the established antipsychotics haloperidol and clozapine produced similar behavioral effects, their impact on striatal MSNs was distinct and lacked prominent state dependence. These findings provide new insights into the distinct neurocircuit changes associated with the antipsychotic-like effects of TAAR1 agonists, distinguishing them from D2 receptor-targeting treatments.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Trace amine-associated receptors (TAARs) were originally identified as G protein-coupled receptors involved in monoaminergic signaling within the central nervous system. However, accumulating evidence indicates that TAARs, particularly TAAR1 and TAAR2, are also expressed in the immune system, including circulating leukocytes, lymphocytes, macrophages, and microglia. This chapter reviews current evidence regarding TAAR expression, functional pharmacology, and potential translational relevance within the immune system.Expression studies support a predominant TAAR1/TAAR2 pattern across both innate and adaptive immune-cell populations. Functional studies indicate that TAAR signaling can modulate inflammatory responses through chemotaxis, cytokine production, and immunoglobulin secretion. However, these effects are highly context-dependent, preventing a simple classification of TAAR signaling as either pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory.The chapter also discusses the emerging role of TAAR signaling in the pathophysiology of diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease, methamphetamine-associated immune dysfunction during HIV infection, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, fibromyalgia, and hematological malignancies.Despite growing interest in TAAR immunopharmacology, the current evidence remains largely preclinical and methodologically heterogeneous. Major limitations include incomplete protein-level validation, reliance on immortalized cell lines or mixed-cell populations, species-specific pharmacology of available ligands, and limited understanding of physiological trace amine signaling under basal conditions. Further integrative studies will be required to clarify TAAR pathophysiological significance and determine whether TAAR-targeted strategies may have translational relevance in immune-mediated disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Substantial evidence indicates that stress serves as a major risk factor for various psychiatric disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD), anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and bipolar disorder. Although multiple therapeutic options exist for these conditions, current treatments often fall short of meeting clinical needs. Since the identification of trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1), studies across diverse animal models have revealed its involvement in modulating stress responses and its potential role in stress-related psychopathologies. Several selective TAAR1 agonists have shown promising efficacy in alleviating certain stress-induced adverse effects. While the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood, emerging evidence suggests they may involve TAAR1 expression in key brain regions regulating stress, as well as its modulatory effects on neurotransmitter systems - such as dopamine, serotonin, and glutamate. This chapter summarizes current research on TAAR1, with a focus on the role of TAAR1 ligands in stress-related disorders. Additionally, we briefly discuss TAAR1-related signaling pathways in stress regulation and the pharmacology of TAAR1 agonists.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Most TAAR-related drug discovery research which has advanced to clinical trials has focused on neuropsychiatric disease. Unfortunately, most studies are either conducted on males only or male and female data are not presented separately to inform on sex specificity of findings. As sex bias is highly prevalent in neuropsychiatric disease, this relative lack of considering sex as a potential confounding factor in these studies hampers complete elucidation of mechanisms at play. Therefore, in this chapter, we focus on the three TAARs for which most research data have been generated (TAAR1, TAAR5 and TAAR8) and summarise sex differences that have been reported in terms of TAAR expression and/or function, with consideration of species differences. In addition, given the sparsity of this information, we expanded our literature search to also include a discussion of role players at different levels of the trace amine signalling pathways - e.g. TAAR ligands. The role of oestrogen as potential TAAR modulator is also discussed. Integrating this information, we provide a critical discussion on whether significant sex differences are likely to exist in TAAR signalling. Finally, we make recommendations on research priorities going forward to ensure that TAAR-focused therapeutics development research is equally beneficial to both males and females.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Metabolic syndrome affects over 30% of the global population and is characterised by insulin resistance, obesity and dyslipidaemia, all of which significantly increase the development of chronic metabolic disorders including type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Over time, existing antihyperglycaemic treatments typically become ineffective due to changes in disease progression, highlighting the importance for the continued development of new therapeutic agents which exert their effects through diverse/ novel mechanisms.This chapter reviews the emerging role of trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) as a regulator of metabolic function. Whilst research into TAAR1 agonism has predominantly focused within the central nervous system for application in schizophrenia treatments, emerging preclinical and clinical evidence demonstrates that TAAR1 activation enhances glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and regulates dopaminergic pathways in addiction and reward processes. Comparisons with incretin mimetic therapies, including semaglutide - a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist - reveal significant mechanistic overlap, alongside potential advantages including a more favourable metabolic safety profile. Collectively these findings position TAAR1 as a promising target with the potential to address both physiological and neurobehavioural aspects of metabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42419666 is a review article
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immunoproteasome induction is prominent in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but whether it protects proteostasis or amplifies neuroinflammation remains unresolved. Here, we generated immunoproteasome-deficient PS19 tauopathy and APP/human tau double-knock-in mice by crossing each disease model with L7M1 mice lacking two immunoproteasome catalytic subunits. Immunoproteasome deficiency increased phospho-tau burden, exacerbated amyloid-β pathology and heightened microglial reactivity without suppressing constitutive 26S proteasome activity. In primary microglia and longitudinal two-photon imaging, immunoproteasome-deficient microglia engaged and engulfed tau aggregate-bearing material but failed to resolve internalized cargo, revealing a post-engulfment degradative checkpoint. Single-nucleus transcriptomics identified a remodeled P2ry12 low /Trem2 high microglial state with impaired phagolysosomal and mitochondrial programs. Reanalysis of human single-nucleus transcriptomic datasets showed that reduced microglial immunoproteasome expression was associated with cargo-processing gene-program changes similar to those observed in immunoproteasome-deficient mouse microglia. Together, these findings identify immunoproteasome biogenesis as a protective glial stress response that supports microglial aggregate clearance in AD.
Microglia are the brain-resident macrophages and key regulators of the brain tumor microenvironment. Although induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia (iMG) provide a valuable model for studying human microglial, systematic comparisons of differentiation protocols are limited, and their utility for modeling microglia-tumor cell interactions remains underexplored. Here, we analyzed 54 public RNA-seq datasets representing 22 iMG differentiation protocols, including embryoid body (EB)-based, two-dimensional (2D), transcription factor-induced, and coculture-based approaches. Most iMG closely resembled primary human microglia, although substantial protocol-dependent differences were observed. iMG generated using EB-based protocols showed higher TMEM119 expression, whereas those generated using 2D-based protocols showed higher P2RY12 expression. A widely adopted EB-based protocol showed the highest phagocytosis gene signature. Using this protocol, we generated iMG that efficiently phagocytosed patient-derived glioma stem-like cells and upregulated inflammatory and immunoregulatory genes following phagocytosis. These findings provide a transcriptomic benchmark for current iMG models and support their use in investigating microglia-glioma interactions.
SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines elicit robust T cell responses in children, resulting in substantial protection against hospitalisation and severe disease. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms that drive this robust cellular immunogenicity of mRNA vaccines in children remains unknown. Here, 37 immunological naïve children underwent primary vaccination (age 6-10) with the SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine and did not acquire natural infection before month 3; bulk RNA sequencing was performed at pre-vaccination baseline and day 1 post vaccination, and Spike-reactive T cell responses were measured at 3 months. Using previously established threshold of T cell responses for clinical protection against symptomatic SARS-CoV-2, we divided our cohort into high responders (n = 21) and low responders (n = 15). Analyses of day 1 post-vaccination gene expression signatures revealed greater induction of innate immune responses, including heightened expression of transcription factors such as STAT1, ATF3 and IRF7 was observed in low responders compared to high responders. On the other hand, LEP, PLCE1 and PLPP2 expression was significantly downregulated in low responders, with strong predictive value for T cell responses at 3 months post-vaccination (AUROC 0.89, 95% CI 0.78-1.00). Taken together, these findings suggest that future mRNA vaccine design and vaccination regimens should aim to modulate excessive innate immune responses to improve T cell responses to mRNA vaccines.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Microglia are possible regulators of seizures but previous employed approaches are insufficiently selective of microglial-specific manipulations. To more definitely determine microglial roles in seizure severity, we used the microglial-deficient Csf1r ΔFIRE/ΔFIRE mouse model where mice lack microglia but retain brain border-associated macrophages. Using two experimental paradigms, we confirm that a microglial deficiency exacerbates seizures and facilitates the likelihood of developing spontaneous recurrent seizures, indicating that microglia constrain seizure activity. To gain insights into microglial molecular regulators of seizure severity, we examined P2RY12 contributions and demonstrate that a loss of P2RY12 increased seizure severity in both global and microglial-specific knockout mice indicating that microglia suppress seizure severity. During seizures, P2RY12-deficient microglia displayed altered process complexity, accompanied by increased neuronal activation and reduced inhibitory tone. These results link impaired microglial responses to heightened seizure susceptibility and network excitability. Together, we establish microglia and P2RY12 signaling as protective regulators of seizure activity.© 2026 The Author(s).
To investigate the mechanism of the mechanosensitive ion channel Piezo1 in microglial ferroptosis following spinal cord injury (SCI), and to assess the effects of Piezo1 inhibition on ameliorating the injury microenvironment and promoting neurological functional recovery.Primary microglia cells were extracted from neonatal 1-2 days C57BL/6 mice and divided into control group, Yoda1 (Piezo1 agonist) group, and Yoda1+GsMTx4 (Piezo1 inhibitor) group. Live/dead cell staining, reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorescence staining, 5, 5', 6, 6'-tetrachloro-1, 1', 3, 3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide (JC-1) mitochondrial membrane potential detection, and transmission electron microscopy were utilized to assess microglial ferroptosis and mitochondrial functional characteristics. SPF female C57BL/6 mice aged 6 to 8 weeks were used to detect the expression of Piezo1 at different time points after SCI by Western blot, and the two time points with no significant change and the most significant change in Piezo1 expression after SCI were selected for subsequent experiments. T 8, T 9 SCI models were established by modified Allen's method, and were divided into sham operation group, injury group, and injury+shPiezo1 group (Piezo1-targeted interfering virus AAV-shPiezo1 was injected in situ to knock down the expression of Piezo1 14 days before modeling). Colocalization of Piezo1 with microglial markers purinergic receptor P2Y12 (P2ry12), and the expressions of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and acyl coenzyme A synthetase long chain member 4 (ACSL4) were observed by immunofluorescence staining. Basso Mouse Scale (BMS) score was used to assess hindlimb motor function in mice. The level of ROS was detected by dihydroethidium (DHE) staining; the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) was detected by MDA kit; the levels of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) were detected by ELISA assay; the pathological morphology of spinal cord was observed by HE staining.In vitro experiments showed that compared with the control group, the Yoda1 group had typical ultrastructural changes of ferroptosis, such as increased microglial cell death, enhanced ROS fluorescence, mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization, mitochondrial shrinkage and mitochondrial cristae breakage (all P<0.05), while the GsMTx4 group could partially reverse the above effects ( P<0.05). In vivo experiments demonstrated that the expression of Piezo1 in spinal cord tissue was up-regulated sequentially after SCI, and reached the peak on the 7th day after SCI ( P<0.05), and it was mainly localized in P2ry12-positive microglia. Compared with the injury group, in the injury+shPiezo1 group, the expression of ferroptosis core protein GPX4 in microglia was increased, the expression of ACSL4 was decreased, the levels of ROS and MDA in spinal cord tissue were decreased ( P<0.05), the level of pro-inflammatory factor TNF-α was decreased, and the level of anti-inflammatory factor IL-10 was increased ( P<0.05). In addition, the BMS score was significantly higher than that of the injury group ( P<0.05) from the 14th day after operation, and the spinal cord tissue structure was relatively well preserved, and the cavity area was reduced.SCI activates the Piezo1 channel in microglia, triggering mitochondrial dysfunction and mediating cellular ferroptosis, thereby aggravating secondary neuroinflammation. Targeted inhibition of Piezo1 effectively blocks the ferroptosis process, ameliorates the immune microenvironment, and promotes tissue repair and locomotor functional recovery after SCI.
Cardiovascular diseases remain an urgent global health concern addressed by multiple clinical guidelines. Atherothrombosis is characterised by thrombus formation following disruption of atherosclerotic plaque, leading to major adverse cardiovascular events, such as myocardial infarction and stroke. Platelet hyperactivity is a key driver of these outcomes, leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Environmental xenobiotic exposure has been documented to contribute to atherosclerosis, endothelial dysfunction, and hypertension; however, its effects on thrombosis remain scarcely documented. In the present study, the effects of bisphenol A (BPA) and its most commonly used structural analogues on platelet aggregation were assessed using an ex vivo model. In silico analyses were also performed to identify potential receptors through which bisphenols may induce platelet aggregation. Additionally, our findings were contextualised within a systematic review spanning 10 years.Platelet-rich plasma from healthy middle-aged men was incubated (30 min at 37°) with different bisphenols at concentrations ranging from 5 pM to 500 nM. Following incubation, platelet aggregation was induced with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and measured with a Lumi-Aggregometer. Results were presented as standardised mean differences (SMD). A systematic review spanning 10 years was conducted to compare our findings. To explain our results, in silico analyses were conducted to evaluate the binding affinity and interaction models of bisphenols at platelet receptors relative to their reference agonists and antagonists. Receptors were selected based on the structural similarity between their cognate agonist and bisphenols. Binding affinity was assessed for the thromboxane A2 (TP), the purinergic P2Y-subtype-12 (P2RY12) and the protease-activated receptors 1 (PAR1) and 4 (PAR4).Bisphenols did not provoke platelet aggregation spontaneously. However, once ADP was added, they induced a strong and prolonged platelet aggregation (SMD: 1.90; 95% CI: 1.68-2.11) in the ex vivo model, with a potency ranking of BPF > TDF > BPS > BPA > BPAF. These findings were reinforced by the results from other studies in which human platelets were exposed ex vivo to bisphenols. The in silico analyses revealed that bisphenols exhibit favourable binding affinities for TP, which may explain the ex vivo findings. Bisphenols also showed binding affinity for P2Y12, PAR1, and PAR4.Our study demonstrated that exposure to bisphenols enhanced and prolonged ADP-induced platelet aggregation and, for the first time, illuminated their interactions with key receptors involved in this complex process. Nonetheless, bisphenols may also exert other pleiotropic effects that further contribute to platelet aggregation. These results highlight the remarkable toxicity of these xenobiotics and their significant impact on haemostatic balance.Copyright © 2026 Kwame, de la Peña-Díaz, Martínez-Jiménez, Flores-García, Calderón-Aranda, Lee-Rivera and Gómez.
Anxiety is a common clinical comorbidity of neuropathic pain. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critically involved in both pain and anxiety processing. Microglia have emerged as key regulators of neuronal plasticity, and disruption of homeostatic neuron-microglia crosstalk can precipitate neuropsychiatric disorders. Although microglia are abundant in the BLA, their specific role in modulating neuronal plasticity underlying pain-induced anxiety remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that spared nerve injury (SNI) induces anxiety-like behaviors in mice, accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased spine density in the BLA. These changes correlated with increased density of hyper-ramified microglia, along with upregulated P2ry12 expression and enhanced microglial BDNF production. Importantly, microglial P2ry12 knockdown significantly attenuated both process hyper-ramification and BDNF overexpression in the BLA. Furthermore, either microglial depletion with clodronate or microglial P2ry12 knockdown in the BLA reversed neuronal hyperexcitability and spine overgrowth, and alleviated pain and anxiety-like behaviors in SNI mice. Meanwhile, clodronate mildly suppressed neuronal excitability and dendritic spine density in the BLA of control mice, whereas P2ry12 knockdown had no detectable impact on these neuronal measures. Together, these findings support a role for microglia in maintaining physiological neuronal excitability and spine density. Highly-ramified microglia and their increased P2ry12 expression underlie the enhanced neuronal excitability and spine density in the BLA, thereby promoting comorbidity of pain and anxiety.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Microglia rapidly lose their homeostatic phenotype after isolation, limiting the interpretability of in vitro studies. We systematically evaluated culture conditions that reconstitute central nervous system (CNS) niche inputs to better preserve microglial homeostatic features. Neonatal mouse microglia were isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, Percoll gradients, or a shaking protocol and cultured with defined cytokines (TGF-β1, IL-34, CX3CL1), extracellular matrix (collagen IV), and metabolic support (cholesterol, insulin-transferrin-selenium) under serum-free or serum-containing conditions. RT-qPCR revealed rapid downregulation of seven homeostatic transcripts (Tmem119, P2ry12, Cx3cr1, Hexb, Fcrl2, Olfml3, Tgfbr1) within 24 h across isolation methods, with further decline for a subset over 7 days. A cytokine cocktail partially restored homeostatic gene expression, with collagen IV and cholesterol further enhancing selected transcripts. Serum-free conditions favored ramified, surveillant-like microglia, whereas serum promoted amoeboid, activated-like cells, and adding defined factors preserved ramification while improving transcriptional recovery. Transcriptomic analyses demonstrated that optimized conditions shifted global expression profiles toward neonatal ex vivo microglia, upregulated most microglia-specific homeostatic genes, and downregulated inflammatory effectors. These data define a scalable, serum-free, collagen IV-based culture system with defined CNS cues that partially preserves key aspects of microglial homeostatic transcriptional and morphological features compared with conventional serum-containing culture, providing more physiologically relevant conditions for mechanistic and disease-relevant studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to develop and internally validate a clinical risk prediction model for precancerous lesions of gastric cancer (PLGC) in Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)-positive individuals by integrating H. pylori strain typing, serological gastric function markers, lifestyle factors, and host susceptibility polymorphisms. A total of 82 H. pylori-positive outpatients who underwent gastroscopy with histopathology between July 2020 and December 2021 were enrolled and categorized into a PLGC group (n = 38; chronic atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and/or dysplasia) and a non-PLGC control group (n = 44). Demographic, clinical, dietary, and lifestyle information was collected using standardized questionnaires. Fasting blood samples were obtained for pepsinogen I (PG I), pepsinogen II (PG II), pepsinogen I/II ratio (PGR), gastrin-17 (G-17), and serologic H. pylori typing (Type I vs Type II), and 4 gastric cancer susceptibility loci (PSCA rs2976392, PLCE1 rs2274223, PRKAA1 rs59133000, and MUC1 rs4072037) were genotyped using TaqMan assays. Multivariable logistic regression identified older age and Type I H. pylori infection as independent risk factors, whereas higher PG I, higher PGR, and frequent whole-grain intake were protective. Susceptibility loci were not retained in the final model. The derived model showed adequate calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow P = .426) and strong discrimination (AUC = 0.969), with an optimal cutoff of 0.403 yielding 94.7% sensitivity and 93.2% specificity; bootstrap validation indicated stable performance. This model may support risk stratification and targeted surveillance among H. pylori-positive patients.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Genome sequencing (GS) presents a powerful approach to uncover disease-causing genetic variants. We used GS to examine single vs dual molecular causes in some of the most complicated pediatric cases-those with both a neoplasm and a birth defect.From our pediatric biobank, we selected 1463 children with a major congenital malformation, such as cleft lip/palate or internal organ defect, including 827 cases with a pediatric-onset cancer. The cohort includes nearly 40% non-White and/or multiracial individuals. We implemented GS as a first-tier diagnostic method and hypothesized that in most cases, a single disease-causing variant would explain their complex disease pictures. We developed a novel variant annotation and prioritization algorithm to provide a molecular diagnosis.Our algorithm uncovered 361 disease-causing single-nucleotide variants/insertion/deletions in patients with compatible phenotypes (n = 324/1373; 23.6%), including 207 known and 120 novel variants in 167 genes. In addition, we identified aneuploidies (n = 41; 3%) and disease-causing copy-number variations, including haploinsufficient regions, de novo pathogenic variants and variable degrees of mosaicism (n = 65, 4.7%). Likely deleterious variants were identified in 2 candidate genes, GNG13 and RTKN2. Most cases had a single molecular cause for the cancer and the congenital anomaly, with notable exceptions of dual molecular causes.In children with severe and complex phenotypes, our findings demonstrate that GS revealed causative molecular underpinnings, including novel causes. A single genetic defect may underlie phenotypes of high complexity that appear unrelated, with double molecular findings identified in the same patient on rare occasions.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics.
Lung cancer pathogenesis involves complex interactions between immune system components and metabolic pathways. However, the causal relationships between these factors remain unclear. This study aimed to employ Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to establish causal links between immunological markers, metabolic factors, and lung cancer development, while integrating multi-omics data for comprehensive molecular characterization.We conducted a two-sample MR analysis of 731 immunological features and 1,400 metabolites using inverse-variance weighted methodology. The analysis was supplemented with single-cell expression profiling, functional enrichment analysis, and machine learning approaches. Multiple MR methodologies, including MR-Egger and heterogeneity testing via Cochran's Q statistic, were employed to validate findings. We specifically investigated the mediating role of sphingomyelin in the relationship between T cell %lymphocyte levels and lung cancer risk.MR analysis identified 25 blood cell phenotypes significantly linked to lung cancer susceptibility, with memory antigen-presenting cells showing notable risk association (OR = 1.0763, 95%CI: 1.0147-1.1417, P = 0.0145). Seventy-six metabolites demonstrated causal influences on lung cancer pathogenesis, particularly within sphingolipid metabolism pathways. Single-cell profiling revealed significant differential expression of six genes (APCDD1L, CNTNAP4, GNG13, KIRREL2, LINC00628, and LIPK) between normal and tumor tissues. Machine learning models constructed from these findings demonstrated robust predictive performance in both TCGA and GEO datasets.Through rigorous MR analysis, this study establishes causal relationships between specific immune markers, metabolic pathways, and lung cancer development.© 2025. The Author(s).
A major challenge in therapeutic approaches applying hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is the cell quantity. The primary objective of this study was to predict the miRNAs and anti-miRNAs using bioinformatics tools and investigate their effects on the expression levels of key genes predicted in the improvement of proliferation, and the inhibition of differentiation in HSCs isolated from Human umbilical cord blood (HUCB). A network including genes related to the differentiation and proliferation stages of HSCs was constructed by enriching data of text (PubMed) and StemChecker server with KEGG signaling pathways, and was improved using GEO datasets. Bioinformatics tools predicted a profile from miRNAs containing miR-20a-5p, miR-423-5p, and chimeric anti-miRNA constructed from 5'-miR-340/3'-miR-524 for the high-score genes (RB1, SMAD4, STAT1, CALML4, GNG13, and CDKN1A/CDKN1B genes) in the network. The miRNAs and anti-miRNA were transferred into HSCs using polyethylenimine (PEI). The gene expression levels were estimated using the RT-qPCR technique in the PEI + (miRNA/anti-miRNA)-contained cell groups (n = 6). Furthermore, CD markers (90, 16, and 45) were evaluated using flow cytometry. Strong relationships were found between the high-score genes, miRNAs, and chimeric anti-miRNA. The RB1, SMAD4, and STAT1 gene expression levels were decreased by miR-20a-5p (P < 0.05). Additionally, the anti-miRNA increased the gene expression level of GNG13 (P < 0.05), whereas the miR-423-5p decreased the CDKN1A gene expression level (P < 0.01). The cellular count also increased significantly (P < 0.05) but the CD45 differentiation marker did not change in the cell groups. The study revealed the predicted miRNA/anti-miRNA profile expands HSCs isolated from HUCB. While miR-20a-5p suppressed the RB1, SMAD4, and STAT1 genes involved in cellular differentiation, the anti-miRNA promoted the GNG13 gene related to the proliferation process. Notably, the mixed miRNA/anti-miRNA group exhibited the highest cellular expansion. This approach could hold promise for enhancing the cell quantity in HSC therapy.© 2024. The Author(s).
Tuft cells are a type of rare epithelial cells that have been recently found to utilize taste signal transduction pathways to detect and respond to various noxious stimuli and pathogens, including allergens, bacteria, protists and parasitic helminths. It is, however, not fully understood how many different types of pathogens they can sense or what exact molecular mechanisms they employ to initiate targeted responses. In this study, we found that an anaerobic pathobiont microbe, Ruminococcus gnavus (R. gnavus), can induce tuft cell proliferation in the proximal colon whereas the microbe's lysate can stimulate these proximal colonic tuft cells to release interleukin-25 (IL-25). Nullification of the Gng13 and Trpm5 genes that encode the G protein subunit Gγ13 and transient receptor potential ion channel Trpm5, respectively, or application of the Tas2r inhibitor allyl isothiocyanate (AITC), G protein Gβγ subunit inhibitor Gallein or the phospholipase Cβ2 (PLCβ2) inhibitor U73122 reduces R. gnavus-elicited tuft cell proliferation or IL-25 release or both. Furthermore, Gng13 conditional knockout or Trpm5 knockout diminishes the expression of gasdermins C2, C3 and C4, and concomitantly increases the activated forms of caspases 3, 8 and 9 as well as the number of TUNEL-positive apoptotic cells in the proximal colon. Together, our data suggest that taste signal transduction pathways are not only involved in the detection of R. gnavus infection, but also contribute to helping maintain gasdermin expression and prevent apoptotic cell death in the proximal colon, and these findings provide another strategy to combat R. gnavus infection and sheds light on new roles of taste signaling proteins along with gasdermins in protecting the integrity of the proximal colonic epithelium.Copyright © 2023 Lei, Yu, Xue, Li, Gong, Peng, Liu, Buratto, Yang, Zhang, Wu, Zhou and Huang.
Temporal transcription profiles of fetal testes with Sertoli cell ablation were examined in 4-day culture using a diphtheria toxin (DT)-dependent cell knockout system in AMH-TRECK transgenic (Tg) mice. RNA analysis revealed that ovarian-specific genes, including Foxl2, were ectopically expressed in DT-treated Tg testis explants initiated at embryonic days 12.5-13.5. FOXL2-positive cells were ectopically observed in two testicular regions: near the testicular surface epithelia and around its adjacent mesonephros. The surface FOXL2-positive cells, together with ectopic expression of Lgr5 and Gng13 (markers of ovarian cords), were derived from the testis epithelia/subepithelia, whereas another FOXL2-positive population was the 3βHSD-negative stroma near the mesonephros. In addition to high expression of Fgfr1/Fgfr2 and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (a reservoir for FGF ligand) in these two sites, exogenous FGF9 additives repressed DT-dependent Foxl2 upregulation in Tg testes. These findings imply retention of Foxl2 inducibility in the surface epithelia and peri-mesonephric stroma of the testicular parenchyma, in which certain paracrine signals, including FGF9 derived from fetal Sertoli cells, repress feminization in these two sites of the early fetal testis.© 2023. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
Osteoporosis (OP) is one of the major public health problems in the world. However, the biomarkers between the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMs) and bone tissue for prognosis of OP have not been well characterized. This study aimed to explore the similarities and differences of the gene expression profiles between the PBMs and bone tissue and identify potential genes, transcription factors (TFs) and hub proteins involved in OP. The patients were enrolled as an experimental group, and healthy subjects served as normal controls. Human whole-genome expression chips were used to analyze gene expression profiles from PBMs and bone tissue. And the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were subsequently studied using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis. The above DEGs were constructed into protein-protein interaction network. Finally, TF-DEGs regulation networks were constructed. Microarray analysis revealed that 226 DEGs were identified between OP and normal controls in the PBMs, while 2295 DEGs were identified in the bone tissue. And 13 common DEGs were obtained by comparing the 2 tissues. The Gene Ontology analysis indicated that DEGs in the PBMs were more involved in immune response, while DEGs in bone were more involved in renal response and urea transmembrane transport. And the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis indicated almost all of the pathways in the PBMs were overlapped with those in the bone tissue. Furthermore, protein-protein interaction network presented 6 hub proteins: PI3K1, APP, GNB5, FPR2, GNG13, and PLCG1. APP has been found to be associated with OP. Finally, 5 key TFs were identified by TF-DEGs regulation networks analysis (CREB1, RUNX1, STAT3, CREBBP, and GLI1) and were supposed to be associated with OP. This study enhanced our understanding of the pathogenesis of OP. PI3K1, GNB5, FPR2, GNG13, and PLCG1 might be the potential targets of OP.Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Technical advances have led to an explosion in the amount of biological data available in recent years, especially in the field of RNA sequencing. Specifically, spatial transcriptomics (ST) datasets, which allow each RNA molecule to be mapped to the 2D location it originated from within a tissue, have become readily available. Due to computational challenges, ST data has rarely been used to study RNA processing such as splicing or differential UTR usage. We apply the ReadZS and the SpliZ, methods developed to analyze RNA process in scRNA-seq data, to analyze spatial localization of RNA processing directly from ST data for the first time. Using Moran's I metric for spatial autocorrelation, we identify genes with spatially regulated RNA processing in the mouse brain and kidney, re-discovering known spatial regulation in Myl6 and identifying previously-unknown spatial regulation in genes such as Rps24, Gng13, Slc8a1, Gpm6a, Gpx3, ActB, Rps8, and S100A9. The rich set of discoveries made here from commonly used reference datasets provides a small taste of what can be learned by applying this technique more broadly to the large quantity of Visium data currently being created.
The traditional Chinese medicines of Buyang Huanwu decoction (BYHW), Naoxintong capsule (NXT), and Yangyin Tongnao granules (YYTN) have excellent effects in preventing and treating cerebrovascular disease and are widely tolerated by patients. However, their effects on middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) remain unknown.We evaluated gut microbiota alterations, the brain transcriptome, and nerve cell responses in rats with MCAO.Our results showed that BYHW, NXT, and YYTN not only effectively improved the damaged state of blood vessels in rats and restored nerve function, but also improved survival. Additional experiments showed that treatment with BYHW, NXT, and YYTN regulated the intestinal microflora. Transcriptome analyses showed that BYHW, NXT, and YYTN modulated the transcriptome of rats with MCAO. The common mechanism of the three prescriptions for the treatment of cerebral ischemia may be related to the intestinal flora regulation of 60S ribosomal protein L18 (Rpl18), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit, Ras homolog family member C, G protein subunit gamma 13 (Gng13), and Gng10 genes, among which Rpl18 is the most important. In addition, the three prescriptions had great specificity as anticerebral ischemia targets. Moreover, BYHW, NXT, and YYTN mitigated MCAO-induced hyperactivation of microglia and astrocytes.This study provides a foundation for further research on the mechanisms and treatment of IS. The results strongly suggest that key gut microbiota can be used to study functional genomics of brain, leading to novel discoveries about key genes involved in important biological processes.Copyright © 2022 Junjun Yin et al.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a complex heterogeneous heart disease. Recent reports found that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play an important role in the progression of cardiovascular diseases. The present study aimed to identify the novel lncRNAs and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and determine the key pathways involved in HCM.The lncRNA and mRNA sequencing datasets of GSE68316 and GSE130036 were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. An integrated co-expression network analysis was conducted to identify differentially expressed lncRNAs and differentially expressed mRNAs in patients with HCM. Then, gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were explored to identify the biological functions and signaling pathways of the co-expression network. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) and hub gene networks were constructed by using Cytoscape software. Plasma samples of patients with HCM and the GSE89714 dataset were used to validate the bioinformatics results.A total of 1,426 differentially expressed long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and 1,715 differentially expressed mRNAs were obtained from GSE68316, of which 965 lncRNAs and 896 mRNAs were upregulated and 461 lncRNAs and 819 mRNAs were downregulated. A total of 469 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 2,407 differentially expressed mRNAs were screened from GSE130036, of which 183 lncRNAs and 1,283 mRNAs were upregulated and 286 lncRNAs and 1,124 mRNAs were downregulated. A co-expression network was constructed and contained 30 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 63 differentially expressed mRNAs, which were primarily involved in 'G-protein beta/gamma-subunit complex binding,' 'polyubiquitin modification-dependent protein binding,' 'Apelin signaling pathway,' and 'Wnt signaling pathway.' The 10 hub genes in the upregulated network [G Protein Subunit Alpha I2 (GNAI2), G Protein Subunit Alpha I1 (GNAI1), G Protein Subunit Alpha I3 (GNAI3), G Protein Subunit Gamma 2 (GNG2), G Protein Subunit Beta 1 (GNB1), G Protein Subunit Gamma 13 (GNG13), G Protein Subunit Gamma Transducin 1 (GNGT1), G Protein Subunit Gamma 12 (GNG12), AKT Serine/Threonine Kinase 1 (AKT1) and GNAS Complex Locus (GNAS)] and the 10 hub genes in the downregulated network [Nucleotide-Binding Oligomerization Domain Containing Protein 2 (NOD2), Receptor-Interacting Serine/Threonine Kinase 2 (RIPK2), Nucleotide-Binding Oligomerization Domain Containing Protein 1 (NOD1), Mitochondrial Antiviral Signaling Protein (MAVS), Autophagy Related 16-Like 1 (ATG16L1), Interferon Induced With Helicase C Domain 1 (IFIH1), Autophagy Related 5 (ATG5), TANK-Binding Kinase 1 (TBK1), Caspase Recruitment Domain Family Member 9 (CARD9), and von Willebrand factor (VWF)] were screened using cytoHubba. The expression of LA16c-312E8.2 and RP5-1160K1.3 in the plasma of patients with HCM was elevated, and the expression of the MIR22 host gene (MIR22HG) was decreased, which was consistent with our analysis, while the expression of LINC00324 and Small Nucleolar RNA Host Gene 12 (SNHG12) was not significantly different between the two groups. Verification analyses performed on GSE89714 showed the upregulated mRNAs of Chloride Voltage-Gated Channel 7 (CLCN7), N-Acetylglucosamine-1-Phosphate Transferase Subunit Gamma (GNPTG), Unk Like Zinc Finger (UNKL), Adenosine Monophosphate Deaminase 2 (AMPD2), GNAI3, WD Repeat Domain 81 (WDR81), and Serpin Family F Member 1 (SERPINF1) and downregulated mRNAs of TATA-Box Binding Protein Associated Factor 12 (TAF12) co-expressed with five crucial lncRNAs. Moreover, GNAI2, GNAI3, GNG12, and vWF were upregulated and GNAS was downregulated in the top 10 hub genes of upregulated and downregulated PPI networks.These findings from integrative biological analysis of lncRNA-mRNA co-expression networks explored the key genes and pathways and provide new insights into the understanding of the mechanism and discovering new therapeutic targets for HCM. Three differentially expressed pivotal lncRNAs (LA16c-312E8.2, RP5-1160K1.3, and MIR22HG) in the co-expression network may serve as biomarkers and intervention targets for the diagnosis and treatment of HCM.Copyright © 2022 Cao and Yuan.
Vascular dementia (VaD) is considered to be the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease, and no specific drugs have been approved for VaD treatment. We aimed to identify shared transcriptomic signatures between the frontal cortex and temporal cortex in VaD by bioinformatics analyses. Gene ontology and pathway enrichment analyses, protein-protein interaction (PPI) and hub gene identification, hub gene-transcription factor interaction, hub gene-microRNA interaction, and hub gene-drug interaction analyses were performed. We identified 159 overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the frontal cortex and temporal cortex that were enriched mainly in inflammation and innate immunity, synapse pruning, regeneration, positive regulation of angiogenesis, response to nutrient levels, and positive regulation of the digestive system process. We identified 10 hub genes in the PPI network (GNG13, CD163, C1QA, TLR2, SST, C1QB, ITGB2, CCR5, CRH, and TAC1), four central regulatory transcription factors (FOXC1, CREB1, GATA2, and HINFP), and four microRNAs (miR-27a-3p, miR-146a-5p, miR-335-5p, and miR-129-2-3p). Hub gene-drug interaction analysis found four drugs (maraviroc, cenicriviroc, PF-04634817, and efalizumab) that could be potential drugs for VaD treatment. Together, our results may contribute to understanding the underlying mechanisms in VaD and provide potential targets and drugs for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2022 Shu, Wei and Zhang.
Precise and spatially controlled modulation of peripheral arterial tone is important for treating microvascular disorders. Current pharmacological vasodilators are typically systemic and lack local specificity. Light-induced photorelaxation has been proposed as an alternative method for vascular modulation. However, its structural and hemodynamic effects in vivo have not been fully characterized. In this study, real-time functional optical coherence tomography (OCT) was used to visualize and quantify blue-light-induced peripheral arterial photorelaxation in living mice. Arteries in the femoral, tail, and auricular regions were exposed to 473-nm blue-light stimulation and imaged using OCT angiography and Doppler OCT to monitor changes in vessel diameter and blood flow. Blue-light stimulation induced rapid, reversible, and artery-selective vasodilation with minimal effects on adjacent veins. Flow velocity decreased during stimulation, whereas the increase in vessel cross-sectional area resulted in higher volumetric blood flow. The vasodilatory response was retained in single opsin-deficient mouse models (Opn3-/-, Opn4-/-, and Opn5-/-) but was absent in Opn4/Opn5 double-knockout mice, indicating a cooperative role of non-visual opsins. These findings demonstrate increased local perfusion during optical stimulation and highlight the potential of photorelaxation as a spatially targeted approach to vascular modulation.© 2026 Optica Publishing Group.
Cellular metabolism critically influences tumor resistance. Biophysical stimulations such as mechanical vibration and electrical pulses can reprogram mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and T cells into tumor-suppressive states. Here, we investigated whether optical pulses (OP) could similarly promote an anti-tumor microenvironment. Using mechanical and electrical stimulation as controls, we examined optically stimulated MSCs and T cells and their conditioned medium (CM) in breast cancer and osteoclast models. OP elicited color-specific effects: blue light induced direct tumor cell death, whereas green and red light converted MSCs into induced tumor-suppressing (iTS) cells. This conversion was mediated by OPN4, independent of the Piezo1 pathway engaged by mechanical and electrical cues. Green/red pulses enhanced nucleosome scattering, increased the NAD⁺/NADH ratio, reduced the repressive histone mark H3K9me3, and activated demethylases KDM3A/KDM4. Proteomic profiling revealed enrichment of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and Annexin A2 (ANXA2) in CM, which may suppress tumors via CD44 interaction and are associated with reduced immune-evasive signaling, including Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1). These findings demonstrate that visible light pulses can epigenetically reprogram MSCs and T cells, offering a potential therapeutic strategy for breast cancer and bone metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
In mammals, melanopsin (OPN4) is a retinal photopigment found on a subset of intrinsically photosensitive ganglion cells, which synchronize the central circadian clock with the light-dark cycle. Peripheral tissues have also been found to express melanopsin, but its function remains to be explored. In this study, we investigated whether cold temperature pulses (34°C) could modulate clock gene expression in murine 3T3-L1 preadipocytes and the role of melanopsin in regulating this response. We detected the presence of the cone opsin (OPN1SW), rhodopsin (OPN2), and melanopsin (OPN4) using immunocytochemistry. We demonstrated the role of OPN4 in the upregulation of the clock gene Per1 in 3T3-L1 cells in response to cold-temperature pulses (34°C), through a pharmacological assay employing a well-established OPN4 antagonist. Then, we determined the profile of the clock gene Per1, using luciferase as the bioluminescence reporter. Per1::Luc 3T3-L1 cells subjected to constant temperature (37°C) or repeated cold-temperature pulses (34°C) exhibited an oscillatory bioluminescence profile. The cold-temperature pulses induced an increase in the amplitude of Per1 bioluminescence and a phase delay in comparison to control cells. These findings suggest that temperature detection through melanopsin could be an important pathway for peripheral clock modulation, with direct implications for metabolism control.
Background/Objectives: Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is one of the most aggressive and lethal forms of malignant neoplasm of the endocrine system, and osteopontin (OPN) has been shown to be aberrantly expressed in this tumor type. Among the five OPN splicing isoforms (OPN-SI), OPN-4 has been recently reported in several tumor types, including ATC, but its functional role(s) have not yet been elucidated. Methods: To characterize OPN-4 roles in ATC cells, OPN-4 was ectopically overexpressed in the c643 ATC cell line, generating the c643/OPN-4 cells. OPN-roles were evaluated by cell functional assays, including cell proliferation and viability, using Carboxyfluorescein Succinimidyl Ester (CFSE), crystal violet, and trypan blue assays. For migration, clonogenicity, cell cycle and apoptosis assays were used. For assessment, c643/OPN-4 cells were cultured in two-dimensional (2D) monolayers or three-dimensional (3D) spheroids with the latter being maintained in a bespoke microfluidic system. Results: OPN-4 overexpression led to a significant reduction in cell proliferation, viability, migration and clonogenicity. c643/OPN-4 cells displayed a significant accumulation in the G0/G1 phase and a decrease in the S phase of the cell cycle; however this did not affect cell death or the expression levels of other OPN-SI. In a spheroid model of c643/OPN-4 cells, no significant differences were found in spheroid size or viability when compared to those formed by control cells. Notably, OPN-4 overexpression enhanced the effects of sorafenib on cell viability under dynamic treatment conditions involving continuous perfusion. Conclusions: These early findings point to the fact that OPN-4 may reduce some aspects of tumor progression features in ATC cells and open new avenues for investigating OPN-4 as a biomarker of therapeutic response in personalized treatment strategies.
The pupillary light reflex (PLR) can be divided into processes regulated by the brain and by the iris sphincter muscle. This study aimed to unravel potential roles of opsin 3 (OPN3) and OPN5 for the intrinsic iris-regulated PLR.Opn3, Opn4, and Opn5 expression in the mouse and human iris was analyzed by reverse-transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). The intrinsic PLR was studied in enucleated eyes from wild-type (WT) and Opn3, Opn4, or Opn5 knockout (KO) mice in response to specific wavelengths of blue light (440, 460, and 480 nm) or ultraviolet A light (380 nm) by ex vivo PLR recordings. Enucleated eyes were either dark adapted only or challenged with short light flashes before PLR recordings.Opn3, Opn4, and Opn5 are expressed in the iris of mice and humans. Opn3 KO enucleated mouse eyes challenged with short light flashes before dark adaptation, followed by 10 minutes (min) of 440 nm light exposure, remained significantly more constricted in the sustained contraction phase compared to Opn3 WT eyes. Exposure to 460 or 480 nm did not change the PLR between Opn3 WT and KO eyes. Moreover, Opn5 KO challenged eyes exposed to 10 min 380 nm light remained significantly less constricted in the sustained contraction phase compared to Opn5 WT eyes.This study shows that OPN3 and OPN5 affect the intrinsic PLR in opposing manners, with increased iris contraction in Opn3 KO challenged eyes and decreased iris contraction in Opn5 KO challenged eyes, respectively. The study also provides evidence that OPN3, OPN4, and OPN5 are expressed in human iris.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42106175 is a review article
Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) influence visual system development via melanopsin before photoreceptor-mediated vision, but how melanopsin signaling contributes to ipRGC circuit assembly remains unknown. Here we show that melanopsin coordinates retinohypothalamic tract development by regulating local translation in developing ipRGC axons. Loss of melanopsin selectively disrupted local translation in axons without affecting somatic translation. The affected transcripts encoded cytoskeletal regulators, adhesion molecules, and trafficking proteins, and activity-dependent changes in translation were restricted to the period before eye-opening. Consistent with impaired axonal growth and synaptogenesis, Opn4 knockout mice showed reduced ipsilateral suprachiasmatic nucleus innervation and fewer retinohypothalamic synapses, while nanoscale synaptic molecular organization and microglial engulfment were unaffected. Reduced visual drive in Opn4 knockouts further altered developmental gene expression programs across the retina, suprachiasmatic nucleus, and lateral geniculate nucleus, with region-specific differences in expression timing. These findings identify melanopsin as a regulator of local axonal translation during early circuit development, linking sensory phototransduction to translational control mechanisms that guide retinohypothalamic tract assembly and postsynaptic target maturation.
The underlying mechanism of recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) is still not fully understood. We aimed to identify the key genes involved in the process by which obesity influences RPL.RPL and obesity data were retrieved from the GEO database. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between disease and normal samples among RPL and obesity were selected. Through intersecting the above DEGs, important DEGs were obtained. GO and KEGG analyses were used to analyze the function of these important genes. Two algorithms (LASSO and SVM) and receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analysis were used to optimize the DEGs. Furthermore, the immune infiltration and single gene enrichment analysis were performed to explore the correlations between key biomarkers and immune cells.A total of 1857 RPL-related DEGs and 2880 obesity-related DEGs were selected, respectively. Through intersecting the above two parts of DEGs, 100 important genes were obtained, which were involved in immune response processes such as the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance JAK-STAT signaling pathway, and T cell receptor signaling pathway. Through LASSO, SVM, and ROC analyses, five down-regulated optimal genes in RPL were finally considered as biomarkers in obesity-related RPL: GIPR, KRTAP4-11, NFU1, OPN4, and PRMT7. The five biomarkers showed effective diagnostic ability in RPL, with AUC above 0.8. Furthermore, eosinophils, CD56 bright natural killer cells, and monocytes were significantly correlated with the five biomarkers.This study identified five effectively diagnostic genes and explored their correlations with immune cells, providing indications for the following development of diagnostic tools and potential mechanism exploration.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are the principal conduits responsible for propagating visual stimuli from the retina to visual centers in the brain. The loss of RGCs leads to visual deficits following trauma or in diseases such as glaucoma. Mouse models are consistently used to investigate root causes for RGC loss. This study quantifies the total number of RGCs and selected RGC subtypes across six strains of inbred mice used in ophthalmic research.Six mouse strains (C57BL/6J, BALB/cByJ, 129X1/SvJ, A/J, CBA/CaJ, and CAST/EiJ) were selected to represent genetic diversity across the mouse genome. Normal retinas were immunostained for POU6F2, BRN3A, SATB2, OPN4, SMI32, and TO-PRO-3. Cells positively labeled for POU6F2, BRN3A, and SATB2 were quantified using an automated deep learning tool, RGCode. Cells labeled with OPN4, SMI32, and TO-PRO-3 were quantified using the Fiji software.We found statistically significant differences in the quantity (Mean±SEM) and percentage of different RGCs across the inbred mouse strains. The total number of RGCs per retina ranged from 39,961±838 in CAST/EiJ to 53,872±1864 in 129X1/SvJ (p<0.005). Global BRN3A counts ranged from 34,572±494 in CAST/EiJ to 44,253±798 in C57BL/6J (p<0.005). SATB2 counts ranged from 9944±384 in BALB/cByJ to 15,872±1196 in CBA/CaJ (p<0.005). OPN4 density ranged from 110±7 cells/mm2 in CAST/EiJ to 164±13 cells/mm2 in 129X1/SvJ (p<0.05). Differences in SMI32 density were not significant across all strains, with densities ranging from 183±14 cells/mm2 in A/J to 279±12 cells/mm2 in C57BL/6J (not significant).There is a significant variation in total RGC counts and RGC subtypes across the different mouse strains. When working with different strains of mice, it is important to consider this strain-based variation before drawing conclusions from experimental data.Copyright © 2026 Molecular Vision.
Birds rely on a specialized set of photoreceptive neurons called deep brain photoreceptors (DBPs) for the detection of light signals which are then integrated to modulate the expression of gonadotropin hormones. Therefore, we want to investigate DBPs expression, melanopsin (OPN 4), neuropsin (OPN5), and vertebrate ancient opsin (VAOpn), and their regulation of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and gonadotropin inhibitory hormone (GnIH) genes in regards to sex and age in Pekin ducks. 460 hatchlings were randomly allocated to 4 rooms and exposed to 24 h light (LL) or photostimulation (PS; n = 30 hens and 7 drakes/pen; 4 pens/treatment) for 19 weeks. Ducks were euthanized via an intravenous injection of sodium pentobarbital (Fatal Plus; 396 mg/mL/kg body weight) at weeks 0, 5, 10, and 19 (n = 6/sex/treatment/timepoint) for brain sample collection which was further hemisected into diencephalon. Gene expressions of OPN 4, OPN5, and VAOpn, GnRH, and GnIH were quantified using qRT-PCR. In the hens, OPN4 expression was higher (p < 0.05) in LL compared to PS at week 0, suggesting a rapid transcriptional response to continuous light but no difference in OPN5 expression. VAOpn expression was reduced (P < 0.05) in PS compared to LL at week 10 in the hens. In parallel, GnRH expression was higher (p < 0.05) under LL compared to PS at week 19, peaked at week 0 in both treatments and declined (p < 0.05) thereafter in the hens. In contrast, GnIH expression increased (p < 0.01) with age in both sexes, and was lower in the PS hens compared to LL hens at week 10. These findings demonstrate photoperiod-dependent variation in DBPs alongside GnRH and GnIH transcription which is consistent with a possible involvement in sex-specific reproductive development in ducks.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The use of cannabinoid has been implicated in the treatment of various skin disorders with obscure mechanism of action. This study aimed to investigate the physiological roles of GPR55 in regenerating skin wounds and protecting keratinocyte apoptosis induced by UVB radiation. Here, we found that O1602, a GPR55 agonist, accelerated wound healing in keratinocyte-like HaCaT cells, and this effect was suppressed by pretreatment with inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Although O1602 treatment promoted keratinocyte proliferation in HaCaT cell line but its proliferative effect did not contribute to enhancing wound healing. Indeed, O1602 upregulated expression of MMP-9, suggesting the stimulation of cell migration. O1602 treatment protected against UVB-induced keratinocyte apoptosis, and this effect was abolished by pretreatment with inhibitors belonging to the same class as that which suppressed the wound-healing response. Furthermore, western blotting analyses revealed that O1602 treatment induced AMPK phosphorylation, and this effect was inhibited by pretreatment of PKA inhibitor. Moreover, O1602 promoted ERK phosphorylation, and this effect was aborted by pretreatment of either AMPK inhibitor or SIRT-1 inhibitor. Enzymatic activation of SIRT-1 induced by O1602 was absent in AMPK inhibitor-pretreated HaCaT cells. Altogether, GPR55 mediates keratinocyte regeneration and exhibits its protective effect against UVB exposure via PKA/AMPK/SIRT-1/ERK-dependent mechanism.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive memory loss and cognitive decline. G protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55) has been linked to cognitive regulation, yet its precise role in AD pathogenesis remains unclear.Here, we investigated the role of GPR55 in AD and its molecular mechanism.This study utilized APP/PS1 and GPR55 knockout (GPR55KO) mice to investigate the role and possible mechanism of GPR55 in AD.We observed progressive reduction of GPR55 levels in the hippocampus of aging APP/PS1 mice. Conversely, hippocampal GPR55 overexpression rescued cognitive deficits, neuroinflammation, and impairment of synaptic plasticity in APP/PS1 mice. Moreover, GPR55 activation reduced neuronal death and memory impairments in APP/PS1 mice. In addition, aged GPR55KO mice showed cognitive deficits, but hippocampal GPR55 reexpression improved cognition. We also demonstrated that GPR55 activation mitigates Aβ1-42-induced synaptic damage and apoptosis in HT22 cells. Further studies revealed that in both animal and cell models, the activation levels of P-AKT/AKT and P-GSK3β/GSK3β were significantly decreased, and the activation level of P-ERK/ERK was markedly increased, while upregulation of GPR55 reversed this trend.These results indicate that hippocampal GPR55 may improve cognitive dysfunction by regulating the AKT/GSK3β and ERK signaling pathways, highlighting its crucial role in AD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Adoptive cell transfer of tumor infiltrating CD4+ T cells or T cells genetically modified to express antitumor CD4+ T cell receptors (TCRs) has shown clinical efficacy in patients with advanced solid tumors. We previously defined unique transcriptomic states of antitumor, neoantigen-specific CD8+ and CD4+ tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in human cancer. However, optimal cell surface protein markers that identify and would enable viable cell isolation and selective enrichment of antitumor CD4+ T cells have yet to be identified. Here, we define transcriptomic and corresponding cell surface protein profiles of antitumor CD4+ TIL within metastatic colorectal tumors using high dimensional single cell transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. Comprehensive analysis of 45 antitumor CD4+ TCR clonotypes demonstrated uniquely high cell surface protein expression of ADGRG1, CD86, and CD57. In all samples containing tumor neoantigen-reactive CD4+ TIL clonotypes, ADGRG1- and CD86-based cell surface enrichment of known reactive TCR clonotypes were 11-fold and 9-fold higher than bulk CD4+ TIL, respectively. ADGRG1- and CD86-based cell surface enrichment identified >60 validated antitumor CD4+ TCR-clonotypes including tumor organoid-reactive TCRs, as well as neoantigen-specific TCRs targeting private tumor mutations and cancer driver mutations. While both ADGRG1 and CD86 enriched CD4+ TIL displayed an exhausted neoantigen-specific gene expression signature, CD86 also enriched for cytotoxic CD4+ TIL phenotypes. CD4+ TIL isolated based on ADGRG1 expression and expanded in vitro also demonstrated neoantigen reactivity in two samples. Thus, ADGRG1 and CD86 appear to be effective protein markers for isolating human tumor-specific CD4+ TCR clonotypes and studying antitumor CD4+ TIL.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a heterogeneous condition where overlapping cardiometabolic risk factors challenge accurate prognostic prediction.We aimed to define the molecular heterogeneity underlying MASLD clinical presentation, resolving disease patterns and identifying sub-phenotypes that account for prognostic differences in the general population.We applied latent class analysis (LCA) to 48 806 UK Biobank participants with MRI-based proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF) data to define phenotypic subtypes over a >15-year follow-up. Large-scale proteomic profiling characterised the molecular basis of the identified prognostic patterns. This led to the derivation of a four-protein score (PS4), which was robustly validated for all-cause mortality prediction in an expanded cohort with/ without MRI-PDFF data (n=115 971). We used mediation analysis to assess the potential contribution of PS4 proteins to the observed class-outcome associations.The LCA identified clinically distinct MASLD subtypes, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism in disease severity and identifying high-risk prognostic subgroups. The derived PS4 score significantly outperformed established non-invasive scores in predicting all-cause mortality across the expanded cohort. The PS4 components, linked to hepatic lipid/one-carbon metabolism (FABP1, FTCD) and immune/vascular integrity (ADGRG1, GAST) pathways, were found to account for a significant fraction (10-20%) of the estimated effect of the patient's phenotypic class on mortality outcome.MASLD-driven proteomic shifts reflect biological pathways that connect hepatic metabolic dysfunction with long-term survival. By resolving the MASLD cardiometabolic spectrum, we identified high-risk endotypes that are not captured by traditional liver-centric scores. The PS4 represents a biologically grounded framework for deciphering the systemic consequences of MASLD.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526737 is a review article
Inflammatory infiltration constitutes a fundamental pathophysiological mechanism in myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury, characterized by its role in initiating tissue damage, amplifying pathological inflammatory cascades, and exacerbating structural and functional impairment of the myocardium. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analysis identified the metabolite itaconic acid as a potential key regulator in IR injury. Therefore, we assessed the effect of its derivative, 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI), on inflammatory infiltration in a mouse model of IR injury.Following establishment of a myocardial IR model, tissue samples from the infarct border zone were harvested for transcriptomics and wide-target metabolomic sequencing. Bioinformatics methods were used to analyze the transcriptomics and metabolomics results separately and to perform a joint analysis. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics modeling were employed to explore proteins bound to itaconic acid. Following intragastric administration of 4-OI to myocardial IR mice, echocardiography was performed. Plasma levels of interleukin-4 (IL4), interleukin10 (IL10), cardiac troponin T (cTnT), and creatine kinase-myocardial band (CKMB) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Myocardial inflammatory infiltration was evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin Staining (HE staining), while inflammatory marker expression associated with macrophages was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining for inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and immune responsive gene 1 (IRG1). Macrophage heterogeneity was further assessed by immunofluorescence co-localization staining for F4/80, CCR2, and CD206. Additionally, mRNA expression levels of Interleukin-1 beta (Il1b), Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (Tnfa), Il4, and Il10 in myocardial tissue were quantified by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analysis identified itaconic acid as a potential metabolite modulating myocardial IR injury. Preliminary molecular docking analysis suggested possible in silico interactions between itaconic acid and Pla2g2d, Lcn2, and Gpr55 proteins, which require further experimental validation. A derivative of itaconic acid, 4-OI, significantly ameliorated myocardial IR injury in mice, reduced inflammatory infiltration, decreased iNOS-associated staining, and modestly increased Arg1-associated staining in the infarct border zone. This treatment was also accompanied by differences in macrophage marker-defined populations, reflected by fewer F4/80+CCR2+ and more F4/80+CD206+ cells in the injured myocardium.©2026 Pei et al.
Androgens and the androgen receptor (AR) play critical roles in prostate cancer (PCa) development and progression. Consequently, primary treatment strategies target either androgen synthesis or androgen-AR interactions. Although initially effective, tumors frequently recur as androgen-independent and more aggressive disease. In recurrent tumors, AR signaling often remains active through AR mutations or activation of alternative signaling pathways. Earlier studies from our laboratory had identified GPR56 (ADGRG1/GPCR205), an adhesion GPCR, as a possible membrane androgen receptor. Here, we demonstrate that GPR56, is significantly overexpressed in PCa tissues at both the transcript and protein levels and is associated with poor patient survival. Functional studies revealed that GPR56 promotes PCa cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, GPR56 regulates the expression of key androgen-responsive genes, including KLK3 (PSA), FOXA1, TMPRSS2, and NKX3.1 and many others, across multiple prostate cell models. This study demonstrates that Testosterone (T) stimulation of cells expressing GPR56, activates the G13-RhoA-PKN1 signaling pathway, resulting in enhanced PKN1 expression and activation. This leads to AR-PKN1 interaction and increased transcriptional activity of AR target genes. Further T-stimulation activates serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription activating the RhoA-ROCK1-MLCK axis, leading to robust actin polymerization, a process associated with increased tumor cell motility and metastatic potential. Collectively, these findings shed light on the role of GPR56 in AR signaling and PCa. Further, the identification of a previously unrecognized GPR56-G13-PKN1 axis which interacts with AR and possibly SRF to enhance AR target gene activity, presents GPR56 as a promising therapeutic target especially in case of advanced PCa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
As the population of older individuals living with HIV continues to expand, identifying non-euphoric therapeutic interventions for HIV-associated complications is essential. While cannabidiol (CBD) has demonstrated neuroprotective potential, its effects following prolonged exposure in the context of an aging biological environment remain poorly understood. This study utilized aged (15-18 months) male and female HIV-1 Tat transgenic mice to evaluate the impact of chronic CBD (3 mg/kg, s.c., for 12 weeks). A behavioral battery was employed to assess object recognition memory, anxiety-like behavior, spontaneous nociception, and locomotor activity. Subsequently, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and Western blotting were used to map endocannabinoid ligands (AEA, 2-AG, AA), metabolic enzymes (FAAH, MAGL), and receptors (CB1R, CB2R, GPR55) across the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, brainstem, and spinal cord. Results indicated that chronic CBD improved recognition memory specifically in female Tat(+) mice. While CBD treatment did not affect spinal cord-related tail flick sensitivity it universally increased supraspinal hot plate sensitivity. Chronic CBD treatment also elevated baseline body temperature and modulated body mass without impairing general locomotion. Furthermore, chronic CBD restructured the eCB signaling landscape across all examined CNS regions in a highly sex- and genotype-dependent manner. Notably, cannabinoid receptor and GPR55 expression exhibited distinct regulatory shifts governed by significant three-way interactions. These findings demonstrate that chronic CBD intervention interacts with the eCB system of aged mice in a region-specific manner. These results underscore the critical importance of considering age, sex, and treatment duration when evaluating cannabinoid-based therapies for the management of neuroHIV.Copyright: © 2026 Yadav-Samudrala et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Placenta previa is a major obstetric complication, yet its potential association with maternal microbiota-associated biological alterations remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to investigate microbiota-associated metabolic and transcriptomic alterations in placenta previa using an integrated multi-omics approach. A total of 72 third-trimester pregnant women (28 with complete placenta previa and 44 controls) were enrolled. Maternal gut, oral, and vaginal microbiota were profiled using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, while placental tissues underwent targeted short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) metabolomic profiling and RNA sequencing. Multi-omics integration, ecological network analysis, and pathway enrichment analyses were performed to identify microbiota-associated biological alterations linked to placenta previa. Global microbial diversity remained largely preserved across maternal body sites in placenta previa. However, gut microbiota demonstrated prominent ecological network remodeling and was associated with coordinated placental SCFA and transcriptomic alterations. Several placental SCFAs, including acetic acid, propionic acid, isobutyric acid, and isovaleric acid, exhibited increased abundance trends in placenta previa. Integrated metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses convergently identified cholinergic synapse signaling as a shared altered pathway. In addition, cholinergic signaling-related genes, including CHRNB4 and GNB5, demonstrated coordinated associations with altered placental SCFAs and specific gut microbial taxa. These findings suggest the existence of a potential gut microbiota-placental metabolite-transcriptome axis associated with placenta previa. Multi-omics convergence on cholinergic synapse signaling highlights a potential biological pathway linking gut microbiota-associated metabolic alterations with placental transcriptomic remodeling in placenta previa.Placenta previa is a major obstetric complication with poorly understood biological mechanisms beyond established anatomical and clinical risk factors. This study provides the first integrated multi-omics investigation linking maternal microbiota, placental short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and placental transcriptomic alterations in placenta previa. Rather than identifying broad microbial ecosystem disruption, we observed coordinated ecological remodeling of gut microbiota together with altered placental SCFA profiles and transcriptomic pathways. Notably, metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses convergently implicated cholinergic synapse signaling as a shared altered pathway associated with placenta previa. These findings support the existence of a potential gut microbiota-placental metabolite-transcriptome axis and provide new biological insights into microbiota-associated signaling alterations in placenta previa.
The adipocyte-rich microenvironment of the breast plays a crucial role in tumor progression, yet the functional heterogeneity of cancer-associated adipocytes (CAAs) and their specific mechanisms in driving immunosuppressive microenvironment and therapy resistance remain inadequately characterized.We performed an integrated analysis of single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) data from human adipose tissue and bulk transcriptomic data from the TCGA-BRCA and METABRIC cohorts. A prognostic signature was developed based on transcriptional features of CAA subpopulations. Functional roles of the key gene ADGRG1 were investigated through in vitro co-culture systems and in vivo breast cancer models using genetic knockdown/overexpression and pharmacological inhibition.snRNA-seq revealed a distinct CAA subpopulation enriched in aggressive contexts, labeled as HAD7. The HAD7-based signature stratified patients into high- and low-score groups, with the high-score group exhibiting poor survival and an immunosuppressive microenvironment. ADGRG1 was identified as a core driver. In vitro, ADGRG1 in CAAs promoted cancer cell migration, invasion, and epithelial mesenchymal transition. In vivo, adipocyte-specific ADGRG1 enhanced tumor growth, metastasis, and impaired anti-tumor immunity. Mechanistically, ADGRG1 activated a CXCL8-AKT/mTOR signaling axis. Crucially, pharmacological inhibition of ADGRG1 synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy, effectively suppressing tumor growth and metastasis by reversing immunosuppressive microenvironment.Our study identifies ADGRG1 as a master regulator of a pro-tumorigenic CAA subpopulation. Targeting the ADGRG1-CXCL8-AKT/mTOR axis represents a promising stromal-targeting strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
PurposeTo elucidate the dynamic molecular evolution and immune heterogeneity in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and identify diagnostic biomarkers.MethodsMulti-omics integrative analysis was performed on peripheral blood transcriptomic data from diabetic patients with and without DR. Techniques included differential expression analysis, immune infiltration profiling, unsupervised clustering, and LASSO regression for biomarker selection. Findings were validated in an independent high-glucose-treated endothelial cell model.ResultsDR progression exhibits staged molecular evolution from diabetes (immune suppression) to early DR (cell cycle inhibition, immune burst) and advanced DR (metabolic stress, persistent immune dysregulation). Six co-downregulated immune modules indicated systemic immune suppression. Patients were classified into three immune subtypes: vascular-inflammatory, metabolic disorder, and oxidative stress-tissue remodeling. A diagnostic model based on IK, PLBD2, FLNA, H6PD, and ZMAT2 achieved an AUC of 0.876 for distinguishing DR from diabetes alone.ConclusionThis study delineates the dynamic molecular landscape and immune heterogeneity of DR, providing a potential multi-gene diagnostic signature and a framework for patient stratification, which may facilitate early detection and personalized management.
FLNA encodes filamin A, a cytoskeletal actin-binding protein with critical roles in neuronal migration, mechano-transduction, and organ morphogenesis. Pathogenic FLNA variants are classically associated with periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH), epilepsy, and multisystem manifestations, although interpretation of missense variants remains challenging because of marked variable expressivity and limited functional evidence.We describe a mother-daughter pair carrying the heterozygous FLNA missense variant c.5776 C > T (p.Pro1926Ser). Clinical, electroencephalographic, neuroradiological, cardiological, and genetic data were retrospectively reviewed. Variant interpretation was performed according to ACMG/AMP criteria and supported by in silico and structural analyses.The proband, a 13-year-old girl, presented with migraine with aura, epilepsy responsive to levetiracetam, normal brain MRI, and QT interval prolongation, with no pathogenic variants identified in established long-QT genes. Her mother, who carried the same variant, had focal epilepsy, migraine with aura, and subtle PVNH on brain MRI. Additional family history included a maternally related male cousin reportedly hemizygous for the same variant and affected by a severe congenital multisystem phenotype including valvular and extracerebral abnormalities, overall consistent with FLNA-related disease. The p.Pro1926Ser substitution was absent from population databases, involved a highly conserved residue within immunoglobulin-like repeat 17 of the rod-2 domain, and was predicted to be deleterious by most computational tools.These findings support a likely contributory role of FLNA p.Pro1926Ser in a variably expressive neurodevelopmental and multisystem disorder in which epilepsy represents the predominant neurological phenotype.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
GNAO1-related disorders (GNAO1-RD), caused by variants in GNAO1 encoding the Gαo protein, comprise a broad phenotypic spectrum including movement disorders (MD) and/or epilepsy and are typically associated with developmental delay and intellectual disability. Currently, only symptomatic treatments are available. Zinc can restore guanosine triphosphate hydrolysis and cellular interactions of dysfunctional Gαo. ZINCGNAO1 evaluated the safety and feasibility of oral zinc supplementation in GNAO1-RD.ZINCGNAO1 was a 6-month, open-label, fixed-dose, single-centre pilot trial in Germany. Eligible participants were aged 6 months to 30 years, had a genetically confirmed GNAO1 variant, at least one hallmark feature of GNAO1-RD (MD, hypotonia, epilepsy, or global developmental delay), and had a Gross Motor Function Measure-66 (GMFM-66) score of 75 or lower. Zinc acetate dihydrate was administered orally in age-dependent dosages. Primary outcomes were safety, assessed by adverse event monitoring and laboratory analyses, and feasibility, defined as treatment adherence of at least 80% of days. Exploratory secondary outcomes included changes in MD severity (Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale-Movement Score, BFMDRS-M, Abnormal involuntary movement scale, AIMS), and related disability (BFMDRS-Disability Score), motor function (GMFM-66), quality of life (Caregiver Priorities and Child Health Index of Life with Disabilities, CPCHILD), occupational performance (Canadian Occupational Performance Measure performance and satisfaction scores, COPM-P/-S), epilepsy, and participant- or caregiver-reported outcomes. This trial was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT06412653) and the EU Clinical Trials Register (2024-512735-72-00) and is complete.Between Aug 2, 2024, and Jan 27, 2025, 13 participants with 11 different genetic variants were enrolled; 11 completed the follow up of the trial. Mean age at inclusion was 8.0 years (range 0.5-25.1). Overall treatment feasibility was 84.6% (11/13). No treatment-related serious adverse events occurred, and laboratory monitoring did not identify clinically relevant safety concerns during the 6-month treatment period. Exploratory secondary outcomes showed no change in MD severity. The mean BFMDRS Disability Score decreased from 25.5 (SD 2.6) to 23.5 (SD 2.8; nominal p = 0.005). Mean GMFM-66 increased from 33.1 (SD 12.8) to 37.8 (SD 12.8, nominal p = 0.006). COPM-P increased from 2.6 (SD 0.8) to 3.8 (SD 1.3; nominal p = 0.003), and COPM-S from 2.7 (SD 0.9) to 4.1 (SD 1.7; nominal p = 0.002). CPCHILD and seizure occurrence showed no clear treatment-related change; two participants had seizures during the trial.Our preliminary findings show that oral zinc supplementation was safe and feasible in this GNAO1-RD population. Exploratory secondary outcomes suggested possible improvements in motor function and daily activities. Larger controlled trials are needed to assess efficacy.GNAO1-Gemeinsam nicht allein e.V.© 2026 The Author(s).
Photoreceptor outer segments (OS) shorten and elongate in response to bleaching stimuli: these responses are measurable optically at nanometer scale resolution with OCT and collectively known as the optoretinogram (ORG). The molecular mechanisms underlying the ORG remain unresolved. Here we examine the role of G-protein in cone elongation by measuring ORGs in 2 female bradyopsia subjects caused by mutation in R9AP, the membrane anchor protein of RGS9, necessary for the latter's transport to the OS and for normal deactivation of phototransduction by the GTPase-activating protein (GAP) complex. The ORGs of bradyopsia subjects had normal activation kinetics, amplitude and photosensitivity, but markedly slowed recovery compared to controls (2 males, 1 female). The slowed recovery is attributable to a reduced level of RGS9 in the OS and localizes the molecular basis of the OS elongation in the G-protein cascade sequence at, or prior to, formation of the GAP complex. The recovery of the ORG, measured in a paired-flash paradigm, revealed that the elongation requires a substrate that is depleted and recovers in a bleach level-dependent manner. Recovery from the highest bleach (75%) tracked the time course of cone opsin regeneration, implying that unregenerated cone opsin produces "dark light", known to arise in rods from activation of G-protein by unregenerated rhodopsin. Overall, our results identify holo-trimeric G-protein as an essential and rapidly recyclable substrate for the ORG elongation response, and establish the ORG as a non-invasive, molecularly interpretable optical assay of G-protein signaling and dark adaptation suitable for evaluating diseases and therapies.Significance statement Photoreceptor outer segments shorten and elongate in response to bleaching stimuli: these responses are measurable optically at nanometer scale resolution with OCT and known as the optoretinogram (ORG). The molecular mechanisms underlying the ORG remain unresolved. By comparing control ORGs against subjects with a mutation in the anchor protein of regulator of G-protein signaling RGS9, we identified G-protein as an essential and rapidly recyclable substrate for the ORG elongation response. The recovery from exposures isomerizing 75% opsins tracked the time-course of pigment regeneration, indicating persistent activation of G-protein by unregenerated opsin. By linking ORG dynamics to defined molecular reactions, this work establishes the ORG as a quantitative, noninvasive assay of G-protein signaling and cone dark adaptation suitable for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) reflects retinal microvascular injury and systemic immune-metabolic stress, and most public DR transcriptomic datasets lack paired microbiome/metabolomic profiles. We used gutMGene v2.0 as a curated microbe/metabolite-host gene prior and integrated it with peripheral blood transcriptomics from GSE221521. Candidate genes were refined by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), repeated resampling, cross-dataset assessment, mechanism scoring, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) single-cell localization and filamin A (FLNA)-centered single-cell gene regulatory network (GRN) virtual knockout. The gutMGene prior contained 238 host genes; 15 DR-associated genes overlapped this prior, and WGCNA retained ten candidate gut microbe and microbial metabolite-related genes (GMMRGs): FLNA, AKT1, IRAK1, BCL10, CDK6, CTSD, JUP, CXCL1, CXCR2 and IL4R. Resampling prioritized FLNA as the most consistent candidate. Cross-dataset assessment localized the strongest signal to type 2 diabetes (T2D) PBMCs, retinal endothelial cells and advanced proliferative diabetic retinopathy with diabetic macular edema (PDR + DME) retinal tissue, with weaker separation in whole blood, broad retinal tissue and six-donor type 1 diabetes (T1D) PBMCs. FLNA virtual knockout predicted cell-context-dependent perturbation of immune-related transcriptional programs, including IL4R in DR B cells and CTSD in DR monocytes/NK cells. This prior-guided study identifies FLNA within a ten-gene GMMRG set as a circulating host-response signal that links curated microbe/metabolite-host records to immune-vascular and cytoskeletal remodeling in DR.
GNAO1-related disorder is a severe childhood-onset hyperkinetic movement disorder punctuated by life-threatening dyskinetic crises. Small series suggest benefit from bilateral globus pallidus internus deep brain stimulation (GPi-DBS), but optimal timing, patient selection, long-term outcomes, and genotype-specific response remain unclear. We define the clinical impact of GPi-DBS in the largest cohort assembled to date.Retrospective multicenter cohort study conducted through the DBSMatchMaker platform, including children and young adults with genetically confirmed GNAO1-related disorder treated with bilateral GPi-DBS across 17 centers. The primary outcome was change in dyskinetic crisis burden; secondary outcomes included BFMDRS, Clinical Global Impression (CGI), functional classifications, medication burden, and complications.Forty-six patients underwent implantation at a mean age of 10.4 ± 4.8 years with mean follow-up of 4.5 ± 3.7 years (longest = 17 years). Over half (52.2%) were implanted emergently during dyskinetic status. Dyskinetic crises were reduced in 38 of 40 patients (95%) and intensive care unit (ICU) admissions in 86.1%. The Burke Fahn Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS) motor scores improved by 27.5% (p < 0.001, Cohen's d = 1.12); CGI was improved in 93.5%, with greater benefit for chorea than dystonia. Pain, sleep, and medication burden improved; functional classification was largely unchanged. Complications occurred in 19.6%, predominantly in emergent cases.Bilateral GPi-DBS was associated with sustained prevention of dyskinetic crises and reduction of overall disease burden in GNAO1-related disorder, with limited impact on functional classification. These findings support earlier elective neuromodulation before recurrent crises drive cumulative morbidity and identify GPi-DBS as a crisis-preventive, symptom-modifying intervention rather than a restorative one. ANN NEUROL 2026.© 2026 American Neurological Association.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the basis of neurogenesis and neural regeneration and are widely used as models for drug test and disease therapy. However, how NSCs self-renewal is modulated is not fully understood. In this study, we show that cytoskeletal Filamin A (FLNA) acts as a negative regulator in NSCs proliferation or self-renew. FLNA can be localized to the nucleoli of both NE-4C and C17.2 cell lines. FLNA silencing activated the expression of Pol Ⅰ products. In contrast, FLNA overexpression dampened rDNA transcription, suggesting that FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by downregulating Pol Ⅰ-directed transcription. Mechanistically, FLNA downregulates Pol I-directed transcription by inhibiting RRN3 expression and the occupancies of the Pol I transcription machinery factors at the rDNA promoter. In addition, FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by maintaining high levels of P53 and PTEN expression. Finally, we show that FLNA silencing does not affect the identity of neural stem cells, but inhibits neuronal differentiation from neural stem cells. These findings provide a novel insight into the mechanisms by which FLNA negatively regulates NSCs self-renew.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The heterotrimeric G proteins are ubiquitous membrane-bound complexes specialized in the transduction of receptor-mediated extracellular signals into intracellular responses. Mutations in the G protein subunit alpha O1 (Gαo), encoded by GNAO1, have been associated with neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by prominent movement disorder with or without epilepsy. The Gnao1[C215Y]/+ mouse model recapitulates key features of the human disease, with a relatively mild phenotype, normal viability and late onset movement abnormalities, detectable in specific motor tasks. Here we report functional alterations in cortical layer V pyramidal neurons from Gnao1[C215Y]/+ mice, with reduction of the inward currents (Ih) and impairment of the GABAB-mediated outward current. We propose an adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based gene therapy aimed at overexpressing the wild-type form of Gαo by intracerebroventricular injection in newborn heterozygous Gnao1[C215Y]/ + mice. Our results demonstrate that overexpression of the wild-type protein mitigates behavioral abnormalities and restores functional neuronal deficits in young adult mice, thereby supporting the development of AAV-mediated gene augmentation strategies to counteract the effects of GNAO1 variants in patients. The potential of gene supplementation therapy is further supported by data from genetically modified C. elegans strains carrying not only the relatively mild C215Y variant but also a panel of goa-1/GNAO1 mutations associated with more severe phenotypes, suggesting a broader potential of this therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
The molecular characterization of Pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) has progressed pronouncedly in recent years, unraveling the molecular pathways driving initiation and progression of the different PitNET types, and allowing better understanding of their biology. The most frequent recurring somatic driver alterations were recognized in corticotroph PitNETs (USP8, USP48, BRAF) and somatotroph PitNETs (GNAS), and, much less frequently, in lactotroph PitNETs (SF3B1). Additional well-characterized somatic driver alterations, including TP53, ATRX, and DAXX, are enriched in aggressive corticotroph tumors. Identification of new molecular markers and delineation of their clinical phenotypes are enabling further subclassification of PitNETs based on tumor molecular profiles, with earlier recognition of more aggressive variants. These molecular markers also provide an opportunity for new targeted therapies. Beyond single-gene alterations, epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, and non-coding RNA dysregulation, are emerging as important contributors to PitNET pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets. Multi-omics approaches encompassing genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, and proteomics are transforming PitNET classification. In this review, we provide a comprehensive, data-driven update on somatic driver alterations, epigenetic alterations, converging signaling pathways, and the related emerging therapeutic targets in PitNETs, integrating pooled analyses from published cohorts.© the author(s).
This study aimed to identify candidate genes and genetic markers affecting milk production traits in dual-purpose cattle, providing a foundation of data for marker-assisted breeding. Cis-eQTL analysis was performed on 83 Xinjiang brown cattle and 80 Chinese Simmental cattle using whole-genome resequencing and RNA-seq data derived from blood samples. Candidate genes were prioritized by overlapping the eGenes with genes from previous selective signature analyses. In Xinjiang brown cattle, 293,758 cis-eQTLs regulating 1,720 genes were identified, whereas 78,735 cis-eQTLs regulating 569 genes were found in Chinese Simmental cattle. By overlapping the eGenes with candidate genes from previous selective signature analyses, we prioritized 103 genes (e.g., PPP2R3A, GNAI1, and ITGB4) in Xinjiang brown cattle and 26 candidate genes (e.g., MAPK10 and HPSE) in Chinese Simmental cattle as potentially related to milk production traits. These results provide valuable data for the development of new dairy lines in Xinjiang brown cattle and for future genomic selection in dairy-oriented Chinese Simmental cattle.Copyright © 2026 Ma, Li, Zhang, Wang, Ma, Huang, Chen and Xu.
Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) is a typical precursor lesion of pancreatic cancer, but differential diagnosis and grading of IPMN is often difficult. Currently, grading of diagnosis is based mainly on imaging examinations, but these methods are invasive, and the accuracy is unsatisfactory. Therefore, the current study aimed to determine the usefulness of urine cell-free DNA (cfDNA) as a liquid biopsy, which the authors suggest has potential as a less invasive diagnostic tool for IPMN.Preoperative plasma and urine samples were collected from 33 patients with a preoperative diagnosis of IPMN. From their plasma and urine, cfDNA was extracted. Analysis of GNAS and KRAS mutations in the cfDNA was performed using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction.The final diagnosis was IPMN in 31 of the 33 cases according to the resected specimens. The positivity rate of GNAS mutations in these 31 patients was 10 % (3/31) in plasma cfDNA, and 32 % (10/31) in urine cfDNA. The positivity rate of KRAS mutations was 19 % (6/31) in plasma cfDNA and 58 % (18/31) in urine cfDNA. In the multivariate analysis of the malignancy diagnosis, the main pancreatic duct diameter was ≥10 mm, and the positivity of both GNAS and KRAS mutations in urine cfDNA were significantly associated with IPMN malignancy (odds ratio [OR], 12.70; P = 0.0200; OR, 8.10; P = 0.0269).Urine cfDNA involves a less invasive liquid biopsy and seems to be useful in the diagnosis of IPMN.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
This study retrospectively evaluated the clinical, laboratory, and treatment characteristics of pediatric patients with hypoparathyroidism (HP) or inactivating PTH/PTHrP signaling disorders (iPPSD), focusing on metabolic parameters and long-term outcomes.Twenty-three children with HP or iPPSD were included. Clinical, biochemical, and therapeutic data were assessed at diagnosis, after one year, and at the last follow-up. HP cases were classified as postsurgical or non-surgical.Of the cohort, 56.5% (n = 13) had HP and 43.5% (n = 10) had iPPSD. The median age at diagnosis was 13.2 years (6.8-15.1), with a median follow-up of 6.6 years (2.6-12.7). Within the HP group, four had postsurgical HP, two had DiGeorge syndrome, one had autoimmune HP, and six had idiopathic HP. All iPPSD patients fulfilled diagnostic criteria and demonstrated parathormone (PTH) resistance; two presented with characteristic features, including one with genetically confirmed iPPSD2. Hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia were milder in postsurgical HP compared with other groups, whereas calcium and phosphate levels did not differ between iPPSD and non-surgical HP. Intravenous calcium was required in 34.8% of symptomatic patients at diagnosis. Maintenance therapy with oral calcium and calcitriol was similar across groups. Postsurgical HP patients achieved normocalcemia significantly faster (p = 0.03). After one year, serum calcium levels increased significantly in the iPPSD and non-surgical HP groups (p = 0.005 and p = 0.008, respectively), whereas no significant change was observed in the postsurgical HP group (p = 0.07). Serum phosphorus levels declined only in the iPPSD group (p = 0.005), accompanied by a reduction in PTH levels (p = 0.005). At final follow-up, biochemical parameters remained stable, oral calcium requirements decreased in iPPSD and non-surgical HP (p = 0.02), and no renal complications were observed.Pediatric HP and iPPSD show distinct profiles. Serum calcium levels increased during follow-up in the iPPSD and non-surgical HP groups, while postsurgical HP patients achieved normocalcemia more rapidly. In the iPPSD group, reductions in serum phosphorus and PTH levels suggested effective long-term biochemical control. Oral calcium supplementation decreased over time in iPPSD and non-surgical HP, whereas calcitriol doses remained stable, and no renal complications were observed, supporting the safety of current treatment strategies.
The graph neural networks (GNNs) have been successfully applied to non-Euclidean graph data mining tasks, attracting widespread attention. At present, to achieve promising performance, many researchers use neural architecture search (NAS) on GNNs to enhance applicability and accuracy without requiring significant manual intervention or rich domain knowledge. However, most existing graph NAS (GNAS) algorithms struggle with high-dimensional data and often overlook the characteristics and distribution of different solutions within the search space, which may result in local optima and underutilization of the search potential. This article proposes Ensemble-GNAS, a novel framework that integrates evolutionary GNAS with ensemble learning to address these limitations. Within this framework, we develop two key strategies: an evolutionary GNAS method based on a niche strategy to enhance local search capability and the diversify candidate networks and an ensemble fusion strategy based on a tree-structured Parzen estimator (TPE) to optimize the weights of candidate networks in an ensemble model. The proposed approach is evaluated on: 1) node classification datasets, including citation networks for paper classification and cancer-specific gene interaction networks for driver gene identification and 2) link prediction and graph classification datasets. The experimental results indicate that the proposed approach outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in both classification accuracy and performance stability. Moreover, the ablation study verifies the contribution of the integrated niche and TPE strategies within the overall framework. The source code of Ensemble-GNAS can be obtained from https://github.com/WilfongGuo/EnsembleGNAS.
Metabolic reprogramming, particularly the altered nucleotide metabolism, is a critical driver of tumor heterogeneity and malignant progression in gastric cancer (GC). However, the core molecular determinants orchestrating this metabolic shift and its subsequent impact on the tumor microenvironment (TME) remain elusive. We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), spatial transcriptomics, and bulk RNA-seq data to delineate the metabolic landscape of GC. The metabolic vulnerabilities and functional roles of the identified hub gene were systematically validated using in vitro assays, in vivo xenograft models, and pharmacological metabolic interventions. Pathway-level metabolic flux inference via scRNA-seq revealed a pronounced shift toward nucleotide interconversion and pyrimidine synthesis in malignant epithelial cells. We identified GNAS as a key metabolic hub gene, which is consistently upregulated in highly malignant subsets and strongly predictive of poor patient survival. Pseudotime and spatial transcriptomic analyses demonstrated that GNAS⁺ epithelial cells occupy terminally differentiated malignant states and specifically localize within spatial niches characterized by hyperactive nucleic acid metabolism and an immunosuppressive TME driven by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Mechanistically, GNAS depletion profoundly impaired pyrimidine nucleotide (UMP/UDP) biosynthesis, which sequentially attenuated the activity of the ATF3-JUN-ETS1 transcriptional network, leading to suppressed GC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, alongside induced apoptosis. Notably, exogenous uridine supplementation successfully rescued these malignant phenotypes, whereas pharmacological inhibition of pyrimidine synthesis (DHODH inhibitor) abolished the oncogenic advantage conferred by GNAS overexpression. GNAS is associated with the malignant evolution of GC by driving pyrimidine metabolic reprogramming and spatially coordinating TME remodeling. Targeting the GNAS-mediated metabolic-transcriptional axis exposes a novel therapeutic vulnerability, offering a promising translational strategy for precision oncology in GC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The incidence of peripheral precocious puberty (PPP) in females has been rising steadily, emerging as a significant public health concern. However, the paternal developmental origins of PPP remain poorly understood. Using a rat model, we found that paternal preconception caffeine exposure (PPCE) induced PPP-like phenotypes in female offspring and showed paternal-line persistence to the F2 generation. Mechanistic analyses showed that PPCE induced a paternal glucocorticoid-elevated state and was associated with hypermethylation of the Gnas imprinting control region (ICR) in sperm. In offspring ovaries, this alteration was paralleled by increased Gnas-ICR methylation, reduced Nespas expression, increased Gnas expression, activation of the cAMP/PKA/CREB pathway and enhanced estrogen biosynthesis. Ovarian Gnas gain- and loss-of-function experiments supported a functional contribution of Gnas dysregulation to steroidogenesis and PPP-like phenotypes, while paternal GR antagonism attenuated sperm/ovarian methylation changes and offspring phenotypes. Exploratory human samples suggested a weak and method-sensitive association between plasma cortisol levels and sperm Gnas-ICR methylation. These findings support a paternal glucocorticoid-associated sperm Gnas-ICR mechanism that may contribute to offspring ovarian endocrine programming. Together, these findings provide a preclinical framework for understanding how paternal preconception endocrine status may shape offspring reproductive development through sperm-associated epigenetic programming.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neuromuscular disorders (NMDs) affect approximately 1 in 1,000 individuals and are clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Despite advances in genomic diagnostics, many cases remain unsolved after initial sequencing. Bioinformatic reanalysis approaches provide opportunities to identify missed variants and establish novel disease genes.Preexisting next-generation sequencing datasets from 101 undiagnosed NMD families were reanalyzed using the RD-Connect Genome-Phenome Analysis Platform. The data comprised clinical exome sequencing (45 families), whole exome sequencing (31 families), and whole genome sequencing (25 families). Variant prioritization incorporated population frequency, Human Phenotype Ontology terms, in silico predictions, and genotype-phenotype correlation.Reanalysis identified causative variants in 17 out of 101 previously unsolved families (16.83% diagnostic yield). Eight cases harbored coding variants in known NMD genes (RYR1, AGRN, SCN4A, TTN, MYH2, GOLGA2) consistent with the observed phenotype. In five cases, intronic variants in known NMD genes (COL6A3, SGCA, DOK7, DYSF, CHRND) were considered causative following in silico predictions and careful correlation with the phenotype. One case had an extended phenotype (PTPN11), and one case had a dual diagnosis (MYH2, KIF21A). A novel ATP2A2 missense variant was identified in two unrelated families, establishing ATP2A2 as a new NMD gene.Research-based reanalysis of preexisting NGS data improved diagnostic yield of previously unsolved cases consistent with previous literature, reinforcing the utility of in-depth, phenotype-driven reanalysis with expert review. Our study provided 17 families with unsolved NMDs with a diagnosis after having waited for a decade. This supports the routine reanalysis of unsolved NGS data, highlighting its potential to reclassify variants of unknown significance and reveal novel genes and pathomechanisms in NMDs.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42410249 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42383531 is a review article
Agrin-congenital myasthenic syndrome (AGRN-CMS) is a rare, heterogeneous genetic disorder of the neuromuscular transmission that can present from infancy to adulthood. The clinical phenotype includes distal weakness mimicking distal myopathies. Additionally, electromyography and muscle biopsy may demonstrate myopathic features, increasing the diagnostic challenge. Mitochondrial dysfunction has not been reported in the muscle of AGRN-CMS patients.We report the clinical, electrophysiological, radiological, myopathological, and genetic findings of a patient with AGRN-CMS.A 47-year-old male presented at age 18 with sudden onset of eyelid ptosis, weakness, and fatigue, followed by dysphagia, dyspnea on exertion, exercise intolerance, and myalgias. Three sisters had similar symptoms. Neurological examination showed lower limb weakness, predominantly affecting the calf muscles with associated atrophy. Tendon reflexes were normal but absent at the ankles. Creatine kinase levels were normal. Electromyography demonstrated myopathic changes in distal muscles with fibrillation potentials in the gastrocnemius. 2 Hz-Repetitive nerve stimulation of the fibular nerve revealed a 32% decrement in the extensor digitorum brevis without facilitation. Tibialis anterior biopsy showed non-specific myopathic changes, neurogenic features, and histological evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction, as suggested by the scattered cytochrome c oxidase-negative fibers. Whole exome sequencing detected a homozygous pathogenic AGRN variant (c.5012G>A, p.Arg1671Gln). No pathogenic or suspected pathogenic variants were detected in muscle mitochondrial DNA or in nuclear genes affecting mitochondrial function.This patient expands the pathological spectrum of AGRN-CMS to include mitochondrial dysfunction and highlights the importance of low-frequency repetitive nerve stimulation in the assessment of patients with distal weakness for differentiating myopathies from CMS.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of Neurology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42323054 is a review article
Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) is a major contributor to poor outcomes after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH), yet its molecular correlates and early blood-based candidate biomarkers remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to characterize plasma proteomic changes associated with DCI and identify exploratory candidate protein signatures.An observational cohort study was conducted including patients with aSAH. Propensity score matching (PSM) was applied to minimize baseline confounding. Plasma samples collected within 72 h after admission were analyzed using data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based proteomics. Candidate differentially expressed proteins between the DCI and non-DCI groups were identified using exploratory criteria. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to evaluate the discriminatory performance of selected representative candidate proteins. Bioinformatic analyses, including protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), were performed to explore potential biological processes.After PSM, 21 matched pairs were included. Using exploratory criteria, 95 candidate proteins were identified, including 49 nominally upregulated and 46 nominally downregulated proteins in the DCI group. Five representative candidate proteins, including RGS10, ENSA, ECM2, ALDH1A1, and HBD, showed moderate discriminatory performance, with AUC values ranging from 0.730 to 0.766. PPI network analysis identified hub proteins such as SLC4A1, EPB42, AHSP, and HBD. Exploratory functional enrichment analyses suggested pathway-level patterns related to oxidative stress, energy metabolism, and cytoskeletal regulation. GSEA further suggested alterations in VEGF signaling and chemokine-related pathways.Plasma proteomic alterations were observed in association with DCI after aSAH and may provide early candidate protein signatures for DCI risk assessment. These findings offer preliminary biological clues regarding DCI-associated processes and support further validation of blood-based proteomic markers in larger independent cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a lethal malignancy with limited therapeutic options. Kaempferol shows potential in suppressing HCC progression via glycolysis regulation, yet its molecular targets and mechanisms are unclear. Transcriptomic data were analyzed to identify HCC-related DEGs. Intersection with kaempferol's glycolysis-related targets yielded candidate genes. A prognostic risk model was constructed and validated by ROC curves and survival analysis. GSEA and single-cell RNA sequencing explored mechanisms and cellular heterogeneity. Mendelian randomization assessed causality between prognostic genes and HCC. After HCC cells were treated with different concentrations of kaempferol, the effects of kaempferol on proliferation, invasion, and migration of HCC cells were detected by CCK-8, cell clone formation, and Transwell cell scratch healing experiments. The expression levels of key proteins in the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and glycolytic rate-limiting enzymes were detected by Western blot. The spectrophotometric method was used to detect the effect of kaempferol on glucose uptake and lactate production of HCC cells. Finally, the impact of knocking down CA9 on glucose uptake and lactic acid production in liver cancer cells was analyzed. The prognostic risk model identified GRK6, ABCC1, CA9, and CDK5R1 as prognostic genes. GSEA implicated cell cycle and PI3K-Akt pathways in HCC progression driven by these genes. Single-cell analysis revealed pronounced upregulation of prognostic genes in hepatocytes. Finally, MR analysis confirmed that CDK5R1 was a risk factor for the incidence of HCC. Kaempferol significantly inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration of MHCC97H and Huh7 cells, as well as the expression levels of PKM2, HK2, p-AKT, p-mTOR, and p-RPS6. Kaempferol significantly reduced glucose uptake and lactic acid production in MHCC97H and Huh7 cells. Knockdown of CA9 inhibited the uptake of glucose and lactic acid production, along with suppressing the expression of HK2 and PKM2 in MHCC97H and Huh7 cells. This study found that kaempferol targeted the AKT-mTOR pathway and downregulated the CA9 gene, thereby modulating glycolysis and ultimately suppressing the proliferation, invasion, and migration of hepatocellular carcinoma.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
This study aimed to investigate the spatial cellular architecture and molecular interactions in healthy and inflamed dental pulp using spatial transcriptomics (Visium HD), to elucidate the pathological mechanisms of pulpitis and identify potential therapeutic targets for vital pulp therapy.Spatial transcriptomic sequencing was performed on dental pulp tissues from two healthy individuals and two pulpitis patients, with integrated analyses including Seurat clustering, cell trajectory inference, GO enrichment, CellphoneDB interaction network modelling and PROGENy pathway activity assessment to compare cellular heterogeneity and signalling regulation.Nine major cell types (fibroblasts, progenitor cells, endothelial cells, neural cells, plasma cells, B cells, T cells, monocytes and macrophages) were identified, and their spatial distribution was mapped. Subclustering and differential expression analysis revealed that fibroblast (e.g., APOL2+/CCN2+) and progenitor cell (e.g., CDK5R1+/CCRL2+) subclusters exacerbated fibrosis and immune activation, while TMPRSS4+/CST5+ fibroblasts were critical for homeostasis. Pro-inflammatory endothelial subclusters (IGHG1+/CXCL13+) expanded, while anti-inflammatory subclusters (SERPINA5+/SERPINA3+) diminished, may lead to vascular-immune imbalance. Upregulation of immunoglobulin genes and downregulation of MBP disrupted neural function, while inflamed pulp showed increased B cells and macrophages, decreased T cells and monocytes. Inflammatory pathways (PI3K, EGFR, TGFβ, MAPK, Oestrogen, NF-κB) were upregulated, with enhanced TGFβ signalling in endothelial cells. Intercellular interaction analysis showed altered APP-CD74 signalling in endothelial-macrophage interactions and disrupted CXCL14-mediated communication between immune and endothelial cells.For the first time, we have identified nine cell populations in dental pulp with their spatial localization and intercellular crosstalk using spatial transcriptomic sequencing technology, and mapped the inflammatory landscape of dental pulp. Cellular remodelling-driven by APP suppression, CXCL14 deficiency and TGFβ activation-is a central mechanism in pulpitis progression. These findings provide a preliminary spatial transcriptomic foundation that may inform the development of targeted strategies for vital pulp therapy.© 2026 British Endodontic Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Autosomal Recessive Spastic Ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by pathogenic variants in SACS. ARSACS is characterized by mitochondrial abnormalities and disruptions of the neurofilament cytoskeleton. In other conditions, these features have been linked to activation of Sterile Alpha and TIR Motif Containing 1 (SARM1), an enzyme that can trigger axon degeneration and neuronal death. Inhibition of SARM1 is an attractive therapeutic strategy because SARM1 is inactive in healthy cells and knockout of SARM1 has little or no deleterious effects. We therefore asked whether SARM1 activity contributed to Purkinje cell degeneration and motor defects present in a Sacs -/- mouse model of ARSACS.We studied 4 cohorts of mice: (1) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 +/+ ; (2) Sacs +/+; Sarm1 +/- ; (3) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 +/- ; and (4) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 -/- . In 9-month-old mice, we analyzed protein markers of Purkinje cells (n = 3-4 mice per genotype) and counted surviving Purkinje cells in folia III, IV, and VIII of cerebellar sections (n = 3 mice per genotype, 6 sections per mouse), and tested motor function at 3, 6, and 9 months by quantifying parameters of gait (Digigait) and coordination and balance (Rotarod) (8 male, 8 female mice of each genotype).Probing of cerebellar extracts showed that the Purkinje cell protein markers Calbindin-1, RGS8, and PCP2 were decreased in Sacs -/- mice but restored to normal levels in Sacs -/-; Sarm1 -/- mice. Purkinje cell loss in Sacs -/- mice was most prominent in anterior folia, as previously noted. Sarm1 loss partially mitigated the Purkinje cell death in folium III of 9-month-old Sacs -/- mice. Similarly, longitudinal behavioral assessment of motor functions showed that disturbances in gait pattern (slower cadence, prolonged swing, and stance phases) were partially alleviated. Rotarod tests gave more ambivalent results, as the homozygous loss of Sarm1 was less effective than heterozygous loss in ameliorating the Sacs -/- phenotype.We conclude that SARM1 contributes to neurodegeneration in ARSACS, and its downregulation or inhibition could constitute a significant therapeutical strategy in the treatment of the disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.
Atypical chemokine receptors (ACKRs) indirectly mediate cell migration through chemokine scavenging, which generally requires phosphorylation by G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) to efficiently control chemokine levels. Despite not coupling to G proteins, ACKR4 is preferentially modified by GRK3, a kinase dependent on active G protein subunits for membrane translocation and phosphorylation activity. How ACKR4 circumvents G protein dependency to engage GRK3 is unclear. To resolve the underlying mechanism, we used live-cell bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assays to measure GRK3 and phosphorylation-dependent arrestin recruitment and tracked the impact of fluorescent chemokine uptake by flow cytometry. We demonstrate that ACKR4 engages arrestin preferentially downstream of GRK2/3 phosphorylation fully independent of G protein coordination. Instead, the kinases are recruited directly to the atypical receptor via a unique acidic-rich motif in the proximal receptor C terminus. Mutations in this region severely impaired kinase and arrestin recruitment, as well as chemokine scavenging. Productive phosphorylation also plays a substantial role in G protein-independent GRK3 translocation to ACKR4, and recruitment of kinase-dead GRK3 is severely impaired. Together, these findings suggest that ACKR4 directly coordinates GRK3 coupling, highlighting a uniquely evolved atypical mechanism to use GRK2/3 while bypassing G protein activation and thereby supporting efficient chemokine scavenging by the atypical receptor. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Cell migration and positioning is efficiently regulated by atypical chemokine receptors (ACKR) through chemokine scavenging, often upon GRK phosphorylation. GRK3 dominates the phosphorylation of ACKR4, despite ACKR4 not activating G proteins needed to promote the kinase activity. This study resolved that ACKR4 is directly modified by GRK3 without G protein involvement. Instead, specific acidic residues coordinate the phosphorylation reaction. While seemingly unique to ACKR4, similar mechanisms for GRK2/3 action may contribute to kinase modification of other atypical and canonical GPCRs.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Understanding how the brain processes bodily signals requires mapping the circuits that transform interoceptive information into coordinated responses. Visceral signals converge in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), which coordinates appetite, breathing, cardiovascular reflexes, and digestion. The NTS contains many intermingled subpopulations of neurons, and deciphering their functions requires understanding their connections. Here, we used cell-type-specific tracing to test whether molecularly distinct NTS neurons exhibit unique connectivity patterns. First, we found that Lmx1b-expressing excitatory neurons provide output to a broad array of NTS target regions in both the brainstem and forebrain, while inhibitory neurons in this region project predominantly within the brainstem. Next, we found that several genetically defined excitatory subpopulations-catecholaminergic (Th), neuropeptidergic (Cck, Npff, or Pdyn), and aldosterone-sensitive (Hsd11b2)-exhibit unique output patterns across multiple targets. As examples, the ventrolateral medulla receives moderate Th, Cck, and Pdyn, light Npff, and no Hsd11b2 input. The outer rim of the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus receives concentrated Th, Cck, and Npff input, contrasting a more uniform Pdyn input and a lack of Hsd11b2 input. The subcommissural bed nucleus of the stria terminalis receives broad Th, light Cck, sparse Pdyn, and virtually no Npff input, contrasting the focal Hsd11b2 input to its fusiform subnucleus. These divergent patterns demonstrate that molecular identity predicts connectivity and define the organizational logic by which interoceptive signals are transformed into coordinated autonomic and behavioral responses.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), including semaglutide, produce robust and sustained weight loss, yet the central mechanisms supporting their long-term efficacy remain incompletely understood. Agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons of the arcuate nucleus are classically activated by negative energy balance and promote feeding and energy conservation. Based on this framework, GLP-1RAs have generally been expected to suppress or bypass AgRP neuron activity. Here, we report that AgRP neuron activation is required for the full weight-lowering effects of GLP-1RAs in female mice. Across complementary AgRP loss-of-function models, disruption of AgRP circuit integrity reduced the full weight-lowering effects of GLP-1RAs. This requirement varies with sex, diet, and mode of AgRP disruption. We found that GLP-1RA treatment is associated with increased markers of neuronal activation, mitochondrial engagement, and synaptic remodeling in AgRP neurons. We further identify a glucocorticoid-to-AgRP signaling axis as an important pathway mediating this functional recruitment of AgRP neurons. Together, these findings reveal that contrary to prevailing assumptions, GLP-1RA engages AgRP neurons to sustain weight loss, highlighting an unexpected role for these neurons in coordinating adaptive metabolic responses to pharmacologically induced negative energy balance.
The timing of diagnosis is a critical factor that significantly impacts medical treatment and patient outcomes in individuals with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The study primarily aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of four brain-specific biomarkers, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neurofilament light chain (NfL), tau, and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) to differentiate CT-confirmed ICH patients from healthy controls. Secondary aims included comparing results between younger (18-59 years) and older (≥60 years) ICH patients and exploring neuroendocrine hormone levels (adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH], agouti-related peptide [AgRP], ciliary neurotrophic factor [CNTF], and growth hormone [GH]) as potential diagnostic tools.Serum samples were collected from consecutive adult patients with CT-confirmed ICH diagnoses on days 1 (first 24 hours), 2, 3, 7, and 14 for biomarker analyses in a pilot study. A total of 71 patients and 30 healthy controls were included in the analysis.Serum concentrations of four brain-specific biomarkers demonstrated significant differentiation between ICH patients and controls at all assessed time points (Days 1, 2, 3, 7, and 14; all p<0.05), with similar significant elevations observed for NfL, tau, and UCH-L1. Day 1 GFAP levels were markedly higher in ICH patients (median 9598 pg/mL compared with healthy controls (39.2 pg/mL; p<0.05). No significant differences were found between young and aged adult ICH subgroups. Neuroendocrine ACTH and AgRP levels were significantly higher in ICH patients compared to controls on both measured time points (Days 1 and 7).The study's findings suggest that GFAP, NfL, tau, UCH-L1, ACTH, and AgRP exhibit potential as biomarkers for differentiating spontaneous ICH patients from healthy controls. However, given the limitations of the current study design, these findings should be interpreted with caution and cannot be expected to translate directly into clinical practice. Further research is needed to assess these biomarkers' roles in distinguishing stroke types and predicting ICH outcomes.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42532155 is a review article
Feeding behavior, which is crucial for all mammals, is regulated by a delicate equilibrium between the orexigenic and anorexigenic activities of hypothalamic neurons. This exquisite control of the neuropeptides that govern the feeding behavior could be a focal point in the pathogenesis of obesity. We reported that inactivation of C-terminal binding protein 2 (CtBP2), a transcriptional corepressor with metabolite-sensing capabilities, contributes to the pathogenesis of obesity in liver tissues and pancreatic β-cells. Here, we describe a transcriptional system regulated by CtBP2 in the hypothalamus. Our global mapping of CtBP2 binding sites using ChIP-seq combined with functional analyses revealed that CtBP2 functions as a corepressor for orexigenic neuropeptide promoters. In response to the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity, CtBP2 undergoes allosteric inactivation and dissociates from these promoters, thereby resulting in the derepression of orexigenic neuropeptide expression. Consistently, the loss of CtBP2 in hypothalamic neurons in mice increases the expression of orexigenic neuropeptides, thus leading to increased feeding behavior. These findings highlight how obesity disrupts homeostatic mechanisms that normally maintain body weight within a healthy range.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515672 is a review article
Virtual screening of ultra-large chemical libraries is a highly effective strategy for early-stage ligand discovery. However, these pipelines often yield thousands of molecules that pass computational filters, and in silico-derived interaction energies do not consistently predict experimental efficacy. Furthermore, many high-affinity hits do not necessarily function effectively in an organism with tissues, barriers, and extensive off-target possibilities. Here, we establish and apply an integrated pipeline that prioritizes candidate molecules through structure-guided computation and zebrafish-based functional profiling. We introduce Rosetta Engine for Anchoring Ligands with a Motif ("REAL-M"), a screening algorithm that uses structural interaction data from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) to guide ligand placement and selection. Using the hypocretin receptor as a test case, 28 of 30 predicted antagonists significantly blocked binding of the cognate peptide agonist in a cell-based reporter assay, including six chemically diverse molecules with efficacy comparable to preexisting antagonists. Three of these six significantly mitigated hypocretin-induced larval zebrafish hyperactivity. Secondary testing with a zebrafish hcrtr2 null mutant ensured that behavioral phenotypes were on target, in contrast to off-target phenotypes observed with a clinically approved antagonist. This pipeline is readily adaptable to the thousands of zebrafish proteins with highly conserved binding pockets.© 2026. The Author(s).
During pregnancy mammals increase their food intake to accommodate the elevated metabolic demands associated with fetal growth and development. However, the molecular and neural circuit mechanisms mediating increased feeding during pregnancy are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that arcuate nucleus agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons are activated and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons are inhibited during pregnancy in mice. These changes are acutely required for promoting hyperphagia during pregnancy as chemogenetic inhibition of AgRP neurons or activation of POMC neurons both reduced the feeding of pregnant mice to non-pregnant levels. Finally, we utilized single cell resolution spatial transcriptomics in the arcuate nucleus of non-pregnant and pregnant mice to characterize pregnancy-induced changes in the transcriptomic state of arcuate nucleus neurons, including significant changes in many neurons controlling energy homeostasis, including AgRP and POMC neurons. Together, these findings outline a circuit mechanism regulating increased feeding during pregnancy, providing important mechanistic insights related to conditions at the intersection of reproduction and metabolism.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glucocorticoids (GCs) are key regulators of energy homeostasis. Clinically, patients with Cushing's syndrome exhibit obesity, whereas adrenal insufficiency is associated with weight loss. However, circulating biomarkers reflecting GC action have not been established. Agouti-related protein (AgRP), an orexigenic neuropeptide, is upregulated by GC in the rodent hypothalamus. Here, we investigated whether AgRP is a surrogate marker of GC action through in vitro and in vivo experiments as well as a clinical study.The GC-dependent transcriptional regulation of AgRP was examined using reporter assays in neuronal BE(2)C cells. In animal experiments, the effects of GC on hypothalamic AgRP mRNA expression in C57BL/6J mice were examined. Circulating AgRP levels were also analyzed in nine patients with adrenal Cushing's syndrome before and after surgery.Two functional glucocorticoid-responsive elements (GREs) were identified in the human AgRP gene promoter, through which GC enhanced AgRP transcriptional activity. In mice, corticosterone (CORT) administration induced hyperphagia and increased hypothalamic AgRP mRNA levels, which positively correlated with plasma CORT levels. In patients with adrenal Cushing's syndrome, circulating AgRP levels significantly decreased after surgery (118.7 ± 40.3 vs. 37.7 ± 9.5 pg/mL, p < 0.01) and positively correlated with serum cortisol levels (r = 0.79, p < 0.01).These findings demonstrate that GC positively regulates AgRP across molecular, animal, and clinical settings, supporting the hypothesis that circulating AgRP may serve as a surrogate indicator of GC action. Further studies are warranted to establish its clinical applicability.© 2026. The Author(s).
CD8+ T-cell exhaustion is a key mechanism of tumor immune evasion and a major limitation of current cancer immunotherapy. However, the molecular factors sustaining dysfunctional CD8+ T-cell states across cancers are not fully understood. Here, we identify GPR171 as a common feature of exhausted CD8+ T cells across multiple solid tumors based on integrated pan-cancer single-cell transcriptomic analyses. GPR171 is enriched in exhausted CD8+ T cells and is closely associated with immunosuppressive and exhaustion-related gene programs. It also shows a strong association with key immune regulatory genes such as CTLA4 and NR4A2. Functional analyses suggest that reduced GPR171 activity is associated with decreased expression of exhaustion-related genes and a shift toward cytotoxic and immune-activating programs. In parallel, a CREM-centered regulatory network emerges in exhausted CD8+ T cells and may act in concert with GPR171-associated programs to reinforce dysfunctional states. Overall, our results identify GPR171 as a candidate marker of CD8+ T-cell dysfunction across cancers and provide a systematic pan-cancer single-cell characterization of its association with immunosuppressive T-cell states, supporting its potential as a therapeutic target for restoring antitumor immunity.
The neuropeptide neurotensin (NTS) is up-regulated in cardiac lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) in response to ischemic or mechanical damage, but its role in cardiac remodeling is unknown. Here, we aimed to define the role of LEC-derived NTS in cardiac injury responses and to assess the therapeutic potential of targeting cardiac NTS signaling. In cultured murine and human cells, NTS reduced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and fibroblast activation, and these effects were mediated by NTS receptor 2 (NTSR2)-dependent guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) production. Consistent with an antihypertrophic and antifibrotic role of NTS, mice with LEC-specific Nts deletion exhibited aggravated hypertrophy and fibrosis after transverse aortic constriction (TAC) and myocardial infarction (MI). Similarly, cardiomyocyte-specific or activated fibroblast-specific inactivation of Ntsr2 led to enhanced cardiac remodeling after TAC. NTSR2 agonist NT150 reproduced the beneficial effects of NTS in cultured human and murine cells and ameliorated cardiac remodeling and dysfunction in both TAC and MI. Additionally, in freshly isolated cardiac tissues from patients with heart failure, NT150 induced cGMP production and suppressed prohypertrophic signaling. These findings identify NTS as an endogenous inhibitor of adverse cardiac remodeling and suggest NTSR2 agonism as a therapeutic strategy in heart failure.
The potential to mitigate pain by targeting a single receptor while simultaneously modulating peripheral and spinal circuits, offers an exciting nonopioid therapeutic strategy. Neurotensin receptor type 2 (NTSR2) is a promising yet underexplored pathway for nonopioid analgesia. The authors investigated the antinociceptive effects of NTSR2 activation and its mechanisms in rodent models of perioperative and chronic pain.Using NT79, a selective NTSR2 agonist, the authors assessed pain behaviors in male and female rats and mice. Animals were randomly assigned to receive saline (control) or NT79 at multiple doses. Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (Cas9)-mediated NTSR2 knockdown and pharmacologic inhibition of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors were used to dissect NTSR2-dependent mechanisms. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) calcium imaging, whole cell patch clamp electrophysiology, and spinal neurotransmitter assays evaluated the modulation of voltage-gated calcium channels and γ-aminobutyric acid-mediated (GABAergic) signaling.Intrathecal NT79 produced robust, dose-dependent antinociception across pain models, species, and sexes, an effect abolished by NTSR2 knockdown. NT79 reduced high-voltage-activated calcium currents in DRG neurons, indicating a presynaptic inhibitory mechanism. In the spinal cord, NT79 enhanced GABA release and suppressed calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) release. Pharmacologic blockade of GABA receptors partially reversed NT79's antinociceptive effects, as did NTSR2 knockdown in GABAergic neurons, supporting a central GABAergic mechanism in addition to the effect on central DRG terminals.Taken together, these results demonstrate that NTSR2 activation produces sustained antinociception via dual-site modulation: inhibition of peripheral voltage-gated calcium channels and enhancement of spinal GABAergic signaling. These findings identify a novel, nonopioid mechanism of analgesia and support NTSR2 as a therapeutic target for chronic pain.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Anesthesiologists. All Rights Reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42176564 is a review article
Neurotensin (NTS) binds to the G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) NTSR1 and NTSR2. NTSR1 regulates transactivation of the EGFR, HER2, and HER3, but its effects on HER4 are unknown. By Western blot, NTSR1 and HER4 were present in six lung cancer cell lines examined. In NCI-H522 or NCI-H661 cells, adding NTS increased phosphorylation (P) of tyrosine (Y) 1284 on HER4. Because SR48692 antagonized NTS's ability to increase P-HER4 or P-ERK, NTSR1 may play an important role in NSCLC. SR48692, HER4 siRNA, reactive oxygen species inhibitors, and the tyrosine kinase inhibitor ibrutinib inhibited NTS-induced P-HER4. Adding NTS to NCI-H661 cells increased the formation of HER4/HER4, HER4/ EGFR, and HER4/HER2 dimers. Adding NTS to NSCLC cells increased both P-ERK and P-AKT, which were inhibited by PD98059 and LY294002, respectively. The growth of NCI-H522 or NCI-H661 cells was stimulated by NTS or neuregulin 1 (NRG1), a HER4 ligand, but inhibited by SR48692 or ibrutinib. The results indicate that NTSR1 regulates HER4 transactivation, thereby increasing the proliferation of lung cancer cells.
Presently, we investigated hypothesized roles and mechanisms of cell type-specific, selective activation of different vascular NOX (NADPH oxidase) isoforms in obesity and metabolic syndrome.Wild-type, NOX1/2/4 global knockout mice, endothelial/VSMC-specific NOX1 knockout mice, or vascular endothelial-speicifc NOX1 knockin mice were exposed to high-fat diet feeding prior to phenotypical analyses of obesity and metabolic syndrome, as well as of exercise capacity, skeletal muscle mitochondrial function, and novel genetic signatures.Expression of NOX1 was significantly upregulated in wild-type mice fed a high-fat diet. Global knockout of NOX1 (NOX1-/y), rather than of NOX2/NOX4, markedly abrogated high-fat feeding-induced body weight/fat mass gain, preadipocyte differentiation, fatty liver, glucose intolerance, and insulin/leptin resistance. Intriguingly, endothelial-specific NOX1 knockout (Cdh5cre [cadherin 5 (vascular endothelial cadherin) promoter-driven Cre recombinase (endothelial-specific Cre expression)]-NOX1CKO), rather than vascular smooth muscle-specific NOX1 knockout (Myh11cre [myosin heavy chain 11 promoter-driven Cre recombinase (smooth muscle-specific Cre expression)]-NOX1CKO), substantially alleviated obesity and metabolic syndrome. Consistently, endothelial-specific NOX1 knockin mice (Cdh5cre-NOX1CKI) fed a high-fat diet displayed exaggerated metabolic disorders. Endothelial cell-specific knockout/knockin of NOX1 was confirmed using endothelial cell washout experiments. Food/water intakes were not different from corresponding controls in high-fat fed NOX1-/y, Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO, or Cdh5cre-NOX1CKI mice, indicating no difference in energy intake. Instead, spontaneous activity, exercise capacity, mitochondrial oxygen consumption/ATP production, skeletal muscle mitochondrial function (ROS production and swelling activity), and mitochondrial cristae structure were all substantially improved in NOX1-/y or Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO mice, indicating augmented energy expenditure attributed to preserved skeletal muscle mitochondrial function. Supportively, Cdh5cre-NOX1CKI mice displayed deteriorated exercise capacity and skeletal muscle mitochondrial dysfunction. Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation was restored in high-fat fed NOX1-/y or Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO mice, confirming improved endothelial function. RNA-sequencing identified 4 genes (Cntnap4 [contactin-associated protein-like 4], Sgsm1, Tll2, and Syt9) and 7 genes (Odf3l2, Col9a1 [collagen type IX alpha 1 chain], Cldn23, Atp5g2, Nkx6-3, Ntsr2, and Zfp69) significantly downregulated/upregulated in high-fat fed Cdh5cre-NOX1CKO mice, among which Cntnap4 and Col9a1 linked to muscular disorders. Importantly, we observed marked upregulation of NOX1 in isolated coronary arteries from human patients with obesity.Taken together, our data for the first time establish a novel and paradigm-shifting concept that endothelial NOX1 drives systematic metabolic phenotypes, via impairment in skeletal muscle mitochondrial dysfunction with novel genetic signatures. Tissue-specific targeting of endothelial NOX1 and novel candidate genes may prove to be robustly effective in treating obesity and metabolic syndrome.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a frequent malignant glioma among astrocytic tumors. Traditional pathological diagnostic criteria inadequately capture the underlying biological heterogeneity, highlighting the need for novel biomarkers to improve the diagnostic and prognostic accuracy of GBM.Based on the GBM-related data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Replication Stress-related Genes (RSGs) were collected. The RSG feature scores were calculated by ssGSEA and combined with WGCNA to screen target module genes. Enrichment analysis of the modular signature genes was conducted using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. Prognostic genes were screened by univariate Cox and multivariate Cox regression analyses to establish a prognostic model for GBM. The Tumor Microenvironment (TME) was assessed using MCPcounter and TIMER methods. Immunotherapeutic responses and drug sensitivity responses were evaluated using the TIDE method. Finally, the role of PDCL3 in GBM was explored via immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR, wound-healing, and transwell assays.WGCNA identified RSG-associated module genes enriched in DNA replication, DNA-dependent ATPase activity, and other pathways. Four characterized genes (PDCL3, STEAP2, NXPH4, MPST) were selected to establish a Riskscore model for GBM. The risk score of the model was significantly related to the infiltration of myeloid dendritic cells, endothelial cells, and fibroblasts. The Riskscore was significantly positively correlated with the TIDE score, indicating higher immune escape potential in the high-risk group. The high-risk group was sensitive to Vinorelbine and Crizotinib. Through in vitro experiments, it was observed that knocking down PDCL3 noticeably inhibited the viability, migration, and invasion capacities of U87 cells.This study validated the correlation between Oncogene-induced Replication Stress (ORS) characteristics and the prognosis of GBM, and screened RSGs to develop a Riskscore for GBM applying multiple types of regression analyses.We constructed and verified a four-gene ORS-based prognosis model for GBM, linking replication stress to immune evasion and drug sensitivity for the first time. Experimental validation confirmed the pro-tumorigenic role of PDCL3, offering potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41870107 is a review article
Neuro-immune interactions are critical in cancer, yet their molecular features in bladder cancer remain unclear. We analyzed transcriptomic data from TCGA and UCSC Xena to investigate the expression profiles and molecular subtypes of neuro-immune-related genes, and constructed a neuro-immune-related score (NAS) model. Single-cell transcriptomic data were integrated to explore the immune microenvironmental features, and functional validation was performed by knocking down SERPINE2 with shRNA in T24 cells. The results showed that six core genes (SERPINE2, NXPH4, SERPINB2, C2orf40, SERPINB12, SERPINB10) were identified to stratify patients into high- and low-risk groups, with robust predictive power across clinical subgroups and validation cohorts. Single-cell RNA-seq data revealed significant NAS heterogeneity among cell populations. The NAS-high state was enriched in TGFβ, EGF, and FGF signaling with activation of EZH2 and SMARCA4, while the NAS-low state showed immune-regulatory features. Functional assays confirmed that SERPINE2 knockdown suppressed proliferation, migration, invasion, while increasing apoptosis of T24 cells, highlighting its oncogenic role. Moreover, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) suggested that genetic variants in SERPINE2 and related genes may increase bladder cancer susceptibility. Collectively, our findings provide novel insights into neuro-immune-driven tumor heterogeneity and immune remodeling, establish the NAS model as an innovative prognostic tool, and identify SERPINE2 as a promising therapeutic target for precision management of bladder cancer.© 2026 Nie et al.
The introduction of domestic cattle to the Philippines is often attributed to Spanish and Chinese sources, yet the origins and adaptive history of Philippine Visayan native cattle remain unclear. This study examined the ancestry, structure, and putative selection signals of the Visayan native cattle from Panay and Siquijor islands (VNC) in a global context. Using genome-wide SNP data, population structure was assessed by PCA, IBS/Nei/FST trees, and ADMIXTURE; historical relationships were explored with migration, f-statistics, and an admixture graph; and positive selection was scanned using commonly used methods such as ROH, Tajima's D, iHS/XP-EHH, and FST with cross-validation across methods and functional enrichment of the overlapping regions. VNC exhibited low-to-moderate genetic diversity (Ho and He ≈ 0.21; and FIS = 0.01 to 0.02) with Siquijor enriched for long ROH segments indicating recent inbreeding. Across multiple complementary analyses, VNC showed predominantly indicine ancestry and occupied an intermediate bridge-like position between indicine from mainland Southeast Asia and from Southeastern China, with additional components that were most similar to Iberian taurine cattle and South Asian indicine. Moreover, the current study identified putative selection signatures that would possibly provide insights to better understand the local adaptation of VNC under insular tropical conditions of the Philippines: (1) small stature (HOXC cluster, STAC3, NXPH4, STARD13, RTN1), (2) heat tolerance and immune robustness (NDUFA4L2, SHMT2, ATP5MC2, ATF7, R3HDM2, CALCOCO1); (3) early reproductive and maturity reproductive performance (IGF2BP2, KL, LRP1, PDS5B). Overall, the VNC in Panay and Siquijor showed a predominantly indicine ancestry with putatively island-adapted physiology, emphasizing the need for conservation and island-specific breeding that preserves local adaptation while managing inbreeding.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a leading cause of heart failure and remains a major clinical challenge due to its complex etiology and lack of effective targeted therapies. Sodium overload-induced necrosis, a recently described form of regulated cell death, has emerged as a novel contributor to cardiovascular injury, but its role in DCM remains poorly defined.This study aimed to elucidate the molecular signatures of sodium overload-associated cell death and explore their diagnostic and therapeutic relevance in DCM.We systematically integrated four publicly available transcriptomic datasets (GSE226801, GSE116250, and GSE141910) from human myocardial tissues and in vitro sodium-overload models to identify sodium overload-associated death-related genes (DRGs). Machine learning algorithms were used to screen and validate key hub genes. Experimental validation was performed in a doxorubicin-induced DCM mouse model using Western blotting, quantitative PCR, and immunohistochemistry. Drug-gene interaction analysis was conducted using the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD).Four hub genes-BACH2, NXPH4, CD1E, and LIF-were identified as central regulators linking sodium overload to DCM pathogenesis. A diagnostic model incorporating these genes showed robust discrimination between DCM patients and healthy controls across multiple datasets. Furthermore, abrine was identified through CTD analysis as a potential therapeutic candidate capable of simultaneously targeting all four hub genes.This study uncovers a novel mechanistic link between sodium overload-induced regulated necrosis and DCM progression. The findings provide new molecular insights into cardiomyocyte death and inflammation in DCM and propose candidate biomarkers and drug targets for precision therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this study, we developed an electrochemical immunosensor for the highly sensitive detection of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) based on a Zn-MOF/CdTe/PPy composite. The combination of functionalized CdTe quantum dots (CdTe QDs) with polypyrrole (PPy) significantly enhanced electron transfer efficiency and increased the specific surface area, thereby providing more electroactive sites and strengthening the electrochemical signal response. The CdTe/PPy composite was subsequently encapsulated within a porous zinc metal-organic framework structure (Zn-MOF), thereby preventing aggregation and degradation and improving the immunosensor's sensitivity and stability. Under optimized experimental conditions, the immunosensor demonstrated excellent selectivity, stability, and reproducibility toward NSE detection. It exhibited a wide linear range from 0.1 to 1000 ng mL-1 and a low detection limit of 0.048 ng mL-1 (S/N = 3). These findings highlight the potential of the proposed electrochemical immunosensor for clinical diagnostic applications.
In this study, we investigated the toxicological mechanisms of trifloxystrobin (TFX), a widely used strobilurin fungicide, on zebrafish embryos, focusing on cardiovascular development and function. Embryos were exposed to TFX (100-500 μg/L) for 96 h. The compound exhibited high acute toxicity with a 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) of ~320 μg/L. At 200-300 μg/L, TFX induced bioenergetic impairment, manifested as growth retardation and nutrient retention in the yolk sac. The prevalence of pericardial edema served as a hallmark of cardiac dysfunction, prompting a detailed functional assessment. A detailed cardiovascular analysis revealed a critical hemodynamic paradox. While TFX-exposed embryos exhibited bradycardia and a compensatory increase in the ventricular ejection fraction and wall thickness, effective systemic circulation was severely compromised. An advanced regurgitation analysis demonstrated that TFX caused severe atrioventricular valve insufficiency and retrograde blood flow, leading to a significant overestimation of cardiac output when calculated by standard volumetric methods alone. An analysis of the dorsal aorta confirmed a genuine reduction in the arterial blood flow velocity, validating the presence of circulatory failure despite myocardial hyper-contractility. Mechanistically, the hemodynamic alteration was linked to significant downregulation of the klf2a flow-sensitive transcription factor, which impaired valve morphogenesis, while the concurrent upregulation of nppa, nppb, and gata4 signaled pathological cardiac stress and hypertrophy. These findings elucidate a mechano-molecular toxicity pathway for TFX and highlight the technical necessity of coupling a regurgitation analysis with peripheral flow assessment to accurately evaluate cardiac toxicity in aquatic models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Plastic additives leach from agricultural plastics into cropland soils, yet the non-phthalate plastic additives (NPPAs) increasingly used as replacements for regulated phthalates remain poorly monitored, particularly in soils. In this study, 28 NPPAs were screened in cropland soils from southeastern Spain (48 sites, 96 samples) by gas and liquid chromatography, both coupled to quadrupole-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry, comparing intensively managed greenhouse soils with extensively managed open-field soils. Ten out of the 28 targeted NPPAs were detected and identified; total concentrations (∑NPPA) ranged from 32.7 to 444,199.4 µg/kg (geometric mean: 1629.4 µg/kg) and were about ten-fold higher in greenhouse than in open-field soils (median 1470.2 vs. 148.1 µg/kg; p = 1.4 × 10-5). Triacetin showed the highest detection frequency (88.5%), followed by acetyl tributyl citrate (67.7%). Complementary non-targeted analysis revealed additional compounds identified at varying confidence levels (Schymanski Levels 1-2), including phthalates, other NPPAs, and various anthropogenic contaminants, underscoring the chemical complexity of cropland soils. A screening-level health-risk assessment indicated that hazard quotients (HQs) for triacetin exceeded unity in both adults (up to 2.1) and toddlers (up to 1.6), driven by the dietary pathway (soil-to-plant), while its predicted rat LD50 value (4808 mg/kg) indicated higher acute toxicity than that of regulated phthalates. These findings show that the substitution of phthalates by NPPAs shifts rather than removes the chemical burden entering agroecosystems, and that NPPAs warrant inclusion in soil-monitoring programs.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Graphene nanoplatelet/polypyrrole (GNPLs/PPy) nanocomposites with different loadings of GNPLs (10%-50%) have been successfully prepared by a facile in situ oxidative polymerization and evaluated as advanced electrode materials for supercapacitors. Structural and morphological analyses (Fourier transform infrared [FTIR], X-ray diffraction [XRD], and Scanning Electron Microscopy-Energy-Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy [SEM-EDX]) confirmed homogeneous incorporation of GNPLs into the PPy matrix, resulting in strong π-π interactions and enhanced interfacial adhesion. Dielectric permittivity explored the improvement in dielectric constant with GNPLs concentration due to interfacial polarization at the surfaces of GNPLs and PPy nanoparticles (NPs). Alternating Current (AC) conductivity spectra presented a significant enhancement in the conductivity value of the GNPLs/PPy nanocomposite compared with PPy NPs, due to simple hopping of charge carriers through the conductive GNPLs network. Electrochemical studies demonstrated a remarkable specific capacitance of 646.61 F g-1 at 0.25 A g-1 for the 50% GNPLs/PPy nanocomposite, with 70% capacitance retention after 1,500 cycles. These findings establish GNPLs/PPy as promising, sustainable, and cost-effective materials for next-generation high-energy-density supercapacitors.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Using 3-nitrosalicylic acid (3Nisa) as the dopant and pyrrole as the monomer, Ppy/3Nisa coatings were successfully electrodeposited on zinc substrates by a simple one-step electrochemical process. SEM analysis and FT-IR and Raman spectroscopy confirmed the successful formation of compact and homogeneous Ppy/3Nisa films on the Zn surface. Electrochemical studies demonstrated that the incorporation of 3Nisa significantly improved the corrosion resistance of Zn in a 3.5 wt% NaCl solution. The optimized coating (Z3) exhibited the lowest corrosion current density of 1.47 µA cm-2 and a corrosion inhibition efficiency of 98.6%. Open circuit potential measurements showed that the coated Zn substrates remained in the passive region for extended immersion times, while cyclic voltammetry revealed the stable redox behavior of the Ppy/3Nisa films, lasting for approximately 500 h. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and salt spray tests further confirmed the enhanced barrier properties and structural stability of these coatings. The improved anticorrosion performance was attributed to the dense coating structure, Zn-N/Zn-O interactions, and controlled release of 3Nisa dopant anions, which promoted the self-healing and in situ repassivation of the Zn surface. These findings suggest that Ppy/3Nisa coatings are promising materials for corrosion protection and potential Zn-based energy storage applications.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Targeted autophagy regulation holds great promise for antitumor therapy, whereas conventional single-modal autophagy interventions easily induce compensatory escape of tumor cells and fail to transform protective autophagy into a lethal phenotype. In this study, a near-infrared (NIR)-responsive polypyrrole/zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 (PPy/ZIF-8) nanoparticle was successfully fabricated. This nanoplatform enables synergistic and precise regulation of autophagic flux, which amplifies upstream autophagy activation and blocks downstream autophagic pathways simultaneously. The incorporation of PPy endows the nanoparticle with excellent near-infrared absorption capability and photothermal effects. It boosts interfacial electron transfer and optimizes electron-hole separation, further enabling the nanoparticles to possess ROS generation ability. Under 808 nm laser irradiation, the generated ROS and zinc ions induce mitochondrial damage to amplify upstream autophagic signals, whereas the photothermal effect impairs lysosomal function and blocks the downstream degradation of autophagosomes. This dual regulatory strategy causes pathological accumulation of autophagosomes and ultimately triggers autophagic cell death in tumor cells. This work validates the feasibility of integrated autophagy regulation and provides a facile and versatile strategy for the design of advanced multimodal antitumor nanotherapeutics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Both dihydropyrido[1,2-a]indolones and CF3-containing compounds are widely found in natural products and pharmaceutical agents. Therefore, the development of new synthetic methods for the construction of CF3-containing dihydropyrido[1,2-a]indolones remains highly significant, as these compounds represent promising candidates for drug discovery. In this study, a photo-driven Ir(ppy)3-catalyzed radical cascade [4 + 2]/[4 + 2] cycloaddition of simple N-acryloyl indoles and Umemoto reagent I is reported, which provides a straightforward and efficient route to a range of CF3-containing dihydropyrido[1,2-a]indolones under mild conditions. The protocol exhibits broad functional group tolerance, including various synthetically useful substituents. The reaction proceeds through four sequential radical additions, leading to the dimerization of N-acryloyl indoles along with the formation of four C-C bonds and two fused six-membered rings. The successful scale-up experiment and product derivatization studies further demonstrate its synthetic utility. A plausible reaction mechanism has also been proposed based on mechanistic studies and the isolation of several undesired [4 + 2] cycloaddition byproducts.
Through data mining of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formulas for acne, high-frequency herbs were identified, including Glycyrrhizae Radix et Rhizoma (gancao, GC), Scutellariae Radix (huangqin, HQ), Lonicerae Japonicae Flos (jinyinhua, JYH), Salviae Miltiorrhizae Radix et Rhizoma (danshen, DS), and Paeoniae Radix Rubra (chishao, CS). These herbs collectively exhibit cold, warm, and neutral properties; bitter, sweet, and pungent tastes; and tropism to the liver, lung, and stomach meridians, reflecting a therapeutic strategy that clears heat, resolves dampness, and promotes blood circulation. The core triad Eriobotryae Folium (pipaye, PPY), Mori Cortex (sangbaipi, SBP), and Scutellariae Radix and formulas like Erzhi Pills, Sanhuang Lotion, and Xiaoyao Powder suggest key clinical combinations. Network pharmacology revealed that several biological pathways may play important roles in acne treatment, including pathways in cancer, lipid and atherosclerosis, fluid shear stress and atherosclerosis, and chemical carcinogenesis-receptor activation. These pathways are closely linked to inflammation, sebum metabolism, and oxidative stress-core pathological processes in acne vulgaris. Finally, docking showed quercetin, kaempferol, luteolin, and wogonin had strong affinities with AKT1, TNF, IL-6, and TP53 (energies < -5.0 kcal/mol). These findings provide a pharmacological basis for the clinical efficacy of the identified herbs and offer directions for further experimental validation. Crucially, atomistic molecular dynamics simulations and free energy landscape analysis validated the dynamic and thermodynamic stability of these four lowest-energy complexes, confirming that these flavonoids lock the target proteins into deeply stabilized, inactive conformations. Overall, this study bridges clinical experience with dynamic structural biology, providing a high-resolution molecular rationale for anti-acne therapeutics.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
This study aims to investigate the influence of age and gender on the efficacy of metabolic surgery in patients with obesity with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).This is a prospective cohort study. A total of 95 patients with obesity and T2DM who underwent metabolic surgery between June 2022 and October 2024 were enrolled. Patients were divided into four groups based on their age and gender as follows: young (<35 years) men, young women, middle-aged (35-55 years) men and middle-aged women. Body mass index (BMI) data, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and gastrointestinal peptide hormone (e.g. glucagon- like peptide-1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY) and ghrelin (GHRL)) levels, as well as Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) scores, were collected preoperatively and at 1, 3 and 6 months postoperatively. Gastrointestinal peptide hormone levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and anxiety and depression statuses were assessed using online questionnaires. Data were analysed using repeated measures analysis of variance, paired t-tests, analysis of covariance and multiple linear regression, with adjustments for baseline BMI, diabetes duration and surgical type (laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy vs Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) where appropriate.Both BMI and HbA1c levels decreased significantly in all groups postoperatively, with a greater reduction observed in the younger groups compared with the middle-aged groups at the 6- month timepoint (adjusted p < 0.01). The percentage of total weight loss was lower in women than in men (mean difference: 2.8%, 95% confidence interval: 1.1-4.5, p = 0.03). Among gastrointestinal peptide hormones, GLP-1, PYY and cholecystokinin (CCK) significantly increased, whereas GHRL, insulin (INS) and leptin significantly decreased postoperatively. The increase in GLP-1 was more pronounced in the younger groups than in the middle-aged groups (r = -0.312, p < 0.05). Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores were negatively correlated with INS (r = -0.297, p < 0.05) and positively correlated with GHRL (r = 0.286, p < 0.05), whereas HAM-D scores were negatively correlated with CCK (r = -0.258, p < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that younger age (β = -0.251, p = 0.004), female gender (β = 0.178, p = 0.041), and higher HAM-A scores (β = 0.327, p = 0.002) were independent factors influencing the significant changes observed in gastrointestinal hormone levels.Individualised treatment plans based on patient age, gender and psychological status should be developed in clinical practice, and lifestyle and psychological interventions should be developed further to improve surgical outcomes and maintain the long-term efficacy of metabolic surgery.Metabolic surgery is effective in patients with obesity with T2DM, with younger patients experiencing greater metabolic improvement.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
There is limited evidence evaluating the cost-effectiveness of adding subacromial decompression (SAD) to rotator cuff repair (RCR) in the treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.The purpose of this study was to perform (1) a systematic review and (2) cost-utility analysis comparing isolated RCR versus RCR with SAD in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.This was an economic and decision-analysis study; Level II.A systematic review was conducted per Preferred Reporting Items for Systemactic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidelines to identify Level I-II studies comparing RCR and RCR with SAD at ≥5-year follow-up. A decision tree model evaluated cost-effectiveness over a 5-year time horizon. Costs, revision rates, and utility values (EQ-5D-based) were derived from the literature. Health utility was expressed in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Cost-effectiveness was assessed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and net monetary benefit (NMB), with a $50,000/QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. Monte Carlo and one-way sensitivity analyses were done to account for parameter uncertainty.Over 5 years, RCR with SAD had a lower mean cost ($33,448) compared with isolated RCR ($34,593) and yielded slightly higher QALYs (1.465 vs 1.454). RCR + SAD demonstrated a positive incremental NMB ($1,695) and a negative incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, emerging as the dominant strategy. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis favored RCR + SAD in 99.28% of 1,000 simulations. On one-way analysis, RCR + SAD remained cost-effective with burr costs up to $1,721, additional surgical time up to 43.6 minutes, and revision probabilities up to 10%.Despite higher upfront costs, SAD during RCR remains cost-effective at mid-term follow-up. By reducing revision rates, SAD provides greater QALYs at a lower overall cost compared with isolated RCR.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
Immunotherapy combined with anti-angiogenic agents and chemotherapy has emerged as a novel therapeutic option for non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (non-sqNSCLC) after resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). This study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of these regimens in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC in China.A network meta-analysis was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of ivonescimab plus chemotherapy (Ivon-Chem), sintilimab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Sint-Beva-Chem), and atezolizumab plus bevacizumab and chemotherapy (Atez-Beva-Chem). A Markov model was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, Atez-Beva-Chem, and chemotherapy until the survival probability fell below 1% in any regimen. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and net monetary benefit (NMB) were estimated using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $41,859. Sensitivity analyses and scenario simulations were also performed.Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem improved efficacy but were associated with poorer safety profiles than chemotherapy. Compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective, with ICERs of $61,882.3/QALY, $68,657.0/QALY, and $188,820.5/QALY, respectively. Moreover, the NMBs of Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem were all negative, indicating that none of these regimens was economically acceptable. Scenario analyses indicated that, compared with chemotherapy, Ivon-Chem would become cost-effective if the price of ivonescimab were reduced by at least 47.2%. Similarly, Sint-Beva-Chem and Atez-Beva-Chem would achieve cost-effectiveness following price reductions of 59.3% for both sintilimab and bevacizumab, and 84.4% for both atezolizumab and bevacizumab, respectively.These immunotherapy-based regimens provided significant survival benefits in patients with TKI-resistant non-sqNSCLC. However, from the perspective of the Chinese healthcare system, Ivon-Chem, Sint-Beva-Chem, and Atez-Beva-Chem were not cost-effective. Substantial price reductions would be required to improve their economic viability.Copyright © 2026 Teng, Yang, Zhang, Qin and Ji.
Diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is characterized by diarrhea and is often accompanied by depression, abdominal symptoms, and emotional comorbidities. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that dysfunction of the brain-gut axis is a key pathogenic factor in IBS-D, yet the specific mechanisms remain unclear. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a major bioactive component of Bupleurum chinense DC., exhibits anti-inflammatory, antidepressant, and antitumor activities, with multi-target and multi-pathway interactions.Acetic acid and restraint stress induced an IBS-D mouse model. SSD (purity ≥ 98%, Macklin Inc.) was administered orally at low, medium, and high doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg). Visceral sensitivity, inflammatory status, intestinal barrier function, HPA axis activity, and gut microbiota composition were systematically evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing.SSD significantly alleviated visceral hypersensitivity and depression-like behavior, inhibited the peripheral HMGB1-TLR4/NF-κB inflammatory pathway, and restored intestinal barrier integrity. SSD also downregulated hypothalamic Nesfatin-1/CRH/p-CREB expression, suppressed hyperactivation of the stress-related HPA neuroendocrine axis, and reshaped the gut microbial community structure (β-diversity). Network pharmacology analysis suggested that SSD targets were significantly enriched in brain-gut axis-related pathways.The present results indicate that SSD could ameliorate IBS-D by synergistically regulating peripheral inflammation, central stress, and intestinal microbes via the brain-gut-microbiota axis, providing experimental evidence for its potential application in TCM-based treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The distribution of amylin-like substances was investigated by immunohistochemistry in the pancreas of the Japanese eel (Anguilla japonica). Amylin-immunoreactive cells were observed in pancreatic islets. These immunostaining profiles were not observed by the preabsorption of the anti-amylin serum with synthetic amylin, indicating that the serum specifically recognized eel amylin-like peptide. Almost all amylin-immunoreactive cells were immunopositive for peptide YY, suggesting that amylin and peptide YY co-secreted from the islet cells might participate in the modulation of insulin and glucagon secretion in the pancreatic islets. In addition, weakly glucagon-immunopositive cells, but not densely glucagon-immunopositive cells, also corresponded to amylin-immunoreactive cells. The subpopulation of glucagon-immunoreactive and glucagon-like peptide-1-immunoreactive cells was also immunopositive for peptide YY. These results suggest that amylin and peptide YY, and also presumably glucagon-like peptide-1, are co-secreted from the amylin/peptide YY cells, and these three peptides modulate food intake through the central nervous system in addition to intrainsular functions.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557463 is a review article
A 39-year-old woman with ACTH-dependent Cushing syndrome underwent pituitary surgery after bilateral inferior petrosal sinus sampling (BIPSS) suggested a central source; however, symptoms persisted, and pathology revealed an ACTH-negative adenoma, raising suspicion for ectopic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) secretion. Subsequent 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT was negative. CXCR4-targeted 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT demonstrated focal intense uptake in a right neck lesion, confirmed as a CRH-secreting tumor by histopathology. Two years later, recurrence revealed a second anatomically distinct lesion in the right thigh, also histologically confirmed. This case highlights the value of 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT in detecting metachronous ectopic CRH-secreting tumors.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543193 is a review article
Cyanidin-3-O-galactoside(C3G) has a variety of biological activities. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease. To define its pathogenic networks, we performed transcriptomic sequencing of lung tissues from five mouse groups: WT_Control, WT_Model, WT_Model_C3G, Control_Ccl3-/-, Model_Ccl3-/-. Comprehensive assessment of immune infiltration, weighted gene co-expression network, and functional enrichment verified that PF is tightly linked to immune microenvironment dysregulation. Seven machine learning algorithms identified five core immune-related targets: Ccl3, Xcl1, Pyy, Il31ra, Ppbp. Subsequent analysis prioritized Ccl3 and Ppbp as the key core pathogenic genes. Molecular docking clarified their binding modes and key interaction sites with C3G. Histopathological and biochemical assessments showed that the WT_Model group exhibited elevated expressions of Ccl3 and Ppbp, accompanied by marked inflammatory infiltration and collagen deposition. C3G intervention significantly ameliorated these PF phenotypes. Ccl3 knockout improved survival and ameliorated fibrotic pathology. Interaction modeling and correlation analyses identified Slc2a3 as a key Ccl3 downstream target. WB and IHC validation revealed reduced expression of Ccl3, Slc2a3, and α-SMA proteins in Model_Ccl3-/- compared to WT_Model, which suggested Ccl3 may positively regulate the expression of Slc2a3. Through transcriptome and external metabolome verification, it was found that Slc2a3 can regulate PF through metabolic pathways. In conclusion, this study confirmed the potential role of C3G in regulating Ccl3-related inflammation and metabolic pathways in bleomycin-induced PF, which is expected to become a new strategy for targeted therapy of PF and provide a theoretical basis for the development of clinical treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) are essential for homeostasis and stress responses, bidirectionally shifting from low- to high-activity state. However, the circuit mechanisms governing these state transitions remain unclear. Here, we develop spiking network models of CRHPVN neurons using microendoscopic calcium imaging and single-unit electrophysiology datasets, and both approaches converge on a CRH-GABA recurrent inhibition motif, regulating bidirectional state transitions. Guided by model predictions, we show experimentally that PVN-projecting GABAergic neurons (GABA→PVN) maintain CRHPVN neurons in a low-activity state through feedback inhibition, and that their suppression enables transitions into a high-activity state. CRHPVN→GABA→PVN synapses are primarily mediated by glutamatergic transmission with minimal contributions from CRHergic transmission, providing further refinements to the model. Together, our results identify recurrent inhibition as a fundamental circuit motif controlling CRHPVN functional states and demonstrate the value of iterative experiment-model integration for understanding hypothalamic circuit dynamics.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The inwardly rectifying K+ channel Kir7.1 is prominently expressed at the apical membrane of the choroid plexus epithelium (CPE) and defines the membrane potential of these cells. The unusual independence of its conductance of extracellular K+ ([K+]o) underpins an important role in the regulation of the concentration of this ion in the cerebrospinal fluid [K+]CSF. A similar function for retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) Kir7.1 has been proposed with respect to subretinal K+ ([K+]SRS) buffering. We have now studied the effect of expressing in mice the mutant Kir7.1-L241P, a blindness-associated Leber's congenital amaurosis mutation, on channel expression and function in the CPE and on [K+]CSF, taken as a proxy for less accessible [K+]SRS. We used genome-edited knockin mice carrying the L241P mutation of Kir7.1 and studied the electrical properties and NKCC1 cotransporter activity of CPE cells in vitro, as well as CSF secretion rate and [K+]CSF in vivo. CPE cells from Kir7.1-L241P knockin mice had a two-third reduction in K+ conductance with respect to that of cells from control animals. While CSF secretion rates and NKCC1 cotransporter activity were unaltered in mutant animals, [K+]CSF was significantly decreased while [Na+]CSF is increased. These results reaffirm the importance of choroid plexus Kir7.1 in the regulation of [K+]CSF. We speculate that the alteration in [K+]CSF regulation by mutation Kir7.1-L241P might be paralleled by a disease-related impairment of retinal [K+]SRS buffering.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to University of Navarra.
Temocillin is increasingly used as a carbapenem-sparing agent for infections caused by resistant Enterobacterales; however, comparative data with commonly used β-lactams remain limited. We evaluated the in vitro activity of temocillin compared with amoxicillin/clavulanate, piperacillin-tazobactam and meropenem using a head-to-head approach.A retrospective laboratory study was conducted on Enterobacterales isolates from urine, blood and respiratory specimens between January and September 2025. Susceptibility testing was performed using EUCAST disc diffusion. Temocillin susceptibility was compared directly with amoxicillin/clavulanate, piperacillin-tazobactam and meropenem for each isolate. Analyses were stratified by ESBL, AmpC and carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterales (CPE) status.A total of 1,804 isolates were included, of which 861 (47.7%) had resistance mechanism data available. Temocillin demonstrated high overall in vitro activity, with 96.4% of isolates categorised as susceptible (95% CI 95.4-97.2%). Susceptibility to amoxicillin/clavulanate, piperacillin-tazobactam and meropenem was 54.3% (95% CI 52.0-56.6%), 90.9% (95% CI 89.5-92.2%) and 99.9% (95% CI 99.6-100.0%), respectively. Compared with amoxicillin/clavulanate, 53.2% of isolates were susceptible to both agents, while 43.3% were susceptible to temocillin but not amoxicillin/clavulanate, and 2.5% were resistant to both. Against piperacillin-tazobactam, 88.7% of isolates were susceptible to both agents, with 7.7% susceptible to temocillin only and 1.4% resistant to both. Meropenem showed the highest activity; 3.6% of isolates were susceptible to meropenem but not temocillin, while 0.1% were resistant to both. High temocillin activity (> 94%) was observed in ESBL- and AmpC-positive isolates.Temocillin demonstrated high in vitro activity and outperformed amoxicillin/clavulanate while showing comparable activity to piperacillin-tazobactam. Its retained activity in multidrug resistant isolates supports its potential role as a carbapenem-sparing option in antimicrobial stewardship.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
In 2024, an outbreak of piglet diarrhea occurred in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China. RT-PCR assay of clinical samples confirmed that porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) was the primary pathogen. In this study, the PDCoV GX/2024 strain was successfully isolated in PK-15 cells with optimized trypsin treatment conditions. The cytopathic effect (CPE) of this strain gradually intensified during serial passages. After plaque purification, the strain achieved stable proliferation with high titer, reaching a peak titer of 107·2 TCID50/mL, which indicated its potential as an inactivated vaccine candidate. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the strain belonged to the Chinese lineage, with nucleotide similarity ranging from 97.89% to 99.76% compared with other domestic and international strains. Analysis of the Spike protein (S protein) revealed that the strain harbored critical amino acid substitutions in the S1 domain and the S1/S2 cleavage site, which led to conformational changes in the protein surface and might be associated with viral infection efficiency. Animal experiments verified that PDCoV GX/2024 exhibited strong pathogenicity in newborn piglets. Diarrhea, vomiting and other symptoms appeared within 24 h post-infection. The virus mainly colonized the epithelial cells at the tip of intestinal villi and caused severe pathological damage. This study provides important theoretical basis for the genetic evolution, pathogenic mechanism and transmission potential of PDCoV, and offers reference value for disease prevention and control as well as vaccine development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Carboxypeptidase E (CPE) may be a therapeutic target for depression. This study investigated the mechanistic insights into the possible regulatory role of CPE in ferroptosis in a mouse model of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced depression. One week before CUMS exposure, mice received injections of adeno-associated virus-CPE. One week after CUMS induction, the Nrf2 inhibitor ML385 was administered. Behavioral tests were performed 3 weeks after CUMS induction. Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1-positive cells and inflammatory cytokine levels in the CA1 region were assessed by immunofluorescence and ELISA. Hippocampal pathological and neuronal damage were evaluated using H&E and Nissl staining. Additionally, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling, ferroptosis markers, oxidative stress indices, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), and Fe2+ levels were measured using western blot, RT-qPCR, and biochemical assays. CPE overexpression alleviated CUMS-induced depression-like behaviors and hippocampal damage in mice. CPE overexpression reduced microglial activation, neuronal degeneration, and pro-inflammatory factors. It also attenuated oxidative stress by decreasing malondialdehyde, reactive oxygen species, and lactate dehydrogenase while elevating superoxide dismutase and glutathione-S-transferase activities. Mechanistically, CPE activated the BDNF/Nrf2 axis, increased GPX4 activity, suppressed acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 expression, and reduced iron accumulation. All protective effects of CPE overexpression were reversed by ML385. CPE overexpression activates the BDNF/Nrf2 signaling axis to inhibit ferroptosis, thereby reducing neuroinflammation and depression-like behaviors in mice. This work further clarifies the pathogenesis of depression, enriches pathophysiological theories, and provides key experimental evidence for early intervention and target development.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559894 is a review article
Research engaged with AI has dramatically increased due to a huge improvement of technologies in terms of cost and time-effectiveness as well as decreasing use of animals. High throughput screening (HTS) is a frequently used method in drug discovery. Here, we combined two powerful tools for AI-driven identification of Zika virus (ZIKV) inhibitors. The main complication from ZIKV is microcephaly and other related birth defects when pregnant women become infected with this virus. To date, there are no specific vaccines and antiviral drugs for the treatment of ZIKV infection. We have successfully developed an HTS (1536 well-plate format) cell viability-based zika virus cytopathic effect (CPE) assay. To evaluate an AI-driven method, we implemented the CPE assay into a miniaturized format and screened 1,280 unique compounds. In addition, we incorporated an ultra-high throughput imager for 1536 well-plate HTS to rapidly obtain high-quality, brightfield images which were then analyzed by two different platforms. One platform, AVIA, uses deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to automate viral infectivity scoring based on CPEs long before signs of infection are visible to the human eye. The second, AutoHCS, utilizes a segmentation-free feature classification approach to develop probabilistic phenotypic profiles of antiviral compounds. Ultimately, AVIA was able to distinguish between infected and uninfected cells with high accuracy as early as 40 hours post infection, demonstrating a meaningful reduction in assay duration compared to the CPE readout. Furthermore, phenotypic profiling of 1,280 compounds using AutoHCS phenotypic profiling overlaid with AVIA infectivity scores identified many compounds that showed possible anti-viral effect. Interestingly, 12 out of 20 compounds that were identified as hit compounds in the original cell viability-based CPE assay were found by AVIA and AutoHCS, demonstrating reasonable concordance and reliability of this method. Further, by comparing AVIA infectivity scores against AutoHCS morphological profiles, we were able to also eliminate compounds as false-positives without additional counterscreens or orthogonal assays. Overall, we demonstrate a robust, sensitive assay that produces high quality imaging data which results in promising cost- and time-effective HTS when combined with modern AI/ML tooling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study evaluated the in vitro antiviral-associated effects of prebiotics, probiotic-derived preparations, and synbiotic formulations against Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) in Vero cells. Lactobacillus acidophilus, L. rhamnosus, and L. plantarum preparations were tested as cell-free supernatants, cell sonicates, and combinations with plant-derived prebiotic extracts. Cytotoxicity was assessed using the MTT assay to determine non-cytotoxic concentrations, while antiviral activity was evaluated by cytopathic effect (CPE)-based TCID50 endpoint titration. Several preparations produced statistically significant reductions in viral infectivity compared with untreated controls (p < 0.05). Among the tested preparations, L. plantarum and L. acidophilus showed the greatest reductions in infectivity, with reductions reaching approximately 41.66% for HSV-1 and 38.88% for VSV under the tested experimental conditions. Selected synbiotic formulations also demonstrated measurable reductions in infectivity. These findings suggest that probiotic-derived preparations and synbiotic formulations may reduce infectivity of both DNA and RNA viral models in vitro and warrant further investigation as adjunct antiviral strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Reliable quantification of neutralizing antibodies (nAb) against human adenovirus type 55 (HAdV-55) is critical for the evaluation of emerging vaccine candidates. While the plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT) is currently the reference standard, its utility for large-scale studies is limited by low throughput, labor-intensive plaque counting, and prolonged assay times. In this study, we established and analytically validated a microneutralization assay based on cytopathic effect (MN-CPE) as a scalable alternative for HAdV-55-specific nAb quantification. Comparative performance analysis revealed that both assays maintain high dilution linearity, with coefficients of determination (R2) of 0.988 for MN-CPE and 0.9926 for PRNT. Relative accuracy assessments using high-, middle-, and low-titer reference sera demonstrated acceptable responses across the dynamic range. Notably, the MN-CPE assay allowed for the definition of a negative-control acceptance range, providing a distinct statistical advantage over PRNT, where negative-control values were consistently zero. Furthermore, both assays successfully detected HAdV-55-specific nAbs in immunized cynomolgus macaques, with no cross-reactivity observed against other HAdV types such as HAdV-4. These findings indicate that the MN-CPE assay is analytically comparable to PRNT and serves as a practical, relatively high-capacity alternative for HAdV-55 neutralization testing in clinical and preclinical vaccine research.
Extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) and carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE) pose a critical public health threat. Janitors are routinely exposed to contaminated environments and may act as a reservoir for these resistant bacteria, particularly in resource-limited settings like Ethiopia, where data on this subject are scarce.The aim of this study was to assess fecal carriage rates of ESBL-PE, CPE and its associated factors among hospital and non-hospital janitors at the University of Gondar (UoG), Northwest Ethiopia.A comparative cross-sectional study was conducted from June 15 to September 25, 2025, at the UoG. A total of 385 janitors (203 hospital and 182 non-hospital) were selected using stratified and simple random sampling techniques. Data on socio-demographic and associated factors were collected using a semi-structured questionnaire. Stool samples were collected aseptically and cultured on MacConkey agar. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) patterns were determined by the Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion method following Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) 2024 guidelines. The ESBL and carbapenemase production were confirmed using the combination disk and modified Carbapenem inactivation methods, respectively. Quality control was ensured by using standard reference strains. Data analysis was performed using SPSS version 27.0, employing chi-square tests and logistic regression. A p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant.Among the 385 stool samples, a total of 416 Enterobacteriaceae isolates were recovered, 229 from hospital janitors and 187 from non-hospital janitors. The overall fecal carriage rates among janitors were 83 (21.6%) for ESBL-PE and 14 (3.6%) for CPE. Hospital janitors had significantly higher carriage rate than non-hospital janitors for both ESBL-PE (28.6% vs. 13.7%, p < 0.001) and CPE (5.9% vs. 1.1%, p = 0.012), respectively. Escherichia coli was the predominant ESBL-producer. Significant risk factors identified for ESBL-PE colonization included lack of hand hygiene at home, history of antibiotic use, and urinary tract infection for hospital janitors, and age ≥ 40 years and history of non-prescription antibiotic use were for non-hospital janitors.This high carriage rates of ESBL-PE and CPE, identify janitors as a significant reservoir for resistant bacteria. We recommend integrating janitors into national AMR surveillance programs and strengthening infection prevention and control and antimicrobial stewardship training.Copyright: © 2026 Zayede et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Central nervous system (CNS) injuries often result in permanent neurological impairments or fatal outcomes. While circadian regulation is a key pathway affecting the regenerative capacity of peripheral neurons, the role of the intrinsic circadian clock in CNS axon regeneration remains elusive. Using a zebrafish larval model with disrupted circadian rhythms, we observed significant inhibition of CNS axon regeneration in a single Mauthner cell (M cell). Mutations or inhibition of the core circadian clock gene per2 in zebrafish larvae severely impaired axon regeneration and acoustically evoked escape movements. Time-of-day-dependent transcriptomic analysis revealed that per2 regulates genes involved in regeneration-related pathways, such as mitochondrial metabolism and Wnt signaling transduction. Furthermore, reverse transcription quantitative PCR and Western blot experiments indicated that the neurotrophic factor carboxypeptidase E (Cpe) exhibits robust circadian rhythmicity in wild-type but is significantly downregulated in per2 -/- mutants. Cpe deficiency significantly suppressed axonal regeneration, whereas its overexpression enhanced regenerative capacity, thereby rescuing the axonal regeneration impairment in per2 -/- mutants. Overall, our findings demonstrate the critical role of a stable circadian rhythm system and per2 in CNS regeneration, as well as the potential function of Cpe in promoting axon regeneration.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are neuroendocrine-disrupting chemicals that produce adverse neurodevelopmental effects. PBDEs have been implicated as risk factors for autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which is characterized by abnormal psychosocial functioning and is commonly comorbid with cognitive deficits and sensory abnormalities. Here, we used a mouse model with translationally relevant exposure to establish direct causal evidence that maternal transfer of a commercial mixture of PBDEs, DE-71, produces ASD-relevant behavioral and neuroendocrine deficits in male offspring. C57Bl6/N mouse dams were exposed to a commercial PBDE mixture, DE-71, via oral administration of 0 (vehicle control, VEH/CON), 0.1 (L-DE-71), or 0.4 (H-DE-71) mg/kg b.w./day for 10 weeks, spanning from 3 weeks prior to gestation through the end of lactation at postnatal day (PND) 21. Mass spectrometric analysis indicated a dose-dependent transfer of PBDEs (in ppb) to brains of F1 male offspring at PND 30, with reduction in levels by PND 110. DE-71-exposed adult F1 male offspring displayed ASD-relevant abnormal neurobehavioral phenotypes, including impaired social novelty preference (SNP) despite intact general sociability and exaggerated repetitive behavior. There were also milder effects on long-term social recognition memory (SRM). DE-71-exposed mice also displayed altered olfactory discrimination of social odors without altered odor preference for non-social odors, impaired novel object recognition memory, and reduced open field habituation relative to VEH/CON. However, no changes were observed in sensorimotor, anxiety-, or depressive-like behaviors. At the molecular level, DE-71-exposed males displayed deregulated gene markers of prosocial neuropeptides, oxytocin, vasopressin, and PACAP systems in hypothalamic and forebrain regions. Oxt was upregulated in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN); Avp was upregulated in the PVN and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) but downregulated in the lateral septum (LS); Avp1ar and Adcyap1 were upregulated in the BNST; and Adcyap1r1 was upregulated in the PVN, supraoptic nucleus (SON), and BNST. Peripheral OXT was increased in L-DE-71 males, while no changes in plasma AVP were observed. These findings demonstrate that developmental PBDE exposure produces enduring behavioral and neuroendocrine phenotypes that resemble core domains of ASD, which may result from early neurodevelopmental reprogramming within central social and memory networks.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disease in the elderly. ADCYAP1 encodes pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP), which can exert neuroprotective effects in neurodegenerative diseases. This study aims to probe the specific function of ADCYAP1 in AD.In this experimental study, brain tissue samples from AD patients and healthy controls were collected to assess ADCYAP1 expression. APP/PS-1 transgenic mice were utilised as an AD mouse model along with amyloid beta (Aβ)-induced PC12 cells as an AD cell model. ADCYAP1 expression in the AD mice was determined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. An IF assay was employed to test Aβ deposition and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) expression (a neuron marker). Behavioural tests, including the Morris water maze (MWM) and footprint tests, were performed to evaluate cognitive impairment and motor ability. Cell apoptosis was determined using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-nick end labelling (TUNEL) assay. Western blot was utilised to test the expression of autophagy-related genes, including LC3 and beclin1. The expressions of transcription factors involved in neuronal differentiation was assessed by RTqPCR.ADCYAP1 expression was significantly downregulated in the brain tissues of AD patients and mice. ADCYAP1 overexpression reduced Aβ deposition and enhanced MAP2 expression in the AD mice. ADCYAP1 overexpression effectively improved cognitive impairment and mobility decline in the AD mice. ADCYAP1 upregulation inhibited neuronal apoptosis and autophagy both in vivo and in vitro. ADCYAP1 upregulated the expression of neuronal differentiationrelated factors [transforming growth factor β (TGFβ), early growth response 1 (Egr1), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (Igf1)] in the AD models.ADCYAP1 inhibits neuronal apoptosis and autophagy to improve AD progression in APP/PS-1 mice and Aβ-induced P12 cells.
Semen quality traits in chickens are critical indicators reflecting reproductive efficiency, breeding progress, and economic profitability in the poultry industry. Understanding the genetic architecture and enabling targeted genetic improvement of these traits are essential for enhancing poultry production efficiency. In this study, we estimated genetic parameters and performed weighted single-step GWAS for five semen traits in RIR chickens to reveal their genetic architecture and identify key candidate genes and QTLs associated with semen quality. The results showed that heritability estimates for SEVOL, SECON, SPMOT, SPABR, and SPCOUNT ranged from 0.097 to 0.322, indicating low to moderate heritability. 29 significant QTL regions and 12 candidate genes (NFKB1, UBE2D3, PPP3CA, EIF4E, H2AFZ, DOCK2, MTNR1A, TACC3, ADCYAP1, GFRA1, ABLIM1, and CASP7) associated with semen traits were identified by WssGWAS. These QTL regions were located on chromosomes 4 and 13 for SEVOL, chromosome 4 for SPMOT, and chromosomes 2 and 6 for SPABR. Interestingly, four prominent consecutive QTL regions were shared between SEVOL and SPMOT. These QTL were located at 59.83-61.43 Mb, explaining 11.55% and 16.33% of the genetic variance for SEVOL and SPMOT, respectively. The largest-effect SNPs within these four QTL intervals exhibited significant effects on both semen volume and sperm motility, and these markers could be used for marker-assisted selection of semen traits. This study provides further insights into the genetic architecture of chicken semen traits, improves our understanding of their molecular regulation, and identifies valuable QTL and candidate genes. These findings offer a scientific basis for genetic improvement and marker-assisted selection of semen quality.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Menopause is characterized by the cessation of ovarian hormone production. During postmenopause, cisgender women face increased risks of obesity, cognitive decline, and mood disorder. Mood disorders are associated with exposure to chronic stress. We investigated the combined effects of a high-fat diet (HFD) and chronic stress exposure in a mouse model of menopause using 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD), a selective ovotoxicant that gradually depletes ovarian follicles and hormones. Starting at 6 months, 82 female WT C57BL/6 J mice received sesame oil or VCD (130 mg/kg i.p.) 5 days per week for 3 weeks. One month after injection, mice were fed either low-fat diet (LFD) or HFD for 8 weeks followed by 6 weeks of chronic variable mild stress (CVMS). Post-CVMS, mice were either processed for gene expression of the anterodorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (adBNST) or behavior tests to assess cognitive and anxiety-related behaviors. Plasma samples were collected to analyze metabolic hormones and corticosterone levels. VCD-treated HFD-fed mice had higher fat and body mass, and elevated fasting glucose levels compared to controls and more pronounced avoidance behaviors and cognitive impairments. VCD-treated LFD-fed mice exhibited less exploration of novel objects and open spaces compared to sesame oil and HFD counterparts. VCD elevated corticosterone levels on LFD and increased BNST Adcyap1 (PACAP) gene expression on HFD. These findings highlight cognitive repercussions of estrogen deficiency and suggest a potential protective effect of a HFD against some of the adverse outcomes associated with menopause. Our study emphasizes the importance of considering dietary and hormonal interactions in the development of therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42084644 is a review article
Yueju pill (YJ), a classical Chinese medicine formula first documented in 'Danxixinfa by Zhu Danxi for treating "six stagnations" (Liu Yu: qi, blood, phlegm, fire, dampness, and food), has been clinically prescribed for mood disorders characterized by qi stagnation and depression for centuries. Despite its historical application for relieving emotional constraint (Yujie) and treating depressive disorders, the rapid antidepressant mechanism and molecular targets of YJ remain incompletely elucidated.This study aimed to investigate the rapid antidepressant-like effects of YJ and uncover the underlying mechanism involving hippocampal GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1r) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) signaling.The chemical stability of YJ was evaluated by quantifying active constituents. A chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model was employed to assess rapid antidepressant effects of YJ through acute administration using behavioral paradigms including novelty-suppressed feeding (NSF), tail suspension (TST), forced swim (FST), and sucrose preference tests (SPT). Hippocampal transcriptome sequencing was performed 30 min post-treatment to identify key targets. Protein and gene expressions were validated by Western blot, immunofluorescence, and quantitative PCR. Pharmacological interventions using exendin (9-39) (GLP-1r antagonist) and PACAP6-38 (PACAP antagonist) were conducted to establish signaling hierarchies. Additionally, HT22 hippocampal neuronal cells were utilized to examine direct effects on synaptic proteins.Four active constituents (shanzhiside methylester, geniposide, ferulic acid, and gentiobioside) were identified in YJ with stable and reproducible concentrations. Acute administration of YJ (2 g/kg, as the final extract) rapidly ameliorated depressive-like behaviors in CUMS mice, with effects comparable to ketamine. Hippocampal transcriptome sequencing identified 461 differentially expressed genes following YJ treatment, with GLP-1r and Adcyap1 (PACAP) notably upregulated compared to the CUMS group. Western blot, immunofluorescence and PCR confirmed that YJ elevated protein and gene expression of GLP-1r and PACAP in the dentate gyrus within 30 min. Pharmacological blockade of GLP-1r with exendin9-39 abolished YJ's rapid antidepressant effects and prevented YJ-induced PACAP upregulation. Conversely, intra-dentate gyrus injection of PACAP6-38 blocked YJ's behavioral effects without affecting GLP-1 expression, indicating that PACAP acts downstream of GLP-1. In HT22 cells, YJ dose-dependently upregulated GLP-1r and PACAP, while also improving synaptic protein expression (pCaMKII, synapsin-1, PSD95, and BDNF).These findings demonstrate that YJ produces rapid antidepressant effects through activation of hippocampal GLP-1r-dependent PACAP signaling, providing scientific evidence for the traditional "resolving depression" (Jieyu) function of this classical formula and identifying a novel polyherbal strategy for rapid-acting antidepressant therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Yueju pill (YJ), a classical Traditional Chinese Medicine formula for "six stagnations", has long been used for mood disorders. We have previously demonstrated that YJ exerts rapid-onset antidepressant effects. However, the long-lasting antidepressant effects and its underlying neurobiological mechanisms remain elusive.To evaluate the sustained antidepressant efficacy of YJ in a chronic restraint stress model and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms through the integration of transcriptomic, pharmacological, and molecular biological analyses.We first assessed quality consistency of YJ via HPLC quantification. YJ's long-lasting antidepressant actions were conducted using behavioral paradigms (NSF, TST, FST, SPT, OFT) from 30 min 5 day in normal or chronic restraint stress model (CRS) mice after acute administration. Hippocampal key targets in mice affecting the therapeutic onset and long-lasting antidepressant efficacy of YJ were anchored through RNA-sequencing. The expression alterations of these identified targets in mouse hippocampus following YJ treatment were further confirmed by Western blot and PCR. Bidirectional causal validation was achieved by region-specific pharmacological antagonism (PACAP6-38) and RNA interference (AAV-PACAP-shRNA) in the dentate gyrus (DG), elucidating the necessity of this pathway for enduring antidepressant responses to YJ. Elisa was utilized to quantify hippocampal synaptic protein expressions in response to YJ and to assess its association with PACAP.Multi-component analysis via simultaneous identification and quantification of four marker constituents established the inter-batch homogeneity of YJ, with determined mean levels of shanzhiside methylester (0.2594 mg/kg), geniposide (44.2805 mg/kg), ferulic acid (0.1031 mg/kg), and gentiobioside (0.6720 mg/kg). In dose-response testing (1.0-2.5 g/kg), YJ at 1.0 g/kg exhibited the optimal antidepressant-like profile, characterized by rapid onset (reduced feeding latency in NSF at 30 min), short-term efficacy (decreased TST immobility at 3 h), and prolonged therapeutic effects (reduced immobility persisting up to 5 days). In the CRS model, acute YJ administration rapidly and robustly reversed stress-induced behavioral deficits, as evidenced by improved performance in NSF at 30 min, TST at 2 h, and SPT at day 1, with sustained antidepressant-like effects observed in FST at day 3. Notably, these behavioral changes occurred without alterations in locomotor activity or center time in OFT. Hippocampal transcriptomic analysis revealed distinct time-dependent molecular signatures following YJ administration. At 30 min, YJ induced a unique transcriptional shift characterized by qPCR-confirmed upregulation of ADCYAP1 (encoding PACAP). Conversely, at 3 days, a separate signature emerged with CSPG4 (NG2) identified and validated as upregulated. Furthermore, YJ treatment increased hippocampal PACAP levels at 30 min and NG2 expression at 3 days in CRS-exposed mice. Intra-dentate gyrus infusion of PACAP6-38 eliminated YJ's rapid antidepressant-like effects (NSF at 30 min; TST at Day 1) but left Day 3 FST efficacy and NG2 upregulation partially intact. However, AAV-shRNA-mediated PACAP knockdown in the dentate gyrus completely blocked both rapid and sustained behavioral benefits and abolished NG2 induction at 3 days and also blocked the acute YJ-induced enhancement of hippocampal synaptic proteins (synapsin 1 and PSD95) and BDNF expression at both 30 min and 3 days post-administration.Our study demonstrates that YJ achieves sustained antidepressant effects through a time-dependent hippocampal mechanism involving sequential PACAP and NG2 activation, ultimately converging on synaptic protein enhancement and BDNF signaling. This multi-component, multi-target, and multi-temporal mode of action embodies the holistic essence of TCM and offers a compelling alternative to current monoamine-based therapies with limited efficacy and delayed onset.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative age-related disorder characterized by widespread transcriptional deregulation across multiple brain regions. Among the molecular players involved, the transcription factors (TFs) can regulate the expression of AD-related peptides (β-amyloid and tau). We aim to unveil reconstructed TF-centered networks and their dynamics across multiple brain regions. In this study, we conducted an exhaustive differential gene expression analysis, reconstructed TF-TF-centered regulatory networks, and performed master-regulation analyses across multiple regions. We used bulk RNA-seq data from 2,229 post-mortem samples from the ROSMAP, MAYO, and MSBB cohorts. To place these regulatory programs in a disease-relevant context, we integrated protein-protein interaction (PPI) data, experimental TF-target data, and AD-associated genetic risk loci as a translational layer. We assessed TF-centered regulons for 1,605 TFs and identified 354 master-regulators (MR-TFs) across multiple brain regions, including the parahippocampal gyrus, temporal cortex, and cerebellum, which exhibited the highest numbers of regulons. Overall, regulons fell within a moderate size range (median 55 targets), rather than into extensive large networks. Novel MR-TFs, including ADCYAP1, TEAD2, BCL6, MAFF, NFKBIA, were consistently identified as MR-TFs across tissues in AD. Furthermore, GUCY1B1, RBFOX2, and MEF2C were found conserved in the parahippocampal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, and posterior cingulate cortex. Additionally, our work identified the well-known AD-related genes BIN1, EGFR, and SPI1 as MR-TFs, reinforcing their functional roles as susceptibility risk markers in AD. This work established an MR-TF-centered integrated regulatory network map of AD, revealing MR-TFs as factors that orchestrate gene deregulation in a region- and cell-context-dependent approach, and providing a robust foundation for mechanistic and translational investigations in neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Precise, dynamic control of metabolic fuel usage in response to environmental challenges such as altered food availability or temperature change is essential for animal survival. In mammals, metabolic flexibility-the capacity to shift cellular metabolism between carbohydrate and fatty acid oxidation-is understood to be largely regulated by circulating hormones such as insulin and glucagon. However, the role of the central nervous system in coordinating fuel selection and tissue metabolic tuning remains underexplored. Here, we investigated the mechanisms that mediate metabolic reprogramming following the acute activation of torpor-associated glutamatergic Adcyap1+ torpor-regulating neurons in the anteroventral preoptic area (avPOAVglut2/PACAP). The activation of these neurons rapidly shifts whole-body fuel use from glucose to fatty acids, irrespective of fuel/food availability. This shift is associated with reduced glucose utilization stemming from the transient induction of selective insulin resistance in skeletal muscle. We find that this reduction in skeletal muscle glucose metabolism does not require direct muscle innervation but is rather mediated in part via corticosterone. In contrast to their activation, avPOAVglut2/PACAP neuronal silencing results in improved glucose tolerance, demonstrating powerful bidirectional control of tissue-specific glucose metabolism, whole-body glucose levels, and fuel usage. Together, our findings uncover a novel POA -skeletal muscle pathway that dynamically controls glucose utilization and metabolic flexibility.
Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) refers to the phenomenon where males and females of the same species exhibit differences in overall or partial body size, and it is widespread among mammals, birds, reptiles, and fish. Notably, this dimorphism is significantly influenced by the sexually dimorphic secretion of growth hormone (gh), a key pituitary-derived growth regulator. Commonly, the secretion of gh is positively regulated by glucagon family members such as growth hormone-releasing hormone (ghrh) and adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide 1 (adcyap1). To explore the stimulators for pituitary hormones (especially gh) in the teleost, we performed genome-wide identification and functional characterization of the glucagon family on Chinese tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) that exhibits typical female-biased sexual size dimorphism. Four members of adcyap1/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide(vip)/ghrh family and ten members of their receptor family were identified. Expression pattern analysis revealed high expression of adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide 1b (adcyap1b) and its receptors in the brain. Moreover, two alternative splice variants for the adcyap1b gene were discovered, resulting from the skipping of exon 4. Following the acquisition of the two eukaryotic recombinant protein splice variants (ADCYAP1b_tv1 and ADCYAP_tv2) from HEK 293T cells, incubation experiments were conducted using C. semilaevis pituitary cell line. The results demonstrated that both variants promoted the expression of gh, pro-opiomelanocortin (pomc), and corticoliberin (crh), but ADCYAP1b_tv1 had a significantly stronger effect and uniquely stimulated prolactin (prl) and somatolactin (sl). This study demonstrates a functional divergence between the two ADCYAP1b splice variants in teleosts, with ADCYAP1b_tv1 acting as a more potent and versatile pituitary hormone stimulator. Further research on their receptor-binding affinity and downstream signaling pathways would be valuable for exploring the mechanism underlying sexual size dimorphism.
Precision allergy molecular diagnostic applications (PAMD@), previously referred to as component-resolved diagnosis (CRD), has progressively transformed the diagnostic approach to anaphylaxis. This review aims to provide an updated overview of its clinical utility, focusing on its role in improving etiologic identification, risk stratification, and patient management in anaphylaxis.Advances in molecular allergology have expanded the range of available allergen components and improved the diagnostic accuracy of IgE-mediated testing. Specific molecular patterns are now clearly associated with clinically relevant sensitization and severity risk, particularly in food allergy (e.g. seed storage proteins, nsLTPs), hymenoptera venom allergy, cofactor-enhanced anaphylaxis (e.g. ω-5 gliadin or nsLTP), and delayed red meat allergy (α-gal). PAMD@ has demonstrated higher specificity compared with extract-based tests, allowing better discrimination between true allergy and cross-reactivity, reducing unnecessary dietary restrictions and diagnostic challenges. Emerging evidence also supports its role in guiding allergen immunotherapy and refining risk assessment in complex or idiopathic classified cases.PAMD@ represents a major step toward precision medicine in anaphylaxis, shifting the paradigm from extract-based sensitization profiling to mechanism-based, clinically actionable diagnosis. Its integration into structured diagnostic algorithms enhances clinical decision-making, supports personalized management strategies, and improves patient safety. However, its optimal use requires careful interpretation within the context of clinical history and local sensitization patterns.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42566207
Keratoconus (KC) is a multifactorial corneal degenerative disorder characterized by reduced extracellular matrix (ECM) and cellular content. This study investigates the role and mechanism of cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1) in KC progression.The expression of CCN1 was first examined in clinical samples using Western blot and immunofluorescence staining. A CCN1 overexpression cell model (OE CCN1) was then established by transfecting primary corneal stromal cells with CCN1 OE plasmids, and RNA sequencing was performed to identify downstream molecular pathways regulated by CCN1. Subsequently, multiple methodologies, including SA‑β‑Gal staining, enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), qRT‑PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), were used to systematically evaluate the role of CCN1 in KC samples and corneal stromal cells.CCN1 expression was significantly elevated in patients with KC. CCN1 OE markedly upregulated senescence and inflammatory pathways, increased expression of γH2AX, p16, p21, p53, and senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) molecules. Additionally, CCN1 led to reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, G2/M phase cell cycle arrest, enhanced apoptosis, lysosomal dysfunction, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) OE, collectively contributing to ECM remodeling.CCN1 plays a critical role in promoting corneal degeneration in KC and may serve as a potential therapeutic target to halt or slow disease progression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563454 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial and highly debilitating disorder with a long clinical course. The development of new therapeutic strategies capable of mitigating or delaying disease progression remains a major challenge. We previously identified the amyloid precursor protein (APP) as a receptor for aggregated amyloid-β (Aβ) species that signals through a Go/Gβγ-dependent pathway, thereby promoting amyloidogenesis and neurotoxicity. In this context, gallein (GAL), a selective inhibitor of Gβγ signaling, has demonstrated robust neuroprotective effects in preclinical AD models. However, GAL exhibits poor stability and limited aqueous solubility, which may restrict brain bioavailability. To overcome these limitations, a nanotechnology-based formulation strategy was implemented. Here, we report the design and generation of human serum albumin-based nanoparticles (HSA NPs) loaded with GAL (NP-GAL) using a green desolvation method followed by thermal stabilization. Using murine neuroblastoma cells, primary rat cortical neurons, and human iPSC-derived neurons, we demonstrate that NP-GAL effectively prevents Aβ-induced amyloidogenic APP processing, dendritic dystrophy, and presynaptic loss. In addition, both empty NPs and NP-GAL exhibit association with Aβ aggregates, suggesting an additional benefit, as these nanoparticles mitigate amyloid-associated toxicity. Notably, the nanoparticles themselves exert beneficial effects on dendritic morphology and provide protection against neurotoxic insults beyond amyloid pathology, including those induced by rotenone, a widely used experimental model of Parkinson's disease. Together, these in vitro findings suggest that HSA-based nanoparticles hold potential as a platform to stabilize GAL and exert intrinsic neuroprotective effects. These results provide a proof-of-concept for exploring nanoparticle-mediated Gβγ inhibition to counteract Aβ-induced neuronal dysfunction and synaptic pathology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) represents a category of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that currently lacks curative therapeutic options. This study isolated acidic polysaccharides from Moringa leaves using water extraction and ethanol precipitation, and characterized their saccharide chain structure. The acidic polysaccharide MOLP-2-2 is primarily composed of monosaccharides such as Galacturonic acid (Gal-UA), Galactose (Gal), and arabinose (Ara), with an Mn of 20.353 kDa; Mw of 35.094 kDa. The main sugar chain structure primarily comprises →4)-α-D-GalpA-(1→, →4)-α-D-GalpA-6-OMe-(1→, →4)-β-D-Galp-(1→, and →2,4)-α-L-Rhap-(1 → units. The side chains are predominantly comprised 4-OMe-β-D-Galp-(1→, →3,6)-β-D-Galp-(1→, and →6)-β-D-Galp-(1 → units. The potential of these polysaccharides as functional prebiotics in ameliorating DSS-induced UC in mice was investigated, and the underlying molecular mechanisms were explored. The mechanism of action may involve increasing the relative abundance of probiotic strains such as Intestinimonas, thereby promoting the secretion of the metabolites such as DL-Lysine, further modulating the expression of proteins associated with the NF-κB/MAPK and Keap1-Nrf2-HO-1 signaling pathways, thereby suppressing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and enhancing antioxidant capacity in mice, ultimately alleviating DSS-induced ulcerative colitis. Overall, this study demonstrates that the novel polysaccharide MOLP-2 can serve as a functional prebiotic for UC prevention and treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a complex endocrine and metabolic disorder frequently associated with oxidative stress. Royal jelly (RJ) is a well-recognized natural functional food with multiple health benefits; however, its potential effects on POI remain unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms of RJ in a D-galactose (D-gal)-induced POI mouse model. The results showed that RJ increased serum estradiol (E2) levels, enhanced ovarian reserve and oocyte maturation, reduced ovarian oxidative stress, and ultimately improved the fertility of D-gal-treated mice. Integrated metagenomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that RJ alleviated D-gal-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis, notably increasing the abundance of Muribaculaceae bacterium, and restored levels of taurocholic acid (TCA), which positively correlated with both Muribaculaceae bacterium abundance and serum E2 levels. Importantly, TCA supplementation alone recapitulated the protective effects of RJ by reversing D-gal-induced reductions in E2 and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) levels, restoring follicle numbers, and alleviating oxidative stress. Mechanistically, TCA activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) antioxidant pathway in ovarian tissue, while simultaneously enhancing intestinal β-glucuronidase activity to modulate systemic E2 metabolism. In conclusion, RJ alleviates D-gal-induced POI in mice by modulating the gut microbiota-bile acid-ovarian axis, providing novel insights into its potential application for POI prevention and treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation are central drivers of nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD), yet the transcriptional programs that maintain mitochondrial redox homeostasis in NP cells remain poorly defined. In this study, we investigated the role of forkhead box O3 (FOXO3) in regulating NP cell senescence and mitophagy during IVDD. We found that FOXO3 expression was significantly reduced in degenerated disc tissues and in senescent NP cells. In vitro, FOXO3 overexpression markedly alleviated H2O2-induced senescence, as shown by reduced SA-β-gal positivity, downregulation of p16 and senescence-associated catabolic factors, and partial restoration of extracellular matrix-related proteins. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that FOXO3 suppressed senescence-, NF-κB-, and matrix degradation-associated pathways while activating autophagy-related programs. Mechanistically, FOXO3 enhanced autophagic flux and promoted BNIP3-dependent mitophagy, accompanied by improved mitochondrial ultrastructure, preservation of mitochondrial membrane potential, and reduced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species accumulation. Importantly, BNIP3 knockdown partially abolished the anti-senescent effects of FOXO3, supporting BNIP3-mediated mitophagy as a key downstream mechanism. In vivo, adeno-associated virus-mediated FOXO3 overexpression attenuated puncture-induced disc degeneration, reduced p16 and MMP13 expression, and restored aggrecan and collagen II levels. Collectively, these findings identify FOXO3 as a critical regulator of mitochondrial quality control and NP cell senescence, and suggest that targeting the FOXO3-BNIP3-mitophagy axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for IVDD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Galectin-3 (Gal-3) regulates cell adhesion, apoptosis, inflammation, and immune activation. Recent studies on Gal-3 and renocardiac or cardiorenal syndrome (CRS) show conflicting results. This meta-analysis systematically evaluated Gal-3 in predicting CRS subtypes and mortality.We searched PubMed, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, Web of Science, and the China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) for papers investigating the relationship between serum Gal-3 levels and CRS, from database inception to July 10, 2025, with an updated search conducted on March 1, 2026. Observational studies evaluating Gal-3 in relation to CRS incidence and mortality, heart failure (HF) mortality, and chronic kidney disease (CKD) mortality were included.A total of 281 articles were retrieved, and 22 were ultimately included after screening. High Gal-3 levels significantly predicted incident HF in CKD patients (hazard ratios [HR]: 1.19; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.10-1.28; P<0.0001) and predicted all-cause mortality in CKD patients (HR: 2.45; 95% CI: 1.37-4.37; P=0.002). In HF patients, Elevated Gal-3 levels were associated with a higher risk of the occurrence of CRS (odds ratios [OR]: 1.12; 95% CI: 1.03-1.22; P=0.01) and also predicted all-cause mortality (HR: 1.55; 95% CI: 1.33-1.82; P<0.00001). Finally, the 2 included studies indicated that Gal-3 was significantly associated with all-cause mortality in CRS patients.Gal-3 may serve as a significant predictor for the incidence of Type 2 and Type 4 CRS, the risk of mortality in HF and CKD patients, and all-cause mortality in CRS patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Societa Italiana Nefrologia/Italian Society of Nephrology; Society ownership. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The purpose of this study was to investigate cytological markers of cellular senescence-including senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal), senescence-associated heterochromatin foci (SAHF), and parameters of the cytokinesis-block micronucleus (CBMN) cytome assay-in peripheral blood samples from patients who had experienced an acute coronary syndrome accompanied by COVID-19 (Group 2), compared with similar patients without COVID-19 (Group 1). The relative proportion of SA-β-gal-positive leukocytes was approximately threefold higher in patients with a history of COVID-19 compared with Group 1. Group 2 also demonstrated a significantly higher frequency of SAHF-positive leukocytes. According to the CBMN assay, Group 2 showed a significantly higher relative content of binucleated leukocytes with micronuclei, as well as a higher frequency of apoptotic mononuclear cells. No significant differences were observed between the groups in the relative content of binucleated cells with nuclear buds or nucleoplasmic bridges, nor in the proportion of necrotic mononuclear cells. The cytokinesis-block proliferation index was comparable between the groups. The findings of this retrospective study may indicate a detrimental long-term effect of COVID-19 on the manifestation of cellular senescence at the organismal level, and the evaluated markers may be informative for developing new prognostic strategies for this patient population.Copyright © 2026 Vitalii Kyryk et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Klinefelter syndrome is most commonly associated with a 47,XXY karyotype, though rarer variants such as 48,XXXY, 48,XXYY, 49,XXXXY, and mosaic forms occur. The clinical spectrum includes intellectual disability, psychiatric disorders, endocrinopathies, and infertility, while epilepsy is rarely reported. The syndrome is also linked to an increased risk of malignancies, including breast cancer and mediastinal germ cell tumors. Multinodular and vacuolating neuronal tumors (MVNTs) are rare glioneuronal neoplasms.We report a 9-year-old male with a 2-year history of epilepsy, in whom brain MRI revealed an MVNT in the left posterior temporal lobe. Chromosomal microarray analysis showed a 2.5 Mb duplication at Xp22.33, a 152.9 Mb duplication from Xp22.33 to Xq28, and a 280 kb deletion at 5q33.1. Karyotyping confirmed a 47,XXY karyotype, consistent with Klinefelter syndrome.While MVNTs are typically sporadic or monogenic, this case raises the possibility of an association with Klinefelter syndrome. To our knowledge, this is the second reported case, contributing to the expanding clinical and genetic spectrum of Klinefelter syndrome-associated neurological findings.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Glycine, a non-essential amino acid, has been linked to improved metabolic health and enhanced insulin secretion, yet its mechanistic role in β-cell function remains poorly defined. Here, we identify a glycine-GLRA1-calmodulin signaling axis that regulates endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium homeostasis to support insulin biosynthesis and β-cell survival. Dietary glycine deficiency impairs insulin secretion, reduces islet mass, and worsens glucose intolerance, while overexpression of serine hydroxymethyltransferase 2 (Shmt2), a key glycine biosynthetic enzyme, increases circulating glycine, enhances insulin output, and improves glucose control. Conversely, β-cell-specific deletion of Glra1 phenocopies glycine deficiency, disrupting ER calcium dynamics, amplifying ER stress, and impairing insulin gene expression and secretion. Mechanistically, GLRA1 interacts with calmodulin to sustain ER calcium levels and alleviate ER stress, preserving β-cell viability under metabolic stress. Human genetic and transcriptomic analyses reveal that GLRA1 expression and variants are associated with insulin secretion and glycemic traits, underscoring clinical relevance. These findings establish glycine as a signaling metabolite that activates a receptor-calcium axis to maintain β-cell function, offering a mechanistic rationale for targeting GLRA1 or dietary glycine in diabetes therapy.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Hyperekplexia (hereditary startle disease) is a rare, treatable neurogenetic disorder often misdiagnosed as epilepsy, leading to unnecessary interventions. This study aims to characterize the clinical and genetic features of Turkish patients with hyperekplexia and highlight genotype-phenotype correlations.We retrospectively analyzed 16 patients diagnosed with hyperekplexia across five tertiary centers in southern Turkey from 2011 to 2025. All patients underwent genetic testing via Next-Generation Sequencing. Clinical features, treatment responses, and neurodevelopmental outcomes were evaluated according to specific gene mutations (GLRA1, SLC6A5, and GLRB).All patients (100%) presented with exaggerated startle responses and nonepileptic tonic attacks but were initially misdiagnosed with epilepsy. The median delay in diagnosis was 26 months. The misdiagnosis periods for the patients were as follows: one-6 months (n = 4, 25%); 6-12 months (n = 3, 18%); 12-24 months (n = 2, 12%); 24-36 months (n = 4, 25%); and more than 36 months (n = 3, 18%). Genetic analysis revealed GLRA1mutations in 56% (n = 9), SLC6A5 in 25% (n = 4), and GLRB in 19% (n = 3). We identified a homozygous nonsense mutation in the GLRB gene (c.995 G > A; p.Trp332Ter) in three patients from the same family. Genotype-phenotype correlation revealed distinct patterns: while patients with GLRA1 and SLC6A5 mutations generally responded well to clonazepam, those with the GLRB mutation exhibited severe global neurodevelopmental delay, autism spectrum features, and required levetiracetam due to poor response to benzodiazepines.Hyperekplexia should be strongly considered in infants with exaggerated startle reflexes to prevent potential developmental consequences of delayed diagnosis. Furthermore, this study confirms that GLRB variants may be associated with a more complex phenotype, including autism and resistance to standard benzodiazepine therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hyperekplexia is a rare hereditary neurological disorder characterized by an exaggerated startle response and generalized rigidity. It is frequently misdiagnosed as epilepsy, leading to unnecessary treatment. We report a case of mild hyperekplexia caused by a novel GLRA1 mutation, highlighting the diagnostic value of genetic testing in atypical presentations.An 18-month-old girl presented with recurrent episodes of vacant staring and limb rigidity triggered by sudden sounds or tactile stimuli over the past 2 months. She had a history of 3 febrile seizures but normal development. Physical examination revealed hypersensitivity to external stimuli, but the nose-tap test was negative.Routine metabolic studies, brain magnetic resonance imaging, and electroencephalogram were normal. Whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo heterozygous nonsense variant c.593G > A (p.Trp198Ter) in the GLRA1 gene, confirming the diagnosis of hyperekplexia.Given the confirmed diagnosis and the mild nature of the symptoms, the previously prescribed antiepileptic drug (levetiracetam) was discontinued. Clonazepam was not initiated due to the mild severity of the condition.At the 8-month follow-up, the patient remained seizure-free with minimal non-epileptic stimulus-induced symptoms. Her growth and psychomotor development were normal.This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of GLRA1-related hyperekplexia to include mild phenotypes with a negative nose-tap test. It underscores the critical role of whole-exome sequencing in distinguishing hyperekplexia from epilepsy, thereby avoiding inappropriate antiepileptic therapy.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
We present the case of a 61-year-old woman with late-onset hyperkinetic movement disorder, characterized by involuntary, choreiform movements predominantly affecting the right limbs. Symptoms began at age 60 and were exacerbated by emotional stress. Neurological and neurocognitive evaluations were unremarkable, and extensive diagnostic workup, including Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Electroencephalogram (EEG), Positron Emission Tomography with Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) and genetic testing for common movement disorders, was largely negative. Notably, a heterozygous pathogenic variant (c.736C>T; p.Arg246Trp) in the GLRA1 gene was identified via exome sequencing. This gene encodes a glycine receptor subunit associated with Hyperekplexia (HPX), a rare neurometabolic disorder typically presenting in infancy with exaggerated startle responses. Although our patient did not show a classic HPX phenotype, the clinical picture included emotionally triggered motor symptoms and a positive response to clonazepam, a hallmark of HPX treatment. Clonazepam monotherapy at low doses led to sustained symptom control, while other treatments were less effective. Family history revealed similar late-onset symptoms in the patient's father, though undocumented. This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of HPX and suggests that atypical presentations may be misclassified as functional neurological disorders. It underscores the importance of genetic evaluation in unexplained adult-onset movement disorders and raises the possibility of underrecognized late-onset HPX variants in clinical practice.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Hyperekplexia is a rare non-epileptic paroxysmal disorder characterized by a marked startle response and hypertonia to auditory, tactile, or visual sudden external stimuli. GLRA1, SLC6A5, GLRB, and ATAD1 gene pathogenic variants have been identified in these patients.The girl was born 39+1 weeks and admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit with spasm-like contractions and followed by breath holding. Except for transient hyperammonemia, neurologic and metabolic tests were normal, and there was no seizure-like movement during hospitalization. In the 4th month of her life, the patient had spasm-like findings with stimulation, and the symptoms were controlled with clonazepam, considering hyperekplexia. Clinical exome sequencing revealed a previously undescribed homozygous variant [c.748T>C; p.(Ser250Pro) in exon 4] in the SLC6A5 (NM_004211.5) gene. Sanger sequencing confirmed the c.748T>C variant in the family: both parents were heterozygous carriers, while the brother was homozygous. Her sibling also had stimulus-induced crying and stiffness in infancy, but these resolved within months without treatment, and his developmental milestones have been age-appropriate.This case highlights the importance of recognizing hereditary hyperekplexia in the differential diagnosis of neonatal seizures and supports the potential pathogenic relevance of the SLC6A5 c.748T>C (p.Ser250Pro) variant, particularly in benign, nonrecurrent cases with transient hyperammonemia from catabolic stress and glycine transporter dysfunction.© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Hyperekplexia (OMIM 149400), a sensorimotor syndrome of perinatal clinical relevance, causes newborns to display an energic startle reflex in response to certain trivial stimuli. This condition can be lethal due to apnea episodes. The disease is caused by a blockade of glycinergic neurotransmission. Glycinergic interneurons preserve their identity by the activity of the surface glycine transporter GlyT2, which supplies glycine to presynaptic terminals to maintain glycine content in synaptic vesicles. Loss-of-function mutations in the GlyT2 gene (SLC6A5) cause a presynaptic form of human hyperekplexia. Here, we describe a new GlyT2 variant found in an infantile patient diagnosed with hyperekplexia. A missense mutation in the open reading frame of the GlyT2 gene inherited in homozygosity caused the substitution G449E in a residue highly conserved across the phylogenetic scale. The sequences of the glycine receptor genes GLRA1 and GLRB did not show abnormalities. We expressed the recombinant GlyT2 variant in heterologous cells and analyzed its pathogenic mechanism. The transporter was totally inactive, behaving as a bona fide loss-of-function mutant. Furthermore, the mutation promoted the abnormal insertion of the protein into the membrane, leading to its large incorporation into lipid rafts. However, there was no apparent alteration of wild-type trafficking upon mutant coexpression, as the mutant was prematurely degraded from the endoplasmic reticulum. Rescue with chemical chaperones was not possible for this mutant. Proteomics demonstrated that the expression of the mutant induced the unfolded protein response and interfered with raft-dependent processes. Therefore, the new variant causes a loss of function regarding GlyT2 activity but a gain of function as a cell proteostasis disturber.
Although initial clinical presentation of hyperekplexia/startle disease is well known, data regarding long-term clinical outcomes is lacking.We provide a long-term evaluation from clinical and pharmacological perspectives, focusing on neurodevelopmental trajectory.Twenty-eight patients from nine French hospitals were included based on clinical diagnosis criteria. Adaptive abilities were assessed using VABS-II.VABS-II showed preserved adaptive abilities, except in motor skills. Early development was marked by neurodevelopmental delay in 53% of patients, with 57% developing neurodevelopmental disorders, primarily specific learning disorders. Intellectual disability and/or autism spectrum disorder were present in five patients. Symptoms were most frequent during the first 3 years of life, with persistence of exaggerated startle reflex and falls. One-quarter of the patients discontinued clonazepam. A genetic variant was found in 85% of patients, involving one of the three main genes GLRA1, SLC6A5, or GLRB.Our findings highlight preserved adaptive abilities, frequent neurodevelopmental disorders and long-term pharmacodependence.© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders Clinical Practice published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
To report two pediatric cases of hyperekplexia in a small city of São Paulo state, Brazil.Two female patients, one aged three years and six months and one aged five months, receiving care from an APAE (Association of Parents and Friends of People with Disabilities) unit, were diagnosed with hyperekplexia 1, a neurological disorder characterized by an excessive startle response. Hyperekplexia cases can be divided into three subgroups: hereditary, sporadic, and symptomatic. Several specialists have examined patient 1 since she was three weeks old, leading to two initial diagnostic hypotheses (childhood chronic non-progressive encephalopathy and spastic cerebral palsy). She was diagnosed with hyperekplexia 1 at eleven months when a genetic test revealed changes in the GLRA1 gene. Patient 2, at birth, presented hyperextension of both legs, low-set ears, cranial asymmetry, prominent occiput, and tremors in the lower limbs. After several tests and evaluations, the final diagnosis was confirmed at three months old. Her family history indicates the possibility of hereditary hyperekplexia.The cases were compared with information obtained through a bibliographical review. Both patients presented several symptoms associated with hyperekplexia, including neurological symptoms such as increased startle response, convulsions, and hypertonia, which were alleviated with appropriate treatment. So far, combining multidisciplinary assistance with drug treatment, particularly anxiolytics and anticonvulsants, with clonazepam being the most used, has significantly contributed to both patients' improved quality of life. However, physical symptoms, such as hip dislocation and clubfoot, require future surgical intervention.
PER: and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are persistent contaminants of concern, yet long-term records in marine invertebrates remain scarce. We quantified 26 target PFAS and conducted suspect and non-target screening (NTS) of contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) in European lobster (Homarus gammarus) collected in a Western Norwegian coastal site (61°N, 5°E) between 2009-2025 (n = 115). Twelve PFAS were detected, with profiles dominated by long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylates. Mean annual concentrations were highest for PFTrDA (0.72-2.55 μg kg-1 wet weight (ww); max 5.69 μg kg-1), followed by PFUnDA (0.25-0.89 μg kg-1ww; max 1.54 μg kg-1) and PFDoDA (0.28-0.61 μg kg-1 ww; max 0.88 μg kg-1). This pattern is consistent with predominantly diffuse environmental exposure rather than strong local point-source contamination. Temporal trends modelled using GLMs showed significant declines for all PFAS (-2.0 to -9.5% yr-1, p < 0.001), corresponding to cumulative reductions of approximately 30-75% across the study period, likely due to declining environmental inputs following regulatory phase-outs. Body weight exerted compound-specific effects: concentrations of long-chain PFCAs increased with size, whereas PFOS and PFOSA decreased with size. Estimated dietary exposure from lobster consumption remained below the EFSA tolerable weekly intake for the sum of PFOA, PFNA, PFHxS, and PFOS. NTS further identified the ultrashort-chain PFAS trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), together with 11 other CECs, including pharmaceuticals, plastic-associated compounds, and pesticides. While most compounds exhibited declining or stable peak-area signals over time, TFA, trenbolone, and ADB-FUBINACA showed variable or increasing signals, indicating potential emerging inputs despite not being quantitatively determined. The detection of TFA demonstrates the presence of highly persistent emerging PFAS in coastal food webs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565911 is a review article
How to increase the diagnosis rate of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) has always been a major challenge in medicine. Compared with conventional microbiological tests (CMTs), nanopore targeted sequencing (NTS) is undoubtedly a faster and more effective diagnostic method. This study explores the feasibility of combining chest CT imaging screening with NTS to improve PTB diagnosis.This retrospective observational study was conducted from March 2023 to December 2024, enrolling 380 patients from a single center who underwent bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) analysis and NTS testing. We compared the diagnostic accuracy of radiologists with varying experience levels to determine the most suitable preliminary screening protocol for PTB. Additionally, we compared NTS results with CMTs (including mycobacterial culture, acid-fast bacilli smear and Xpert MTB/RIF) to evaluate differences in diagnostic performance between NTS and CMTs.We conducted a horizontal comparison of PTB diagnostic accuracy among three radiologists with different levels of experience. The most experienced radiologist had the lowest missed diagnosis rate. When combining cases suspected by all three radiologists (202 cases), the missed diagnosis rate dropped to as low as 9.09% (27.27% [95% CI: 16.77-40.70%] vs. 30.91% [95% CI: 19.73-44.51%] vs. 16.36% [95% CI: 8.38-29.82%] vs. 9.09% [95% CI: 3.80-19.84%], p = 0.019). Furthermore, we analyzed the diagnostic performance of NTS and CMTs in PTB patients and found that NTS had significantly higher sensitivity than Xpert MTB/RIF, mycobacterial culture, and acid-fast bacilli smear (89.09% [95% CI: 78.17-95.02%] vs. 78.18% [95% CI: 65.44-87.12%] vs. 23.64% [95% CI: 13.99-36.99%] vs. 16.36% [95% CI: 8.38-28.82%], p < 0.001). ROC analysis demonstrated that incorporating NTS into the testing of suspected PTB specimens significantly improved diagnostic capability (AUC = 0.990, 95% CI: 0.968-1.000).Radiologists' experience in PTB imaging diagnosis can reduce missed diagnoses. Additionally, combining NTS with CMTs helps improve early diagnosis in suspected PTB patients. The combined use of NTS and Xpert MTB/RIF yielded the highest diagnostic accuracy (AUC 0.990).Copyright © 2026 Ye, Lv, Tu, Zhao, Yuan, Xu, Ding, Wu, Xu, Zhao and Xie.
Erroneous beliefs about gambling contribute to the development and maintenance of problem gambling and represent an important public health concern. Norsk Tipping (NT), the state-owned gambling operator in Norway, initiated the Spillepuls project to develop and evaluate preventive interventions for its online customers. This study evaluated an educational intervention that addressed gambling-specific misconceptions among users of NT's online casino platform. The intervention compared different formats (video versus quiz), delivery modes (voluntary versus mandatory), and timing (pregame versus during play), against a non-intervention control group. The outcome measures comprised gambling behaviour and use of responsible gambling (RG) measures.The data were collected by NT as part of their routine operations. The experiment took place between May 2022 and January 2023. During this period, NT randomly assigned 18,981 new online casino customers to one of three conditions (Video, Quiz, or Control) on their third day of play. Customers allocated to the Video and Quiz conditions were subsequently randomized to one of three delivery modes: voluntary before gameplay, mandatory before gameplay, or mandatory during gameplay.No significant differences in gambling behaviour or uptake of RG measures were observed between the intervention groups and the control group. However, comparisons across the six intervention conditions revealed clear differences in engagement. Mandatory pregame delivery produced the highest completion rates, with a small but significant difference between the video and quiz formats (99.8% vs. 98.2%; χ2(1, N = 5403) = 10.9, p < .01). In contrast, the voluntary pregame video achieved the lowest completion rate (7.1%; χ2(1, N = 5435) = 283.4, p < .001). Participants rated the video interventions as more relevant and useful than the quizzes in both the mandatory and voluntary conditions, whereas the quiz format was perceived as less intrusive.Mandatory interventions achieved substantially higher completion rates, whereas voluntary video and quiz interventions were perceived as more relevant and useful by participants. Although mandatory pregame delivery was associated with lower values for selected monetary gambling indicators than voluntary pregame delivery, none of the intervention conditions differed from the control group in gambling behaviour or uptake of RG measures. These findings indicate the need for further research to identify more effective approaches for promoting RG.© 2026. The Author(s).
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor that regulates energy homeostasis. Pathogenic MC4R variants represent the most common cause of monogenic obesity and are frequently associated with increased linear growth. However, the mechanisms linking MC4R signaling to somatic growth remain incompletely understood. We report a child with severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD) carrying a heterozygous MC4R variant (c.496G>A; p.V166I), in whom recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy triggered an unexpectedly exaggerated clinical and biochemical response, suggesting a potential pharmacogenetic interaction between MC4R signaling and the GH/IGF-1 axis.The male patient was first evaluated at 1 month of age due to micropenis and diagnosed with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. At 57 months of age, his height was 97.3 cm (-2.56 SDS) and annual growth velocity was 4.1 cm/year (<-2 SDS); rhGH (somatropin) therapy was initiated. Despite severe biochemically confirmed GHD, rhGH at 0.03 mg/kg/day triggered an exaggerated response: IGF-1 levels increased from -3.35 SDS to +8.00 SDS. Concurrently, his height velocity accelerated to 16 cm/year, and his bone age rapidly advanced by approximately 4 years over a 23-month period, culminating in mandibular prognathism.The coexistence of severe GHD and an MC4R variant is rarely described, and such a pronounced response to rhGH has not previously been reported. These findings suggest that MC4R p.V166I may modulate peripheral GH/IGF-1 signaling and act as a pharmacogenetic modifier of GH responsiveness. Careful rhGH dose titration with close IGF-1 monitoring may be considered in patients carrying the MC4R p.V166I variant.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553776 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553265 is a review article
Non-typhoidal Salmonella (NTS) is an important pathogen causing gastroenteritis and extra-intestinal infections. This study aimed to comprehensively characterize the epidemiological features of NTS infections in Taiwan and to dissect the distinct clinical characteristics associated with different serotypes.During 2014‒2023, 4429, 1178 and 243 non-duplicate, culture-confirmed NTS isolates were collected from stool, blood, and urine from Chang Gung Memorial Hospitals, Taiwan, which represent gastroenteritis, bacteremia, and bacteriuria cases. Serotyping and antimicrobial susceptibility testing were conducted.Serotypes Panama, Muenster and Enteritidis showed the highest odds ratios in causing bacteremia, while Muenster, Goldcoast and Agona were most prone to bacteriuria. Enteritidis and Goldcoast predominantly infected the elderly but Panama and Muenster primarily affected children. Antimicrobial resistance varied substantially across serotypes. Moreover, within the same serotype, blood isolates exhibited higher susceptibility than stool and urine isolates. NTS causing gastroenteritis underwent a compositional shift towards highly-resistant serotypes, but the composition for bacteremia remained constant. Anatum and Goldcoast constituted 75.6% of isolates resistant to both ciprofloxacin and ceftriaxone. Goldcoast caused more critical care unit admission in the elderly patients than other serotypes.The study has uncovered novel clinical features, serotype composition, and antimicrobial resistance trends of NTS. Not all Salmonella serotypes are equal in contributing to disease pathogenesis. Blood isolates exhibited higher susceptibility than stool and urine isolates. The emergence of highly resistant serotypes, such as Anatum, and Goldcoast, poses a considerable threat to the elderly in disease burden and severity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The current non-invasive screening methods for endometrial cancer (EC), such as transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS), lack sufficient specificity, leading to unnecessary invasive diagnostic procedures. The detection of cancer-specific deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation alterations in cervical cytology samples presents a promising, minimally invasive alternative. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of novel DNA methylation biomarkers (CUGBP Elav-like family member 4 methylation [CELF4m ], Galanin receptor 1 methylation [GALR1m ], Zinc finger protein 486 methylation [ZNF486m ]) in cervical exfoliated cells for EC screening.This case-control study enrolled patients scheduled for diagnostic or surgical curettage at the hospital from September 2024 to June 2025. A total of 104 women underwent endometrial evaluation (32 type I EC, 3 type II EC, 61 benign lesions [BL], 8 atypical hyperplasia). Quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction assessed biomarker performance against histopathological diagnosis.All three markers (CELF4m, GALR1m, ZNF486m ) showed significant differential ΔCp values between BL and EC groups (all P < 0.01), with moderate diagnostic accuracy (area under the ROC curve [AUCs]: 0.654-0.704). The single-marker GALR1m outperformed endometrial thickness (ET) measured by TVUS in specificity (60.9% vs. 27.5%, P < 0.001) while maintaining comparable sensitivity (80.0% vs. 74.3%, P = 0.527). A two-marker panel (GALR1m /ZNF486m , Model 1) achieved sensitivity (97.1% [95% confidence interval [CI]: 91.6-100%]) with modest specificity (49.3% [95% CI: 37.5-61.1%]). Among three-gene models, Model 3 demonstrated the highest overall performance (AUC: 0.733 [95% CI: 0.657-0.808]; sensitivity: 91.4% [95% CI: 82.1-100%]), whereas Model 4 balanced sensitivity (80.0% [95% CI: 66.7-93.3%]) and improved specificity (63.8% [95% CI: 52.4-75.1%]).DNA methylation signatures in cervical cells show superior diagnostic accuracy to conventional ET measured by TVUS, particularly through multi-marker panels. This non-invasive approach represents a promising EC screening strategy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Stable angina pectoris (SAP) is a common risk factor for myocardial infarction and death. The genomic, transcriptomic, and phenomic heterogeneities of SAP require combination therapies. Multi-target drugs with fixed doses are emerging as scalable and promising prevention and therapeutic strategies for SAP. However, the identification of targets and underlying mechanisms of multi-target drugs for optimal clinical efficacy remains insurmountable. Here, we report a modular phenome-wide association study (MoPheWAS) of Danhong Injection (DHI), a clinically proven effective anti-SAP drug. The interrelated multitargets of DHI were divided into 32 On-modules. Eleven clinical SAP phenotypes defined by the Seattle Angina Questionnaire and serum lipids were interactively associated with 14 DHI efficacy-related Phe-modules. The intrinsic polymorphic associations between SAP phenotypes and Phe-modules manifested systematic positive/negative regulation of specific one-to-one as well as complex many-to-many relationships. These Phe-modules were conserved, transformed, or newly emerged modules involving G-protein-coupled receptor signaling and kinase binding. In vitro RNAi analysis confirmed the hub genes GALR1/BCMO1 in Mod-29 as multiple targets for the anti-ischemic effect of DHI. The landscape of modular regulators and polymorphic phenomic associations revealed the multi-target mechanisms underlying the therapeutic heterogeneity of SAP. Therefore, MoPheWAS may provides a novel systematic paradigm for identifying multiple phenomic targets of complex polygenic diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42436285 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42367065
Chronic stress is widely studied as a brain-centered driver of depression, yet its effects across the body remain unclear. Here, we define chronic stress as a coordinated molecular state across tissues in mice. Using a whole-body proteomic atlas of 13 tissues, we find that stress effects are strongest in peripheral metabolic and endocrine organs, whereas classical stress-associated brain regions show comparatively modest changes. Cross-organ analyses reveal structured, tissue-specific responses rather than uniform shifts. Inhibition of the stress-regulated receptor NPBWR1 reverses both behavioral deficits and proteomic alterations across organs in both sexes, indicating that this state is dynamically modifiable. Integration with human serum proteomics identifies shared, sex-specific signatures. Across tissues, lipid metabolism emerges as a common stress-responsive pathway, confirmed by hepatic lipid remodeling that is normalized by NPBWR1 inhibition. To facilitate exploration of these data, we provide an interactive cross-organ web-based resource. Together, these findings challenge the brain-centric view of stress pathology and define chronic stress as an organism-wide molecular state.
Major depressive disorder affects more women than men, possibly due to sex-specific biological and environmental factors. Previous studies have shown that Galanin, as well as specific fragments of it, such as Galanin 1-15 [GAL(1-15)], play a crucial role in modulating depression in animal models by acting on brain regions like the hippocampus and dorsal raphe nuclei. Until now, its effects had only been studied in male rats, where GAL(1-15) produces depressive and anxiogenic behaviors in behavioral tests. This study analyzes, for the first time, the effects of GAL(1-15) on female rats and compares the expression of galaninergic and serotonergic genes between males and females to understand sex-dependent mechanisms in depression.For this purpose, the effect of GAL(1-15) administered intranasally in female rats was assessed, using validated behavioral tests for depression: the Forced Swim Test (FST) and the Tail Suspension Test (TST), as well as the anxiety behavior test: the Open Field Test (OFT). Furthermore, the expression of galaninergic genes (GAL, GALR1, GALR2, GALR3) and the 5-HT1A receptor was compared in untreated male and female rats using qPCR in key brain regions implicated in depressive disorder: the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), the dorsal hippocampus, and the prefrontal cortex (PFC).We demonstrated that GAL(1-15) intranasally administered in female rats strongly produced depressive behavior in the FST as well as in the TST. Moreover, in the anxiety test, intranasal GAL(1-15) at high doses produced anxiety behavior in the OFT. In addition, the qPCR study revealed that naïve female rats exhibited increased expression of the galaninergic system and 5-HT1A receptor compared to naïve male rats in the DR, dorsal hippocampus, and PFC, several nuclei implicated in depression.These results demonstrate the existence of sexual dimorphism in the galangergic system.These findings on sex-specific neurobiological variations are crucial for advancing toward more precise therapies tailored to the specific characteristics of each sex in the treatment of depression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic gastroenteropathy represents a frequent complication of diabetes mellitus, characterized by complex disturbances of gastrointestinal motility and neurochemical signaling. The neuropeptide B/W signaling system, consisting of neuropeptide B (NPB), neuropeptide W (NPW), and their receptors NPBWR1 and NPBWR2, has recently emerged as a potential modulator of metabolic and autonomic functions; however, its role within the gastrointestinal tract and its modulation by diabetes remains poorly understood. In this study, we systematically investigated the expression and functional relevance of the NPB/W signaling system along the gastrointestinal tract, using experimental models of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Adult lean Zucker rats, streptozotocin-treated rats, and Zucker Diabetic Fatty rats were examined at early and advanced stages of diabetes. Gene expression was assessed in multiple gastrointestinal regions using RT-qPCR, while protein expression and localization in the colon were also analyzed by Western blot and immunofluorescence. In addition, ex vivo colonic contractility was evaluated to determine functional responses to NPB and NPW. All components of the NPB/W signaling system were detected throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Diabetes induced region-specific and stage-dependent alterations in gene expression, with more pronounced changes observed in the insulin-deficient model. Both NPB and NPW exerted concentration-dependent inhibitory effects on colonic contractility. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that the NPB/W signaling system is an integral component of gastrointestinal regulation and is differentially affected by diabetes. These alterations may contribute to impaired colonic motility observed in diabetic gastroenteropathy and highlight the NPB/W pathway as a potential target for future therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sleep is essential for health and regulated by genetic and environmental factors. We perform genome-wide association studies of device-measured sleep duration, efficiency, and accelerometer-derived rapid eye movement (REM) and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep in 80,013 UK Biobank participants. We identify 20 autosomal loci, 12 of which have not been previously reported, including genome-wide significant associations for REM and NREM sleep duration. MEIS1 shows strong opposing effects on REM and NREM durations and is intolerant to loss-of-function mutations, suggesting an essential role in the regulation of REM/NREM sleep balance. Functional enrichment analysis identifies statistically significant pathways related to chromatin remodelling, lipid metabolism, and metal ion homeostasis while tissue enrichment analysis highlights significant signals in the hypothalamus and frontal cortex. Sex-stratified analyses identify distinct loci, including FOXP2 and NRXN3 in females and LRP1B, NPBWR2, and PABPC4 in males. Mendelian randomization supports associations between shorter sleep duration and higher cardiometabolic risk. These findings highlight sex- and phase-specific regulators of human sleep architecture, providing biological insights and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41828781 is a review article
Obesity is characterized by pathological adipose tissue expansion and dysregulated energy homeostasis. In this study, we examined whether KBN2201 attenuates high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity-associated phenotypes and whether these effects are accompanied by changes in appetite-regulatory markers. C57BL/6J mice were fed a normal chow diet or HFD and orally administered vehicle or KBN2201 (20 mg/kg/day) for 12 weeks. In male mice, KBN2201 reduced HFD-induced body weight gain, adipose tissue accumulation, and adipocyte hypertrophy. KBN2201 was also associated with lower cage-level caloric intake under HFD-fed conditions. In epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT), KBN2201 suppressed Srebf1 expression and reduced HFD-induced increases in Tnf and Tgfb1 expression. In the colon, KBN2201 further increased Pyy mRNA expression, and a positive mRNA-level association was observed between colonic Pyy and Npy2r expression in NTS-containing brainstem tissue. Behavioral analyses provided no evidence of overt locomotor suppression under the present experimental conditions. These findings suggest that KBN2201 attenuates HFD-induced obesity-associated phenotypes in male mice, accompanied by a lower cage-level food intake pattern, reduced adipose tissue expansion, and changes in the expression of colonic Pyy and NTS-containing brainstem Npy2r.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42486760
To date, effective preventive and therapeutic strategies for early-stage bradyarrhythmia remain limited.We first calculated two well-established biological aging (BA) measures (Klemera-Doubal Method [KDM] and Phenotypic Age [PhenoAge]), with BA acceleration defined as the residual from regressing each BA measure on chronological age. Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the effects of BA acceleration on bradyarrhythmia risk. We then conducted epigenetic Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses to prioritize aging-related DNA methylation CpG sites for bradyarrhythmias.In the UK Biobank cohort of 298,214 individuals, per 1-SD increase in PhenoAge acceleration and KDM-BA acceleration were significantly associated with a 13% (HR = 1.13, 95% CI 1.11-1.15, P < 0.001) and 11% (HR = 1.11, 95% CI 1.09-1.13, P < 0.001) higher incidence of bradyarrhythmia. Epigenetic MR and colocalization analyses suggested that cg11410859 (SCN5A), cg18249173 (TBX20), cg07185587 (AKAP6), cg16555537 (TRIP6), cg10459018, cg03473532 (MKLN1), and cg13654588 (PRLHR) were associated with a reduced risk of bradyarrhythmias, whereas cg25286333 (RNF207) and cg02447380 (RAB42) were associated with an increased risk of bradyarrhythmias.In summary, our study elucidated the role of accelerated biological aging and underlying epigenetic modifications in bradyarrhythmia, providing novel insights into its prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
When exposed to noxious cutaneous stimuli, animals exhibit nocifensive behaviors, including rapid defensive reflexes that limit tissue damage and subsequent coping behaviors-most commonly licking of the affected area-that alleviate pain. Despite its ubiquity, the neural mechanism underlying pain relief through licking remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that Npy2r-Cre+ primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), a population of Aβ fibers that includes touch-sensitive, rapidly adapting low-threshold mechanoreceptors, are critical for this process. Mice lacking Npy2r-Cre+ neurons exhibited a significant prolongation of coping behavior duration, but not bout frequency, following intraplantar injection of capsaicin or formalin. Conversely, optogenetic activation of Npy2r-Cre+ neurons produced attenuating effects on irritant-induced pain. Electrophysiological analyses revealed that Npy2r-Cre+ neurons form functional synaptic connections with neurons in the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal dorsal horn (SDH) and that their activation suppressed C fiber-evoked excitation of neurons in lamina I of the SDH, a region implicated in nociceptive transmission to the brain. Together, these findings identify Npy2r-Cre+ DRG neurons as a key neural substrate for gating nociceptive transmission in the SDH and mediating pain relief through coping behaviors.
Nausea arises from activation of specialized neurons in the area postrema (AP)1-8. The AP also mediates much of the satiety produced by GLP1R agonists9-12, suggesting a broader role in non-aversive physiology, yet the functions of AP cell types are not well understood. Here, we have used optical recordings in behaving mice to systematically define the natural regulation of an array of AP neurons, including the cell types that are principal targets of widely-used weight loss drugs. We discover that neurons expressing GFRAL, the receptor for the sickness-related hormone GDF15, are unexpectedly activated when mice consume food rich in fat. This fat-specific GFRAL neuron activation is required for fat satiation but does not involve GDF15 or canonical gut-brain pathways. Instead, "anti-nausea" neurons expressing GIPR, which directly inhibit GFRAL neurons, are selectively activated by sugar, enabling macronutrient-specific gating of GFRAL responses. In addition, we show that CALCR neurons link intestinal hyperosmolality to the suppression of feeding, whereas PRLHR neurons respond to changes in blood volume and pressure. These findings reveal a broad role for AP cell types in sensing and responding to physiologic signals unrelated to nausea. They also reveal that GFRAL and GIPR neurons, which are key targets of the weight-loss drug tirzepatide, have a natural function in sensing ingestion of fat and sugar, respectively.
Women of advanced age exhibit significant heterogeneity in ovarian reserve, categorized as normal (NOR) or diminished (DOR). This study aims to distinguish physiological age-related decline from pathological accelerated aging in DOR, and to explore underlying molecular mechanisms for optimizing assisted reproductive strategies. In vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) outcomes were retrospectively compared in advanced-age women (≥ 40 years) with NOR or DOR treated at our center (January 2022 - December 2024). Simultaneously, follicular fluid (FF) was collected from both groups (n = 20). After centrifugation, metabolomic analysis was performed on metabolites, and transcriptomic sequencing on isolated granulosa cells (GCs). Despite comparable fertilization and cleavage-stage embryo quality, the DOR group showed significantly lower rates of oocyte maturation, blastocyst formation, clinical pregnancy, and live birth (P < 0.05). Metabolomic analysis revealed 28 differential metabolites (DMs) in FF, primarily enriched in galactose metabolism. Transcriptomics of GCs identified 246 differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRNAs), prominently enriched in immune-related pathways. Protein-protein interaction analysis highlighted five hub genes (CX3CR1, CD69, FCER1A, EOMES, SPRR2A). Integrated analysis of the top 50 DEmRNAs with the top 400 DEmRNA-DM correlation pairs identified five key genes-IGLC3, RNVU1-29, FAM110C, NPY2R, and KCNN4-bridging GC transcriptome and FF metabolome, with key pairs including RNVU1-29 with lysylhydroxyproline and a sterane derivative, and FAM110C with 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid. In conclusion, DOR in advanced age may represent a distinct pathological aging state characterized by a dysregulated follicular microenvironment potentially shaped by immune activation and metabolic reprogramming. The identified key gene-metabolite pairs offer candidate molecular links to compromised oocyte developmental competence.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Radiotherapy is a cornerstone for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), yet its efficacy is severely hampered by intrinsic radioresistance, the molecular basis of which remains elusive, and overcoming this resistance poses a persistent challenge for GBM therapeutics. This study aims to identify novel key regulators of radiosensitivity in glioblastoma (GBM), with the goal of developing potent radiosensitizers. By analyzing patient cohorts, we identified prolactin-releasing hormone receptor (PRLHR) as a differentially expressed molecule, with significantly elevated levels in glioma specimens from the long PFS group compared to the short PFS group. This discovery prompted us to investigate PRLHR's role in modulating GBM radiosensitivity and DNA repair. Using in vitro and in vivo models, we found PRLHR overexpression enhanced GBM radiosensitivity by promoting DNA damage accumulation and attenuating repair pathways. Mechanistically, PRLHR interacts with Y-box-binding protein-1 (YBX1), inhibiting its nuclear translocation to reduce nuclear YBX1 levels, thereby compromising DNA repair efficiency. We further demonstrated repressor element-1 binding transcription factor (REST) directly binds the PRLHR promoter to transcriptionally repress its expression. Notably, degradation of REST by the antagonist X5050 upregulated PRLHR, increased DNA damage, and enhanced the therapeutic efficacy of radiotherapy in preclinical models. Our findings delineate PRLHR as a critical regulator of GBM radiosensitivity and establish X5050 as a promising radiosensitizing agent, offering a novel precision strategy to overcome radioresistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42325510 is a review article
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
We report a case of a uterine mesenchymal tumor with myogenic differentiation and SRF::RELA fusion occurring in a 23-year-old woman manifesting as an endometrial polyp. The tumor consisted of bland spindle cells with a predominantly fascicular growth pattern and entrapment of the endometrial glands and vessels. The tumor was positive for smooth muscle markers and CD10. NGS RNA analysis revealed SRF::RELA fusion. NGS DNA analysis revealed no pathogenic variants or copy-number alterations. On follow-up 12 months after curettage, the patient showed no signs of the disease. To the best of our knowledge, only 3 cases of uterine tumors with SRF::RELA fusion arising in the gynecologic tract have been described previously, and all show benign behavior so far. Differential diagnosis includes both benign and potentially aggressive entities, such as leiomyoma, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, uterine adenosarcoma, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and uterine sarcoma with KAT6B/A::KANSL1 fusion.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Delayed puberty in males requires differentiation between self-limited delay and congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH), including Kallmann syndrome (KS).We report an adolescent male presenting with delayed puberty and anosmia, consistent with KS. Hormonal evaluation confirmed CHH, and MRI demonstrated olfactory bulb agenesis. Targeted next-generation sequencing identified two heterozygous variants in functionally related genes: a pathogenic nonsense variant in PROK2 and a missense variant in PROKR2 classified as a variant of uncertain significance. Given their ligand-receptor relationship, oligogenic analysis was performed. The variant combination was prioritized as highly likely disease-causing by ORVAL/VarCoPP and further supported by OLIDA-based interpretation, providing objective evidence for digenic inheritance. Parental segregation confirmed trans inheritance.To our knowledge, this is the first report with objective support for the high likelihood of the existence of a digenic etiology in a patient with CHH, based on the use of OLIDA, which provides a standardized framework for the interpretation of oligogenic combinations. These findings highlight the contribution of multilocus variation to CHH and underscore the need for standardized approaches to interpret oligogenic mechanisms in clinical practice.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Guanosine tetraphosphate and pentaphosphate, collectively known as (p)ppGpp, are central alarmones that regulate the bacterial stringent response to nutrient limitation and environmental stress. In the plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) strain 8004, (p)ppGpp metabolism is primarily governed by RelA/SpoT homologue (RSH) enzymes, including the monofunctional synthetase RelA, the bifunctional synthetase-hydrolase SpoT, and a small alarmone hydrolase SAH. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing RelA activity in Xcc 8004 remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we leverage the utilization of nitrate-induced nitrogen limitation, stemming from the inherently limited nitrate assimilation capacity exhibited by Xcc 8004, to investigate the intricacies of physiological and molecular regulatory processes within the stringent response. The results show that under nitrogen-limited conditions, phosphorylated NtrC transcriptionally activates relA, resulting in increased (p)ppGpp accumulation. This activation induces the NasT antitermination system, and promoting the expression of the nitrite reductase subunit nirD. The NirD directly interacts with the TGS and hydrolase domains of RelA, attenuating its synthetase activity and thereby preventing excessive (p)ppGpp production. Collectively, these findings delineate an NtrC-dependent regulatory circuit that couples nitrogen sensing to post-translational control of RelA via NirD, thereby ensuring balanced (p)ppGpp homeostasis during nitrogen stress. This work reveals a hitherto unrecognized mechanism for fine-tuning the stringent response in an aerobic plant pathogen and highlights the integration of nitrogen metabolism with stress signaling to optimize bacterial adaptation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Occupational exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) or metal fumes in the workplace may be detrimental to male fertility. The present study compared sperm concentration, total motility, strict morphology and oxidative stress and SDF levels between 81 men, controls (n = 17) and workers from plastic industry workers (n = 18), steel EAF process (n = 15), waste incineration plants (n = 16) or aluminium factories smelting in the same plant for all workplaces involved in this cross-sectional research. In all treated groups, the sperm concentration, motility, normal morphology, acrosome integrity and membrane function dropped significantly compared with those in controls (p < 0.001). Elevated ROS, MDA and low SOD and CAT activities confirmed the presence of severe oxidoreductive imbalance, particularly in Aluminium and incineration workers. DNA breaks assayed by SCD and comet showed a clear positive exposure-response relationship with the highest OTM in aluminium workers. Network pharmacologic work showed that 67 shared targets were regulated by PAH exposure and male infertility. The hub gene analysis pointed at EGFR, ESR1, RELA, PTGS2, MMP2 and MMP9 as the core hub genes while KEGG enrichment suggested that the HIF-1 and TNF-related inflammatory pathway, along with the endocrine disruption side of stress activating signalling, was involved. Inflammatory signal activation and endocrine disturbance together seemed to end up with really severe damage to sperm DNA, and it also turned on a bunch of mechanisms through which these chemical carcinogens can exert effect. ROS and MDA were negatively correlated with motility as well as sperm concentration significantly (p < 0.05), whereas antioxidant enzymes showed a positive correlation. These findings show how PAH-related industrial poisoning disrupts important reproductive output through ROS-mediated genetic instability and suggest the relevance of protection measures in high-risk industries.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Does NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2) play a role in the dysregulation of granulosa cells in polyendocrine metabolic ovarian syndrome (PMOS), which is a common endocrine disorder and a leading cause of anovulatory infertility, and what are its underlying regulatory mechanisms?The mRNA expression levels of NR5A2 and related genes were assessed in human granulosa cells (HGCs) isolated from patients with or without PMOS. To investigate the effects of NR5A2 on inflammation and proliferation of granulosa cells, as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms, in-vitro experiments were conducted using the KGN human granulosa-like cell line.Overexpression of NR5A2 promoted cell proliferation and induced G1-to-S phase transition in KGN cells, at least in part by upregulating cyclin D1 (CCND1) expression. NR5A2 acted as a co-activator of NF-κB p65 (also known as RelA) by increasing its phosphorylation and nuclear localization, thereby increasing CCND1 expression through transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, NR5A2 regulated the IL-1β positive self-regulatory loop via the NF-κB p65 signalling pathway.Up-regulated NR5A2 may contribute to chronic inflammation and aberrant proliferation of granulosa cells by increasing NF-κB p65 activity. These findings highlight NR5A2 as a potential therapeutic target for ameliorating ovarian dysfunction in patients with PMOS.Copyright © 2026 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recurrent implantation failure (RIF) is a major challenge in reproductive medicine. This study explores the expression profiles and interactions of progesterone receptor B (PGR-B), prokineticin 1 (PROK1), prokineticin receptor 1 (PROKR1), and their regulatory associations with microRNA-210-5p (miR-210-5p) and long non-coding RNA H19 (lncRNA-H19) within endometrial tissue. This case-control study was conducted from June 2021 to July 2023, involving 50 patients with recurrent implantation failure (RIF) and a control group of 50 women with successful term pregnancies. Participants were recruited from Arash Hospital in Tehran, Iran. Hysteroscopic assessments were done for the RIF group, while the control group had sampling via Pipelle catheter. We measured the expression levels of key molecular markers, including PGR-B, PROK1, PROKR1, lncRNA-H19, and miR-210-5p, using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Our findings demonstrate significantly low expression and protein levels of PGR-B and PROK1, suggesting a potential dysregulation of these biomolecules in the studied context. Notably, we observed a strong positive correlation between PGR-B and PROKR1, suggesting a synergistic regulatory relationship, potentially influencing endometrial signaling pathways. Conversely, in fertile women, PGR-B and PROK1 exhibited a positive correlation with miR-210-5p, implicating miR-210-5p as a potential activator of PGR-B downstream pathways. Additionally, a positive correlation between PGR-B and PROK1 with lncRNA-H19 was identified, hinting at a complex regulatory network involving these non-coding RNAs. Our findings indicated that a regulatory network involving PGR‑B, PROK1, PROKR1, lncRNA‑H19, and miR‑210‑5p in women with RIF. The significant correlation between these molecules underscores the importance of angiogenesis, a novel mechanistic link to impaired decidualization and endometrial receptivity. It provides new insight into the molecular basis of implantation failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Direct somatic cell-to-neuronal fate reprogramming (induced neurons, iNs) is valuable for translational and basic research. N6-Methyladenosine (m6A), the most prevalent mRNA epitranscriptomic modification, is critical for neural biology, but its role in iN reprogramming remains elusive. Using our induced retinal ganglion cell-like neuron (iRGC) system, we found dynamic m6A epitranscriptomic adjustments during iRGC reprogramming. Mettl3, the core component of the m6A methyltransferase complex, promoted iRGC fate reprogramming and axon development. Integrated RNA-seq/MeRIP-seq analyses and gene function interrogations identified three m6A-modified genes (Prokr1, Rspo1, and Fmo2) as key mediators of Mettl3 effects. Collectively, our study elucidated the essential roles and molecular mechanisms of the m6A epitranscriptomic modification in neuronal fate reprogramming and axon development. These findings could aid future investigations designed to improve neuronal fate and axon regeneration outcomes for therapeutic purposes to treat neurodegenerative diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Endometrial polyps are hyperplastic overgrowths of the endometrium that contain both glands and stroma. Myoma uteri is the most common benign tumor of the female pelvis and uterus. HOXA10, which is involved during the organogenesis of the uterus in the embryonic period. The aim of this study was to compare the expression levels of infertility-related genes in endometrial tissue obtained from patients with endometrial polyp and myoma uteri and from healthy controls. A total of 36 patients, including 15 women with endometrial polyp and 21 women with myoma uteri, and 23 healthy controls were enrolled in the study. All patients were evaluated using transvaginal ultrasonography. Endometrial tissue samples were collected from the patient and control groups between the 19th and 21st days of the menstrual cycle. Expression levels of the receptivity markers PROK1, PROKR1, PROK2, PROKR2 and HOXA10 genes were determined by RT- PCR. When the patients diagnosed with endometrial polyp and the healthy controls were compared, it was observed statistically significantly that the expression of PROKR1 increased in endometrium tissue of patients with endometrial polyp (p < 0.05). In patients diagnosed with myoma uteri, gene expression levels of endometrial PROKR1 was statistically significant increased and gene expression levels of PROK1, PROKR2, HOXA10 were found to be statistically significantly decreased compared to the controls (p < 0.05). Changes in the endometrial expression of the HOXA10 and prokineticin gene family in patients with myoma uteri and endometrial polyps may explain certain aspects of infertility in these patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
Muscle diseases are serious challenges to human health. Prokineticin receptor 1 (PROKR1) has emerged as a potential target to improve muscle function through increasing oxidative muscle fibres, but there are no clinically applicable synthetic PROKR1 agonists.Drugs with biological properties of prokineticin 2 (PK2) were discovered through connectivity map (CMap) analysis. Their effects on PROKR1 were evaluated using molecular docking, PROKR1 signalling and competitive binding assays. Pregnant dams were fed diets containing varying celecoxib concentrations (0, 500, 1000 and 1500 ppm) from gestation day 5 through weaning. Offspring were given high-fat diets (HFD) from weaning until 20 weeks old, and body composition, insulin resistance, energy expenditure, exercise performance and histological analysis of muscle tissues were evaluated.Celecoxib, with a connectivity score of 64.19 to PK2 and a docking score of -9.0 to PROKR1, selectively activated Gs signalling at 4 μM of EC50 and increased NR4A2 protein levels by 1.6-fold (p < 0.01) in PROKR1-overexpressing cells. It competitively inhibited PK2 binding to PROKR1 and reduced cAMP accumulation. In murine and human myotubes, celecoxib increased Prokr1 protein levels by 1.8-fold (p < 0.05), pCreb by 1.5-fold (p < 0.05) and Nr4a2 by 1.3-fold (p < 0.05). It also elevated Myh7 index by 2.2-fold (p < 0.0001), mitochondrial content by 1.6-fold (p < 0.001) and fatty acid oxidation (FAO) activity by 4.1-fold (p < 0.05). Offspring exposed to celecoxib during pre- and postnatal muscle development exhibited activated Prokr1 signalling, enhanced oxidative muscle fibre formation and improved muscle phenotype despite HFD. At weaning, both male and female offspring showed dose-dependent increases in lean mass (> 9.35%, p < 0.001) and grip strength (< 18.0%, p < 0.01). At 12 weeks old, mice displayed a dose-dependent decrease in weight loss (> 13.3%, p < 0.05), increased lean mass (> 16.2%, p < 0.05), improved insulin resistance (> 70.4%, p < 0.0001), energy expenditure (> 173%, p < 0.0001) and grip strength (> 23.5%, p < 0.001). Celecoxib also increased Myh7-positive muscle fibre composition (> 10.8%, p < 0.05) and mitochondrial mass (> 32.8%, p < 0.05) in the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, accompanied by significant Prokr1 signalling activation. These effects persisted in both male and female mice at 20 weeks old.Celecoxib shows promise as a PROKR1 agonist and clinically applicable exercise mimetic for the treatment of muscular disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Prokineticin 1 (PROK1) is an important factor in pregnancy establishment in pigs, acting at the embryo-maternal interface and the corpus luteum (CL). Estradiol-17β (E2) is the primary pregnancy recognition signal in pigs, and its effects are augmented by luteotropic prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). On the contrary, prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α) exerts mainly a luteolytic effect. The present study aimed to elucidate whether E2, PGE2, and PGF2α regulate the expression of PROK1 and its receptors in the porcine CL and to determine the PROK1 effect on luteal endothelial cells and pathways that may be involved in this regulation. The effects of E2, PGE2, and PGF2α on the expressions of PROK1 and its receptors in the CL were studied using an in vitro model of ultrathin luteal tissue explants model. Additionally, the effects of E2 and PGE2 on the PROK1 system were determined using an in vivo approach, in which the hormones were administered into the uterine lumen to imitate their secretion by embryos. Endothelial cell proliferation was measured using the colorimetric method. E2 acting via estrogen receptors simulated the mRNA and protein expressions of PROK1 and PROKR1 in CL explants in vitro (p < 0.05). The simultaneous action of E2 with PGE2 enhanced the expression of luteal PROK1 mRNA in vitro (p < 0.05). Estradiol-17β acting alone significantly increased PROK1 mRNA levels in vivo, whereas E2 simultaneously administered with PGE2 significantly elevated the PROK1 mRNA expression and PROKR1 mRNA and protein contents in CLs adjacent to uterine horns receiving hormonal infusion compared with CLs adjacent to placebo-treated uterine horns (p < 0.01). The PROK1 protein expression was significantly higher in the CLs of pigs treated with E2, PGE2, and E2 together with PGE2 than in the control group. PGF2α increased the PROK1 mRNA content in CLs on days 12 and 14 of the estrous cycle (p < 0.05). The expression of PROKR2 at the mRNA and protein levels remained unchanged in response to in vitro and in vivo treatments. PROK1 stimulated the proliferation of luteal endothelial cells by activating the MAPK, AKT, and mTOR pathways (p < 0.05). In summary, the luteal expressions of PROK1 and PROKR1 in early pregnancy are regulated by E2 and PGE2. PROK1 stimulates luteal angiogenesis by activating the MAPK, AKT, and mTOR pathways. The regulation of luteal PROK1 expression by PGF2α indicates PROK1's putative role during luteolysis. We conclude that PROK1-PROKR1 signaling supports luteal function during CL rescue in pregnancy in pigs.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The primary objective of this study is to conduct a comprehensive screening and analysis of differentially expressed genes related to disulfidoptosis (DEDRGs) in thyroid carcinoma (THCA). This entails delving into the intricate characterization of immune cell infiltration within the THCA context and subsequently formulating and validating a novel prognostic model.To achieve our objectives, we first delineated two distinct subtypes of disulfidoptosis-related genes (DRGs) via consensus clustering methodology. Subsequently, employing the limma R package, we identified the DEDRGs critical for our investigation. These DEDRGs underwent meticulous validation across various databases, alongside an in-depth analysis of gene regulation. Employing functional enrichment techniques, we explored the potential molecular mechanisms underlying disulfidoptosis in THCA. Furthermore, we scrutinized the immune landscape within the two identified subtypes utilizing CIBERSORT and ESTIMATE algorithms. The construction of the prognostic model for THCA entailed intricate methodologies including univariate, multivariate Cox regression, and LASSO regression algorithms. The validity and efficacy of our prognostic model were corroborated through Kaplan-Meier survival curves and ROC curves. Additionally, a nomogram was meticulously formulated to facilitate the prediction of patient prognosis. To fortify our findings, we conducted a comprehensive Bayesian co-localization analysis coupled with rigorous in vitro experimentation, aimed at unequivocally establishing the validity of the identified DEDRGs.Our analyses unveiled Cluster C1, characterized by elevated expression levels of DEDRGs, as harboring a favorable prognosis accompanied by abundant immune cell infiltration. Correlation analyses underscored predominantly positive associations among the DEDRGs, further affirming their significance in THCA. Differential expression patterns of DEDRGs between tumor samples and normal tissues were evident across the GEPIA and HPA databases. Insights from the TIMER database underscored a robust correlation between DEDRGs and immune cell infiltration. KEGG analysis elucidated the enrichment of DEDRGs primarily in pivotal pathways including MAPK, PPAR signaling pathway, and Proteoglycans in cancer. Furthermore, analyses using CIBERSORT and ESTIMATE algorithms shed light on the crucial role played by DEDRGs in shaping the immune microenvironment. The prognostic model, anchored by five genes intricately associated with THCA prognosis, exhibited commendable predictive accuracy and was intricately linked to the tumor immune microenvironment. Notably, patients categorized with low-risk scores stood to potentially benefit more from immunotherapy. The validation of DEDRGs unequivocally underscores the protective role of INF2 in THCA.In summary, our study delineates two discernible subtypes intricately associated with DRGs, revealing profound disparities in immune infiltration and survival prognosis within the THCA milieu. The implications of our findings extend to potential treatment strategies for THCA patients, which could entail targeted interventions directed towards DEDRGs and prognostic genes, thereby influencing disulfidptosis and the immune microenvironment. Moreover, the robust predictive capability demonstrated by our prognostic model, based on the five genes (ANGPTL7, FIRRE, ODAPH, PROKR1, SFRP5), underscores its potential clinical utility in guiding personalized therapeutic approaches for THCA patients.
Metabolic disorders are characterized by an imbalance in muscle fiber composition, and a potential therapeutic approach involves increasing the proportion of oxidative muscle fibers. Prokineticin receptor 1 (PROKR1) is a G protein-coupled receptor that plays a role in various metabolic functions, but its specific involvement in oxidative fiber specification is not fully understood. Here, we investigated the functions of PROKR1 in muscle development to address metabolic disorders and muscular diseases. A meta-analysis revealed that the activation of PROKR1 upregulated exercise-responsive genes, particularly nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 2 (NR4A2). Further investigations using ChIP-PCR, luciferase assays, and pharmacological interventions demonstrated that PROKR1 signaling enhanced NR4A2 expression by Gs-mediated phosphorylation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB) in both mouse and human myotubes. Genetic and pharmacological interventions showed that the PROKR1-NR4A2 axis promotes the specification of oxidative muscle fibers in both myocytes by promoting mitochondrial biogenesis and metabolic function. Prokr1-deficient mice displayed unfavorable metabolic phenotypes, such as lower lean mass, enlarged muscle fibers, impaired glucose, and insulin tolerance. These mice also exhibited reduced energy expenditure and exercise performance. The deletion of Prokr1 resulted in decreased oxidative muscle fiber composition and reduced activity in the Prokr1-CREB-Nr4a2 pathway, which were restored by AAV-mediated Prokr1 rescue. In summary, our findings highlight the activation of the PROKR1-CREB-NR4A2 axis as a mechanism for increasing the oxidative muscle fiber composition, which positively impacts overall metabolic function. This study lays an important scientific foundation for the development of effective muscular-metabolic therapeutics with unique mechanisms of action.
Prokineticins are a family of small proteins with diverse roles in various tissues, including the brain. However, their specific effects on different cerebral cell types and blood-brain barrier (BBB) function remain unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of PROK1 and PROK2 on murine cerebral cell lines, bEnd.3, C8.D30, and N2a, corresponding to microvascular endothelial cells, astrocytes and neurons, respectively, and on an established BBB co-culture model. Western blot analysis showed that prokineticin receptors (PROKR1 and PROKR2) were differentially expressed in the considered cell lines. The effect of PROK1 and PROK2 on cell proliferation and migration were assessed using time-lapse microscopy. PROK1 decreased neural cells' proliferation, while it had no effect on the proliferation of endothelial cells and astrocytes. In contrast, PROK2 reduced the proliferation of all cell lines tested. Both PROK1 and PROK2 increased the migration of all cell lines. Blocking PROKRs with the PROKR1 antagonist (PC7) and the PROKR2 antagonist (PKR-A) inhibited astrocyte PROK2-mediated migration. Using the insert co-culture model of BBB, we demonstrated that PROKs increased BBB permeability, which could be prevented by PROKRs' antagonists.
The role of short chain fatty acid, acetate in cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction especially in PCOS individuals is unknown. Therefore, the present study investigated the modulatory role of GPCRs (41 and 43) by acetate on cardiac mitochondrial status in PCOS rat model. Eight-week-old female Wistar rats were randomly allotted into four groups (n = 5). Polycystic ovarian syndrome was induced by administering letrozole (1 mg/kg p.o.) once daily for 21 days, thereafter the animals were treated with 200 mg/kg (oral gavage) of acetate for six weeks. Letrozole-induced PCOS rats showed elevated circulating testosterone and anti-mullerian hormone, with multiple ovarian cysts. In addition, these rats also manifested insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and increased plasma triglyceride (TG), TG/HDLc and decreased HDLc, as well as elevated level of cardiac TG, glycogen, glycogen synthase, and plasma/cardiac NF-kB, TNF-α, and SDF-1. Cardiac MDA and caspase-6 increased, while plasma/cardiac NrF2 decreased in PCOS animals. A decrease in mitochondrial ATP synthase, ATP/AMP ratio, CPT2 and SDH, and increased HDAC2 were observed in PCOS rats with decreased level of GPCR 41 and 43 when compared with control. Immunohistochemical evaluation of cardiac tissue also showed decrease expression of PROKR1 in PCOS rats compared with control rats. However, treatment with acetate reversed these systemic, cardiac and mitochondrial anomalies. The present results suggest the therapeutic benefit of acetate, an HDAC2i against cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction in PCOS rat model, by attenuating cardiac inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis and these effects are accompanied by modulation of GPCR41 and 43 as well as increased expression of PROKR1.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Prokineticin 1 (PROK1) is a pleiotropic factor secreted by endocrine glands; however, its role has not been studied in the corpus luteum (CL) during pregnancy in any species. The present study aimed to investigate the contribution of PROK1 in regulating processes related to porcine CL function and regression: steroidogenesis, luteal cell apoptosis and viability, and angiogenesis. The luteal expression of PROK1 was greater on Days 12 and 14 of pregnancy compared to Day 9. PROK1 protein expression during pregnancy increased gradually and peaked on Day 14, when it was also significantly higher than that on Day 14 of the estrous cycle. Prokineticin receptor 1 (PROKR1) mRNA abundance increased on Days 12 and 14 of pregnancy, whereas PROKR2 elevated on Day 14 of the estrous cycle. PROK1, acting via PROKR1, stimulated the expression of genes involved in progesterone synthesis, as well as progesterone secretion by luteal tissue. PROK1-PROKR1 signaling reduced apoptosis and increased the viability of luteal cells. PROK1 acting through PROKR1 stimulated angiogenesis by increasing capillary-like structure formation by luteal endothelial cells and elevating angiogenin gene expression and VEGFA secretion by luteal tissue. Our results indicate that PROK1 regulates processes vital for maintaining luteal function during early pregnancy and the mid-luteal phase.© 2023. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42256349 is a review article
The human relaxin family peptide receptors RXFP3 and RXFP4 play important physiological roles through interactions with endogenous hormones, relaxin-3 and insulin-like peptide 5 (INSL5). They are implicated in certain neurological and metabolic disorders. While INSL5 only activates RXFP4, relaxin-3 is recognized by both receptors. Here, we report the cryo-electron microscopy structures of RXFP3-Gi complexes bound by relaxin-3 or a small-molecule dual agonist (compound 4), and relaxin-3 in complex with RXFP4-Gi, with global resolutions of 2.91 Å, 2.95 Å, and 3.10 Å, respectively. It is found that relaxin-3 adopts a conserved binding conformation within the transmembrane domain (TMD) bundle of RXFP3 and RXFP4, where the C-terminal tip residues of its B chain, R26 and W27, make extensive contacts with conserved receptor residues, thereby activating RXFP3 and RXFP4. Compound 4 mimics these key interactions by binding to both receptors. In contrast, the C-terminal residues composition and TMD-binding angle of INSL5 in RXFP4 differ significantly from that of relaxin-3, ensuring its selectivity for RXFP4. These findings deepen our understanding about the structural basis of ligand recognition and selectivity in this G protein-coupled receptor subfamily.© 2025. The Author(s).
Constipation is a common gastrointestinal disorder often treated symptomatically as the existing therapies all have significant side-effects. The relaxin/insulin-like family peptide receptor 4 (RXFP4), a class A G protein-coupled receptor, has emerged as a potential drug target for this indication as it regulates intestinal motility. Here, we investigated the therapeutic effects of both peptidic (insulin-like peptide 5, INSL5) and small molecule (DC591053) RXFP4 agonists on loperamide-induced constipation in mice. Fecal water content, fecal weight, colonic transit time, and serum levels of neurotransmitters such as nitric oxide (NO), serotonin (5-HT), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) were assessed, in conjunction with the examination of colon tissue histology and expression levels of aquaporin 3 (AQP3), transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). It was found that both INSL5 and DC591053 dose-dependently increased fecal water content and weight, accelerated colonic transit, and improved colon morphology in constipated mice, accompanied by the altered expression levels of factors related to constipation. Comparative analysis revealed that while the two agonists produced similar beneficial outcomes, their different chemical nature may affect pharmacokinetics property and receptor engagement. Our results suggest that the activation of RXFP4 presents a novel approach to alleviating constipation.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Relaxin-3/RXFP3 antagonism is a novel strategy for drug development to treat alcohol use disorder (AUD). We recently discovered the first-in-class RXFP3 negative allosteric modulators (NAMs), represented by RLX-33, which significantly reduced alcohol consumption in rats. In this study, we report the design and synthesis of a series of diphenyl-1,2,4-oxadiazole analogues derived from RLX-33. Structure-activity relationship studies of sites A and B of RLX-33 revealed that the aromatic ring at site A is not required for RXFP3 allosteric modulation and the pyrrolidone linker at site B could be replaced with a cyclic or linear alkylamine. Compound (R,R)-3 has improved potency and ADME properties (e.g., solubility and metabolic stability) compared to RLX-33, while maintaining high receptor subtype selectivity over RXFP1 and RXFP4. Importantly, (R,R)-3 significantly attenuated alcohol self-administration without affecting sucrose self-administration and general locomotor activity in rats, demonstrating the potential of RXFP3 NAMs as promising drug candidates for AUD.
Insulin-like peptide 5 (INSL5) targets the G protein-coupled receptor, relaxin family peptide receptor 4 (RXFP4), predominantly coexpressed in the colorectum. While INSL5 also binds to the related receptor RXFP3, it does not activate it. The INSL5/RXFP4 axis is a promising target for treating gastrointestinal disorders such as constipation. Despite its therapeutic potential, the clinical application of INSL5 has been hindered by synthesis complexities, necessitating the need for more accessible yet potent mimetics. In this study, we engineered an INSL5 analogue A13:B7-24-GG, featuring a simplified two-chain, two-disulfide scaffold with 32 amino acids, as opposed to the 45 amino acids found in native INSL5 (two-chain, three-disulfide), improving the synthesis yield by 19.5-fold. Additionally, A13:B7-24-GG demonstrates ∼4-fold higher potency (EC50 = 1.17 nM vs 4.57 nM) and ∼11 times greater selectivity than native INSL5, with significantly reduced RXFP3 binding affinity, positioning it as a promising new therapeutic candidate for the treatment of constipation.
Human insulin-like peptide 5 (INSL5) is a gut hormone produced by colonic L-cells, and its biological functions are mediated by Relaxin Family Peptide Receptor 4 (RXFP4). Our preliminary data indicated that RXFP4 agonists are potential drug leads for the treatment of constipation. More recently, we designed and developed a novel RXFP4 antagonist, A13-nR that was shown to block agonist-induced activity in cells and animal models. We showed that A13-nR was able to block agonist-induced increases in colon motility in mice of both genders that express the receptor, RXFP4. Our data also showed that colorectal propulsion induced by intracolonic administration of short-chain fatty acids was antagonized by A13-nR. Therefore, A13-nR is an important research tool and potential drug lead for the treatment of colon motility disorders, such as bacterial diarrhea. However, A13-nR acted as a partial agonist at high concentrations in vitro and demonstrated modest antagonist potency (∼35 nM). Consequently, the primary objective of this study is to pinpoint novel modifications to A13-nR that eliminate partial agonist effects while preserving or augmenting antagonist potency. In this work, we detail the creation of a series of A13-nR-modified analogues, among which analogues 3, 4, and 6 demonstrated significantly improved RXFP4 affinity (∼3 nM) with reduced partial agonist activity, enhanced antagonist potency (∼10 nM) and maximum agonist inhibition (∼80 %) when compared with A13-nR. These compounds have potential as candidates for further preclinical evaluations, marking a significant stride toward innovative therapeutics for colon motility disorders.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
INSL5 and relaxin-3 are relaxin family peptides with important roles in gut and brain function, respectively. They mediate their actions through the class A GPCRs RXFP4 and RXFP3. RXFP4 has been proposed to be a therapeutic target for colon motility disorders whereas RXFP3 targeting could be effective for neurological conditions such as anxiety. Validation of these targets has been limited by the lack of specific ligands and the availability of robust ligand-binding assays for their development. In this study, we have utilized NanoBiT complementation to develop a SmBiT-conjugated tracer for use with LgBiT-fused RXFP3 and RXFP4. The low affinity between LgBiT:SmBiT should result in a low non-specific luminescence signal and enable the quantification of binding without the tedious separation of non-bound ligands. We used solid-phase peptide synthesis to produce a SmBiT-labelled RXFP3/4 agonist, R3/I5, where SmBiT was conjugated to the B-chain N-terminus via a PEG12 linker. Both SmBiT-R3/I5 and R3/I5 were synthesized and purified in high purity and yield. Stable HEK293T cell lines expressing LgBiT-RXFP3 and LgBiT-RXFP4 were produced and demonstrated normal signaling in response to the synthetic R3/I5 peptide. Binding was first characterized in whole-cell binding kinetic assays validating that the SmBiT-R3/I5 bound to both cell lines with nanomolar affinity with minimal non-specific binding without bound and free SmBiT-R3/I5 separation. We then optimized membrane binding assays, demonstrating easy and robust analysis of both saturation and competition binding from frozen membranes. These assays therefore provide an appropriate rigorous binding assay for the high-throughput analysis of RXFP3 and RXFP4 ligands.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38573177 is a review article
RXFP4 is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) in the relaxin family. It has recently been recognised that this receptor and its cognate ligand INSL5 may have a role in the regulation of food intake, gut motility, and other functions relevant to metabolic health and disease. Recent data from reporter-mice showed co-location of Rxfp4 and serotonin (5-HT) in the lower gut. We used human single-cell RNA sequence data (scRNASeq) to show that RXFP4 is in a subset of gut enterochromaffin cells that produce 5-HT in humans. We also used RNAScope to show co-location of Rxfp4 mRNA and 5-HT in mouse colon, confirming prior findings. To understand whether RXFP4 might regulate serotonin production, we developed a cell model using Colo320, a human gut-derived immortalised cell line that produces and releases serotonin. Overexpression of RXFP4 in these cells resulted in a constitutive decrease in cAMP levels in both the basal state and in cells treated with forskolin. Treatment of cells with two RXFP4 agonists, INSL5 derived peptide INSL5-A13 and small molecule compound-4, further reduced cAMP levels. This was paralleled by a reduction in expression of mRNA for TPH1, the enzyme controlling the rate limiting step in the production of serotonin. Overexpression of RXFP4 also attenuated the cAMP-induced release of serotonin from Colo320 cells. Together this demonstrates that serotonin producing enterochromaffin cells are the major site of RXFP4 expression in the gut and that RXFP4 can have inhibitory functional impacts on cAMP production as well as TPH1 expression and serotonin release.© 2023 The Author(s).
Members of the insulin superfamily regulate pleiotropic biological processes through two types of target-specific but structurally conserved peptides, insulin/insulin-like growth factors and relaxin/insulin-like peptides. The latter bind to the human relaxin family peptide receptors (RXFPs). Here, we report three cryo-electron microscopy structures of RXFP4-Gi protein complexes in the presence of the endogenous ligand insulin-like peptide 5 (INSL5) or one of the two small molecule agonists, compound 4 and DC591053. The B chain of INSL5 adopts a single α-helix that penetrates into the orthosteric pocket, while the A chain sits above the orthosteric pocket, revealing a peptide-binding mode previously unknown. Together with mutagenesis and functional analyses, the key determinants responsible for the peptidomimetic agonism and subtype selectivity were identified. Our findings not only provide insights into ligand recognition and subtype selectivity among class A G protein-coupled receptors, but also expand the knowledge of signaling mechanisms in the insulin superfamily.© 2023. The Author(s).
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common gut-brain axis disorder characterized by abdominal pain and altered bowel habits, and it shows high comorbidity with psychiatric disorders. However, the shared genetic mechanisms underlying these associations remain incompletely understood.We performed a large-scale meta-analysis of IBS in individuals of European ancestry by integrating genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics from the UK Biobank, Bellygenes, and the Million Veteran Program (MVP), thereby increasing statistical power to detect novel IBS loci. We further conducted global genetic correlation analyses with psychiatric traits, followed by multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) and conditional false discovery rate (condFDR) analyses to identify pleiotropic loci. Transcriptomic, methylomic, and expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) data were integrated to explore potential regulatory mechanisms.The meta-analysis identified up to ten previously unreported IBS loci, several of which were supported by colonic and brain eQTL effects. Global genetic correlation analyses confirmed substantial genetic overlap between IBS and psychiatric traits, particularly major depressive disorder and neuroticism. MTAG and condFDR analyses uncovered more than 100 pleiotropic loci, including signals at SORCS1, SLC35D1, COA1, and TLE1. Integrative analyses of transcriptome- and methylome-wide data highlighted regulatory mechanisms spanning colonic, immune, and neuronal tissues, supporting neuro-immune crosstalk and mitochondrial involvement.Our findings provide a comprehensive genetic characterization of IBS, refine its heritable basis, reveal pleiotropic links with psychiatric disorders, and implicate molecular pathways across the gut-brain axis. These results advance mechanistic understanding of IBS and may inform future therapeutic development for IBS and its psychiatric comorbidities.Copyright © 2026 Ye, Ding, Peng, Wang, Cheng, Zhang, Yu, Ullah, Chang, Wang and Wang.
Indigenous pig breeds represent valuable reservoirs of genetic diversity but face increasing risks of genetic erosion due to uncontrolled crossbreeding with commercial lines. The Ashanti Dwarf Pig (ADP) of Ghana is an important local genetic resource well-adapted to tropical environments but poorly characterised at the genomic level. Using high-density SNP data from the ADPs and publicly available datasets from other African, European, and Asian pig populations, we examined genetic diversity, population structure, inbreeding, and selection signatures. After quality control, 59,124 SNPs across 875 individuals were retained. ADPs exhibited high polymorphism (~99%) and moderate heterozygosity but also elevated inbreeding (FIS = 0.15; FROH = 0.40), indicating recent inbreeding under free-range management. Population structure revealed that ADPs cluster closely with other African pigs and European breeds more than Chinese breeds. ADMIXTURE analysis, however, indicated recent introgression from both European and Chinese lines. Selection scans revealed candidate genes linked to metabolism-Zinc Finger Ran-Binding Protein 3 (ZRANB3), growth-Sortilin Related VPS10 Domain Containing Receptor 1 (SORCS1), reproduction-Sus Scrofa Chromosome 9 quantitative trait loci (SSC9 QTLs), and immunity-Tudor Domain-Containing Protein 3 and CKLF-like MARVEL transmembrane Domain Containing 7 (TDRD3, CMTM7), reflecting adaptation to tropical production systems. Our results provide a comprehensive genomic characterisation of the ADP within a global context, revealing both genetic richness and vulnerability to genetic erosion. These findings underscore the importance of structured breeding and conservation strategies in preserving this unique African genetic resource and supporting sustainable pig production under changing climatic conditions.
Although genetic factors contribute to behavioral variation in working dogs, the underlying molecular determinants remain poorly understood. The sortilin-related VPS10 domain-containing receptor 1 (SORCS1) gene is highly expressed in the central nervous system and has been implicated in neuronal signaling and synaptic regulation. A preliminary genome-wide association study suggested an association between SORCS1 variants and guide dog training outcomes. However, this result relied on only 28 dogs and lacked sufficient statistical power. In this study, we expanded the sample size and evaluated the association between SORCS1 polymorphisms and behavioral suitability in 160 dogs, using pass/fail training outcomes as behavioral trait indicators. We initially validated 12 candidate SNPs within SORCS1 using Sanger sequencing in 64 dogs, revealing significant genotype-dependent differences for eight loci located in predicted intron 3. A tagging SNP (rs23402730, C > T) was subsequently genotyped in 160 dogs (65 successful and 95 unsuccessful). The strongest association was detected under a recessive model (CC + CT vs. TT), yielding P = 4.7 × 10 ⁻ ⁵ and an odds ratio (OR) of 4.11 (95% CI: 2.07-8.18). As allele frequencies and genetic relatedness varied among dogs, we further evaluated the association using generalized linear mixed-effects models adjusting for sex, breed, and family structure. In the full dataset (n = 159), the additive genotype remained statistically significant (β = 2.20, P = 4.5 × 10 ⁻ 4; OR = 8.98, 95% CI: 2.64-30.59). Moreover, we confirmed the association in a genetically homogeneous subset of 114 Labrador retrievers, independent of breed effects (P = 0.029; OR = 4.71, 95% CI: 1.17-18.99). These results suggest that variation in SORCS1 is associated with behavioral suitability in dogs, based on an expanded cohort with guide dog training outcomes. As behavior is polygenic, SORCS1 represents one contributing locus that may be informative for future genetic studies aimed at elucidating the molecular basis of canine behavior.Copyright: © 2026 Omi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The absence of non-European cohorts in genetic studies of neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders severely limits the understanding of their full genetic architecture and undermines implementation of precision medicine. Here, we directly addressed this issue by recruiting African Americans (AfrAms) with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and analyzing their rare and common genetic variation. We performed both global and local ancestry analyses to characterize the complex patterns of admixture at the individual level and compare genetic factors between European (EUR) and African (AFR) genetically inferred ancestries (GIAs) across multiple cohorts in a total of 38,483 autistic individuals. We showed consistent common variant genetic effect sizes for ASD in EUR and AFR GIAs through genome-wide association studies. We demonstrated the limited transferability of EUR-derived polygenic scores (PGSs) based on polygenic transmission disequilibrium and ancestry partial PGS analysis. We found significant autism association for high-impact rare copy number variants in both GIAs. We identified a set of candidate ASD loci based on rare deletions observed in AFR GIA carriers, including SMC2, DMTN, SORCS1, and ROGDI, and detected a signal for de novo missense variants of predicted low impact in AFR GIA individuals. Finally, we uncovered significant depletion of AFR GIA autistic carriers of rare variants in known associated genes found in EUR cohort studies. These findings are the first to detail common and rare variant genetic contributions to ASD in AfrAms and demonstrate that their involvement in neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders' genomic research is essential to advance discovery.
Epidemiological studies have shown a small but significantly increased risk of leukemia in children conceived by in vitro fertilization. Atypical DNA methylation patterns observed in pediatric cancers are suspected to occur in utero, and it is known that periconceptional conditions linked to assisted reproductive technologies (ART) are responsible for DNA methylation modifications.Using databases and systematic literature screens, we derived a list of cancer/leukemia genes (n = 1246 and n = 532 genes, respectively, corresponding to 1466 individual genes) and of differentially methylated genes (DMG) in leukemia (n = 2642) and pre-leukemia (n = 381). These lists were cross-referenced with DMG (n = 93) curated from 18 ART Epigenome-Wide Association Studies (EWAS) (2369 samples). Among the ART DMG, more than one-third (n = 33) were leukemia, and six were pre-leukemia DMG, all representing a significant enrichment. Seven of the enriched genes (NTM, PRSS16, SCAND3, SYCP1, TP73, ZNF184, and ISL1-DT) showed concordant methylation between ART and leukemia/pre-leukemia. Moreover, five of the ART DMG are known targets for somatic/germline alterations in leukemia: ATP10A, CHD2, FBRSL1, FGFR2, and SORCS1. The ART DMG were not significantly enriched in cancer genes, supporting the hypothesis that ART may not link broadly to any cancer type but rather to leukemia.This study indicates that relatively few genes that are known targets for somatic/germline mutation in cancer experience DNA methylation changes in individuals conceived through ART. By contrast, DNA methylation disturbances reported in leukemia represent more than one-third of those associated with ART conception, thus raising the question of their role in leukemia risk in ART-conceived individuals. Among them, a few critical genes such as TP73, a tumor suppressor, were shown to be targeted for hypermethylation, both in ART and leukemia, warranting further investigation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are widely used to treat schizophrenia (SCZ), but they often induce metabolic side effects like dyslipidemia and obesity. We conducted genome-wide association studies (GWASs) to identify genetic variants associated with SGA-induced lipid and BMI changes in Chinese SCZ patients. A longitudinal cohort of Chinese SCZ receiving SGAs was followed for up to 18.7 years (mean = 5.7 years, SD = 3.3 years). We analysed the patients' genotypes (N = 669), lipid profiles, and BMI using 19 316 prescription records and 3 917 to 7 596 metabolic measurements per outcome. Linear mixed models were employed to evaluate seven SGAs' random effects on metabolic changes for each patient, followed by GWAS and gene set analyses with Bonferroni and FDR correction. Five SNPs achieved p-value < 5 × 10-08 before multiple testing correction: rs6532055 (ABCG2) linked to olanzapine-induced LDL changes, rs2644520 (near SORCS1) linked to aripiprazole-induced triglyceride changes, rs115843863 (near UPP2) linked to clozapine-induced HDL changes, rs2514895 (near KIRREL3) linked to paliperidone-induced LDL changes, and rs188405603 (SLC2A9) linked to quetiapine-induced triglyceride changes. These five SNPs passed FDR correction at 0.2 but not Bonferroni-corrected genome-wide significance threshold (p-value < 3.125 × 10-10) for 160 GWAS analyses. Gene-based analysis revealed six genome-wide significant genes after Bonferroni correction (p-value < 2.73 × 10-6): ABCG2, APOA5, ZPR1, GCNT4, MAST2, and CRTAC1. Four gene sets were significantly associated with SGA-induced metabolic side effects. In summary, this pharmacogenetic GWAS identified several genetic variants potentially associated with SGA-induced metabolic side effects, potentially informing personalized treatment strategies to minimize metabolic risk in SCZ patients. Given our limited sample size, further replications are required to confirm the findings.© 2025. The Author(s).
Optimal triage option for high-risk HPV-positive (hrHPV) women remains uncertain. We aimed to utilize methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme-based quantitative PCR (MSRE-qPCR) technique and develop triple-target human gene methylation panels to improve detection of advanced cervical precancers and cancers (CIN3 +) among hrHPV women.Eighteen candidate genes were detected by MSRE-qPCR in cervical samples from hrHPV women. All possible triple-target panels from these genes were generated by logistic regression models with repeated ten-fold cross-validation on a training set of 1223 women (180 CIN3 +; 1043 < CIN3). Panels with the top two AUCs for CIN3 + on a validation set of 937 women (69 CIN3 +; 868 < CIN3) were ultimately selected for qPCR reconstruction, retesting, and retraining. Triage performance, screening efficiency and risk stratification of the selected panels were then compared with traditional triage strategies (cytology [ASCUS as the threshold, atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance], HPV16/18 genotyping, HPV16/18 genotyping combined with cytology [ASCUS]) within the validation set.Two panels were finally identified and validated for CIN3 + detection. Panel 1 includes JAM3, PCDHGB7, and SORCS1; while Panel 2 consists of PAX1, ZNF671, and ASCL1. Compared to traditional triage strategies, both panels demonstrated superior AUCs (Panel 1: 0.799; Panel 2: 0.790; Cytology: 0.532; HPV16/18 genotyping: 0.589; HPV16/18 + Cytology: 0.515; all PAUC < 0.001), with substantially higher specificities (83.06%; 86.98%; 29.49%; 72.93%; 14.52%), comparable sensitivities (76.81%; 71.01%; 76.81%; 44.93%; 88.41%), and requiring fewer colposcopies per CIN3 + case (3.77; 3.31; 12.55; 8.58; 13.16). However, Panel 1 and Panel 2 were statistically indistinguishable (PAUC = 0.603; Ratiosensitivity: 0.92 [0.76-1.13]; Ratiospecificity: 1.05 [1.01-1.08]). Unlike traditional strategies (CIN3 + risks: 5.59% ~ 17.97%), women tested negative on either panel had immediate CIN3 + risks below 3% (Panel 1: 2.17%; Panel 2: 2.58%), supporting safe deferral for at least one year.Two triple-target human gene methylation panels were successfully developed, each integrated into a single MSRE-qPCR system for one-tube detection. Both panels outperformed current triage strategies, indicating their potential as alternatives, though external validation among diverse settings is needed before clinical application.© 2025. The Author(s).
The Vps10p-domain receptors SorCS1-3 have been repeatedly associated with the development of neurological and psychiatric disorders. They have emerged as key regulators of synaptic activity and neurotrophic signaling, but the underlying molecular mechanism remains poorly understood. Here we report that the SorCS2 intracellular domain (ICD) contains a triple serine motif that potentially functions as a signaling switch to induce intracellular signaling in hippocampal neurons. We show, that serine to alanine substitution in this motif renders neurons less responsive to BDNF, whereas phosphomimetic mutations induce neurotrophic effects independently of the SorCS2 extracellular domain (ECD) and BDNF. Hence, we develop triple serine motif-based cell-penetrating peptides that modulate distinct intracellular signaling, partially overlapping with the BDNF pathway, ultimately activating the transcription factor CREB. Taken together, we provide insights into SorCS2 mediated neurotrophic signaling and use this knowledge to develop pharmacologically active molecules.© 2025 The Authors.
Previous studies have demonstrated widespread brain neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the neurobiological and pathogenic substrates underlying this structural atrophy across the AD spectrum remain largely understood.In this study, we obtained structural MRI data from ADNI datasets, including 83 participants with early-stage cognitive impairments (EMCI), 83 with late-stage mild cognitive impairments (LMCI), 83 with AD, and 83 with normal controls (NC). Our goal was to explore structural atrophy across the full clinical AD spectrum and investigate the genetic mechanism using gene expression data from the Allen Human Brain Atlas.As a result, we identified significant volume atrophy in the left thalamus, left cerebellum, and bilateral middle frontal gyrus across the AD spectrum. These structural changes were positively associated with the expression levels of genes such as ABCA7, SORCS1, SORL1, PILRA, PFDN1, PLXNA4, TRIP4, and CD2AP, while they were negatively associated with the expression levels of genes such as CD33, PLCG2, APOE, and ECHDC3 across the clinical AD spectrum. Further gene enrichment analyses revealed that the positively associated genes were mainly involved in the positive regulation of cellular protein localization and the negative regulation of cellular component organization, whereas the negatively associated genes were mainly involved in the positive regulation of iron transport.Overall, these results provide a deeper understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying structural changes in prodromal and clinical AD.Copyright © 2024 Lu, Zhang, Hu, Cheng, Zhang, Zhang, Xie, Gao, Cao, Chen and Xu.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a heritable neurodegenerative disease whose long asymptomatic phase makes the early diagnosis of it pivotal. Blood U-p53 has recently emerged as a superior predictive biomarker for AD in the early stages. We hypothesized that genetic variants associated with blood U-p53 could reveal novel loci and pathways involved in the early stages of AD.We performed a blood U-p53 Genome-wide association study (GWAS) on 484 healthy and mild cognitively impaired subjects from the ADNI cohort using 612,843 Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We performed a pathway analysis and prioritized candidate genes using an AD single-cell gene program. We fine-mapped the intergenic SNPs by leveraging a cell-type-specific enhancer-to-gene linking strategy using a brain single-cell multimodal dataset. We validated the candidate genes in an independent brain single-cell RNA-seq and the ADNI blood transcriptome datasets. The rs279686 between AASS and FEZF1 genes was the most significant SNP (p-value = 4.82 × 10-7). Suggestive pathways were related to the immune and nervous systems. Twenty-three candidate genes were prioritized at 27 suggestive loci. Fine-mapping of 5 intergenic loci yielded nine cell-specific candidate genes. Finally, 15 genes were validated in the independent single-cell RNA-seq dataset, and five were validated in the ADNI blood transcriptome dataset.We underlined the importance of performing a GWAS on an early-stage biomarker of AD and leveraging functional omics datasets for pinpointing causal genes in AD. Our study prioritized nine genes (SORCS1, KIF5C, TMEFF2, TMEM63C, HLA-E, ATAT1, TUBB, ARID1B, and RUNX1) strongly implicated in the early stages of AD.© 2024. The Author(s).
Visual dysfunction is increasingly recognized as an important feature of Alzheimer's disease, and substantial retinal changes have been documented across multiple studies. Yet the molecular changes underlying retinal neurodegeneration and which retinal protein signatures best track cerebral pathology remain incompletely defined. Here, we performed comprehensive mass spectrometry-based proteomics on paired retinal and hippocampal tissue from the same postmortem donors (8 AD, 8 non-demented controls) to identify disease-associated molecular signatures and assess their overlap between these tissues. Using a sequential dual-extraction protocol, we identified 372 differentially abundant retinal proteins in AD, including established APP-processing regulators (SORL1, BACE1) and synaptic proteins. Retinal proteomes clearly separated AD from controls in principal component analysis, indicating robust AD-related molecular differences in the retina. Notably, 87% of proteins were detected in both retina and hippocampus, with 64 differentially abundant proteins shared between tissues, some of which showed strong cross-tissue correlation. Several retinal proteins also correlated with neuropathological disease stage. Functional enrichment analysis revealed convergent alterations in synaptic organization, cytoskeletal dynamics, mitochondrial function, cell adhesion, and APP metabolism in both tissues. Cell-type mapping using single-cell retinal reference data indicated that most proteomic changes were broadly distributed across cell types, though some proteins showed enrichment in specific populations, such as SORL1 in microglia and EYS in photoreceptors. The molecular changes identified here offer a potential basis for the retinal alterations previously documented through in vivo imaging and histological studies. Their similarities with brain pathology further support the retina as a promising window for assessing cerebral disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) shows substantial clinical heterogeneity often caused by genetic variants contributing to both familial and early-onset forms. However, the genetic landscape of AD in the diverse Indian population remains further characterised. To identify probable pathogenic variants associated with AD, representing individuals from Eastern India and to assess their potential structural effects using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Whole-exome sequencing was performed in 29 radiologically confirmed AD patients. Variants identified were screened using standard in silico prediction tools and categorised according to their involvement in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-related and non-APP pathways. Molecular dynamics simulations of filtered variants in PSEN1, SORL1, and ABCA7 genes were conducted using GROMACS 2024 to assess conformational stability, flexibility (RMSD, RMSF), compactness (Rg), and solvent accessibility (SASA). Thirty-six variants across 18 genes were identified, including five pathogenic variants and 31 variants of uncertain significance. Frequently affected genes included ABCA7 (8 variants), SORL1 (3 variants), PSEN1 (two novel variants), and APP (London mutation, Val717Ile). Most patients (83.3%) had a positive family history, with a mean age at onset of 54.17 ± 11.74 years, presenting with typical AD, posterior cortical atrophy, or frontal variants. MD simulations revealed increased rigidity, altered electrostatic interactions, and disrupted ATP-binding dynamics in mutant proteins compared with wild type. This study identifies novel and known AD-associated variants in an Indian cohort and demonstrates their potential structural impact. Integrating genetic and structural analyses provides valuable insights into AD pathogenesis in underrepresented populations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
SORL1, the gene encoding the SORLA protein, has arisen as a potential therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies suggest that restoring SORLA function or its trafficking pathways, particularly the SORLA-retromer recycling system, may offer a promising strategy to slow or halt AD progression. While both rare and common SORL1 variants have been associated with increased AD risk, recent evidence suggests a potential involvement of SORL1 in other neurodegenerative conditions. This study assessed the contribution of SORL1 genetic variation to the risk of AD, related dementias (RD), and Parkinson's disease (PD) using data from six large-scale biobanks, comprising 15,043 AD, 9,943 RD, and 42,763 PD cases, along with 111,969 controls across 11 ancestries. We identified 53 potentially disease-related SORL1 variants (CADD score > 20, MAC ≥ 2, annotated as protein-altering or splicing, and with the mutated allele present only in cases), including 41 novel and 12 previously reported variants. Three were found across multiple ancestries. Overall, 13 variants were found in AD-related cohorts, 5 in RD cohorts, and 35 in PD cohorts. Association analysis identified 10 nominally significant variants associated with AD and 5 with PD. The replication of multiple SORL1 variants across neurodegenerative diseases and ancestrally diverse populations underscores its potential broad genetic contribution to neurodegeneration and reinforces its relevance across distinct clinical phenotypes. Burden analysis identified a nominal association of SORL1 variants in PD in the South Asian population (P = 0.048). A family-based analysis identified a rare predicted-damaging variant in two East Asian families (11:121478242:G:A, p.R176Q) and two variants in two families of European ancestry (11:121514222:A:C, p.N371T; 11:121545392:G:A, p.V672M) that show some evidence of segregation in PD families. Although these variants were slightly more frequent in unrelated PD cases vs. controls, none of them showed statistically significant enrichment in PD, likely due to their very low frequency. Overall, our results extend the understanding of SORL1 beyond AD, suggesting a broader role in neurodegeneration and emphasizing the need for diverse population studies when evaluating genetic risk.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition with a strong genetic basis. Most genetic studies on ASD emphasize de novo mutations, while inherited rare variants remain understudied. We hypothesize that subtle, inherited ASD-related traits accumulate across generations and clinically manifest as ASD in offspring. To investigate this, we extracted inherited variations from trio-based Whole Exome Sequences (WES) of 23 simplex ASD families (accession number PRJNA1071313 and PRJNA1072259). Data was processed in BWA, GATK and VarScan. Variants were annotated, filtered for functional impact, and scored using a 'weighted scoring' approach based on intolerance to genetic alterations. Overall 751 'weighted-genes' with evolutionary and neuronal functions hosting deleterious inherited variations were functionally annotated for ASD-linked behaviours and comorbidities. We found 149 (20%) genes enriched for core ASD-behaviours like social-interaction and restrictive repetitive behaviours (RRB), 200 genes (26.6%) for associated-behaviours like hyperactivity, communication, intelligence and mood and 225 genes displayed neuronal-functions (p = 3.799E-20). Importantly, 62% of RRB genes displayed sensory functions and 71.43% of genes associated to social interaction deficits were also linked to seizures. Brain tissue expression analysis of all 751 genes revealed 95 prenatally and 195 postnatally upregulated genes were enriched with neurodevelopmental and neurotransmission functions, respectively; protein-protein-interactions suggested genes BUB1, HMGA2, HDAC2, KALRN, SORL1, IGF2, FASN, WFS1 as promising new-candidates for ASD. In our ASD cohort, inherited variations in genes regulating sensory function and neurodevelopment were also RRB producing genes- supporting a multigenic, subdued but additive genetic load being passed down from unrelated parents to their offsprings- promising an underexplored avenue for autism genetic research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia worldwide. Rare, truncating variants in the sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) gene are well established as high-risk factors for early-onset AD, although with incomplete penetrance. In this study, we identified a novel heterozygous frameshift variant in SORL1 (c.6152delA) in a Chinese family presenting with early-onset dementia characterized by progressive memory impairment and neuropsychiatric symptoms. The variant is extremely rare in gnomAD v4 and is predicted to introduce a premature termination codon. To investigate whether the truncated SORL1 transcript escapes nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) and to explore the potential cellular effects of residual truncated SORL1, the mutant SORL1 construct was expressed in SH-SY5Y cells and APPswe-expressing HEK293 cells. Additionally, SORL1 mRNA levels in the serum of the proband and her families were assessed by qRT-PCR. Confocal microscopy was used to examine amyloid precursor protein (APP) trafficking within early endosomes, late endosomes, and the trans-Golgi network, marked by EEA1, Rab7, and TGN46, respectively. Amyloid-β (Aβ40 and Aβ42) levels were quantified by ELISA. The results showed that SORL1 mRNA levels in the proband were reduced. And the SORL1 c.6152delA variant impaired the ability of SORL1 to retain APP within the Golgi-endosomal transport network, resulting in increased Aβ production. Overall, these findings indicate that the SORL1 c.6152delA frameshift variant is a significant risk factor for AD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Understanding the pathogenesis of amyloid- β pathology in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) proves to be a challenge. In this work, we expand upon the application of network diffusion models (NDM) to study pathophysiological spread of amyloid- β throughout white matter structural brain networks. We found that the NDM successfully recaptures subpopulation-level spatial patterns (Pearson's R = 0.45-0.48, PFDR < 0.01) of amyloid- β deposition in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Cohort at a regional level, but with drawbacks in mechanism interpretability. We then moved to an extended NDM framework (eNDM), including a protein synthesis term to better reflect the role of amyloid- β metabolism, as well as including regional vulnerability using spatial transcriptomics from the Allen Human Brain Atlas to modulate the region-level rate parameters of the synthesis term. The novel gene eNDMs exhibited significant performance increases in Pearson's correlation (Steiger's Z, PFDR < 0.10) over baseline NDM performance in mild cognitive impairment and AD groups using APOE, SORL1, and FGL2 for gene modulation. The results were robust and replicable when testing on an external cohort of the Alzheimer's Disease Sequencing Project. The study thus demonstrates the importance of regional genetic vulnerability, in conjunction with network diffusion mechanisms, in improving the modelling and prediction of amyloid- β pathophysiological spread.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematologic malignancy characterized by profound molecular heterogeneity and high relapse rates, posing significant clinical challenges. Programmed cell death (PCD), encompassing diverse regulated modalities such as apoptosis, necroptosis, and ferroptosis, plays a key role in leukemogenesis and therapeutic response; however, a comprehensive prognostic framework integrating multi-modal PCD pathways in AML remains elusive. In this study, we performed a systematic transcriptomic analysis of 1624 genes associated with 13 distinct PCD forms. A novel computational pipeline combining a variational autoencoder (VAE) for dimensionality reduction and a multilayer perceptron (MLP) for classification was employed to identify robust PCD-related biomarkers, interpreted via SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis. This approach identified 48 candidate genes with discriminative potential between AML and normal bone marrow. Unsupervised consensus clustering based on these genes delineated two molecular subtypes exhibiting divergent clinical outcomes and immune microenvironment profiles. The subtype demonstrated an immunosuppressive phenotype, characterized by enriched regulatory T cells, M2 macrophages, and elevated expression of inhibitory immune checkpoints, correlating with inferior survival. We developed an 8-gene prognostic signature (SORL1, PIK3R5, RIPK3, ELANE, GPX1, VNN1, CD74, and IL3RA) that effectively categorized patients into high- and low-risk groups with notable survival differences, validated across independent cohorts. A prognostic nomogram combining the risk score, age, and cytogenetic risk enhanced the prediction accuracy for overall survival. Our study presents an integrative model that connects multi-modal PCD pathways to AML prognosis, offering a new molecular subtyping system and a clinically applicable risk assessment tool for improved prognostication and personalized treatment strategies.
The rs11218343 is a non-coding variant of genome-wide significance for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) with one of the most protective effects known to date. It localizes to SORL1, encoding the AD risk factor Sortilin-related receptor with A type repeats (SORLA). Still, the functional significance of rs11218343 for AD-related processes remains unclear.We used induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines from donors, or genome-engineered to carry major and minor rs11218343 alleles, to study the impact of rs11218343 on cellular activities.We show that rs11218343 is uniquely linked to functional expression of SORLA in microglia, with increased expression in the protective allele correlating with reduced pro-inflammatory responses. These anti-inflammatory effects are seen in donor lines but not in single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) -engineered isogenic lines, arguing that this polymorphism alone is insufficient but acting context-dependent.Our data infer genetically defined expression of SORL1 in microglia as a determinant of protection from pro-inflammatory stimulation, a function likely encoded by a haplotype linked to rs11218343.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disorder. The sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) gene, which regulates the trafficking and recycling of amyloid precursor protein, has been reported to be associated with the development of AD.ObjectiveThis study investigated the impact of SORL1 polymorphisms (rs641120 and rs1784933) and their interaction with the apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele on AD preclinical stages-subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We also explored the association between the rs641120 and serum biomarkers.MethodsThe study included 225 SCD, 131 MCI, and 62 normal controls (NC). Logistic regression models were utilized to assess genetic risks and interactions. Nonparametric tests or t-tests were employed to examine group differences stratified by protective genes in neuropsychological performance and biomarkers.ResultsThe rs641120 A allele was associated with a lower risk of SCD and MCI, within AA genotype (OR = 0.575) and AG genotype (OR = 0.588). In MCI patients, the A allele was associated with lower levels of serum Aβ1-42 and p-tau181. An interaction between SORL1 rs1784933 and the APOE ε4 allele was identified. In NC carrying ε4, AA is associated with higher risk of SCD (OR = 12.030, p = 0.029) and MCI (OR = 10.015, p = 0.044). In SCD patients without ε4, AA genotype is associated with lower risk of MCI (OR = 0.301, p = 0.006).ConclusionsSORL1 polymorphisms influence SCD and MCI susceptibility and correlate with AD serum biomarkers. Additionally, we detected an interaction between SORL1 rs1784933 and the APOE ε4 genotype.
Retinal ischemia–reperfusion (I/R) injury is a key pathological process in retinal-associated diseases such as glaucoma. However, the spatiotemporal dynamics and cell interactions during this injury are not fully understood. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics to map retinal cell responses in a rat I/R injury model at acute, subacute, and chronic stages. We identified 14 cell populations and tracked gene expression changes over time. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) showed activation of apoptotic, autophagic, and oxidative stress pathways within 24 h. Spatial analysis revealed RGCs co-localized with Müller glial and microglial cells in the optic nerve and inner retina, with RGC death driven by ligand-receptor interactions (e.g., Ncam1-Ncam1, App-Sorl1). Transcription factors (Sox9/Sox8) in Müller cells regulated TNF/JAK-STAT signaling, while Alzheimer’s-related Mapt exhibited spatiotemporal specificity in RGCs, suggesting shared neurodegenerative pathways. This study constructed a panoramic spatiotemporal dynamic map of retinal I/R injury progression, providing important clues for the development of potential therapeutic targets for glaucoma and related retinal diseases.
Aging is the strongest risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, some individuals age without major cognitive decline, suggesting that resilience and vulnerability may be associated with distinct molecular trajectories. To investigate these trajectories, we performed an integrated transcriptomic analysis of human dermal fibroblasts (GSE113957) and multi-region brain profiles (GSE48350), extending previous dataset-specific studies that focused primarily on age prediction, regional variation, or synaptic/immune signatures. Healthy aging and AD were compared within a novel antagonistic pleiotropy (AP) framework. This approach prioritized genes and candidate transcriptional regulators with opposing age and disease-associated expression patterns. Across tissues, healthy aging was associated with relative preservation of metabolic, mitochondrial, and lipid-homeostatic programs, whereas AD was associated with suppression of these programs alongside greater inflammatory and immune pathway activity. AP-Vulnerability genes (Age↓/AD↑), including TAC1, FREM3, and SLC25A46, declined with age but were induced in AD. Conversely, AP-Resilience genes (Age↑/AD↓), including PTH2, PPDPF, and NEFH, increased during healthy aging but were reduced in AD. Pathway analyses suggested an association between metabolic programs and resilience, and between immune activation and vulnerability. Transcription-factor inference prioritized PPARG, NFE2L2, and TEAD4 as candidate resilience-associated regulators, showing directionally opposite patterns relative to immune- and developmental-related regulators in AD.Copyright © 2026 Rana Salihoglu et al.
As a core concept of heterogeneous catalysis, metal-support interactions are pivotal controlling activity, selectivity, and stability via electronic and geometric effects. Here, we report a reactant‑transporting form of metal support interaction (MSI), named as strong metal-reactive support interaction (SMRSI) where Pt/H2 directly hydrogenates lattice carbonate in calcite to CH4 with ≤ 415 °C onset and ∼98% selectivity (390-510°C). Because lattice carbon in carbonate minerals constitutes Earth's largest carbon reservoir, enabling low‑temperature lattice-carbonate conversion offers a catalytic lever to accelerate the slow carbon cycle (ACC) complementary to fast carbon cycle (FCC)‑based CO2 management. Operando techniques show a permeable amorphous interphase that dynamically encapsulates Pt, transports CO32- to active sites, and crystallizes into Ca(OH)2, thereby sustaining a mobile triple‑phase boundary, where carbonate‑derived *CO intermediate was hydrogenated to CH4. It is resolved that a low‑temperature interfacial CO2 release is diagnostic of boundary decomposition. Kinetics separate a CO32-‑diffusion‑limited solid‑state path at low temperatures from a high‑temperature route akin to gaseous‑CO2 hydrogenation. The hydrogenated solid is re-carbonated by CO2, regenerating CaCO3 and retaining selectivity over cycles. Conceptually, the SMRSI extends MSI from electronic/geometric tuning to reactant transport, illustrating how moving solid-solid@gas interfaces mediate transformations of solid reactants.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Abnormal parathormone (PTH) levels are common in patients undergoing hemodialysis and have been linked to adverse outcomes. This study investigated the association between the systemic inflammation index (SII), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels in patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (HD).We performed a cross-sectional analysis of 225 patients undergoing HD at a single center. Demographic data, comorbidities, dialysis vintage, and laboratory values were obtained from medical records. Patients were stratified into three groups based on PTH level according to KDIGO CKD-Mineral and Bone Disorder (CKD-MBD) guideline targets: PTH1 (< 150 pg/mL), PTH2 (150 - 600 pg/mL), and PTH3 (> 600 pg/mL). The SII and NLR were calculated from complete blood counts. We compared the clinical characteristics across the PTH groups and used logistic regression to identify independent predictors of PTH levels outside the target range.Of the 225 patients (mean age 61.3 ± 17.5 years; 53.3% male), 17.3% were in the PTH1 group, 55.6% in PTH2, and 27.1% in PTH3. Patients in the PTH1 (low PTH) group were older and had a higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus than those in the target PTH group (p < 0.05). Serum calcium and phosphate levels were similar among the groups (p > 0.05). C-reactive protein (CRP) and ferritin levels were significantly higher in both the PTH1 and PTH3 groups compared to the PTH2 group (p < 0.05 for both). Accordingly, the novel inflammatory indices differed by PTH category: the median SII and NLR values were lowest in the PTH2 group and significantly elevated in both the low PTH and high PTH groups (PTH1 and PTH3, p < 0.05). In multivariate logistic regression, higher SII (p = 0.002) and NLR (p = 0.045) were independently associated with PTH levels outside the 150 - 600 pg/mL target range, even after adjusting for age, diabetes, CRP, ferritin, calcium, and phosphorus. HD duration showed a significant inverse correlation with PTH in the PTH1 group (r = -0.245, p = 0.022) but was not an independent predictor of PTH category overall.Hemodialysis patients with PTH levels below or above the recommended target range demonstrated elevated inflammatory markers (CRP and ferritin) and higher SII/NLR values, indicating a state of increased systemic inflammation. The SII and NLR were independent predictors of out-of-range PTH levels. These easily obtained indices may be useful for assessing inflammation in HD patients with altered mineral metabolism. Further research is warranted to determine whether addressing inflammation can modulate PTH levels or improve outcomes in this population.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41610917 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41585794 is a review article
Helicobacter pylori infection poses a significant global health threat. The development of portable, accurate and sensitive H. pylori detection equipment is of great importance. In this study, a dual-mode (electrochemical/visual) microfluidic chip integrated with negative control, positive control, and experimental groups was proposed for electrochemical/colorimetric dual-mode detection of H. pylori DNA in saliva. Herein, Fe3O4@SiO2-functionalized H1 as a capture probe for specific recognition of H. pylori nucleic acids, while Bi-MOF@Pt-H2 serves as a signal probe to amplify the response of 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) oxidation in the presence of H2O2 to enable the electrochemical and visual quantification. In the presence of target DNA, hybridization with the capture probe triggers a CHA reaction, and the signaling probe will come out the target DNA and carry out multiple cyclic loops, thus achieving the amplification of the output signal. Under optimal experimental conditions, the multifunctional microfluidic sensor possessed a low detection limit (0.32 fM), robust reproducibility, stability and anti-interference, and achieved an overall accuracy of 90 % in saliva samples. This work establishes a versatile analytical paradigm for point-of-care detection of broad-spectrum pathogenic bacteria through modular aptamer replacement.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ribosome-associated protein quality control (RQC) protects cells against the toxic effects of faulty polypeptides produced by stalled ribosomes. However, mitochondria are vulnerable to C-terminal alanyl and threonyl (CAT)-tailed proteins that are generated in this process, and faulty nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins are handled by the recently discovered mitoRQC. Here, we performed a genome-wide screen in yeast to identify additional proteins involved in mitoRQC. We found that peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase 2 (Pth2), present in the mitochondrial outer membrane, influences aggregation of CAT-tailed proteins without majorly affecting the CAT-tailing process itself. Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity is essential during this process, yet the activity of Pth2 can be substituted by another peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase upon proper localization. Our data suggest that Pth2 acts by modulating protein translocation and that the mitochondrial proteostasis network is relieved through increased access of CAT-tailed proteins to cytosolic chaperones. Other hits obtained in the screen show that, in general, delayed protein translocation protects mitochondria against toxic CAT-tailed proteins.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Migraine is a complex neurological disorder, and the most common migraine categories are migraine with aura and without aura. The higher prevalence of migraine in related individuals compared to the general population indicates a potential genetic predisposition; however, gene expression, which is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors, can also be a major factor in the migraine susceptibility. Given the high number of Portuguese migraine patients whose diagnosis and treatment have not yet been well established, we decided to carry out a whole transcriptome analysis within a migraine Portuguese cohort. This study aims to identify potential biomarkers that could contribute to improved migraine therapy. We performed total RNA sequencing on whole blood samples from 15 migraine patients and 12 age-matched controls. Differential expression analysis and gene set enrichment analysis were performed in different migraine subgroups. Finally, we performed the protein-protein interaction networks of differentially expressed genes. Gene set enrichment analysis comparing migraine patients with controls highlighted upregulated pathways linked to metabolism, and downregulated immuno-inflammatory pathways. Moreover, the groups of female migraine patients and female migraine without aura patients emphasized significant upregulated pathways, including G protein-coupled receptors signalling pathways, when compared with female controls. Interestingly, we found two important differentially expressed genes related to parathyroid hormone: PTH1R and PTH2. PTH1R was upregulated in female migraine without aura versus female controls, while PTH2 was both upregulated between female migraine patients and female controls, as well as between female migraine without aura and controls. Here, we show, for the first time, the involvement of parathyroid hormone receptors and their associated gene expression patterns in female migraine patients. These molecules stand out as sturdy and promising biomarkers for innovative therapeutic in female migraine patients.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Neuropeptides are chemical messengers that are synthesized and released by nerve cells. Studies suggest that neuropeptides released from the nervous system in bone marrow may be involved in the regulation of hematopoiesis and survival of leukemic stem cells (LSC). Parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R), a new LSC marker, is expressed on CD34 + leukemic cells. Its ligand, tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39), is expressed in the nervous system. However, the role of the TIP39-PTH2R axis in leukemic cells is unclear. We investigated the function of this axis in leukemic cell lines, as well as primary CD34 + myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and AML cells. Expression of PTH2R mRNA was higher in primary CD34 + MDS (GSE58831) or CD34 + CD38-AML (GSE24395) cells than in healthy volunteers. TIP39 reduced apoptosis in the leukemic cell lines Kasumi-1 and SKM-1. LC3-II expression was increased after incubation with TIP39, and was augmented in leukemic cell lines treated with lysosome inhibitors. This suggests that TIP39 could induce autophagy. Analysis of a public database (GSE58831) showed that high PTH2R expression was associated with poor overall survival and was an independent prognostic factor in MDS/AML patients. Our results suggest that the TIP39-PTH2R axis is a potential therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Hematology.
Persistent headache is the most common and debilitating chronic condition after traumatic brain injury (TBI), affecting mood and reducing quality of life. The investigators examined in a community-based setting whether repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for management of major depression among outpatients with TBI histories was associated with improvement in the functional impact of headache (FH) and whether improvements were related to treatment at a specific site in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC).In the discovery phase (posttraumatic headache 1 [PTH-1] group, N=21), the association of rTMS treatment at DLPFC targets and improvement in headache and depression and anxiety were studied. Associations between functional connectivity of the patient-specific TMS treatment sites and changes in patients' FH were used to identify a target for simultaneous treatment of behavioral and headache symptoms. Patients in the translational phase (PTH-2 group, N=7) received TMS treatment at this target.The patients in the PTH-1 group had significant improvements in depression and anxiety but not FH, and more than half had a reduction in FH and reported an improvement in headache severity and duration. Increased functional connectivity between TMS sites and a subregion in the left DLPFC and bilateral precuneus was related to improved FH. Unlike the PTH-1 group, the PTH-2 group exhibited significant reductions in FH after 4 weeks of treatment and in anxiety and depression after 1-2 weeks of treatment.TMS treatment targeting the left DLPFC coordinate identified in this study may help improve treatment for both FH and anxiety and depression among PTH patients.
BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and the formation of neurofibrillary tangles. Although the amyloid cascade hypothesis underscores the centrality of Aβ accumulation, the precise initiators of this process remain unknown.ObjectiveIn this study, we investigate the potential role of Esophageal Cancer-Related Gene 4 (ECRG4) in AD. We hypothesized that ECRG4, which is associated with cognitive impairment and upregulated in AD, directly contributes to amyloid pathology.MethodsWe performed cell-based assays, co-immunoprecipitation, in vivo experiments using APPNL-G-F/NL-G-F knock-in mouse, and immunohistochemistry of human hippocampal sections.ResultsECRG4(133-148) associated with the amyloid precursor protein (APP) intracellular domain (AICD), leading to increased APP/Aβ accumulation. Furthermore, intracerebral injection of synthetic ECRG4(133-148) into AD model mice significantly augmented APP/Aβ deposition. Notably, the co-localization of ECRG4(133-148)-containing peptides with AICD-containing peptides increased with AD severity in human hippocampal tissue.ConclusionsOur findings establish that the carboxy-terminal fragment of ECRG4 acts as a potential initiator of amyloid pathology in AD through its interaction with AICD.
Degenerative spinal diseases are a group of conditions that affect the structure and function of the spine, which can severely impact patient prognosis. Elucidating the druggable genes governing degenerative spinal diseases plays a pivotal role. GWAS data on degenerative spinal diseases, druggable genes, and eQTL data were acquired and Mendelian Randomization (MR) analysis was conducted. Colocalization analysis was performed and the side effects or additional indications of the identified drug targets was assessed using a phenome-wide association study. Finally, the differential expression of druggable genes in different cell subtypes of osteoporosis and intervertebral disc degeneration was analyzed, and molecular docking of actionable drugs for target genes was performed. In total, 31 druggable genes associated with osteoporosis and 22 druggable genes associated with spinal stenosis were identified. Four genes reached significant colocalization in blood for osteoporosis and eleven genes showed colocalization in spinal stenosis blood. Besides GPX1, KLRC2, and TCF19, the other 13 potential therapeutic targets for spinal degenerative diseases had no significant adverse effects. Furthermore, it was found that PAK4 and ESR1 were highly expressed in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) in osteoporosis samples. SORCS2 expression was higher in nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) in samples with severe than in samples with mild intervertebral disc degeneration. Lastly, drug analysis supported Fostamatinib might be potential therapeutics for osteoporosis and spinal stenosis by inhibiting PAK4 and PI4KB, respectively. In conclusion, our research suggested that PAK4, ESR1, and PI4KB might be promising targets for spinal degenerative diseases, and the effectiveness of Fostamatinib in these diseases warrants further investigation.© The author(s).
Current treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) primarily focus on slowing disease progression, emphasizing the urgent need for a reliable diagnostic method for early-stage Alzheimer's (EAD). Our investigation, which is based on the finding that the secretory protein Esophageal Cancer Related Gene 4 (ECRG4) is elevated in the hippocampus of AD patients, led to the creation of a novel ELISA system for ECRG4 detection. We observed that ECRG4 peptides, particularly the fragment spanning amino acids 108-132, were elevated in the plasma of approximately 25% of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 50% of those with AD, compared to individuals without dementia. RNA sequencing of plasma samples revealed decreased levels of carbohydrate sulfotransferase 3 (CHST3) mRNA, which is mainly expressed in oligodendrocyte (OLG)-lineage cells, in ECRG4-positive patients. Functional analyses demonstrated that the ECRG4 (71-107) peptide induced cytotoxicity in oligodendrocytes in vitro and reduced the expression of the OLG marker galactocerebroside in the corpus callosum following intracerebral injection. Additionally, peptide injection resulted in extravascular IgG leakage and the accumulation of OLG precursor cells (OPCs), which are crucial for myelin regeneration, around the blood vessels. These phenomena were similarly observed in the hippocampi of patients with EAD. Collectively, these findings establish ECRG4 as a novel serum marker for AD and suggest its association with ECRG4-dependent OLG dysfunction.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
The intracellular delivery of therapeutic macromolecules remains a major challenge in biomedicine. Here we reconstitute the Drosophila melanogaster Arc1 (dArc1) retroelement-derived capsid entirely from purified recombinant protein components and in vitro transcribed RNA, creating a fully defined, cell-free assembled protein nanoparticle system. Through affinity engineering of the dArc1 RNA-binding domain, we enable efficient encapsulation of mRNA payloads and Cas9 ribonucleoproteins. Unexpectedly, we discover that dArc1 capsids bind mammalian cells through a direct interaction with the surface receptor SORCS2. Leveraging this interaction, we show that intramuscular injection of dArc1 capsids carrying Cas9 gene editors achieves up to 18% exon skipping and restores dystrophin expression in muscle fibers of mdx mice, a model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Enhanced delivery efficiency in regenerating and dystrophic muscle correlates with upregulated SORCS2 expression, supporting our finding that SORCS2 facilitates cellular uptake of dArc1 capsids. This work demonstrates the potential of in vitro-assembled protein nanoparticles for delivery of molecular cargoes.
The central nervous system responds to acute injury with plastic remodeling of its network. However, the temporal and structural dynamics of this response in the denervated dentate gyrus remain poorly understood. Therefore, we examined the transcriptional programs activated after perforant path transection, focusing on the outer molecular layer (OML) and the granule cell layer (GCL).Perforant path transections were performed, and tissue from the denervated OML and GCL was selectively isolated using laser microdissection at 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days post-lesion. Whole-genome expression analysis was performed to identify and characterize global transcriptome changes across time and layers.Denervation induced reactive astrogliosis and microgliosis primarily in the OML. Overall enrichment statistics from two complementary approaches highlighted early downregulations of neuroactive ligands, later downregulation of (mainly glutamatergic) neurotransmission factors, and late downregulations of respiratory factors, alongside early upregulations of debris degradation factors, subsequent upregulation of glial and inflammatory factors, and late upregulation of ribosomal translation. Entorhinal afferent loss was reflected by reductions of the axon repellent Sema3e (to 60% in OML), with sustained depletions of the reelin repressor Adamts3 (14% in OML, 33% in GCL) and its presumptive effector Ptpn3 (30% in OML), as well as delayed induction of the SEMA3E/reelin coreceptor Nrp1 (3-fold in OML, 7-fold in GCL). Secondary reductions in the GCL occurred for the CREB repressor Rgs13, Ntng1, and Epha5-Epha6-Epha7. Deficits were found in the OML for glutamatergic signaling factors (Neto1, Cnih2, Dlg2, Gria1, Grm7-Grm8-Grm3, Homer2, Trim32), in the GCL for GABAergic and glycinergic receptors (Gabra2-Gabra1, Gabrb2, Glra2), and overall for neuronal differentiation markers (Calb1, Pvalb, Gad1, Lrrc7, Ano3, Bdnf, Egfr, Igf2r, Nrep, Basp1, Scn1a) and synaptic adhesion mediators (Lingo2, Lrrtm1-Lrrtm3, Adam11-Adam23, Cadm2, Pcdhb16, Flrt3). Presumed compensatory upregulation efforts included postsynaptic and dendritic membrane remodeling by vesicle and actin regulators (Lyn, Gabarap, Cyfip1, Arf4, Arl4c, Rab8b, Cdk5rap2, Tmsb4x) in the OML, versus neurotrophic coreceptors Sorcs3-Sorcs2, axonal Smn1, and the neural progenitor modulator Nup210l in the GCL.These findings identify coordinated and temporally structured transcriptomic programs that reflect injury-induced remodeling in the dentate gyrus and highlight novel molecular mediators of synaptic reorganization, neuroinflammation, metabolic adaptation, and compensatory plasticity following entorhinal denervation.Copyright © 2026 Schlaudraff, Del Turco, Key, Deller and Auburger.
The neuropeptide FF receptor 1 (NPFFR1) belongs to the RF-amide G protein-coupled receptor family. Even though it is a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of chronic pain, this receptor still has not been used as a drug target. A detailed understanding of its ligand binding and activation mechanisms is essential for the rational design of novel modulators. In this study, we developed a non-radioactive, nanoBRET-based ligand binding assay to investigate ligand interactions of neuropeptide FF (NPFF) and neuropeptide VF (NPVF) with the NPFFR1. Fluorescently labeled NPFF and NPVF analogs were synthesized by conjugating a 6-carboxytetramethylrhodamine fluorophore at distinct positions, while a nanoluciferase was fused to the N-terminus of the NPFFR1 to serve as the BRET donor. This approach enables quantitative measurement of ligand binding and provides insights into the relative orientation of the ligand and receptor. Distinct BRET signal profiles for NPFF and NPVF, with a smaller window for NPVF compared to NPFF when directly labeled with the fluorophore, indicate differences in the binding orientation. Furthermore, deletion of the N-terminal residues of the receptor revealed that this region is dispensable for ligand recognition and binding in the NPFFR1. The assay was confirmed for small molecule NPFFR1 ligands, such as hederagenin, offers new opportunities to explore subtype selectivity and will guide drug discovery targeting the RF-amide receptor family.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with dysregulation of membrane proteins controlling amyloid processing, synaptic signaling, and neuronal communication, yet most proteomic studies focus on soluble fractions, limiting insight into membrane-centered pathology. Here, we apply a membrane-mimetic, data-independent acquisition workflow to define disease- and drug-induced remodeling of the cortical membrane proteome in an APP mouse model of AD. Female wildtype B6C3F1/J and APP/PS1 mice were aged to 9 months, treated ± the M1 positive allosteric modulator VU0486846, and validated by enrichment of APP in cortical membranes of APP/PS1 mice. This confirmed pathological context enabled direct interrogation of membrane remodeling, revealing pronounced, genotype-specific changes characterized by selective enrichment of AD-linked membrane proteins including RyR2, PLD3, ITM2C, and CNTNAP2, alongside broader shifts in pathways related to calcium signaling, synaptic organization, and membrane trafficking. In contrast, wildtype membranes were enriched in proteins associated with axon guidance and synaptic structure, such as EPHA5 and ROBO2. M1 activation produced minimal changes in wildtype mice but selectively enhanced proteins linked to neuronal trafficking and synaptic plasticity in APP/PS1 mice, including SORCS2, PLXND1, and CADM1, indicating preferential engagement of disease-altered pathways. These findings demonstrate that AD-associated remodeling is concentrated at the membrane level and highlight Peptidisc-enabled membrane proteomics as a powerful approach to resolve disease mechanisms and therapeutic target engagement.
Esophageal cancer-related gene-4 (ECRG4) is a hormone-like protein that acts as a tumor suppressor by inducing cell death through apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest. ECRG4 is expressed in various organs, including the brain, and it influences the viability and function of neural cells such as oligodendrocytes and microglia. However, the effects of ECRG4 on astrocytes, which are essential neural cells that play significant roles in maintaining brain homeostasis, remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that ECRG4, specifically the region encompassing amino acids 71-107 (ECRG4(71-107)), induces cell death in mouse primary astrocytes. The ECRG4(71-107)-induced astrocyte death is associated with lysosomal damage and is mediated by cathepsins, indicating a lysosome-dependent cell death mechanism. Notably, ECRG4(71-107) promotes the secretion of cathepsins into the extracellular space. The introduction of exogenous cathepsins into the medium induced astrocyte death, while the removal of cathepsins from the conditioned medium reduced the toxicity associated with ECRG4(71-107). These findings suggest that extracellular cathepsins mediate the toxicity of ECRG4(71-107) in astrocytes. Overall, this study reveals a novel mechanism of cell death induced by ECRG4 in astrocytes and suggests a potential involvement of ECRG4 in pathophysiological functions of the brain.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Moyamoya disease (MMD) features progressive intracranial artery stenosis and collateralization. Growing evidence implicates a dysregulated gut–brain axis in cerebrovascular pathology. We aimed to identify MMD-associated gut microbes and delineate the molecular mechanisms linking intestinal signals to vascular inflammation in MMD. RESULTS: We profiled fecal microbiota using full-length 16S rRNA sequencing from 24 MMD patients and 20 matched controls, prioritizing taxa with LEfSe, LASSO, and random forest algorithms. A species-level diagnostic model showed robust discrimination in our cohort (ROC AUC = 0.9146), and DCA supported its clinical utility. To connect gut signals to host vascular responses, we integrated peripheral and vascular transcriptomes from GEO and a cross-disease cerebrovascular cohort. Differential expression, WGCNA, and LASSO analyses identified key MMD genes and their immune modules. We then intersected these with microbiome-derived, gut-related genes to nominate candidate mediators of gut–immune–vessel crosstalk. This multi-omics pipeline identified Fusobacterium nucleatum, Lachnoanaerobaculum cf. saburreum C27KA, and NK4A214_group as MMD-specific microbial markers. Crucially, these markers were associated with immune infiltration signatures and inflammatory pathway activation in diseased vessels. Further integration pinpointed QRFPR and HCAR2 as key mediators of gut-derived cerebrovascular inflammation, suggesting a potential microbiota–immune–vascular pathway along the gut–brain axis. CONCLUSION: We characterized an MMD-associated microbiota profile and proposed QRFPR and HCAR2 as candidate genes linking intestinal microbes to vascular immune activation. By mapping the gut–brain axis from microbial taxa to host receptors and vessel-wall transcriptional programs, this study uncovers potential disease mechanisms and highlights new avenues for microbiome-informed biomarkers and therapeutic targeting in MMD.
Narcolepsy type 1 is a sleep-wake disorder characterized by hypocretin deficiency. It has been considered an autoimmune disorder for decades due to the strong associating with the HLA-DQB1*06:02 allele and possible relations to the H1N1 pandemic in 2009. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the loss of hypocretin neurons is not understood. We hypothesize that a hypocretin neuron-specific antigen, other than hypocretin itself but sharing an expression pattern, may be the target of the autoimmune response leading to the development in individuals with narcolepsy type 1. In this study, we employed an in silico method to identify novel candidate antigens for an autoimmune response leading to the destruction of hypocretin cells. A combination of multiple publicly available datasets, based on human brain tissue from healthy individuals, was used to map the expression profile of hypocretin. Genes were categorized based on their expression pattern and its association with hypocretin expression. 15 candidate genes were identified as potentially relevant targets in the development of NT1, with varying degrees of confidence regarding the likelihood of their involvement. Six candidate genes also showed higher expression within hypocretin cells compared to other cells in the hypothalamus of which NPVF seems most promising. This study provides important new directions and potential targets for investigating and understanding the pathophysiology of narcolepsy type 1.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Spinal cord injury often causes permanent disability because the body's own repair mechanisms are limited, and the molecules that control damage and healing are not fully understood. One such molecule, FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5), is known to rise sharply after injury, but whether it only drives harmful inflammation or also participates in later recovery has been unclear. In this study, we investigated how FKBP5 affects microglia-the brain's immune cells-at different stages after spinal cord injury in mice. We found that FKBP5 plays a dual role. In the first few days, it works together with another protein, GPR84, to boost the production of an inflammatory signal called interleukin-1β. This signal pushes microglia into a destructive state and triggers a coordinated form of neuronal cell death that involves multiple death pathways. However, as FKBP5 levels continue to rise over time, it switches its function. It binds to and modifies an enzyme called LDHA, changing how microglia process lactate. This lactate then acts as a signal to add chemical tags (lactylation) onto histones, which turns on a protective gene, Fxyd5, and its partner Lgals1. These changes convert microglia from a harmful to a healing state, reduce neuronal death, and improve the local environment for tissue repair. Our results reveal that FKBP5 is a double-edged sword-first worsening damage, then promoting repair. This discovery suggests that precisely timing therapies that target FKBP5 could offer a new way to improve recovery after spinal cord injury.Copyright © 2026 Haotian Li et al.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive primary malignant tumor of the adult central nervous system, with nearly 90% of cases recurring within two years despite standard surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play critical roles in GBM recurrence, but their characteristics in recurrent GBM remain insufficiently defined. Krüppel-like factor 10 (KLF10) regulates metabolism, mitochondrial function, proliferation, and apoptosis; however, its role in GBM-associated TAMs remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-sequencing data from 16 GBM samples were analyzed to identify recurrence-associated TAMs. Functional features were assessed using GO, KEGG, and CellChat analyses. Marker genes were used to construct a prognostic signature through LASSO and Cox regression. The association between KLF10 and clinicopathological features was evaluated using TCGA data. A GBM cell-macrophage co-culture system was established to examine KLF10 induction, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were used to assess effects on GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.A five-gene prognostic signature comprising KLF10, ZFAND2A, SMAD7, GPR84, and ARHGAP12 was identified. KLF10 expression was associated with WHO grade, IDH mutation, MGMT promoter methylation, 1p/19q co-deletion, molecular subtype, and overall survival, with high KLF10 predicting poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that KLF10-associated genes were linked to ECM-receptor interaction, cell-cycle-related pathways, and cytokine signaling. In vitro, co-culture with GBM cells upregulated KLF10 expression in THP-1-derived macrophages, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were associated with increased GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.KLF10-high macrophages were associated with GBM progression and may serve as a candidate prognostic marker requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chen, Fan, Chen, Cao, Hu, Zhou, Xu and Wang.
Thalamic hemorrhage is a severe subtype of intracerebral hemorrhage in which secondary neuroinflammation contributes to tissue injury and neurological deterioration. N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10), an RNA N4-acetylcytidine writer, has been implicated in inflammatory regulation and neurological disorders. However, inflammation-related transcriptomic changes associated with Remodelin treatment after thalamic hemorrhage remain unclear.mRNA transcriptome sequencing was performed on perilesional thalamic tissues from control, thalamic hemorrhage model, and Remodelin-treated mice. Differentially expressed genes were identified for the Model versus Control and Remodelin Intervention versus Model comparisons. Genes showing opposite directions of regulation across the two comparisons were defined as Remodelin-reversed differentially expressed genes. GeneCards-derived inflammation-related genes were converted to mouse orthologs and intersected with Remodelin-reversed genes. Protein-protein interaction analysis, Gene Ontology and KEGG enrichment analyses, gene set enrichment analysis, immune-cell signature estimation, and transcription factor/miRNA regulatory network prediction were performed. Key candidates were validated by quantitative RT-PCR.RNA-seq identified 499 differentially expressed genes in the Model versus Control comparison and 664 in the Remodelin Intervention versus Model comparison. Among 46 shared differentially expressed genes, 42 showed opposite-direction regulation. Ortholog-corrected screening identified 9 Remodelin-reversed inflammation-related candidates: Cxcl1, Ccl2, Ncf4, Ptx3, Pomc, Masp2, Tnfrsf8, Card9, and Gpr84. Enrichment analyses linked these genes mainly to leukocyte- and neutrophil-mediated immunity, tumor necrosis factor production, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, IL-17 signaling, TNF signaling, chemokine signaling, and NOD-like receptor signaling. Protein-protein interaction analysis highlighted Ccl2, Cxcl1, and Pomc as prominent candidate nodes. qRT-PCR using independent biological samples provided preliminary transcript-level support for Remodelin-associated changes in Cxcl1 and Pomc expression, whereas Ccl2 was increased after hemorrhage but was not significantly reduced by Remodelin.This study identifies Remodelin-reversed inflammation-related transcriptomic signatures in experimental thalamic hemorrhage. Cxcl1 and Pomc represent the most consistently supported Remodelin-responsive transcriptomic candidates, whereas Ccl2 appears to be a hemorrhage-associated inflammatory hub without robust reversal at the examined time point. These findings provide an exploratory neurogenomic framework for investigating inflammation-related transcriptional remodeling associated with Remodelin treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Li, Xiao, Gao and Huang.
Ovarian ischemia-reperfusion injury (OIRI) causes oxidative damage, inflammation, and tissue destruction, frequently causing tissue damage and inflammation. Although G protein-coupled receptor 84 (GPR84) operates as a modulator of immune cell activation across numerous pathological contexts, its specific contributions to OIRI pathophysiology remain insufficiently characterized. We therefore examined whether pharmacological blockade of GPR84 confers protection against OIRI and delineated the operative signaling networks. Utilizing a murine model of bilateral ovarian ischemia followed by reperfusion, we administered either PBI-4050 or BGT-004 to evaluate therapeutic efficacy. Our analyses revealed pronounced GPR84 upregulation within ovarian tissues subjected to ischemic insult. Tissue fractionation experiments showed that GPR84 upregulation occurred predominantly in CD45⁺ leukocytes. Both antagonistic compounds substantially mitigated histological deterioration while attenuating lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde accumulation), oxidative radical generation (nitric oxide), and neutrophil infiltration (myeloperoxidase activity), concomitantly enhancing antioxidant defense (superoxide dismutase function) and curtailing secretion of IL-1β and IL-18. Additionally, treatment suppressed NOX-4 expression and thwarted NLRP3 inflammasome assembly, reflected in diminished NLRP3 protein abundance and reduced caspase-1 cleavage. GPR84 blockade also reduced gasdermin D cleavage, indicating suppression of pyroptotic cell death. Mechanistically, GPR84 blockade reinstated AMPKα phosphorylation status and restored phosphorylation of the downstream AMPK substrate acetyl-CoA carboxylase; however, co-administration of the AMPK antagonist Compound C with BGT-004 nullified these protective actions, suggesting that AMPK signaling contributes to therapeutic efficacy. The Compound C mechanistic validation was performed using BGT-004, the selective GPR84 antagonist, to avoid confounding from PBI-4050's GPR40 agonist activity. These observations collectively suggest that GPR84 antagonism ameliorates OIRI through AMPK-dependent suppression of NLRP3 inflammasome activity, identifying this receptor as a candidate for further investigation in ischemia-reperfusion injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
GPR84 is an orphan class A GPCR primarily expressed in immune cells, where it plays key roles in inflammation and metabolism. Here, we present the cryo-electron microscopy structures of the GPR84-Gi complex bound to the G protein-biased agonist DL-175, and the inactive state of GPR84 bound to the antagonist GLPG1205. Combined with signaling assays and molecular dynamics simulations, these structures elucidate the conformational landscape spanning the inactive and G protein-biased active states of GPR84, providing a mechanistic basis for biased agonism. Notably, steric interactions between DL-175 and L3366.52 selectively preclude the conformational changes required for efficient β-arrestin recruitment without compromising G protein activation. These structural insights provide a structural context for the rational design of GPR84-targeted therapeutics with precisely tuned signaling profiles.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis remains a major postoperative complication of Hirschsprung's disease (HD), and impaired epithelial barrier integrity has been proposed as a contributing factor. In this study, we investigated whether 12-hydroxyheptadecatrienoic acid (12-HHT), an endogenous leukotriene B4 receptor 2 (BLT2) agonist, is associated with epithelial barrier enhancement and reduced inflammatory responses in patient-derived colonic organoids.Normoganglionic specimens from rectal/rectosigmoid HD at pull-through (HD-N; n = 8) and transverse colon specimens from anorectal malformation (ARM) at colostomy closure (n = 10) were used to generate colonic organoids. Epithelia were isolated using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and subsequently embedded in Matrigel. Baseline expression of TJP1, TJP2, F11R (encoding junctional adhesion molecule-A), JAM2, CLDN1, CLDN3, CLDN4) and LTB4R2 (encoding BLT2) was assessed by qPCR and immunoblotting. Organoids were then treated with 12-HHT (0.4, 2, or 10 μM) for 7 days, followed by qPCR. Additional experiments assessed cytokine expression (IL1B, IL6) and TJPs after 24 h with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α, 100 ng/mL) plus phosphate buffered saline or 12-HHT. Barrier function was evaluated using FITC-dextran influx assays.HD-N and ARM organoids exhibited similar growth efficiencies. Baseline expression for F11R, JAM2, CLDN1, CLDN3, CLDN4, and LTB4R2 was significantly lower in HD-N than in ARM. TJPs were upregulated by 12-HHT at 2 and 10 μM in both groups, with stronger effects in ARM. In HD-N organoids, 10 μM 12-HHT suppressed TNF-α-induced IL1B and IL6 elevation mitigated tight junction proteins (TJPs) downregulation more effectively than 2 μM. 12-HHT attenuated TNF-α-induced FITC-dextran influx in HD-N organoids.12-HHT is associated with epithelial barrier enhancement and reduced inflammatory responses in HD-N organoids.Copyright: © 2026 Suda et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Relaxin family peptide receptor-3 (RXFP3) is a ligand-activated G-protein coupled receptor and the cognate receptor for the conserved neuropeptide relaxin-3. We recently demonstrated that chemogenetically activating an RXFP3-expressing population in the lateral hypothalamus and zona incerta (LH/ZIRXFP3) induced escape-like jumping behaviour following fear conditioning, but only in a subset of mice. Given the diverse hodology of the LH and ZI, we hypothesised that LH/ZIRXFP3 cells may consist of discrete subpopulations with unique connectivity patterns that govern different aspects of defensive behaviour. To explore this possibility, we unilaterally injected small volumes of a Cre-dependent anterograde viral tracer into four distinct sites of the LH/ZI in RXFP3-Cre mice and analysed their brain-wide efferent connectivity patterns. Each injection site group produced unique projection patterns, particularly to nuclei involved in threat and defensive behaviour. Of note were strong projections from the rostral ZI and anterior LH to the lateral habenula, and projections from the intermediate and caudal ZI to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. By combining retrograde tracing and RNAscope fluorescent in situ hybridisation, we identified that most LH/ZIRXFP3 projections to the lateral habenula arose from a subset of vGlut2-expressing lateral hypothalamus neurons, while most projections to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray arose from a subset of GAD1-expressing zona incerta neurons. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that LH/ZIRXFP3 cells exhibit distinct efferent projection patterns throughout the brain depending on their topographical location within these nuclei, likely reflecting the functional diversity of these neurons.© 2026. The Author(s).
CD4+ T cells play an important role in antitumor immunity due to their capacity to acquire highly functional effector states and cytotoxic-like programs in the tumor microenvironment. However, the mechanisms underlining this process remain largely undefined. Herein, we identify the medium chain fatty acid-sensing receptor GPR84 as a metabolic checkpoint that restricts the antitumor immunity mediated by CD4+ T cells. GPR84 upregulation was detected in tumor-infiltrating CD4+ T cells, and in the absence of GPR84, CD4+ T cells exhibited enhanced tumor control, associated with increase in their proliferation and survival, and with a reprogramming toward a more functionally competent state characterized by increased polyfunctional cytokine production and reduced expression of inhibitory receptors, without accumulation of regulatory T cells. In the tumor antigen-specific mouse model, GPR84 deficiency drastically improved the therapeutic efficacy of adoptively transferred CD4+ T cells. Mechanistically, without GPR84, CD4+ T cells, by upregulating mTORC1 signaling activity, metabolically enhance both glycolysis and mitochondrial activities, thereby gearing toward tumor-killing cytotoxic phenotypes. Importantly, pharmacologic inhibition of GPR84 drastically improves the effectiveness of both PD-1 blockade therapy and adoptive cell transfer. Together, these findings validate GPR84 as a key regulator of CD4+ T-cell metabolic fitness and establish the extracellular lipid sensing pathway as a targetable axis for improving the efficacy and responsiveness of cancer immunotherapies.© Crown copyright 2026.
Breast cancer (BC) is the most common malignancy among women worldwide. Although observational studies have linked carnitine-related metabolites (CRMs) to BC, causal inference has been limited by confounding and reverse causality. This study used Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to investigate the potential causal link between CRMs and BC.MR analysis was conducted using the Cancer Genome Atlas-BC and CRM-related datasets to explore the potential causal relationship between CRMs and BC. Variants were screened based on criteria encompassing genome-wide significance (p < 5×10-8), independence (r 2 < 0.001, kb=10000), and sufficient strength (F-statistic > 10). Various MR techniques, including inverse-variance weighted, MR-Egger, simple mode, weighted mode, and weighted median approaches, were applied to assess these potential causal associations. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to investigate the expression and biological functions of biomarkers linked to metabolites.The MR analysis suggested that genetically predicted elevated levels of octanoylcarnitine and decanoylcarnitine were associated with increased risk of BC. Functional enrichment analysis identified 12 candidate genes associated with these metabolites, which are involved in fatty acid β-oxidation (FAO) pathways. ScRNA-seq analysis revealed eight distinct cell subpopulations, with macrophages exhibiting the highest intercellular communication. Six biomarkers were identified as potential contributors to BC development: ACADM, FNIP2, RAPGEF2, RABGGTB, PPID, and ST6GALNAC3.This study provides evidence supporting potential causal associations between octanoylcarnitine and decanoylcarnitine and BC risk. Integrative single-cell transcriptomics revealed six CRM-associated biomarkers and their dynamic expression within tumor microenvironments. Additional experimental and clinical studies are needed to validate these observations and clarify their biological and translational relevance.Copyright © 2026 Termedia & Banach.
Cutaneous melanoma remains the most lethal skin cancer due to profound tumor heterogeneity and the frequent development of resistance to current therapies. Here, we identify the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLT1R) as a previously unrecognized driver of melanoma progression. Analysis of bulk RNA-sequencing datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed significantly elevated CysLT1R transcript in metastatic tumors compared to primary tumors. Functional studies in murine and human melanoma cells demonstrated that leukotriene D4 (LTD4)-mediated activation of CysLT1R promotes melanoma cell proliferation and invasion through the parallel engagement of YAP and ERK signaling pathways. Notably, melanoma cells express LTC4 synthase and secrete cysteinyl leukotrienes, establishing a constitutive autocrine signaling loop that sustains CysLT1R activity independently of the host niche. Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of CysLT1R with MK571 significantly attenuated tumor growth in vivo and was associated with inhibition of the YAP-LOXL-2 signaling axis. In addition, studies using Cysltr1-/- mice reveal that host-derived CysLT1R signaling within the tumor microenvironment also contributes to melanoma progression. Together, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized pro-tumorigenic CysLT1R-ERK/YAP,LOXL-2 signaling circuit that promotes cutaneous melanoma progression and highlight CysLT1R as a potential therapeutic target for melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494597 is a review article
Neuropeptide FF receptor 2 (NPFFR2) has been implicated in the bioelectric response of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). However, given the functional heterogeneity of macrophage populations, the specific response of tissue macrophages is less well characterized. In this study, we examined the regulatory effects of direct current electric field (dcEF) stimulation on NPFFR2 in primary thioglycolate-elicited peritoneal macrophages (TEPMs) by integrating cellular assays, transcriptomics, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Our data indicate that dcEF intensities (25-200 mV/mm) elicited morphological polarization in TEPMs while maintaining metabolic viability. In contrast to the receptor downregulation typically observed in recruited BMDMs, dcEF exposure-particularly at 25 and 150 mV/mm-was associated with elevated NPFFR2 protein levels in wild-type TEPMs. Molecular dynamics simulations suggested that high-intensity electric fields might physically destabilize the NPFFR2 core domain, facilitating conformational unfolding. However, cellular assays concurrently revealed a net accumulation of the protein. Transcriptomic and biochemical analyses suggest that this accumulation may be attributed to a compensatory biosynthetic response, which appears to offset the heightened degradation pressure associated with structural instability. Together, these observations point to a distinct, cell-type-specific regulation of NPFFR2 by dcEF. We propose a model wherein protein accumulation in macrophages is maintained through the activation of bioenergetic and translational pathways, thereby counterbalancing field-induced physical vulnerability.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Myeloid-driven inflammation contributes to resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in solid tumors, partly through neutrophil-mediated immunosuppressive mechanisms. Experimental evidence suggests cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1) signaling promotes tumor-supportive myelopoiesis. We evaluated whether pharmacologic CysLTR1 blockade with montelukast could mitigate myeloid-mediated resistance to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.A triangulated translational framework was applied using 3 independent data sets. First, CYSLTR1 and ELANE transcript expression were analyzed in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA; n=9907). Second, a propensity-matched emulated clinical trial was conducted in the Mount Sinai TriNetX network, comparing pembrolizumab plus montelukast versus pembrolizumab alone in advanced solid malignancies (n=70 per arm). Third, a negative-control analysis was performed in UK Biobank cancer patients (n=19,443) using multivariable Cox proportional hazards models.High concurrent CYSLTR1 and ELANE expression was associated with significantly poorer long-term survival in TCGA (P<0.0001). In TriNetX, concurrent montelukast exposure was associated with improved overall survival during pembrolizumab treatment (HR=0.505; 95% CI: 0.256-0.995; P=0.0441). In the UK Biobank, baseline neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio independently predicted mortality, but montelukast showed no survival interaction (P=0.957), supporting immunotherapy-specific rather than generalized oncologic benefit.CysLTR1 blockade with montelukast may represent a low-cost companion strategy to overcome myeloid-mediated ICI resistance. These findings support prospective validation of combined anti-PD-1 and anti-CysLTR1 therapy in advanced solid tumors.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
The cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1) is known as a potent lipid mediator with a well-established role in inflammatory regulation and lung disease. While its involvement in immune cell recruitment has been previously reported, its broader impact on pulmonary metabolism remains poorly understood.The study aims to investigate the metabolic consequences of a CysLTR1 deletion in mice to elucidate its role in pulmonary metabolic homeostasis.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected from CysLTR1 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice (n = 4 per group), and analysed using standardized untargeted gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS) metabolomics.Metabolomics analyses of the BALF collected from the CysLTR1 KO mice presented significantly reduced levels of glucose, glucosamine, and glyceric acid, indicating the role of the CysLTR in lung glucose uptake and consequently lung glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. This is further supported by reductions in myo-inositol and D-chiro-inositol, also supporting previous findings that this occurs due to insulin resistance. Consequential disruption of various glucose-dependent pathways, including the pentose phosphate pathway (reduced gluconic acid, sedoheptulose and xylose) and purine metabolism (reduced 1-methylinosine) indicates a consequential altered nucleotide turnover, and the significantly reduced concentrations of butanoic acid, decan-2-ol, and 1-hexadecanol, indicate changes to fatty acid metabolism in the lung, as a compensatory response to the initial glucose deficiency induced by the CysLTR1 KO. Lastly, the changes to mandelic acid, glutaric acid, tricarballylic acid, and decan-2-ol, furthermore, indicate the role of CysLTR1 in the composition/metabolism of the microbiome.This study expands our knowledge on the role of CysLTR1 beyond its role in immune regulation, which may contribute to a better understanding of CysLTR1 associated lung diseases and in the development of improved therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epilepsy is one of the most common chronic neurological disorders. This study aimed to identify hippocampal neuronal subpopulations with the most prominent transcriptional alterations during the latent period following status epilepticus, thereby elucidating early molecular mechanisms of epileptogenesis in a pilocarpine-induced model. Status epilepticus (SE) was induced in male C57BL/6 N mice via intraperitoneal pilocarpine injection, and hippocampal tissue was collected on Day 7 post-SE (n = 3 per group) for single-nucleus RNA sequencing using a 10× Genomics platform. Data were processed using Seurat, clustered via UMAP, and analysed for differential gene expression and KEGG pathway enrichment. From 76,412 high-quality nuclei, we identified 45,584 excitatory neurons, 5,897 inhibitory neurons, and major glial subtypes. Dentate gyrus (DG) excitatory neurons exhibited the most profound transcriptional remodelling, segregating into control-enriched (DG1) and epilepsy-enriched (DG2) factions. The expression of Sorcs3, Rgs6, and Galntl6 was upregulated in DG2 neurons, whereas the expression of Trpc5, Itpr1, and Calb1 was upregulated in DG1 neurons. Among inhibitory neurons, Meis2-expressing interneurons showed the greatest change in relative abundance, with the Meis2-1 subtype tending to increase in relative abundance post-SE compared to controls (P = 0.0728, not significant) and selectively expressing the seizure-related genes Cpa6, Ano1, and Ano2. DG excitatory neurons and Meis2-positive inhibitory neurons represent the most prominently altered hippocampal cell types following seizures, highlighting their potential role in epileptogenic network reorganization. The identification of disease-specific molecular signatures within these populations provides a prioritised framework for investigating causal mechanisms and developing cell type-targeted therapeutic strategies for precision epilepsy treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
This issue of the Biomedical Journal explores emerging perspectives across neuropsychiatry, metabolism, aging, regenerative medicine, artificial intelligence, and chronic inflammatory disease. Featured contributions examine epigenetic and neuroendocrine mechanisms in depression, including the antidepressant-like effects of magnolol in chronic stress-induced models and the potential relevance of short-chain fatty acids as biomarkers and therapeutic targets in major depressive disorder. Additional reviews address evolutionary and metabolic dimensions of liver disease, artificial intelligence-assisted imaging approaches in lymphedema, immunological senotherapeutic strategies, developmental origins of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic syndrome, and the risks associated with short-term corticosteroid exposure. Original investigations further examine dopaminergic signaling during acute deprivation, molecular mechanisms of axonal regeneration, lipid peroxidation in pulmonary fibrosis, hypothalamic NPFFR2 signaling in metabolic dysfunction, neurobehavioral consequences of occlusal disharmony, and fall risk following cataract surgery with blue-light-filtering intraocular lenses. A correspondence exchange additionally discusses the diagnostic scope and limitations of elastase pretreatment in ALK fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis for non-small cell lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
CXCL17 was recently reported to activate GPR25, a receptor expressed by T-regulatory cells. Although classified as a chemokine, the activity of CXCL17 is ablated by minor C-terminal truncation, suggesting a novel mode of receptor activation. We set out to test this hypothesis by mutagenesis. GPR25 was expressed in the murine pre-B cell line L1.2 and mediated robust migration of transfectants to nanomolar concentrations of recombinant CXCL17 (24-119). The N-terminally truncated form of CXCL17 (64-119) was also chemotactic for GPR25 transfectants, albeit with severely reduced potency. Modelling of CXCL17:GPR25 implied multiple interactions between the N- and C-termini of CXCL17 with GPR25, which was validated by mutagenesis. Cells expressing a chimeric FPR1:GPR25 construct responded chemotactically to CXCL17 but with significantly reduced potency compared with wild-type GPR25 transfectants, implicating the GPR25 N-terminus in CXCL17 recognition. Mutagensis of the GPR25 residues W95, R178 and R264 resulted in a complete loss of chemotactic responsiveness to CXCL17, consistent with the residues interacting with the C-terminal CXCL17 motif. In conclusion, we verify GPR25 as a bona fide CXCL17 receptor and suggest a two-step model of GPR25 activation, in which the receptor N-terminus orients CXCL17 for activation of GPR25 via its C-terminus. We also advocate the reclassification of CXCL17 as a chemoattractant distinct from the chemokine family.© 2026 The Author(s). Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic Pharmacological Society).
The roles of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) and its receptor, G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25), in immune regulation are gaining recognition, but their evolutionary origins and phylogenetic distributions have yet to be determined. In this study, we identified a CXCL17 gene in the lobe-finned fish Latimeria chalumnae (coelacanth), a close living fish relative of tetrapods. This gene produces two alternatively spliced secretory proteins, designated Lc-CXCL17a and Lc-CXCL17b, which display limited sequence similarity to known CXCL17s from mammals or ray-finned fishes. Recombinant forms of Lc-CXCL17a and Lc-CXCL17b were generated via bacterial overexpression, purification, and enzymatic processing. Functional assays, including NanoLuc Binary Technology (NanoBiT)-based β-arrestin recruitment, NanoBiT-based ligand-receptor binding, and chemotaxis assays, demonstrated that both proteins tightly bound to and potently activated coelacanth GPR25 in a manner dependent on their C-terminal residues, because removal of these residues markedly diminished activities. These findings provide the first evidence that a functional CXCL17-GPR25 system exists in lobe-finned fishes, supporting the hypothesis that this ligand-receptor pair originated in ancient fishes and was transmitted to tetrapods through lobe-finned fish ancestors. This work broadens understanding of CXCL17 evolution and highlights the coelacanth as a valuable model for tracing conserved immune signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) has recently been identified as an agonist of the poorly characterized G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25). Although GPR25 orthologs are widely distributed across vertebrates, non-mammalian CXCL17 orthologs have only been identified in some fish species in our recent studies. In this study, we systematically searched public databases for amphibian CXCL17 orthologs based on conserved C-terminal motif, gene synteny, and genomic architecture. Using this approach, we identified up to eighteen possible CXCL17 orthologs from diverse amphibian species. These amphibian CXCL17s exhibit no significant overall sequence similarity to known mammalian or fish CXCL17s, and most of them display distinctive features, including four cysteine residues in their mature peptide and an additional residue following the conserved C-terminal Xaa-Pro-Yaa motif. A representative ortholog from the tropical clawed frog (Xenopus tropicalis) was recombinantly expressed and functionally characterized using cell-based assays, inducing ligand‒receptor binding, β-arrestin recruitment, and chemotactic cell migration. The recombinant amphibian CXCL17 directly bound to and efficiently activated its cognate GPR25 receptor and induced chemotactic migration of the transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells, but deletion of four C-terminal residues largely abolished its activity, indicating that all CXCL17 orthologs employ a conserved mechanism for receptor binding and activation. These findings provide new insights into the phylogenetic distribution and sequence diversity of CXCL17 orthologs across vertebrate lineages. In future, more studies are needed to clarify in vivo functions of the CXCL17‒GPR25 system in amphibians.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) and its receptor G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25) have been identified as a significant pair in regulating immunity, but CXCL17 orthologs have not yet been identified from non-mammalian vertebrates. This study aimed to identify and characterize non-mammalian CXCL17 orthologs based on key features of mammalian CXCL17s, such as a C-terminal Xaa-Pro-Yaa motif, a signal peptide, and six cysteine residues. Two possible CXCL17 paralogs were identified from zebrafish (Danio rerio): Dr-CXCL17 (encoded by zgc:158701) and Dr-CXCL17-like (encoded by si:dkey-112a7.5). Both are previously uncharacterized proteins with unknown functions because they lack overall sequence similarity to known mammalian CXCL17s. For functional characterization, recombinant Dr-CXCL17 and Dr-CXCL17-like were prepared via overexpression in Escherichia coli and subsequent in vitro refolding, and their activity was tested using NanoLuc Binary Technology (NanoBiT)-based β-arrestin recruitment assays, NanoBiT-based ligand‒ receptor binding assays, and chemotaxis assays. The results showed that both Dr-CXCL17 and Dr-CXCL17-like tightly bound to and efficiently activated zebrafish GPR25 (Dr-GPR25) and induced chemotactic movement in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells expressing the receptor. Deletion of three C-terminal residues in both paralogs almost eliminated their binding, activation, and chemotactic effects, which suggests that this fragment is crucial for their function. Homologs of Dr-CXCL17 or Dr-CXCL17-like were retrieved from several other ray-finned fish species, indicating that two CXCL17 paralogs are present in certain fish species and function as endogenous agonists for the fish GPR25 receptor. The identification of fish CXCL17 orthologs suggests that the CXCL17‒GPR25 pair likely originated in ancient fishes and was conserved across vertebrate lineages. This work represents the first identification of CXCL17 orthologs in non-mammalian vertebrates, paving the way for future functional studies of this ligand‒receptor pair.© 2026 The Author(s); published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the Biochemical Society.
Tissue-resident memory CD8 T (TRM) cells provide critical antiviral and antitumor immunity, but the molecular pathways guiding their development are not fully defined. Here, we identify the G protein-coupled receptor GPR25, induced by TGF-β signaling, as a regulator of TRM cell formation. Using adoptive transfer, we found that Gpr25-deficient T cells infiltrated tissues normally after viral infection but failed to efficiently develop into TRM cells. In a tumor challenge model, Gpr25 deficiency impaired TRM cell expansion and tumor control. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed defective acquisition of stem-like TRM cell features, including expression of T cell factor 1 (TCF1). After antigen rechallenge, Gpr25-deficient TRM cells showed impaired secondary TRM cell differentiation and maintenance. Moreover, Gpr25-deficient T cells displayed negative enrichment of TGF-β signature genes and impaired responses to TGF-β, indicating that GPR25 enhances TGF-β signaling to promote TRM cell development. Our findings suggest that modulating GPR25 function may provide a therapeutic strategy to improve TRM cell responses in infection and cancer.
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) is a chemoattractant whose receptor remains controversial. While recent studies identified CXCL17 as an agonist of G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25), it was also reported to activate MAS-related GPR family member X2 (MRGPRX2), a member of MAS-related G protein-coupled receptors (MRGPRs), though this finding has not yet been reproduced by other laboratories. In this study, we confirmed that micromolar concentrations of human CXCL17 activate human MRGPRX2 in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells using a NanoLuc Binary Technology (NanoBiT)-based β-arrestin recruitment assay. We further demonstrated that human CXCL17 also activates MRGPRX1 and MAS1 among 10 human MRGPRs in the same assay. CXCL17 could also induce chemotactic movement of transfected HEK293T cells expressing MRGPRX2, MRGPRX1, or MAS1. However, removal of C-terminal residues from CXCL17 did not affect its activation of these three MRGPRs, even though this region is essential for GPR25 activation. These results suggest that CXCL17 activates MRGPRX2, MRGPRX1, and MAS1 through a mechanism distinct from GPR25 activation. Further investigation is needed to determine whether these MRGPRs mediate the in vivo functions of CXCL17.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) functions as a chemoattractant, though its receptor has been controversial. Recent independent studies, including our own, identified CXCL17 as an agonist for the orphan G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25). While GPR25 orthologs are found across fishes to mammals, CXCL17 orthologs appear to be mammalian-specific, leaving the endogenous ligand for non-mammalian GPR25 orthologs unknown. This study unexpectedly found that human CXCL17 exhibits high activity towards GPR25 orthologs from the zebrafish (Danio rerio) and coelacanth (Latimeria chalumnae). Recombinant human CXCL17 efficiently activated both fish GPR25 orthologs in a NanoLuc Binary Technology (NanoBiT)-based β-arrestin recruitment assay, and induced chemotactic movement in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells expressing fish GPR25. A human CXCL17 mutant lacking three C-terminal residues showed no such effect. A NanoBiT-based binding assay revealed that a SmBiT-tagged human CXCL17 C-terminal fragment specifically bound to secretory large NanoLuc fragment (sLgBiT)-fused fish GPR25 orthologs. Fish GPR25 orthologs had significantly higher cell surface expression in transfected HEK293T cells compared to human GPR25, improving β-arrestin recruitment assay data quality. Despite approximately 400 million years of divergence between humans and fishes, the high activity of human CXCL17 on fish GPR25 orthologs suggests that the CXCL17-GPR25 pair may be conserved across all vertebrates, even though non-mammalian CXCL17 orthologs remain unidentified.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.
C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17) is a small secretory protein primarily expressed in mucosal tissues, which likely functions as a chemoattractant; however, its receptor is controversial. Herein, we identified the rarely studied orphan G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25) as a receptor of CXCL17 via prediction using the newly developed AlphaFold 3 algorithm and experimental validation. In the NanoLuc Binary Technology (NanoBiT)-based β-arrestin recruitment assay, recombinant human CXCL17 could activate human GPR25 in transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T cells with an EC50 value around 100 nm, but it had no activation effect on the other 17 tested G protein-coupled receptors. Deletion of three conserved C-terminal residues from human CXCL17 almost abolished its activation effect. Alanine replacement of W95 or R178 of human GPR25, two conserved residues in the predicted orthosteric ligand binding pocket, almost abolished its response to CXCL17. Only the pairing of wild-type CXCL17 with wild-type GPR25 could cause shedding of transforming growth factor α and induce chemotactic movement of transfected HEK293T cells. These results were consistent with the AlphaFold 3-predicted binding model, in which the highly conserved C-terminal fragment of CXCL17 inserts into the orthosteric ligand binding pocket of GPR25. According to their expression pattern shown in the Human Protein Atlas, CXCL17 may be an endogenous agonist of GPR25 in humans and other mammals; however, this hypothesis needs to be tested experimentally in future studies. The present deorphanization paves the way for further functional characterization of the orphan receptor GPR25 and the orphan ligand CXCL17.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Tissue-selective chemoattractants direct lymphocytes to epithelial surfaces to establish local immune environments, regulate immune responses to food antigens and commensal organisms, and protect from pathogens. Homeostatic chemoattractants for small intestines, colon and skin are known1,2, but chemotropic mechanisms selective for respiratory tract and other non-intestinal mucosal tissues remain poorly understood. Here we leveraged diverse omics datasets to identify GPR25 as a lymphocyte receptor for CXCL17, a chemoattractant cytokine whose expression by epithelial cells of airways, upper gastrointestinal and squamous mucosae unifies the non-intestinal mucosal tissues and distinguishes them from intestinal mucosae. Single-cell transcriptomic analyses show that GPR25 is induced on innate lymphocytes before emigration to the periphery, and is imprinted in secondary lymphoid tissues on activated B and T cells responding to immune challenge. GPR25 characterizes B and T tissue resident memory cells and regulatory T lymphocytes in non-intestinal mucosal tissues and lungs in humans and mediates lymphocyte homing to barrier epithelia of the airways, oral cavity, stomach, and biliary and genitourinary tracts in mouse models. GPR25 is also expressed by T cells in cerebrospinal fluid and CXCL17 by neurons, suggesting a role in central nervous system (CNS) immune regulation. We reveal widespread imprinting of GPR25 on regulatory T cells, suggesting a mechanistic link to population genetics evidence that GPR25 is protective in autoimmunity3,4. Our results define a GPR25-CXCL17 chemoaffinity axis with the potential to integrate immunity and tolerance at non-intestinal mucosae and the CNS.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
This study aimed to screen and identify potential immune biomarker to predict the prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).Data of OSCC patient from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were downloaded, and the ESTIMATE algorithm was used to calculate stromal and immune scores. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the high and low immune score groups were screened, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed to identify the DEGs linked to the overall survival (OS) time of OSCC patients. Then, those DEGs were validated in anther cohort. A correlation analysis was used to further screen the prognostic genes which were tightly linked to the expression of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1). The expression profiles of the candidate genes interleukin 12 receptor subunit beta 1 (IL-12RB1), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA4), and G protein-coupled receptor 25 (GPR25) were identified in the single-cell RNA sequence OSCC dataset from GSE103322. Finally, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) were applied to confirm the expression pattern of IL-12RB1 in OSCC tissue microarray. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic significance of IL-12RB1 staining score in the malignant and non-malignant cells among the patients.The high immune score group showed better OS compared with that of the low immune scores group. Among 339 DEGs, 90 were identified as being tightly linked to OS time. In the validation set, 23 genes were confirmed to be closely associated with survival prognosis, and the expression levels of IL-12RB1, CTLA4, and GPR25 were commonly associated with the expression of PD-1/PD-L1. The RNA-sequencing showed that IL-12RB1 was expressed in epithelial and immune cells, whereas CTLA4 and GPR25 were relatively poorly expressed in the OSCC tissue. IHC showed that IL-12RB1 was positively expressed in both malignant and non-malignant cells. IF showed that IL-12RB1 was co-expressed with CD3, CD68, PD-1, and PD-L1 on the cytomembrane. Additionally, high score of IL-12RB1 expression in the non-malignant cells was a prognostic risk factor for OS of OSCC.IL-12RB1 was tightly associated with survival of OSCC and with the expression levels of PD-1/PD-L1 in the tumor immune microenvironment.2022 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Although nucleophosmin (NPM1) is a well-characterized oncogene in acute myeloid leukemia, much less is known about its role in solid tumor immunity. Here, we examined the function of NPM1 in regulating anti-tumor immunity within the tumor microenvironment.The proportion and functional changes of macrophages and T cells were detected by flow cytometry, the downstream regulatory genes of NPM1 were detected by RNA-seq, the binding ability of NPM1 and STAT3 was analyzed by Chip and luciferase assay.NPM1 inhibition or genetic deficiency promoted tumor growth in MC38 colon cancer and LLC lung cancer mice models. Npm1+/- mice exhibited enhanced infiltration and polarization of immunosuppressive M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and impaired CD8+ T cell function. Mechanistically, NPM1 bound to p-TAT3/STAT3 and promoted transcription of CCRL2, a key regulator of macrophage polarization. Overexpression of Npm1 in mice suppressed tumor growth, reduced M2 TAMs polarization, and enhanced CD8+ T cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity.Our findings revealed that NPM1 protects against tumor progression by regulating TAMs polarization and T cell function via the STAT3-CCRL2 axis.Copyright © 2026 Hong, Yang, Han, Ouyang, Sun and Zhao.
Atherosclerotic lesions contain heterogeneous macrophage populations with divergent functional phenotypes that play opposing roles in disease progression, creating a major obstacle for the development of macrophage-targeted therapy. The identification of novel molecules that exhibit both preferential expression and functional activity in inflammatory plaque macrophages is crucial for the development of more specific anti-inflammatory therapies against atherosclerosis. Here, we report that the expression of C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2), a nonsignaling atypical chemokine receptor initially cloned from LPS-activated macrophages, progressively increased in atherosclerotic lesions during disease progression in both human and mouse models, with predominant expression in inflammatory macrophages characterized by high expression of NLRP3 inflammasome components. Moreover, specific deletion of hematopoietic CCRL2 attenuated atherosclerotic progression in Apoe-/- mice fed a high-cholesterol diet, as evidenced by significant decreases in plaque burden, macrophage accumulation, and NLRP3 inflammasome activation within the plaques, without affecting blood lipid levels. Mechanistically, ox-LDL or other danger signals induce macrophages to express CCRL2, which can be endocytosed and relocalized to early endosomes, where it interacts with NLRP3 to promote inflammasome assembly and activation. Importantly, macrophage-targeted nanoparticle delivery of Ccrl2-siRNA effectively attenuated atherosclerotic progression in vivo, concomitant with reduced levels of IL-1β, the key effector cytokine of the NLRP3 inflammasome, and diminished macrophage accumulation within plaques. Taken together, the results of our study establish CCRL2 as both a new marker for identifying inflammatory macrophages and a promising anti-inflammatory therapeutic target for atherosclerosis through the modulation of aberrant NLRP3 inflammasome activation in pathogenic inflammatory macrophages.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415929 is a review article
This study investigates the anti-tumor mechanisms of clitocine, a natural compound, in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), with a focus on its role in modulating the immune microenvironment via C-C motif chemokine receptor like 2 (CCRL2). The anti-cancer effects of clitocine were assessed in vitro using TNBC cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468) through functional assays, flow cytometry, and immunoblotting. RNA sequencing was performed to identified clitocine-induced transcriptional changes. The subcutaneous 4T1 xenograft models in BALB/c mice were used for in vivo validation. Additionally, mass cytometry (CyTOF) profiled tumor immune infiltration in tumor tissues, and the role of CCRL2 in modulating the tumor immune microenvironment and inflammatory pathways was investigated through database mining (TCGA) and gain/loss-of-function experiments.Clitocine potently inhibits TNBC cell proliferation, metastasis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), while inducing mitochondrial apoptosis. It alters cancer-related gene expression (upregulating CCRL2), suppresses PI3K-AKT, NFκB, and ERK pathways, and exhibits potent antitumor activity in vivo without systemic toxicity. Mechanistically, clitocine remodels the tumor immune microenvironment by reducing neutrophil infiltration and suppressing neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation, effects mediated through the CCRL2/chemerin axis. Furthermore, CCRL2 is identified as a tumor suppressor, with low expression in TNBC patients correlating with poor survival. Credibly, CCRL2 knockdown in vitro and in vivo significantly abrogates the anti-tumor and immunomodulatory effects of clitocine.Our findings demonstrate that clitocine exerts potent anti-TNBC effects by upregulating CCRL2 expression, thereby activating the clitocine/CCRL2/chemerin axis. This axis disrupts critical oncogenic signaling pathways and reprograms the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the expression of C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2) on platelets in children with chronic primary immune thrombocytopenia(ITP), and its effect on platelet function.11 chronic ITP patients who were diagnosed at the Department of Hematology of Children's Hospital of Soochow University from April 2023 to September 2024, and 12 control cases were enrolled in this study. Both the expression of CCRL2 on platelets was measured, and the effects of Ccrl2 deletion on platelet production and function were evaluated.Deletion of Ccrl2 did not affect platelet counts and megakaryopoiesis, but significantly impaired the maximum aggregation rate, P-selectin expression, and adhesive ability to collagen I of platelets. In addition, the levels of CCRL2 and CD36 on platelets in children with chronic ITP were significantly decreased. However, the absolute number of neutrophils and the concentrations of Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9) and Defensin Alpha 1(DEFA1) were significantly increased.The weakened platelet function in children with chronic ITP may be related to the decreased CCRL2 expression.
Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)/acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with high-risk features including TP53 mutations have poor outcomes due to lack of effective therapies. The atypical chemokine surface receptor C-C motif chemokine receptor-like 2 (CCRL2) is overexpressed in MDS and secondary AML (sAML) compared to healthy hematopoietic cells and we recently found that TP53-mutated MDS/AML and AML with erythroid features express the highest levels of this receptor across MDS/AML subtypes. To illustrate the therapeutic potential of CCRL2 as a therapeutic target, we developed an anti-CCRL2 antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) by conjugating an anti-CCRL2 antibody with the cytotoxic drug pyrrolobenzodiazepine (PBD), which causes DNA double-strand breaks leading to cancer cell death. The anti-CCRL2 ADC demonstrated strong CCRL2-selective cytotoxicity against cell lines derived from MDS/AML patients with TP53 mutations and erythroid features, surpassing the cytotoxic effects observed with gemtuzumab and PBD-conjugated anti-CD33 and anti-CD123 ADCs. It also induced apoptosis and suppressed the clonogenicity of primary MDS/AML bone marrow samples without affecting the survival, differentiation and clonogenicity of healthy hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. This agent also suppressed the leukemic growth of TP53-mutated MDS/AML cell line xenografts, improving mice survival and decreasing the leukemic burden in patient-derived TP53-mutated MDS/AML xenografts. In conclusion, our study introduces CCRL2 as a potential new therapeutic target in high-risk MDS/AML including TP53-mutated subsets.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
This study aims to investigate the pathogenic hallmarks in various subtypes of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) using single-cell transcriptomic approaches.Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis was conducted on affected skeletal muscle and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy controls (n = 5) and patients with four different IIM subtypes (anti-Mi2/MDA5/NXP2 dermatomyositis [DM] and anti-HMGCR immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy [IMNM]; for each subtype, n = 3-5). Immunohistochemistry and cell cultures were performed to confirm key alterations revealed by the single-cell analysis.Among the 12 cell types, a reduction in type IIa/IIx myofiber cells was observed across more inflammatory IIM subtypes. Type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling was selectively hyperactivated in DM, whereas it is not obvious in IMNM. Expression of the transcription factor MEF2C appears to be reduced and associated with delayed myofiber genesis and altered muscle function. Developmental trajectory analysis suggested that two clusters of muscle stem and progenitor cells, MuSCs1 and Myoblasts1, were associated with disruptions in muscle regeneration in IIM, with IFN-I indicated in this aberrant differentiation process. Among immune cells, M1-like macrophages were suggested to interact with muscle cells via tumor necrosis factor signaling, leading to muscle inflammation. Furthermore, CXCL10+ fibroblasts are likely to recruit the M1-like macrophages through the CCL19-CCR7/CCRL2 axis. Moreover, we found that peripheral CD14+ monocytes exhibit high IFN activity and polarize into the M1-like phenotype after infiltration into skeletal muscle.The study provides valuable single-cell transcriptomic resources for describing pathologic cell atlas across IIM subtypes. We highlighted not only common changes in IIM (ie, expression of MEF2C and IFN-I) but also outlined distinct characteristics among the four subtypes of IIM.© 2026 American College of Rheumatology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41907444 is a review article
East Asians can be more susceptible to heavy alcohol consumption than others, due to genetic variations. In addition, alcohol drinking has been suspected as a cause of type 2 diabetes (T2D). To clarify the integrated toxic mechanisms of alcohol on T2D in East Asians, we performed epigenome-wide association studies using methylation profiling arrays among four groups of South Korean men (N = 80): drinking (DK), diabetic (DM), both drinking and diabetic (DK + DM), and non-drinking and non-diabetic controls (Con). We screened hypermethylated or hypomethylated sites in both DK and DM, compared to Con, and found 15 more and 10 fewer methylated sites in DK + DM than in DK or DM among the screened sites. Furthermore, we confirmed the involvement of SLC8A1, IGFBP7, ZBED3, etc., in alcohol-related diseases and T2D and observed that these epigenetic sites were related to the negative regulation of chemokines, response to hexose, transport, glucose, regulation of cell communication, response to insulin, sodium ion transmembrane transport, and sodium ion transport. MUL1, GPLD1, ZBED3, and SLC8A1 showed multiple associations with these pathways. Finally, we found that some of the 25 epigenetic sites, including CCRL2 for inflammation, ACTG1 for cell shape, and NDUFB9 for oxidoreduction, were hubs of the STRING network. In conclusion, our findings suggest that alcohol-induced T2D development involves two interconnected pathophysiological mechanisms, mitochondrial dysfunction and errors in cell communication and ion transport that contribute to pancreatic β-cell failure.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, spectral flow cytometry, immune-receptor repertoire profiling, and plasma proteomics revealed coordinated peripheral immune remodeling during acute scrub typhus. Patients exhibited expansion of cytotoxic, clonally amplified CD8+ T cells with exhaustion-associated features, depletion and apoptosis of CD4+ T cells, B-cell contraction with enhanced plasmablast/plasma-cell differentiation, and inflammatory myeloid remodeling. CD14+CXCR6+ and CD14+GNLY+ myeloid-cell frequencies positively correlated with bacterial burden, defining prominent immune features of acute Orientia tsutsugamushi infection.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548611 is a review article
The precise mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) remain undefined. However, there has been increasing recognition that tissue-resident memory cells (TRMs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of systemic autoimmune disease. In IIM, TRM-associated transcriptional signatures have been reported, but on a very limited basis. By using multimodal single-cell RNA sequencing analysis in our established murine model of histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HRS)-induced myositis, we identified a prominent population of CD4+ TRMs in inflamed skeletal muscle. Muscle CD4+ TRMs exhibited high expression of genes encoding Cd69, Cxcr6, Runx3, and Prdm1, alongside low expression of Klf2, Ccr7, Sell, S1pr1, and Tcf7 - a profile that is generally consistent with previous reports of TRM gene signature and that we validate through comparison to transcriptomic profiles of human muscle tissue. Detailed pathway analysis in our model indicates that muscle CD4+ TRMs contribute to innate immune regulatory pathways enriched for TNF and IFN-γ signaling. Furthermore, analysis of TCR clonotype distribution and CDR3 sequence similarity revealed pronounced clonal expansion of CD4+ TRMs relative to other T-cell subsets - a pattern that remained stable from 2 to 6 weeks post-immunization. Collectively, these results suggest a potential role for CD4+ TRMs in the pathogenesis of autoimmune myositis.
CD4 T cells are essential for protective immunity against Chlamydia in the female reproductive tract (FRT), yet the characteristics of protective mucosal effector CD4 T cells remain poorly defined. We previously identified the transcription factor BHLHE40 as a key regulator of polyfunctional effector CD4 T cell differentiation during Chlamydia infection. Here, we identify the chemokine receptor CXCR6 as a marker of these protective T cells. Following intravaginal Chlamydia muridarum infection, Bhlhe40-deficient mice exhibited reduced frequencies of CXCR6+ CD4 T cells that correlated with impaired bacterial control. CXCR6 expression on T cells was associated with loss of stem-like features and acquisition of an effector phenotype. Compared with CXCR6- cells, CXCR6+ CD4 T cells displayed enhanced proliferation and polyfunctionality by co-producing cytokines IFN-γ, IL-17A, and GM-CSF. Although CXCR6 was dispensable for CD4 T cell homing to the FRT, it promoted localization to the infected epithelium and the emerging memory lymphoid clusters. Importantly, depletion of CXCR6+ CD4 T cells reduced polyfunctional effectors and impaired bacterial clearance. Collectively, these findings identify CXCR6 as a marker of protective polyfunctional CD4 T cells and implicate CXCR6-dependent tissue positioning as a key component of effective mucosal immunity, highlighting CXCR6 as a potential biomarker for Chlamydia vaccine development.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a dynamic process that contributes to breast cancer progression, metastasis, and therapy resistance. EMT also influences the tumor immune microenvironment, shaping immune cell infiltration and function. Although the immunological features of fully epithelial or fully mesenchymal tumor states have been characterized, the immune landscape associated with intermediate or partial EMT states remains poorly understood.To examine the relationship between EMT progression and immune cell composition and function, we established five single-cell-derived clonal populations from the triple-negative 4T1 mouse mammary tumor cell line, representing a spectrum of EMT phenotypes, and analyzed tumors derived from these clones using single-cell RNA sequencing.Tumors derived from these clones retained their relative EMT states in vivo, and EMT progression was associated with a graded reduction in tumor immunogenicity, accompanied by alterations in immune cell composition and function. Along the EMT spectrum, tumor cells exhibited progressive downregulation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II gene expression, along with decreased infiltration of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells and reduced expression of key effector and trafficking genes (Gzmb, Ccr5, Cxcr6). B cell composition also shifted, with decreased frequencies of IgG1-producing plasma cells and an enrichment of regulatory-like B cells. Natural killer (NK) cells similarly demonstrated progressive functional suppression, marked by reduced expression of cytotoxic molecules and the downregulation of specific effector pathways.These findings reveal that EMT is associated with immune cell recruitment and function in a graded manner, providing a rationale for integrating EMT phenotyping into therapeutic strategies to overcome immune resistance in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type 1 regulatory (Tr1) T cells are a major source of IL-10-mediated immune regulation, yet their phenotypic definition and role in human disease remain incompletely understood. In this issue of the Journal of Clinical Investigation, Nideffer et al. provide insight into human Tr1 cells during pediatric Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) infection. The authors identified Tr1 cells as a major component of the malaria-specific CD4+ T cell response, producing both IL-10 and IFN-γ. They proposed that, in this context, Tr1 cells may be better identified by CD127 downregulation combined with CXCR6 expression than by other surface markers. Importantly, Tr1 cells exhibited suppressive function and were associated with reduced symptomatic disease but also with prolonged infection. Together, these findings refine current models of Tr1 cell identity and establish a more rigorous framework for marker validation using single-cell transcriptomics while highlighting the role of Tr1 cells in balancing immunity and immunopathology during infection.
BLIMP-1, a transcriptional repressor initially identified in plasma B-cell differentiation, also regulates CD8+ T cells and is differentially expressed between naïve and effector/memory CD4+ T cells. However, the functions of BLIMP-1 in human CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) remain unclear. We found BLIMP-1 mRNA levels were low in naïve Tregs from thymus and cord blood, but high in effector/memory Tregs from adult peripheral blood. We confirmed the expression of BLIMP-1 mRNA by microarray of healthy T-cell populations and single-cell RNA-sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific CD4+ T cells from convalescent COVID-19 patients. We found activated memory Tregs expressed the highest levels of BLIMP-1, FOXP3, and CD39 transcripts and protein. We show that CD39+ Tregs, regardless of in vitro or in vivo activation, had the highest levels of BLIMP-1 protein expression and significantly more IL-10 mRNA than CD39neg cells. The same result was found through reanalysis of public single cell RNA-sequencing data from lung (tissue and lymph node) SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific Tregs, where cells with high levels of BLIMP-1 mRNA had significantly more IL-10 mRNA than cells with low BLIMP-1 mRNA. Single-cell RNA-sequencing identified an extended transcriptomic profile of these CD39+ Tregs that includes the genes encoding HPGD, CTLA-4, HELIOS, TIGIT, CXCR6, CCR8, and GARP. Together, these data indicate that both circulating and lung resident effector memory Tregs maintain a conserved phenotype following stimulation by cognate antigen. Our data provide further insight into the functions and potential therapeutic targets of the large regulatory T-cell component of CD4+ T-cell responses to pathogens.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology & Cell Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Immunogenic cell death (ICD) is closely linked to thyroid cancer (THCA). We mined ICD-linked prognostic genes for survival predictors and unpacked their potential biology.Single-cell analysis was conducted to identify distinct cell types, and the scores of ICD-related genes (ICDRGs) were computed to identify key cell types. Furthermore, correlation, differential expression, and Kaplan-Meier survival studies were conducted to discover prognostic genes. By employing these genes alongside 101 combinations of 10 algorithms, we constructed a prognostic model and computed risk scores for THCA samples, analyzing their survival disparities. Control and THCA tissue samples were taken to assess the expression of prognostic genes via real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), resulting in the identification of a key gene. Subsequently, gene set enrichment analysis was executed on this key gene, and Western blot analysis was undertaken to evaluate the expression of relevant pathways.Single-cell and transcriptome analysis found CXCR6, ICOS, SLAMF7, CD80, and TNF as prognostic genes associated with ICD in THCA. Of the 101 combinations evaluated, the StepCox[both] + Random Survival Forest (RSF) model was selected as the prognostic model owing to its superior C-index. This model accurately forecasted survival outcomes for THCA samples. Expression study demonstrated a notable decrease of CXCR6 in THCA samples, consistent with bioinformatics analysis and it was designated as the key gene. Functional analysis revealed an enrichment of the inflammatory response, accompanied by reduced levels of its principal targets (Gαi) and downstream pathways (Src and PI3K-AKT) in THCA samples.This study found five prognostic genes, with CXCR6 associated with Gαi, Src, and PI3K-AKT pathways in the modulation of THCA, indicating the essential function of CXCR6 in THCA.© 2026. The Author(s).
The role of CD8+ T cells in Crohn's disease (CD) pathogenesis remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to characterize CD8+ T cells in CD and elucidate their potential contribution to intestinal inflammation. T cells from blood and intestinal tissues of 15 patients with CD were analyzed using single-cell RNA and T cell receptor sequencing. Spatial transcriptomics was conducted on inflamed intestinal tissues from two patients. Analysis of 41,699 CD8+ T cells identified distinct subsets characterized by differential granzyme expression: granzyme B (GZMB+) CD8+ T cells, predominantly in blood with high cytotoxic potential, and granzyme K (GZMK+) CD8+ T cells, enriched in intestinal tissue with lower cytotoxic potential. In the small intestine, GZMK+CD8+ T cells displayed enhanced tissue residency signatures (for example, CXCR6) and downregulated egress-related genes (S1PR1and S1PR5). GZMK+CD8+ T cells displayed robust interactions with myeloid cells via the CXCR3-CXCL9/10 axis, coupled with notable colocalization in the small intestine. Pharmacological inhibition of GZMK alleviated intestinal inflammation and tissue damage in a murine model of intestinal injury, supporting its role in modulating inflammatory responses. Together, these findings highlight GZMK as a potential modulator of intestinal inflammation and a candidate for further therapeutic investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) reduces human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication to undetectable levels but does not eliminate HIV-1 reservoirs, which persist in memory CD4+ T-cells of various antigenic specificities. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) coinfection is associated with an increase in HIV-DNA burden, but whether HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells are susceptible to HIV-1 infection and harbour replication-competent HIV reservoirs upon HCV resolution is unknown.In this cross-sectional study, we examined the impact of HCV infection on CD4+ T-cell susceptibility to HIV-1 infection in vitro and reservoir persistence during ART in subjects with chronic HCV infection and uninfected controls (n = 20/group) and longitudinally in one ART-treated HCV+HIV+ individual who spontaneously resolved multiple episodes of HCV infection.Memory CD4+ T-cells from subjects with chronic HCV exhibited superior permissiveness to productive HIV-1 infection in vitro (p = 0.03) compared to uninfected. This was proportional to plasma HCV-RNA levels (p = 0.046; r = 0.491). HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells distinguished from other antigenic specificities (e.g., Cytomegalovirus) by a CCR5+ (HIV-1 co-receptor), CXCR6+ (liver-homing marker) and CCR6+ (Th17 marker) phenotype and supported productive HIV-1 infection in vitro. In the HCV+ HIV+ subject, HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells carried replication-competent reservoir during acute HCV reinfection, with integrated HIV-DNA persisting in these cells upon HCV clearance.We provide evidence that HCV-specific CD4+ T-cells are targets of integrative HIV-1 infection and carry proviruses that persist during ART despite HCV resolution.Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) (PJT-173467, PJT-153052, PJT-178127, PJT-195736, HB2-164064, BR4-197730, MOP135260, FDN-143270, CTN222 and NHC142832), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) (U19AI159819), and Fonds de recherche du Québec-Santé (FRQS)-Réseau SIDA/maladies infectieuses.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) remains challenging to treat, with conventional anti-inflammatory therapies offering limited efficacy. The lymphatic system is crucial for removing edema and inflammatory mediators, and its impairment can exacerbate lung injury. Ginsenoside Rg1, a bioactive botanical compound, has diverse pharmacological properties, but its ability to modulate lymphangiogenesis in septic ALI is unclear. This study investigated whether Ginsenoside Rg1 can alleviate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI in mice by promoting lymphangiogenesis via the vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGFC)/D-VEGF receptor 3 (VEGFR3) signaling pathway. ALI was induced in C57BL/6 mice by intraperitoneal injection of LPS (10 mg/kg). Mice were treated with Rg1 at low (30 mg/kg) or high (60 mg/kg) doses. Lung injury was assessed by wet-to-dry weight ratios, vascular permeability, histopathology, and lymphatic vessel density. Levels of inflammatory cytokines, VEGFC/D, VEGFR3, and downstream signaling molecules were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, western blotting, and qPCR. Ginsenoside Rg1 treatment dose-dependently reduced pulmonary edema, vascular leakage, and histological damage. It also reversed LPS-induced decreases in VEGFC/D and increased VEGFR3 expression, resulting in enhanced lymphatic vessel density. Rg1 activated VEGFR3 downstream pathways (ERK/Prox-1, AKT) and upregulated lymphatic function genes (CCL21a, ACKR2). Ginsenoside Rg1 can attenuate septic ALI by stimulating the VEGFC/D-VEGFR3 axis to promote functional lymphangiogenesis, thereby facilitating clearance of edema and inflammatory mediators. This mechanism offers a novel therapeutic strategy focused on enhancing clearance rather than only on suppressing inflammation, potentially reducing tissue damage and the side effects associated with conventional treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a rare, multisystemic metastatic disease. Chemokines are implicated in promoting LAM cell migration and tumor progression. Our prior plasma proteomics identified elevated C-C motif chemokine ligand 14 (CCL14) in LAM, yet its role remains unexplored.Proteomic analysis identified CCL14 as differentially expressed in LAM patients versus healthy controls. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of lung tissues (six LAM patients, five healthy donors) identified the cellular source of CCL14 and explored its functional pathways bioinformatically. ELISA-quantified plasma CCL14 levels were analyzed for correlations with clinical phenotypes and longitudinal disease progression in 53 LAM patients and 25 controls.Proteomics and scRNA-seq revealed upregulation of CCL14 in LAM patients, primarily localized to lymphatic and vascular endothelial cells. Functional enrichment linked CCL14 to proliferative (mTORC1, MYC), inflammatory (TNF-α/NF-κB), and chemotactic pathways. CellPhoneDB indicated CCL14 mediates interactions between endothelial cells and innate immune/alveolar epithelial cells, and between endothelial cells themselves, via ACKR2, CCR3 and CCR1. Clinically, plasma CCL14 levels were significantly elevated in LAM patients versus controls (p = 0.003). Subgroup analyses demonstrated higher CCL14 levels in patients with angiomyolipomas (AMLs) versus those without, and in CT grade III versus grade I/II. Critically, CCL14 predicted disease progression: baseline CCL14 levels were higher in progressive versus stable patients (p = 0.0266) and positively correlated with annual increase in the percentage of cystic lung volume (r = 0.4051, p = 0.0446).CCL14 is a critical regulatory molecule within the LAM microenvironment and a promising biomarker for disease severity and progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40784273 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40391489
The rapid worldwide transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has led to severe cases of hypoxia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, multi-organ failure, and ultimately death. Small-scale molecular interactions have been analyzed by focusing on several genes/single genes, providing important insights; however, genome-wide multi-omics comprehensive molecular interactions have not yet been well investigated with the exception of GWAS and eQTLm, both of which show genetic risks. From April of 2020 until now, we have created a Japan-wide system, initially named the Japan COVID-19 Task Force. This system has collected more than 6500 COVID-19 patients' peripheral blood and as much associated clinical information as possible from a network of more than 120 hospitals. DNA, RNA, serum, and plasma were extracted and stored in this bank. This study unravels the interplay of inflammatory gene networks that induce different COVID-19 severity levels (mild, moderate, severe, and critical) by using multi-omics data from the Japan COVID-19 Task Force. We analyze RNA and protein expressions to estimate severity-specific inflammation networks that uncover the interplay between RNA and protein networks via ligand-receptor pairs. Our large-scale RNA/protein expression data analysis reveals that the atypical chemokine receptor 2 (ACKR2) acts as a key broker linking RNA and protein inflammation networks to induce COVID-19 critical severity. ACKR2 emerges in RNA and protein inflammation networks, showing active interplay in high-severity cases and weak interactions in mild cases. The results also show severity-specific molecular interactions between interleukin (IL), cytokine receptor activity, cell adhesion, and interactions involving the CC chemokine ligand (CCL) gene family and ACKR2.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSC) exhibits profound intratumoral heterogeneity, driven by dynamic interactions between malignant cells and the tumour microenvironment (TME). Using consensus non-negative matrix factorisation (cNMF) on multi-site HNSC single-cell transcriptomes, we resolving conserved meta-programs define cellular ecosystems. Six major epithelial programmes emerged, including a differentiation-associated programme (Epi_Diff) correlated with SPDEF activity and favourable patient prognosis, and an invasive programme (Epi_pEMT) potentially controlled by TEAD4-mediated ECM remodelling, exhibiting partial EMT markers (VIM, TGFB1). Compartment-specific crosstalk analysis revealed Epi_pEMT cells may coordinate with mCAF1 fibroblasts and TAM(SPP1) through COL1A1-CD44 and SPP1-CD44 signalling, suggesting potential formation of a pro-invasive niche. Conversely, Epi_Diff cells may interact with NK/T cells through CEACAM5-CD8A and CCL5-ACKR2, and may contribute to inhibit immune infiltration. Multi-compartment correlation analysis revealed three ecosystem-level patterns: (1) Inverse association between Epi_Diff and Epi_pEMT (Spearman R = -0.43); (2) Negative correlation between mCAF1 abundance and cCAF frequency (R = -0.48); (3) TAM(SPP1) dominance inversely correlating with both TAM(C1Q) (R = -0.43) and NK/T infiltration (R = -0.36). These axes suggest a potential hierarchical ecology framework where lineage-specific polarisation and inter-compartment synergies may collectively govern disease progression.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapies, such as anti-PD-1, have transformed cancer treatment, but many patients do not respond due to a non-inflammatory tumor microenvironment (TME). Here, we investigated the impact of targeting Atypical Chemokine Receptor 2 (ACKR2), which scavenges key chemokines involved in immune cell recruitment, on the improvement of anti-PD-1-based therapy. In a melanoma mouse model, we demonstrated that Ackr2 inhibition increases the release of proinflammatory chemokines CCL5 and CXCL10 and enhances the infiltration of NK cells, activated CD8+ and CD4+ effector T cells while reducing regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the TME. Targeting Ackr2 led to tumor growth inhibition, improved survival, and enhanced response to anti-PD-1 therapy. In BRAF- and NRAS-mutant melanoma patients, low ACKR2 expression or high CCL5/CXCL10 levels correlated with improved survival and higher CD8+ T cell markers. Targeting ACKR2 represents a promising approach for developing combination therapies, particularly for 'cold' ICB resistant tumors.
Atypical chemokine receptors (ACKRs) are a subclass of chemokine receptors that internalise and degrade chemokines instead of eliciting chemotaxis. Scavenging by ACKRs reduces the local bioavailability of chemokines and can thus reshape chemokine gradients that direct leukocyte trafficking during inflammation and anticancer responses. In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), chemokine axes, such as CXCL12-CXCR4, are co-opted by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) for tumour growth and escape, and immunosuppression. Here, we explore the use of ACKRs to reshape chemokine gradients within the PDAC tumour microenvironment. ACKR2, previously only known to scavenge inflammatory CC chemokines, was recently shown to be able to interact with CXCL10 and CXCL14. Here, using a chemokine binding assay and cytometric bead arrays, we reveal that ACKR2 scavenges additional CXC chemokines CXCL12 and CXCL1. ACKR2 scavenges CXCL12 with reduced efficiency compared to ACKR3, previously reported to bind CXCL12. Finally, we demonstrate that the overexpression of ACKR2 on bystander cells protects primary murine cytotoxic T lymphocytes from PDAC CAF-mediated chemoattraction. These findings reveal new CXC chemokine ligands of ACKR2 and indicate that ACKR overexpression may protect T cells from misdirection by CAFs.© 2025 The Author(s). European Journal of Immunology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Atypical chemokine receptors are a subfamily of important regulators of chemokine functions. Among them, ACKR2 has long been considered a scavenger of multiple inflammatory chemokines exclusively from the CC family. Recently, we demonstrated the ability of ACKR2 to scavenge the CXC chemokine CXCL10, previously reported to bind solely the classical receptor CXCR3. This discovery emphasized the need for systematic reassessments of chemokine-receptor pairings. In this work, we established a highly sensitive NanoBRET-based competition binding assay using a novel proprietary ACKR2 modulator (LIH222) and applied it in a comprehensive reassessment of the pairings between human and murine chemokines and their respective ACKR2 orthologs. We confirmed CXCL10 as a ligand for the human but also the mouse ACKR2. We also identified CXCL5, CXCL11, and CXCL12 as new CXC chemokines for both ACKR2 orthologs. Furthermore, we showed that CXCL2 is a ligand for the human but not the mouse ACKR2, whereas CXCL1 binds the mouse but not the human receptor. Finally, we found that N-terminally truncated CXCL5 (CXCL58-78) loses its capacity to bind ACKR2, whereas the removal of the first 2 residues of CXCL11 (CXCL113-73) enhances its antagonist potency, showing a tendency toward a reduction of the receptor basal interactions with β-arrestins. Altogether, this study demonstrates that ACKR2 is not exclusive to CC chemokines, and although with a weaker affinity, it can also bind and scavenge a subset of inflammatory and homeostatic CXC chemokines important for the regulation of the immune system.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Macrophages are the primary host cells for Leishmania, and their polarization into either M1 (pro-inflammatory) or M2 (anti-inflammatory) phenotypes determines the course of the infection. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Leishmania tropica, the main agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Türkiye, on the polarization of primary human macrophages. Primary monocytes were isolated from human peripheral blood and differentiated into macrophages using GM-CSF. The cells were infected with L. tropica promastigotes, analyzed after 48 hours. Polarization was evaluated through morphological changes, flow cytometry for surface markers (CD80, CD163, CD206, CD209), and qPCR for gene expression of M1 (NOS2, IDO1, IRF4) and M2 (ARG1, CCL22, CCL1) markers. An infection rate of 56.5% was achieved, with infected macrophages shifting from a spindle-like morphology to a rounded and granular appearance. Flow cytometry revealed a significant decrease in the expression of M1 marker CD80 and M2 markers CD206 and CD209 (p<0.01), while CD163 expression showed a non-significant increase. qPCR analyses demonstrated a significant down regulation of M1-related genes and a significant upregulation of the M2-related gene ARG1 (p<0.05). The findings suggest that L. tropica infection induces a shift in macrophage polarization from an M1-like phenotype toward an M2-like phenotype, with partial resemblance to an M2c-like profile, though the concurrent decrease in CD206 and CD209 underscores the complexity of the phenotype and indicates that the activated state does not conform neatly to any single M2 subtype. This shift likely serves as an immune escape strategy, promoting parasite persistence and influencing the chronicity of CL. Further studies incorporating additional M2c subtype markers, multiple time points, and functional assays are needed.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Topical Streptococcus postbiotic emollient (Strain CX) has shown efficacy for mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis (AD) in a previous study; however, treatment responses according to allergic comorbidity status have not yet been explored. We conducted a post hoc analysis to evaluate the differential therapeutic effects of Strain CX in patients with AD stratified by the presence or absence of allergic comorbidities. This post hoc analysis was derived from a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled trial (Clinical Research Information Service of South Korea, KCT0007876). A total of 98 patients with mild-to-moderate AD were stratified into placebo (n = 33), AD without allergic comorbidities (n = 29), and AD with allergic comorbidities (n = 36) groups. The primary outcomes were the Investigator's Global Assessment (IGA) score and the proportions of participants achieving 25% or 50% improvement in the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI), assessed at weeks 4 and 8. The secondary outcomes included a range of skin-related clinical and molecular measures, along with additional evaluations of serum inflammatory and allergic biomarkers as laboratory measures in the per-protocol analysis set. At week 8, 55.2% (16/29) of participants in the AD without allergic comorbidities group achieved an IGA score of 0 or 1 with ≥ 1 point reduction, compared to 30.6% (11/36) in the AD with allergic comorbidities group (P = 0.0272). Both Strain CX intervention groups showed significant improvements in skin parameters, including EASI, skin moisture, and transepidermal water loss. Notably, the AD with allergic comorbidities group solely exhibited significant reductions in systemic inflammatory markers, including sIL-2R (mean, -231.19; 95% confidence interval [CI], -378.82 to -83.57 pg/mL), CCL17 (-127.05; 95% CI, -251.80 to -2.31 pg/mL), and CCL22 (-578.40; 95% CI, -939.31 to -217.49 pg/mL). Clinical skin responses improved more in patients with AD without allergic comorbidities, while immunomodulatory benefits were observed in those with allergic comorbidities. These findings support patient stratification based on allergic comorbidity status for personalized Strain CX treatment strategies. Trial Registration: Clinical Research Information Service Identifier: KCT0007876.Copyright © 2026 The Korean Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Clinical Immunology • The Korean Academy of Pediatric Allergy and Respiratory Disease.
Cyclopropanes are prevalent motifs in pharmaceuticals and natural products; however, the construction of complex cyclopropanes remains a longstanding issue owing to low intrinsic reactivity and steric congestion. Herein, we report a visible-light-mediated cyclopropanation of unactivated alkenes with diazo compounds via an energy-transfer (EnT) pathway. This protocol provides direct access to a range of cyclopropanes, including spirocyclic, fused and those bearing quaternary carbon centers. Notably, a broad spectrum of unactivated alkenes-spanning endocyclic, bridged, polysubstituted, and terminal systems, along with diverse diazo reagents-are well tolerated, underscoring the generality of the method. The practicality is demonstrated by gram-scale synthesis and late-stage modification of natural products such as valencene, β-caryophyllene and flavanone. Moreover, in a preliminary in vitro assay, the caryophyllene oxide derivative exhibits promising anti-atopic dermatitis activity, showing nearly twice as high inhibition of CCL17 and CCL22 compared to its precursor, while exhibiting no detectable cytotoxicity. Finally, mechanistic studies support the involvement of triplet carbene species. These findings highlight the potential of this photochemical strategy for the rapid construction of challenging cyclopropanes and its utility in the development of bioactive natural product analogues.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Atopic Dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by complex pathogenesis, variable clinical phenotypes, and broad severity spectrum. We utilized a serum-proteomic approach integrated with machine learning (ML) to identify novel biomarkers that distinguish mild from severe AD.Serum from sixty-seven AD adults, stratified by Eczema Area and Severity Index/EASI and Rajka-Langeland/RJL into mild (≤ 7 and ≤ 4, respectively; n = 33) or severe (≥ 20 and ≥ 8, respectively; n = 34), was analyzed with Olink Explore 3072. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified using t-tests and False Discovery Rate correction (FDR ≤ 0.05). Tissue enrichment analysis was conducted using HPAStainR. Pearson correlations were performed between DEPs and clinical variables, serum lactate dehydrogenase/LDH and biomarkers for Th-pathways. ML (TMLE/SuperLearner, Boruta, MUVR) was used to identify top severity biomarkers.469 DEPs distinguished severe vs. mild AD. DEPs were significantly enriched for epithelial proteins (e.g., skin, tonsil, and esophagus epithelium). Subsets correlated strongly with LDH (68 DEPs) and/or Th2/Th22 markers (90 DEPs; r ≥ 0.6, FDR ≤ 0.05). Nine serum proteins (CCL17, CCL22, DEFB4A/B, EZR, GPR15L, IL22, PRSS53, SERPINB8, SETMAR) overlapped across three ML analyses as severity discriminating biomarkers (cross-validated AUC = 0.989; 95% CI: 0.974-1.00).Severe AD exhibits a proteomic footprint enriched in epithelial-associated proteins that correlate with LDH-associated tissue injury and/or Th2/Th22 pathways. In this cross-sectional cohort, ML identified biomarkers that discriminated mild/severe AD groups with high cross-validated accuracy. Longitudinal and external validation studies, including healthy controls, are needed to determine specificity, generalizability, and prognostic utility.© 2026 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Macrolide-resistant mycoplasma pneumoniae (MRMP) infections are more common and severe in children, indicating that age-related immune dysregulation affects disease outcomes, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear and suitable pediatric models are lacking. This study compared juvenile and adult mice with MRMP infection to identify age-dependent immune features linked to lung injury and establish a relevant animal model for pediatric research.Three-week-old (juvenile) and 8-week-old (adult) BALB/c mice were infected with MRMP. Pathological phenotypes included lung index, bacterial load, and lung histopathology scores. Serum inflammatory storm profiles were characterized using the Olink 48-plex assay. High-dimensional immune mapping of the spleen was performed by cytometry by time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CyTOF). Integrated analyses including sparse partial least squares-discriminant analysis (sPLS-DA), correlation heatmaps, and KEGG pathway enrichment were created to explore associations among differential immune subsets, inflammatory mediators, and M. pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP) phenotypes.No statistically significant differences in bacterial load were observed among the MRMP-infected juvenile (Juv+MRMP) and MRMP-infected adult (Ad+MRMP) groups (p > 0.05). However, the Juv+MRMP group exhibited significantly higher lung indices and more severe pulmonary histopathological damage, indicating a dissociation between bacterial burden and tissue injury. Olink analysis revealed significantly higher levels of serum chemokines (CCL2, CCL12, CCL22) and proinflammatory cytokines (IL-17A, IL-1β, IL-27) in the Juv+MRMP group than in the Ad+MRMP group. CyTOF analysis revealed a starkly different immune landscape: Juvenile mice exhibited excessive innate immune activation, with significant increases in neutrophil and monocyte infiltration, as well as elevated proportions of M2 macrophages and NK cells (p < 0.05); while adaptive immune responses were impaired, characterized by reduced proportions of CD4+ T cells and Treg cells, and maintained a high reserve of naïve Th cells compared with those in adult mice, along with elevated proportions of activated Tc cells (CD69+ Tc) (p < 0.05). Correlation analysis revealed that age and infection status are key factors driving host immune variability. M2 macrophages and NK cells were potentially associated with lung tissue pathology scores. Pathogen load correlates with both initial immune cells (CD24+ naïve Th, CD24+ naïve Tc) and effector immune cells (neutrophils, monocytes, CD69+ Tc), which may contribute to a Th1-type inflammatory response involving CCL2 and CCL4. Feedback-upregulated Treg cells may also aid pathogen clearance by promoting IL-10 expression. Leukocyte migration and granulocyte chemotaxis were potentially associated with age-dependent differences in inflammatory immune responses between juvenile and adult mice post-MRMP infection.The severity of pediatric MRMP infection may be correlated with age-associated immune dysregulation-characterized by heightened innate activation with insufficient adaptive regulation-rather than by bacterial load alone. The three-week-old juvenile mouse model appears to recapitulate key features of MRMP infection in children and could potentially serve as a useful platform for mechanistic and intervention studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Alterations in the ceramide (CER) profile have been associated with atopic dermatitis in dogs; however, the specific effects of CER subclasses on canine keratinocytes remain unclear. This study aimed to optimize a CER complex and evaluate its effects on cytokine expression, CER synthesis, and skin barrier formation using canine epidermal keratinocyte progenitor (CPEK) cells and a reconstructed canine epidermis (RCE) model. Among various CER combinations tested, only the mixture of CER [NS] and [EOP] significantly reduced proinflammatory cytokine mRNA levels in Staphylococcus pseudintermedius-stimulated CPEK cells. Further optimization revealed that a 4:1 ratio of CER [NS] to [EOP] (cCER complex) markedly decreased CCL17 and CCL22 mRNA expression while upregulating keratin 10, ceramide synthase 3 (CERS3), and ceramide synthase 4, as well as enzymes involved in both de novo and salvage CER biosynthesis pathways. In the RCE model, cCER administration improved stratum corneum organization and increased the expression of loricrin, CERS3, and CER. In vivo application of cCER in dogs accelerated skin barrier repair and improved hair condition. These findings suggest that a CER [NS]/[EOP] mixture represents a promising therapeutic option with anti-inflammatory and skin barrier-enhancing effects for canine atopic dermatitis.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to permanent neurological deficits, primarily due to immune dysregulation following trauma. Current biomaterial-based interventions often fail to address the dual need for acute inflammation control and long-term immune tolerance. Herein, we present a multifunctional Sr-Zn mesoporous bioactive glass (MBG) system that enables spatiotemporal immunoreprogramming. Rapamycin (Ra) is first loaded into MBG pores to induce Treg differentiation via mTOR inhibition. STING inhibitor H-151 is then adsorbed onto a polydopamine (PDA) coating for early suppression of cGAS-STING signaling. Finally, a CCL22-mimetic peptide is grafted for CCR4-mediated Treg recruitment. Meanwhile, sustained Sr2+/Zn2+ release provides bioactive ionic cues that support immune remodeling and neural repair. This sequential design first polarizes microglia/macrophages toward an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype and then enriches Tregs to sustain an immunosuppressive niche, while concurrently facilitating neuroregenerative remodeling. In vitro, the system regulates STING and mTOR pathways, induces Treg generation, and enhances neural stem cell differentiation and neuronal outgrowth. In a mouse SCI model, the injectable MBG-hydrogel hybrid reduces lesion volume, promotes remyelination, axonal regrowth, and motor function. Treg depletion or CCR4 blockade abrogates therapeutic benefits, confirming the role of adaptive immunity. This study offers a dual-arm immunoengineering strategy that couples innate suppression and adaptive tolerance, opening new avenues for CNS regeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Immune-related cutaneous adverse events (ircAEs) complicate management in many cancer patients receiving checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) immunotherapy. A new approach to early prognosis and ircAE treatment monitoring is needed in order to improve patient adherence to CPI immunotherapy.Skin tape strips (STS) and plasma were collected prospectively from 22 oncology patients prior to starting CPI and after 6 weeks of CPI therapy. Patients were then followed for ircAE development for 6 months. Ten patients subsequently developed ircAEs. STS were analyzed for cytokines and lipids, while plasma was analyzed for cytokines.A significant increase in stratum corneum (SC) ceramides with short chain fatty acids was observed in patients who developed ircAEs (p < 0.05 compared to non-ircAE groups). This lipid abnormality was already present in the skin of future ircAE patients before starting CPI immunotherapy, and was further dysregulated on CPI therapy. Following CPI initiation, significant increases in skin (but not plasma) IL-8, IL-18, and IP-10 (CXCL10), IL-12, IFNa, MDC (CCL22), and TARC (CCL17) production were observed in patients who subsequently developed ircAEs (p < 0.05 compared to non-ircAE groups).STS analysis of patients developing ircAEs demonstrated SC lipid abnormalities prior to CPI treatment. When studied after 6 weeks of CPI therapy, these SC barrier lipid abnormalities were worsened. In addition, significant increases in proinflammatory cytokine levels were identified in the skin, but not in plasma. These findings point to mechanisms of ircAE development and may allow early identification of patients at risk of developing ircAEs for close monitoring and future prevention of treatment-limiting ircAEs.© 2026 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Steroid-associated osteonecrosis (SON) is characterized by a refractory bone defect microenvironment involving oxidative stress, persistent inflammation, and impaired vascularization, which limits the efficacy of conventional graft materials. Here, we developed a temporally programmable composite hydrogel, GelMA/dECM@MnO2-GA, by integrating human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived decellularized extracellular matrix (iPSC-dECM) with an MnO2-gallic acid (GA) reactive oxygen species (ROS)-responsive module. Following implantation, elevated ROS may induce the release of MnO2 and GA, which was associated with ROS scavenging, alleviation of local hypoxia, and attenuation of inflammatory signaling. This early redox modulation was accompanied by a shift in macrophage polarization from M1 toward the M2 phenotype, together with increasing regulatory T cell (Treg) enrichment. Our findings further suggest that CCL22-mediated Treg recruitment via the CCR4-PI3K/AKT axis may contribute to Treg survival and migration, reinforce M2 polarization, and help sustain a pro-regenerative osteoimmune microenvironment. At later stages, the retained iPSC-dECM served as a developmental matrix template to guide host progenitor cells through an endochondral ossification-like process, while enhanced H-type vessel formation was associated with coupled angiogenesis and osteogenesis. In a rat steroid-induced femoral defect model, GelMA/dECM@MnO2-GA significantly promoted bone regeneration and reduced the local expression of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. Transcriptomic and functional analyses supported an association between GelMA/dECM@MnO2-GA treatment, coordinated M2 macrophage polarization, Treg enrichment, and improved bone repair. Collectively, these findings suggest that this spatiotemporally orchestrated hydrogel may provide a promising strategy for overcoming the hostile microenvironment of steroid-associated bone defects, with potential relevance to other refractory osteonecrotic conditions.© 2026 The Authors.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic, relapsing inflammatory skin disorder characterized by pruritus and xerosis. Current treatments for AD primarily involve glucocorticoids and immunosuppressive agents. However, long-term administration of these treatments may lead to significant adverse effects. Therefore, there is an urgent need for effective therapeutic alternatives with improved safety profiles. Panax notoginseng (Burkill) F. H. Chen is renowned for its diverse pharmacological properties and shows promise in the treatment of skin diseases.This study investigated the effects of P. notoginseng extract (PNE) on AD and its underlying mechanisms.We analyzed the chemical composition of PNE using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The anti-AD effects of PNE were evaluated in both an AD-like mouse model induced by calcipotriol (MC903) and a human keratinocyte (HaCaT) cell model stimulated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma (TNF-α/IFN-γ). Furthermore, metabolomics analysis of mouse skin tissue was conducted to elucidate the underlying metabolic mechanisms. To investigate the associated signaling pathways, quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and Western blotting were performed.In MC903-induced mice, PNE exhibited potent anti-AD effects, including attenuation of AD-like skin lesions and suppression of Th2 cytokines (Il-4, Il-13, Il-31) and chemokines (Ccl5, Ccl17, Ccl22). In TNF-α/IFN-γ-stimulated HaCaT cells, PNE dose-dependently inhibited the expression of Th2-associated chemokines (CCL5, CCL17, CCL22). Moreover, PNE suppressed the mRNA expression of cGAS, STING, IRF3, IRF7, and TBK1, as well as the protein levels of cGAS and STING, both in vitro and in vivo. Metabolic profiling of mouse skin tissues revealed that PNE significantly modulates the metabolism of phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, and arachidonic acid. HPLC analysis showed that ginsenoside Rg1, notoginsenoside R2(S), ginsenoside Rb1, and ginsenoside Rd were the main components of PNE. Notoginsenoside R2(S) and ginsenoside Rd dose-dependently inhibited the mRNA expression of CCL5, CCL17, CCL22, cGAS, STING, IRF3, IRF7, and TBK1.PNE exerts anti-AD effects by attenuating Th2-mediated inflammatory responses via modulation of the cGAS-STING pathway. These findings suggest that PNE has the potential to serve as a natural therapeutic option for AD.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Wang, Chen, Zhao, Yang, Xu, Qu, Wang and Xiao.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the loss of insulin-producing beta cells and has no cure. The role of cell-cell interactions in T1D disease progression remains poorly understood. Beta cells develop adjacent to ductal cells and both cell types undergo changes during T1D progression, suggesting a potential intercellular communication. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are established mediators of intercellular communication, but whether human ductal cells secrete EVs that influence beta cells remains unknown. We hypothesize that exposure of human ductal cells to T1D-associated cytokines alters their EV cargo and that EVs produced by cytokine-exposed human ductal cells modulate gene and protein expression in beta cells.Human exocrine tissues from non-diabetic cadaveric donors were cultured in a 3D suspension to support ductal cell survival. Cells were treated with TNF-α, IL-1β, and IFN-γ or vehicle control for 48 hours and analyzed for proinflammatory-related gene expression and viability by qRT-PCR and Trypan blue exclusion, respectively. EVs from cytokine- and vehicle-treated ductal cells were isolated using size exclusion chromatography and characterized by dot blot, transmission electron microscopy, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The effects of EVs on EndoC-βH1 human beta cells were assessed with qRT-PCR, RNA-sequencing, and flow cytometry; the effects of EVs on primary human beta cells were assessed with immunofluorescence microscopy. EV cargo was analyzed by proteomics and transcriptomics.EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells were internalized by EndoC-βH1 beta cells, and compared to control ductal EVs, increased HLA Class I gene and protein expression in EndoC-βH1 cells. In primary human beta cells, EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells, compared to control ductal EVs, also increased expression of HLA Class I. EV cargo from cytokine-treated versus control ductal cells was enriched for transcripts associated with inflammatory and antigen-presentation-related pathways, including CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, and GBP4.Exposure of T1D-associated cytokines to primary human ductal cells altered cargo of secreted EVs. EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells upregulated HLA Class I expression in EndoC-βH1 and primary human beta cells. Our results suggest a previously unknown ductal cell communication pathway with a potential implication for modulating beta cells during T1D progression.Copyright © 2026 Erdem, Zook, Quijano, Hansen, Palade, Oh, Mares, Donohue, Ortiz, Jou, Talley, Guthalu Kondegowda, Arribas-Layton, Vasavada, Montero, Reijonen, Thurmond, Pirrotte, Jovanovic-Talisman and Ku.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) establishes latent infection in humans, but under conditions of immune suppression, it may reactivate and contribute to severe diseases, including Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and B-cell malignancies. The KSHV genome encodes a single G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), open reading frame 74 (ORF74), which shows homology to human chemokine receptors. Since its identification in 1996, ORF74 has subsequently been shown to interact with a broad range of human CXC chemokines, as well as CCL1 and the viral chemokine vCCL2. Compared with many human chemokine receptors, ORF74 displays high basal activity. These properties allow ORF74 to deregulate host cellular pathways through constitutive and chemokine-modulated signaling. In this study, we evaluated several human chemokines that, to our knowledge, had not previously been tested in ORF74-dependent cellular assays. Whereas CXCL9, CXCL14, CXCL16 and CXCL17 did not interact with ORF74, CXCL13 was identified as an additional ORF74 agonist and CXCL11 as an inverse agonist. CXCL13 dose-dependently induced ORF74-mediated Ca2+ release, β-arrestin1/2 recruitment and chemotaxis, and enhanced basal nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activity in ORF74-expressing cells. In contrast, CXCL11 showed no detectable ORF74 agonist activity in the calcium mobilization or chemotaxis assay, but antagonized CXCL1-induced responses in both readouts. CXCL11 also elicited inverse agonist-like responses in β-arrestin1/2 recruitment assays and reduced basal NF-κB signaling. Our study thus reveals CXCL13 and CXCL11 as two additional chemokine ligands for ORF74, further expanding the pharmacological profile of this viral GPCR.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease that destroys insulin-producing β-cells. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes, are now recognized as important mediators of intercellular communication in immune regulation and metabolic homeostasis. Yet how immune cell-derived circulating EVs contribute to metabolic dysfunction across the disease spectrum-from preclinical to clinical T1D-has not been systematically examined.We integrated four publicly available GEO datasets: GSE97123 (plasma-derived exosome miRNA profiling in long-duration T1D patients, n = 24), GSE92439 (T lymphocyte-derived exosome effects on pancreatic islets, n = 6), GSE316823 (ductal cell EV-mediated β-cell alterations, n = 8), and GSE160391 (cytokine-stressed islet and EV miRNA profiles, n = 48). Differential expression analysis was performed using Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Pathway enrichment, EV marker characterization, and cross-dataset integration were carried out to identify convergent mechanisms.In GSE97123, 292 differentially expressed miRNAs (p < 0.05) were identified in circulating exosomes from T1D patients compared with controls, with upregulation of pro-inflammatory mediators including miR-155-5p and miR-146a-5p. In GSE92439, T lymphocyte-derived exosomes altered 8,189 genes in pancreatic islets, with changes in insulin secretion, apoptosis, and immune recognition pathways. In GSE316823, cytokine-stimulated ductal cell EVs induced 599 differentially expressed genes in β-cells, with notable upregulation of HLA class I molecules (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C) and inflammatory chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, GBP4). In GSE160391, cytokine stress caused distinct miRNA packaging into EVs versus islet fractions, with miR-155-5p and miR-146a-5p as the only two miRNAs consistently upregulated in both compartments across sexes. Cross-dataset integration showed convergent dysregulation of antigen presentation, insulin signaling, and apoptotic pathways.Immune cell-derived EVs appear to transfer pro-inflammatory and metabolic-disruptive cargo to β-cells, supporting a pathogenic axis in T1D that has received limited attention. These findings suggest that EV-mediated communication could be a therapeutic target and that circulating EV miRNAs may serve as biomarkers for T1D progression.© 2026. Associazione Medici Diabetologi / Association of Diabetologists (AMD), Societa Italiana di Diabetologia / Italian Society of Diabetology (SID).
Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune hair disorder characterized by interferon-gamma (IFN-γ)-driven inflammation and collapse of hair follicle immune privilege. Although Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors are effective, incomplete or delayed responses remain common. Minoxidil is frequently combined with JAK inhibitors in clinical practice, yet its immunomodulatory mechanisms in AA are unclear. We investigated the effects of minoxidil sulfate (MXS) on inflammatory signalling, immune privilege-associated features and mitochondrial stress responses, and evaluated whether MXS enhances the anti-inflammatory effects of the JAK inhibitor baricitinib. Clinical observations of patients receiving combination therapy were descriptively assessed. Mechanistic studies were conducted in human outer root sheath (ORS) cells stimulated with IFN-γ and polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid to model the AA inflammatory microenvironment. Representative clinical observations suggested accelerated hair regrowth after addition of oral minoxidil to baricitinib. In inflamed ORS cells, MXS enhanced baricitinib-mediated suppression of STAT1 phosphorylation and IFN-γ-inducible chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11). MXS also exerted baricitinib-independent anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting STAT1 and STAT3 activation. Furthermore, MXS reduced inflammatory induction of MHC class I expression and partially restored insulin-like growth factor-1 expression. MXS attenuated cytosolic and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species accumulation, mitochondrial DNA damage and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, accompanied by suppression of NOX1 and NOX4 expression. These findings suggest that MXS modulates inflammatory signalling, preserves immune privilege-associated features and protects mitochondrial integrity, providing a mechanistic rationale for adjunctive use with JAK inhibitors without additional systemic immunosuppression.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Mucosal-Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells are a subset of unconventional T cells that rapidly respond to early signs of inflammation, infection, and tissue damage. While MAIT cells have been typically associated with microbial infections, given their ability to respond to both microbial-derived riboflavin metabolites and proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-12, IL-15, or IL-18, their role in other inflammatory conditions remains mostly unknown. Alarmins, including IL-25, IL-33, and thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), are crucial effectors for early inflammatory responses, being released upon epithelial damage and strongly promoting the polarization of a wide variety of immune cells, including leukocytes like neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), NK cells, ILCs and T cells. However, how alarmins-induced environments influence MAIT cells' activity and function is yet to be explored.In this study, we investigate the roles of alarmins in controlling MAIT cell activation and function.We found that IL-33, but not IL-25 or TSLP, combined with the TCR-independent stimuli IL-12p70 (but not 5-OP-RU), induces a potent IFNγ secretory/cytotoxic program on MAIT cells. This response was strongly dependent on p38 MAPK signaling and glycolytic metabolism. Beyond IFNγ, IL-33/IL-12p70-activated MAIT cells secrete a diverse panel of immune mediators, including TNF, VEGF, OSM, CXCL11, and CCL3. Notably, conditioned media from purified Vα7.2+ T cells (enriched on MAIT cells) were able to polarize CD14+ monocytes towards a M1-like inflammatory phenotype, increasing both the expression of proinflammatory genes and phagocytic capacity.These findings reveal a broader immunomodulatory potential for MAIT cells to influence diverse immune compartments during inflammatory response.Copyright © 2026 García-Escribano, Gallardo-Jiménez, García-Cadarso, Fernández Martínez, Arroyo-Solera, Zaldívar-Martínez, Lin, Aubé, Barral, Chivato, Barber, Escribese, Izquierdo and López-Rodríguez.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is a malignancy characterized by profound immunosuppression and universal resistance to immunotherapy. The complex tumor microenvironment is a critical determinant of therapeutic failure. The chemokine C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11) exerts dual immunomodulatory roles in various tumors; however, its expression pattern, clinical significance, and molecular mechanisms in pancreatic cancer remain unclear.This study integrated clinical cohort analysis, tissue microarray, transcriptomic sequencing, and in vitro functional experiments. Immunohistochemistry and multiplex immunofluorescence were used to analyze CXCL11 expression and its spatial relationship with immune cell infiltration. Transcriptomic sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed genes after CXCL11 knockdown, followed by pathway enrichment analysis. CXCL11 knockdown and overexpression models were established in Panc02 and SW1990 cell lines, and western blotting was used to verify the regulatory effects on the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling pathway and downstream CC motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) expression.CXCL11 expression was higher in paratumor tissues than in tumor tissues of pancreatic cancer, and its high expression was significantly associated with shortened overall survival and more aggressive pathological features. Co-enrichement of CXCL11 with immunosuppressive markers such as CD163, CD11b, and programmed death-ligand 1 in paratumoral regions suggests its involvement in forming a spatially heterogeneous immunosuppressive barrier. Tissue-level analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between CXCL11 expression and the M2 macrophage marker CD163, as well as the myeloid-derived suppressor cell marker CD11b. Transcriptomic and functional experiments confirmed that CXCL11 activates the NF-κB signaling pathway and upregulates CCL2 expression. Tissue microarray further validated their positive correlations at the protein level.CXCL11 plays a pro-tumorigenic role in pancreatic cancer, with high expression levels predicting poor prognosis. By activating the NF-κB signaling pathway to upregulate CCL2, CXCL11 drives the "CXCL11-NF-κB-CCL2″ signaling axis, which, together with its enrichment in paratumoral regions, promotes the recruitment and activation of immunosuppressive cells and forms a functional immunosuppressive barrier at the invasive front. This provides a mechanistic explanation for immunotherapeutic resistance in pancreatic cancer and suggests CXCL11 and its related pathways as potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysregulated innate immunity contributes to clonal cytopenias and myeloid neoplasms, but its extent across disease stages and clinical relevance remain incompletely defined. We analyzed plasma ASC/NLRP3 double-positive (DP) specks, ASC single-positive (SP) specks, and 45 cytokines in 223 patients with idiopathic cytopenias of undetermined significance (ICUS)/clonal cytopenias of undetermined significance (CCUS), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) and 39 matched non-inflammatory controls using adjusted regression, survival modeling, and paired longitudinal analyses. Inflammasome activation and cytokine perturbations were evident across the disease spectrum. DP-ASC specks were elevated in MDS and CMML, whereas SP-ASC specks were increased across all groups, indicating activation of ASC-containing inflammasomes beyond NLRP3. Cytokines followed a graded ICUS → MDS → CMML pattern, with widespread upregulation of interleukins and chemokines (including IL-7, IL-8, IL-11/CXCL11, and CCL7) alongside suppression of stem and progenitor support factors such as CSF3, FLT3LG, TRAIL, and TWEAK. At baseline, elevated IL-15 and MMP1 predicted progression to acute myeloid Leukaemia, while higher IL-10, CXCL8, and IL-18 were associated with reduced survival; ASC specks were not independently prognostic. Longitudinal increases in selected cytokines distinguished progressors (area under the curve 0.82; 95% CI: 0.49-1.0). Cytokine patterns correlated with mutation categories, with the isolated SF3B1 mutation associated with higher DP-ASC specks. These findings define early and progressive inflammasome engagement and nominate dynamic cytokine panels and the inflammasome-IL-1 axis as actionable biomarkers and therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a primary contributor to vision loss worldwide and growing with an increase in the elderly population. Preventing or slowing DR progression remains a critical unmet need. Recognizing the significance of systemic and ocular chronic inflammation in the progression of DR, this study aimed to explore inflammatory factor profiles in plasma and tear samples to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Using Olink's proximity extension assay, 92 inflammation-related proteins were measured in paired plasma and tear samples of 42 participants in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), DR and Diabetic Macular Edema (DME), followed by bioinformatic analysis for differentially expressed proteins (DEPs).Different expression patterns of inflammatory proteins were observed between plasma and tear level. Plasma DEPs was mainly decreased during DR development, while tears DEPs mainly upregulated. DME had more differential cytokines than DR in both samples. By multi-comparison analyses, 23 inflammatory factors exhibited differential expression in the three compared groups (DR vs T2DM, DME vs T2DM and DME vs DR) in plasma level, and 30 differential inflammatory cytokines in tear samples. GO and KEGG analysis enriched pathways were primarily associated with extracellular region, cytokine activity, IL17 signaling pathway and JAK-STAT signaling pathway.Tears exhibit more DEPs than plasma during the progression of DR and DME, and the two sample types show opposite inflammatory factor expression trends. The DEPs in tears, especially the newly discovered inflammatory factors TNFSF14, CXCL11, IL6, CCL19, DNER and CXCL9 may serve as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis and progression monitoring of DR and DME.© 2026 Yu et al.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits five-year survival rates below 10% with profound therapeutic resistance mediated by stromal barriers and immunosuppression (Rahib et al. 2014; Siegel et al. 2023). Recent evidence suggests intratumoral mycobiome alterations may influence disease progression (Aykut et al. 2019; Riquelme et al. 2019). We performed comprehensive network pharmacology analysis to elucidate potential therapeutic mechanisms of Saccharomyces boulardii (SB) and Clostridium histolyticum collagenase (CHC) in PDAC. Gene sets representing immune activation, metabolic competition, and stromal remodeling were analyzed using protein-protein interaction networks (STRING v11.5), functional enrichment (DAVID v2021), and pathway databases (KEGG, Reactome, WikiPathways). Structural assessment employed blind molecular docking (CB-Dock2) and coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CABS-flex). Computational analysis was performed on TCGA-PAAD data (n = 177 patients, 93 events) using Cox regression and five machine learning classifiers (Logistic Regression, Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, XGBoost, LightGBM) with Q1/Q3 survival stratification and strict fivefold nested cross-validation with within-fold feature selection (SelectKBest, k = 5). Random survival forest (RSF) incorporating 67 high-quality genes from four mechanistically curated modules was developed for time-to-event prediction, evaluated by AUC-ROC and Harrell's C-index. Permutation-based feature selection identified prognostic biomarkers. Network analysis identified TNF, IL6, IFNG, and TLR4 as central hubs (degree > 15) with dense interconnectivity (clustering coefficient = 0.78). Pathway enrichment revealed over-representation in IL-17, TLR, and IL-10 signaling (BH-FDR < 0.05). Molecular docking revealed high-affinity interactions with AKT1 (ΔG = - 7.2 kcal/mol), TLR2 (- 7.6 kcal/mol), TLR4 (- 6.9 kcal/mol), and KRAS-SOS1 interface (- 6.9 kcal/mol). Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated significant survival differences by composite immune-metabolic signature (log-rank p = 0.0001) and immune sub-signature (CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11; p = 0.0028). The metabolic sub-signature (LDHA, ALDH9A1) demonstrated a significant continuous prognostic effect by Cox regression (HR = 1.431, p = 0.0292), with median dichotomisation not reaching significance (log-rank p = 0.2164), indicating a gradient rather than threshold effect. Cox modelling of the composite five-gene score identified it as a strong negative prognostic factor (HR = 1.897, p < 0.0001). Machine learning classifiers achieved good-to-strong discrimination of survival extremes under strict nested cross-validation (AUC range: 0.631-0.745; Logistic Regression: AUC = 0.745 ± 0.036), confirmed by permutation testing (n = 1000 permutations, empirical p < 0.01). RSF modelling on the full cohort achieved C-index = 0.649 ± 0.040 using the top-5 gene signature, representing acceptable discrimination for PDAC. Permutation-based feature selection identified CXCL11, CXCL10, CXCL9, LDHA, and ALDH9A1 as top prognostic biomarkers. Tertile-based risk stratification demonstrated significant survival separation between Low and High Risk groups (log-rank p = 0.0005). Kinetic modeling showed 4.2-fold SB competitive advantage under tumor hypoglycemia (< 1 mM glucose). Network analysis, structural modeling, and machine learning support biological plausibility of SB anti-tumor activity through immune activation and stromal remodeling. RSF modelling (C-index = 0.649) and Cox regression (HR = 1.897, p < 0.0001) provide a computational framework for patient stratification. Identification of CXCL11, CXCL10, CXCL9, LDHA, and ALDH9A1 as prognostic biomarkers spanning immune and metabolic modules provides targets for clinical monitoring. This systems-level framework provides mechanistic rationale for clinical investigation of intratumoral S. boulardii as adjuvant PDAC therapy.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00685-6.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
While donor-specific antibodies against human leukocyte antigens (HLA-DSA) are recognized contributors to allograft injury, non-HLA antibodies are increasingly implicated in solid-organ transplant rejection. However, evidence in pediatric liver transplantation remains limited. We aimed to identify anti-HLA and non-HLA antibodies associated with liver fibrosis risk in long-term pediatric liver transplant recipients.This cross-sectional study included 75 pediatric liver recipients transplanted between 2006-2014 (median 13.8 years), 15 pediatric patients on liver-transplant waiting list and 22 healthy adult controls (HC). Serum samples were tested for non-HLA, anti-HLA class-I, class-II and anti-MHC class-I chain-related protein A (MICA) antibodies by multiplex microsphere-based flow cytometry (Luminex Technology). Liver fibrosis risk was assessed using the Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) index. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses evaluated associations between antibody positivity and FIB-4 index elevation.Liver-transplant patients showed significantly higher frequencies of eight non-HLA specificities compared to HC: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), CXCL10, CXCL11, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), leucine-rich repeat transmembrane protein 2 (FLRT2), interferon gamma (IFNG) and vimentin (VM). Anti-HLA class-II antibody prevalence was significantly higher post-transplantation (44% vs. 0%, p=0.002). In multivariate analysis, anti-GDNF antibody positivity was independently associated with increased FIB-4 values (odds ratio [OR] 5.61, p=0.04), while female sex showed a protective effect (OR 0.23, p=0.02).Eight non-HLA antibodies are prevalent in pediatric liver-transplant recipients and waitlisted candidates. Anti-GDNF antibodies were independently associated with higher FIB-4 values in long-term pediatric liver transplant recipients, suggesting a potential biomarker role in liver injury that requires validation in larger longitudinal cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Cuesta-Martín de la Cámara, Rodrigo-Castro, Nozal, Cámara, Losantos-García, Frauca-Remacha, Hierro-Llanillo, Muñoz-Bartolo, Lledín-Barbacho, Mancebo, Castro-Panete, Paz-Artal, López-Granados and Sánchez-Zapardiel.
Breastfeeding reduces the risk of severe lower respiratory infections (sLRIs), a leading cause of infant mortality; however, the protective mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we demonstrated that the absence of milk-derived osteopontin (OPN), highly expressed in colostrum, predisposes neonatal mice to viral and bacterial sLRI, consequent to disrupted dendritic cell (DC) hematopoiesis in the developing liver and lung. Amelioration of disease severity by oral OPN supplementation was associated with increased enteric abundance of Lactobacillaceae and elevated levels of serum 3-phenyllactic acid (PLA), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist. Supplementation with PLA or the PPARγ agonist rosiglitazone restored lung DC hematopoiesis via airway epithelium-derived chemokine ligand 25 (CCL25)-mediated recruitment of lymphoid-myeloid primed progenitors and induction of a supportive lung niche. PLA-induced DC hematopoiesis and disease tolerance were attenuated by plasmacytoid DC depletion, immunoneutralization of stem cell factor, or genetic deletion of airway epithelial Flt3L. Our findings elucidate a microbiome-host interaction by which milk OPN confers protection against sLRI.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
CCL25, a mucosal chemokine mainly produced in the gut, is known for its role in intestinal immunity through CCR9. In this study, we tested whether CCL25 also contributes to ocular immunity within the gut-eye axis during herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection. Using CCL25-deficient (CCL25(-/-) deficient) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J controls, which were infected ocularly with HSV-1 (McKrae strain), we found that CCL25 deficiency led to more severe corneal disease, increased viral replication, and reduced survival. CCL25(-/-) deficient mice also had fewer antiviral effector memory CD44+CD4+ and CD44+CD8+ T cells in the cornea, gastrointestinal tract, and draining lymph nodes, as well as reduced numbers of activated tissue-resident CD69+CD103+CD4+ and CD69+CD103+CD8+ TRM cells that produced interferon-γ. Immunohistochemistry showed strong CCL25 expression in the gut of wild-type mice but not in the cornea or conjunctiva. In addition, the mucosal chemokines CXCL14, CXCL17, and CCL28 were upregulated in infected ocular tissues of wild-type mice but remained low in CCL25(-/-) deficient mice, suggesting that CCL25 influences the expression of major mucosal chemokines. Collectively, these findings indicate that CCL25 supports recruitment of antiviral corneal tissue-resident effector memory TRM cells during ocular HSV-1 infection and supports the concept of a gut-eye axis in herpes immunity. The CCL25/CCR9 pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target to protect from herpetic eye disease.Copyright © 2026 Rahman, Prakash, Karan, Ng, Park, Maurya, Garcia, Intharachalit, Hwang, Tang, Chow, Suoth, Liao and BenMohamed.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Mucosal chemokines (eg, CCL25, CCL28, CXCL14, and CXCL17) play key roles in protecting mucosal surfaces against invading infectious pathogens. However, their specific contributions to protection against genital herpes remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we investigated the role of CXCL14 as a mediator of mucosal immunity against genital HSV-2 infection and disease.CXCL14 expression was analyzed in HSV-specific CD8+ T cells from HSV-2-infected asymptomatic and symptomatic women, in primary human vaginal epithelial cells, and in a murine genital HSV-2 infection model. CXCL14(-/-) deficient mice and wild-type (WT) mice were compared for genital disease severity, vaginal viral loads, survival, immune cell recruitment, and T-cell effector function following intravaginal HSV-2 infection. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed to identify transcription factors binding to the CXCL14 promoter after HSV-2 infection.CXCL14 was homeostatically expressed at the genital tract mucosal surface, and HSV-specific CD8+ T cells from HSV-2-infected asymptomatic women expressed significantly higher levels of CXCL14 than those from symptomatic women. HSV-2 infection rapidly induced CXCL14 transcription and production in primary human vaginal epithelial cells and in murine vaginal mucocutaneous tissue. CXCL14(-/-) mice developed more severe genital lesions, higher vaginal viral loads, and lower survival compared to WT mice. In addition, CXCL14 deficiency impaired the recruitment of natural killer (NK) cells, neutrophils, and CD44+CD62L- effector memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells to the infected vaginal mucosa. It reduced T cell effector functions, including production of IFN-γ, TNF-α, and Granzyme B. Mechanistically, NF-κB and OCT-1 transcription factors bound to the CXCL14 promoter within hours of HSV-2 infection.Our findings demonstrate that NF-κB- and OCT-1-driven CXCL14 expression is crucial for orchestrating early innate and T-cell responses that protect against genital HSV-2 infection and disease. These results suggest that CXCL14 is an important immunoregulatory chemokine triggered early after epithelial viral infection, facilitating the induction of effective mucosal protective immunity against genital herpes.© Pathogens and Immunity 2026.
To evaluate the causal effects of circulating inflammatory proteins on the development of Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and to discover potential therapeutic targets for the disease.Two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis was used to evaluate causal relationships between levels of 91 inflammatory proteins in serum and the risk of MS. For each circulating protein, genetic variation data were from a genome-wide association study of 14,736 individuals of European ancestry. The MS dataset included 47,429 cases and 68,374 controls. Additional sensitivity, colocalization, functional enrichment, and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed to assess the robustness and biological relevance of the findings. Soluble proteins causally associated with MS were assessed for their therapeutic target potentials using the Drug-Gene Interaction Database.The analysis identified 9 circulating inflammatory proteins with nominal evidence of association with MS risk. Among them, CD40 (Odds Ratio [OR]: 0.907) and VEGFA (OR: 0.971) appear protective, while IL1A (OR: 1.139), CD6 (OR: 1.047), TNF (OR: 1.058), LIF-R (OR: 1.052), CCL25 (OR: 1.032), CD244 (OR: 1.057) and CXCL10 (OR: 1.061) were associated with higher risks of MS. After correcting for multiple testing, associations with MS risks remained significant only for CD40. Supportive analyses highlighted immune- and inflammationrelated pathways, particularly cytokine signaling, as mediators of the risks of MS. Six circulating proteins were identified as candidates in an exploratory assessment of druggability.These results offered new insight into the inflammatory landscape of MS, reinforcing the pathogenic relevance of immune signaling pathways. The robust statistical significance of CD40 highlighted it as a primary candidate for further investigation, while the additional eight proteins provided a foundation for future hypothesis-generating studies. While the findings strengthened the biological plausibility of inflammation-driven disease mechanisms, the presence of nominal significance and potential pleiotropy for certain markers necessitated a cautious interpretation.Genetic evidence linking inflammatory proteins to MS pathogenesis was uncovered, offering clues for novel therapeutic targets for this condition.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Lung disease associated with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA-LD) remains poorly understood. Evaluation of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) may better reflect disease pathogenesis. The objectives of our study were to measure levels of cytokines and chemokines in BALF and their associations with clinical features and treatment in patients with SJIA-LD.Children with SJIA-LD undergoing clinically indicated diagnostic bronchoscopy were enrolled. Comparator BALF was collected from patients with other chronic inflammatory and non-inflammatory lung diseases. BALF was assayed for IL-6, 8 and 18, S100A8/9, S100A12, sCD25, CCL11, CCL17, CCL25, MMP7, and CXCL9.BALF was obtained from 21 patients with SJIA-LD and 54 comparator patients with other lung diseases. Compared to all controls, children with SJIA-LD had a significant elevation of IL-18 (median (IQR) 1406 (722.3-2812) vs 37.2 (25.3-70) pg/mL, p < 0.0001), S100A8/9 (4745.3 (3003-11506) vs. 1297.5 (260-7755) ng/mL, p = 0.02), sCD25 (31.6 (19-50.3) vs. 13.6 (8.6-37.3) pg/mL, p = 0.04), MMP-7 (18,466.7 (10,462.2-33,516.1) vs. 13.645 (8.6-37.3) pg/mL, p = 0.0384), and CCL17 (0 (0-63.1; p = 0.038) vs 0 (0-0) pg/mL. BALF IL-18 was significantly higher in children with SJIA-LD compared to all control subgroups (inflammatory and non-inflammatory airway disease, autoimmune pulmonary alveolar proteinosis, and poorly controlled asthma), in patients who were actively treated with anti-cytokine biologics (N = 9), and in patients who ultimately underwent hematopoietic stem cell transfer (N = 8). Patients receiving anti-cytokine biologics also had significant elevations in several other cytokines compared to patients without such treatments, while profiles in those treated with JAKi (N = 14) were largely similar. Linear regression analysis showed an association between BALF level of IL-18 and the number of immunosuppressive medications utilized (p = 0.0167), but not with O2 requirement, dose of anakinra or prednisone, plasma IL-18, ferritin, CRP or ESR.Patients with SJIA-LD showed a distinct BALF cytokine profile, including significant IL-18, S100A8/9 protein, sCD25, and CCL-17 elevation. The level of IL-18 was higher in patients who required more immunosuppressive medications and were actively treated with anti-cytokine biologics. The relationship between BALF cytokine profiles and anti-cytokine biologics and JAK inhibitors is unclear and should be evaluated further.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is imperceptible and with a complex pathogenesis involving oxidative stress and inflammatory responses. The phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in this process. Previous studies indicated that chemokine ligand 25 (CCL25) and its receptor CCR9 participate in regulating the PI3K/AKT pathway. However, it remains unclear whether CCL25/CCR9 influences CKD by modulating oxidative stress and inflammation via the PI3K/AKT pathway. We aimed to clarify the roles of CCL25/CCR9 in CKD progression through PI3K/AKT activation and its upstream regulatory factors. In this study, an adenine-induced CKD rat model and an indoxyl sulfate-induced CKD cell model were constructed. Bioinformatics method based on two online websites (JASPAR and Cistrome DB) was conducted to predict the upstream of CCL25/CCR9. Anti-CCL25 and PI3K/AKT activator 740Y-P were added, and sh-IRF1 was transfected into the HK-2 cells for the mechanism exploration. Renal function markers (blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, urine protein/creatinine ratio), renal pathology, oxidative stress markers (reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase), inflammatory cytokines (Interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF)-α), and the expression of CCL25, CCR9, PI3K/AKT pathway-related proteins, and the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) were measured. Chromatin immunoprecipitation PCR (ChIP-PCR) was used to confirm IRF1 binding to the CCL25 promoter. The results indicated that CCL25 and CCR9 were upregulated in CKD rat and in vitro cell model. Enhanced oxidative stress and inflammatory response, followed by renal fibrosis and renal dysfunction, were observed in CKD rats. Anti-CCL25 addition decreased the PI3K/AKT markers, oxidative stress markers, and inflammatory responses, whereas 740Y-P addition reversed the above alteration. IRF1 was confirmed to be an important transcription factor for CCL25 in bioinformatics analysis. IRF1 was increased in CKD models and binding with CCL25 in ChIP-PCR detection. sh-IRF1 transfection decreased the CCL25 and CCR9 expression. In conclusion, IRF1-regulated CCL25/CCR9 was demonstrated to promote CKD progression through PI3K/AKT-mediated oxidative stress and inflammatory response.
To investigate the effect of Angelica sinensis on thymic cortical regeneration in rapamycin-treated mice and its underlying mechanisms.The chemical components of Angelica sinensis were analyzed using high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC). Seventy-two 6-8-week-old female BALB/c mice were randomly assigned by weight into six groups (n=12 per group): blank control, model control, normal regeneration, and Angelica sinensis small- (1 g/kg), medium- (2 g/kg), and large-dose (4 g/kg) groups. Except for the blank control group, acute thymic involution was induced in all other groups via intraperitoneal injection of rapamycin (1 mg·kg－1·d－1) for 3 consecutive days. After modeling, the Angelica sinensis-treated groups received oral gavage of corresponding doses for 7 days, while the normal regeneration and blank control groups received an equal volume of saline. Body weight and dorsal hair growth were recorded daily. Forelimb grip strength was measured 2 hours after the last administration. Thymic structure and the spatial distribution of thymic epithelial cells (TECs) and thymocytes were assessed by hematoxylin-eosin (HE) and immunofluorescence staining. Development and homeostasis of T-cell subsets in the thymus and peripheral blood were analyzed by flow cytometry and rapid Wright-Giemsa staining. T-cell receptor excision circles (TRECs) in genomic DNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells were detected by quantitative PCR (qPCR). The mRNA expression levels of thymic function-related genes, inflammatory factors, and Wnt pathway-related genes were measured by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Potential targets and pathways were screened by integrating network pharmacology prediction and molecular docking.Rapamycin successfully induced acute thymic atrophy. The model control group showed an approximately 50% decrease in thymic index (P<0.01), significantly weakened grip strength (P<0.05), and no obvious hair regeneration. Histologically, the thymic cortical area was reduced, with a blurred corticomedullary junction, disrupted continuity of the cortical TEC (cTEC) cytoplasmic process network, early-stage blockade of thymocyte development, disturbed spatial distribution, and inhibited thymic output. Compared with the normal regeneration group, medium and large doses of Angelica sinensis dose-dependently increased the cortical area, significantly enhanced the density of cortical CK8+ TECs and restored the continuity of their cytoplasmic process network (P<0.01), while upregulating the expression of Foxn1 (P<0.01) and its downstream target gene Dll4. Regarding thymocyte development, Angelica sinensis (large dose) significantly increased the proportion of CD3+ TCRβ+ thymocytes (P<0.05), promoted the balanced differentiation of CD4+CD8+ cells into mature single-positive (SP) thymocytes, and re-established normal spatial localization, manifested as increased density of CD8+ and CD4+CD8+ cells in the cortex and reaggregation of TCRβ+ cells in the medulla. Furthermore, Angelica sinensis (medium dose) significantly reduced the mRNA levels of thymic pro-inflammatory factors TNF-α, TGF-β, and IGFBP5 (P<0.05), thereby improving the local inflammatory microenvironment. For peripheral homeostasis, Angelica sinensis intervention maintained and increased the proportion of peripheral blood CD3+ T cells, elevated the percentage of CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells across all dosage groups (P<0.05), and upregulated the expression of the thymic homing factor Ccl25. Mechanistically, network pharmacology predicted the Wnt pathway as a potential target of Angelica sinensis active components. Experimental validation revealed that Angelica sinensis (medium dose) significantly upregulated Wnt4 mRNA expression, inhibited Gsk3β, and increased CTNNB1 (β-catenin) levels in the thymus (P<0.05), indicating activation of the Wnt/CTNNB1/Foxn1 signaling pathway to drive cTEC cytoskeletal repair and thymic regeneration.Angelica sinensis promotes cortical regeneration and functional recovery after rapamycin-induced acute thymic involution by activating the Wnt/CTNNB1/Foxn1 signaling pathway and improving the thymic inflammatory microenvironment, which collaboratively facilitate cortical thymic epithelial cell cytoskeletal repair and hematopoietic stem cell homing. This suggests its potential benefit for counteracting immune aging.
Immune dysregulation plays a critical role in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), but the mechanisms underlying this dysregulation remain unclear.We performed bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) and mediation analysis using genome-wide association studies (GWAS) summary data from FinnGen (731 immune cell phenotypes, 473 gut microbiota, 91 inflammatory proteins, 179 plasma lipidome, 1,400 metabolites, and IPF cases). Sensitivity analyses ensured robustness.Nine immune cell phenotypes, nine gut microbiota taxa, three inflammatory proteins, one lipid species, and 29 metabolites showed significant causal associations with IPF. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) showed a dual role: protective subsets reduced IPF risk, while activated CD4+ Tregs increased susceptibility. Mediation analysis revealed that the effect of activated CD4+ Tregs was partially mediated by Phylum SAR324 (16.8%), TNFSF12 (10.8%), and CCL25 (4.94%). Immune cells, such as HLA-DR+ CD33- myeloid cells, modulated IPF via plasma metabolites (LIFR (22.1%) and decadienedioic acid (C10:2-DC) (8.38%)). Additionally, CD39+ CD4+ T cells demonstrated protective properties by suppressing the pro-fibrotic species CHKCI006 sp900018345 (14.8%), while CD39+ CD8br Tregs promoted the anti-fibrotic factor X-16935 (5.68%).These findings enhance our understanding of IPF pathogenesis, suggesting that modulating key metabolic pathways and immune regulatory nodes, such as Tregs, could represent promising therapeutic approaches. However, additional experimental studies are needed to validate these potential causal relationships.This MR study systematically maps multi-omics interactions in IPF, identifying novel mediators and therapeutic targets. Validating these mechanisms in experimental models could advance precision immunomodulatory strategies for IPF.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) are among the largest lymphocyte populations in the body and play a crucial role in maintaining the integrity of epithelial barriers at mucosal sites, which are highly immunostimulatory. Therefore, understanding how these cells are generated, localized within the epithelium, and contribute to barrier immunity is essential. Although most research on IEL biology has focused on the small intestine, IELs are also present in the large intestinal epithelium. Additionally, the homing receptor-ligand pairs that regulate T cell localization in the lamina propria beneath the epithelium differ between the small and large intestines: CCL25-CCR9 in the small intestine and C10ORF99-GPR15 in the large intestine. CCL25-CCR9 is also necessary for proper localization of IELs in the small intestine, but the mechanisms controlling IEL localization in the large intestine remain unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the C10ORF99-GPR15 pathway is crucial for the presence of TCR + natural IELs in the large intestinal epithelium, a process that requires epithelium-derived C10ORF99 (GPR15L).Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of haematological malignancies triggered by a driver mutation, most commonly the JAK2 V617F mutation, which is acquired in a haematopoietic stem cell. The diseases are characterised by an overproduction of myeloid cells and may result in severe complications such as thrombosis, myelofibrotic transition, and potentially progression to acute myeloid leukaemia. Treatment with interferon-α (IFN-α) can potentially deplete the disease-driving malignant stem cell population, thereby leading to long-term remission. We extend a mechanistic compartmental differential equation model of MPN progression to account for the effects of IFN-α treatment. In agreement with experimental mouse studies, we assume that IFN-α acts through effects on malignant stem cell differentiation and malignant progenitor and precursor cell apoptosis. We use a hierarchical Bayesian inference procedure to infer the drug response parameters of the model based on measurements of the JAK2 V617F variant allele frequency (VAF) for N=56 patients from the Danish DALIAH study, both on the individual and the population level, with 14 patients left out for subsequent testing. The model estimates are found to agree with data. The drug response parameters are found to act synergistically on the reduction of JAK2 VAF, with the model being able to capture qualitatively different types of treatment responses. Using the inferred information about the population distribution of drug response parameters is found to improve predictions compared to predictions without prior knowledge on a testing cohort. Such predictions may aid clinical decision-making regarding IFN-α treatment in patients with MPNs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Immune checkpoint blockade targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis has improved the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet its therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient antitumor immune activation. Herein, we developed a biomimetic manganese-amplified STING nanoagonist to potentiate PD-L1 blockade immunotherapy. Hollow mesoporous manganese silicate nanoparticles were engineered as Mn2⁺-releasing nanocarriers for loading a STING agonist (Sa) diABZI, followed by coating with anti-PD-L1 antibody-functionalized NSCLC tumor cell membranes. The resulting Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited pH-responsive Sa release, preserved PD-L1 blocking activity, and enhanced tumor-cell-selective uptake. Mechanistically, Mn2⁺ released from HMMSN promoted cGAMP production, while Sa further enhanced STING phosphorylation, leading to robust STING activation. Sa@HMMSN@PM showed enhanced tumor accumulation, superior tumor growth inhibition and prolonged survival in both subcutaneous and orthotopic NSCLC mouse models. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated increased IFN-β, CXCL10, TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ levels, together with enhanced CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Importantly, Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited favorable biosafety without obvious systemic toxicity. Overall, this biomimetic Mn2⁺-amplified STING nanoagonist provides a promising strategy for integrating innate immune activation with immune checkpoint blockade for enhanced NSCLC immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ropeginterferon alfa-2b, a novel monopegylated interferon with improved pharmacokinetics, has emerged as a promising cytoreductive agent for managing polycythemia vera (PV). Despite increasing adoption, evidence synthesis of its efficacy and safety compared to standard care remains limited. The manuscript aimed to evaluate the efficacy of ropeginterferon alfa-2b in comparison to standard treatment options, including hydroxyurea and phlebotomy, in achieving complete hematologic response, partial molecular response (PMR), and reducing JAK2V617F allele burden in patients with PV.A systematic search of 4 databases was conducted up to April 2025, following PRISMA 2020 guidelines. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ropeginterferon alfa-2b with standard therapies in PV patients were included. Meta-analyses were performed using random-effects models to derive odds ratios for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were conducted, and risk of bias was assessed using RoB 2.0.Three RCTs comprising 522 patients were analyzed. Ropeginterferon alfa-2b showed no statistically significant advantage overall or over hydroxyurea for complete hematological response (CHR), PMR, or JAK2 allele burden reduction. However, subgroup analyses revealed significant benefits over phlebotomy alone in all 3 outcomes: CHR (odds ratio [OR] 3.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.36-6.80; P = .007), PMR (OR 36.34; 95% CI: 2.11-625.93; P = .01), and allele burden reduction (MD -13.70; 95% CI: -19.24 to -8.16; P < .00001).Ropeginterferon alfa-2b demonstrates no statistically significant difference compared to hydroxyurea, but gives better outcomes over phlebotomy in short-term efficacy for PV management. Its favorable molecular and hematologic outcomes support its role as a disease-modifying therapy, particularly in low-risk patients. However, larger and longer-term trials are needed to confirm these benefits across broader populations.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Mitochondria activate immunity, but the role in cancer is unknown. Here, we report that transgenic expression of Parkin, a regulator of mitochondrial fitness, induces inflammation and interferon (IFN) gene signatures, suppresses prostate cancer formation and generates CD8+ and CD20+ intraprostatic immune aggregates. These had hallmarks of mature tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), expressing markers of B cell maturation (CXCL13, CCL21), germinal center formation (BCL6, GL7), mature dendritic cells (MHC-II/CD208) and high endothelial venules (LYVE-1). Parkin TLS showed high Ig gene expression, recruitment of CXCR5+ follicular T helper cells and expansion of CD69+/KLRG1+ effector T cells. Conditioned medium from Parkin-positive cells expanded memory B and plasma cells, increased IgG1 production, and sustained B and T cell migration. Finally, conditional expression of Parkin induced TLS formation, upregulated Ig chains and inhibited prostate cancer growth, in vivo, whereas Parkin reconstitution in IFNAR1, CD8 or CD20 knockout mice had no effect. Therefore, mitochondrial immunity orchestrates antitumor responses, and TLS formation contributes to tumor suppression.
Hyperuricemia-related vascular endothelial injury is closely associated with hypertension, atherosclerosis, and other cardiovascular diseases. Although GPR75 has been implicated in vascular inflammation and hypertension, whether it mediates hyperuricemia-induced endothelial dysfunction and how it is regulated upstream remain unknown.Human umbilical vein endothelial cells were exposed to uric acid and subjected to gain- and loss-of-function experiments targeting HOTAIR, miR-141-3p, and GPR75. A CRISPR/Cas9-generated Hotair knockout mouse model of hyperuricemia was used for in vivo validation. qRT-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed.Uric acid markedly induced HOTAIR and GPR75 expression in endothelial cells. Dual-luciferase reporter assays further confirmed the direct interactions between HOTAIR and miR-141-3p, as well as between miR-141-3p and GPR75. Mechanistically, HOTAIR functioned as a competing endogenous RNA to sequester miR-141-3p, thereby releasing its inhibitory effect on GPR75. HOTAIR silencing or miR-141-3p overexpression reduced GPR75 expression and NF-κB activation, decreased the expression of inflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-6, and VCAM-1, preserved membrane-associated VE-cadherin, and attenuated endothelial apoptosis. Conversely, these protective effects were largely abolished by miR-141-3p inhibition or GPR75 overexpression. In vivo, Hotair knockout significantly reduced GPR75 expression, NF-κB activation, and vascular inflammatory markers (IL-1β and VCAM-1) in hyperuricemic mice, without altering serum uric acid levels.This study indicates that HOTAIR aggravates hyperuricemia-induced endothelial injury by regulating the miR-141-3p/GPR75/NF-κB axis and provides new mechanistic insights into hyperuricemia-associated vascular dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a JAK2-associated clonal myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by erythroid hyperplasia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of acute hyper-viscosity encephalopathy as the initial manifestation of suspected PV in a resident of extreme high altitude-a diagnosis frequently mistaken for altitude-induced secondary polycythemia in this population.A 37-year-old Tibetan man, lifelong resident at 4,100 m, presented with acute encephalopathy characterized by altered consciousness, gait ataxia, and headache. Neurological examination confirmed higher cortical dysfunction. Laboratory studies showed marked erythrocytosis (hemoglobin 229 g/L, hematocrit 77.4%) with paradoxically suppressed serum erythropoietin (EPO, 1.2 mIU/mL). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) revealed acute bilateral frontoparietal and centrum semiovale diffusion-restricted lesions. Neurological symptoms resolved rapidly after osmotic therapy for intracranial hypertension. These findings were consistent with suspected PV based on WHO diagnostic criteria.This case suggests that acute infection may trigger life-threatening hyper-viscosity syndrome in suspected PV at extreme altitudes. EPO assessment and JAK2 mutational analysis are recommended to be included in the diagnostic algorithm to distinguish malignant PV clones from compensatory polycythemia and to prevent catastrophic neurological outcomes in high-altitude residents.Copyright © 2026 Yao and Chen.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566987 is a review article
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) is a key pathological process in the progression of chronic liver diseases to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), accompanied by abnormal remodeling of the intrahepatic vascular network. Evidence suggests that hepatocyte cytokine leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2 (LECT2) and macrophage reprogramming exert crucial effects in angiogenesis. Jiawei Taohe Chengqi Decoction (JTCD) can reduce abnormal angiogenesis in HF, but the specific mechanism remains unclear.To clarify whether JTCD attenuates HF by inhibiting LECT2 to modulate macrophage reprogramming and influence angiogenesis, laying a theoretical and experimental foundation for the clinical application of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) in HF therapy.In vivo experiments utilized a CCl₄-induced mouse HF model, or an adeno-associated virus (AAV) was employed to construct an HF model that overexpresses or knocks down LECT2 to observe the mechanism of JTCD. In vitro treatment of hepatocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells using siRNA or co-culture methods to validate the molecular mechanism of JTCD.JTCD effectively alleviates CCl₄-induced mouse HF and reduces angiogenesis by inhibiting LECT2. In vitro studies show that JTCD diminishes the regulatory effect of LECT2/CD209-associated macrophage reprogramming and promotes the polarization of macrophages from M1 to M2. Additionally, in vitro tube formation experiments confirmed that JTCD can partially weaken the impact on endothelial cell tube formation through this mechanism.The research results demonstrate that JTCD may contribute to reducing the role of M1 macrophages in angiogenesis by inhibiting LECT2/CD209-associated macrophage reprogramming. Additionally, JTCD improves HF in mice through this mechanism.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder with an elusive pathophysiology. Although immune dysregulation and mild mucosal inflammation are recognized as important factors in IBS, the specific contribution of immunosenescence remains unclear. Prior MR studies on IBS focused on single molecular traits; however, an integrated multi-omics framework for aging-immune genes has not been applied. Here, we integrate cis-eQTL/pQTL/mQTL with machine learning and in vivo validation to identify putatively causal biomarkers and unravel the aging-immune axis.Aging- and immune-related genes were curated from published databases and analyzed using genome-wide cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL), cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTL), and cis-methylation quantitative trait loci (cis-mQTL) datasets. All QTL data were derived from blood or plasma samples. Candidate genes were identified through integrative multi-omics analysis, followed by functional annotation, machine learning-based feature selection, immune infiltration profiling, and drug-target prediction. The expression of key biomarkers was validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in colonic tissues from a rat model of diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D).Integrative multi-omics analysis initially identified 34 high-confidence candidate genes. Through multi-algorithm machine learning such as least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), and random forest, these candidates were refined to a core panel of five biomarkers: the antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase very long chain (ACADVL), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 (CCL4), cyclin E1 (CCNE1), and Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1 (JAG1). These biomarkers demonstrated strong diagnostic performance for CAT, CCNE1, and JAG1 in the validation cohort (AUC: 0.935-0.951), while ACADVL and CCL4 showed only moderate diagnostic potential (AUC: 0.645-0.649). The combined AUC range in the training cohort was 0.898-0.959. However, in the IBS-D rat model, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in colonic tissue, whereas CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, and CCNE1 showed no significant changes. Among the five markers, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the IBS-D rat colon, confirming its local gut relevance. CAT and CCNE1 showed strong diagnostic performance (AUC >0.9), whereas ACADVL and CCL4 performed modestly (AUC <0.7). Given the blood-derived QTL data and colonic validation, cross-tissue heterogeneity is a key caveat: JAG1 is robustly validated in colon, while the remaining four markers-especially ACADVL and CCL4-require further evaluation in blood, PBMCs, or other relevant tissues. Functional enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in critical biological processes, including oxidative stress, fatty acid metabolism, immune cell recruitment, cell cycle progression, and epithelial-immune crosstalk via Notch signaling. Immune infiltration analysis uncovered a distinct immune landscape in IBS, with significant correlations between biomarker expression and immune cell populations. Notably, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the colonic tissues of the IBS-D rat model, confirming its relevance to gut pathophysiology. No significant changes were detected for CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, or CCNE1 in the same tissue samples, highlighting the tissue-specific nature of these candidate biomarkers. The SMR analysis demonstrated consistent causal directions between genetically predicted expression and disease risk for these five markers, with no discordance relative to their upregulation in IBS patients. All biomarker validation was performed at the transcriptomic level (RT-qPCR); no protein-level assays (e.g., Western blot, IHC, or ELISA) were conducted.This study delineates the genetic architecture linking aging and immunity to IBS through an integrative multi-omics and machine learning approach, providing novel putatively causal evidence and identifying JAG1 as a robustly validated biomarker with diagnostic and therapeutic potential. The remaining candidates warrant further investigation in appropriate biological contexts.Copyright © 2026 Yao, Li, Zhang, Li, Linghu, Li and Zhao.
Neonatal acute respiratory distress syndrome (NARDS) is a life-threatening respiratory disorder characterized by high mortality and significant long-term morbidity. Increasing evidence suggests that pyroptosis contributes to pulmonary tissue injury in ARDS. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was utilized to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying pyroptosis within the NARDS microenvironment. Our analysis identified chemokine (C-C motif) ligand (CCL5) expression in M2 macrophages as a potential regulator of pyroptosis associated with impaired tissue repair. Mechanistically, CCL5 was linked to the activation of the pyroptotic pathway through interactions with inflammasome components, promoting caspase-11-dependent gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) release. Network pharmacology analysis identified artesunate, a clinically approved antimalarial drug, as a potential inhibitor of CCL5 expression in patients with NARDS. Functional validation showed that artesunate attenuated M2 macrophage pyroptosis, reduced pulmonary injury, and promoted tissue repair. Collectively, our findings identify CCL5 as a potential regulator of macrophage pyroptosis and support the therapeutic potential of artesunate for modulating pyroptosis-associated inflammation in NARDS. This study provides a mechanistic framework for the development of CCL5-targeted interventions and highlights the dual anti-inflammatory and pro-repair properties of artesunate in NARDS treatment.Copyright © 2026 Hai-Ran Ma et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
CCL28 functions as a key chemoattractant for IgA antibody-secreting cells (IgA+ ASCs) and is crucial for maintaining mucosal immune defense. Recent research has revealed IgA+ ASCs with immunosuppressive activity in non-mucosal tissues under inflammatory conditions. Here, we explored the contribution of CCL28 to chronic liver damage caused by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4).We administered CCl4 to wild-type and CCL28 knockout (CCL28 KO) mice to induce chronic liver damage. Liver damage, inflammation, fibrosis, and the expression of chemokines and immunosuppressive molecules were evaluated by histology, real-time PCR, ELISA, and flow cytometry.Chronic CCl4 treatment increased CCL28 expression in endothelial cells and macrophages of injured liver tissues. CCL28 KO mice exhibited higher serum ALT levels and more severe liver fibrosis than wild-type mice. They also showed diminished numbers of IgA+ ASCs in the livers. Liver-infiltrating IgA+ ASCs highly expressed the immunosuppressive molecules IL-10 and FasL, together with the CCL28 receptor CCR10. Furthermore, activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which primarily produce extracellular matrix proteins, were increased in the livers of CCL28 KO mice, while apoptotic HSCs were decreased. In vitro, B220+ cells containing immunosuppressive IgA+ ASCs enhanced HSC cytotoxicity, and this effect was attenuated by anti-FasL antibody. Consistent with these findings, anti-IL-10 receptor and anti-FasL antibody treatment exacerbated chronic liver damage and fibrosis in vivo.These results demonstrate that CCL28 contributes to liver protection against chronic damage in association with the selective infiltration of immunosuppressive IgA+ ASCs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Microglia are key players in Alzheimer's disease, but the transcriptional control of their phagocytic function remains unclear. Kim et al. show that mouse microglial Spi1 deletion worsens amyloid pathology by impairing Aβ clearance through Syk, Lyn, and Fcgr1, providing new insight into PU.1-dependent regulatory networks and microglial functions in neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Liver fibrosis represents a pivotal histopathological stage in the progression of chronic liver disease toward cirrhosis, threatening millions of patients worldwide while therapeutic options remain scarce. Morroniside, an iridoid glycoside derived from Cornus officinalis, has been shown potent hepatoprotective properties, but its potential to attenuate liver fibrogenesis remains largely unexplored.This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of morroniside against liver fibrosis and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms.Two distinct mouse models of liver fibrosis were established by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced and Gubra Amylin NASH (GAN) diet-induced. Mice administered morroniside at doses of 10 or 20 mg/kg by gavage concurrently with model induction. Its efficacy in improving liver fibrosis was assessed through histological analysis and immunoblotting. TGF-β-induced LX-2 cells and primary hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were used to validate the mechanism of morroniside in promoting ferritinophagy and ferroptosis. Finally, overexpressing ACYP1 and silencing NCOA4 were applied both in vitro and in vivo to confirm the critical molecular mechanisms of morroniside in ameliorating liver fibrosis.Morroniside alleviates liver fibrogenesis in both CCl4- and GAN diet-induced mouse models by targeting ACYP1, a phosphatase upregulated in fibrotic livers, thereby suppressing HSCs fibrogenic activation. Mechanistically, morroniside directly targeting ACYP1 to inhibit HERC2-mediated ubiquitination of NCOA4, thereby promoting ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptosis in HSCs. Notably, ACYP1 overexpression or NCOA4 silencing reversed the efficacy of morroniside in inducing ferritinophagy and ferroptosis in HSCs. These results establish the critical role of the ACYP1/HERC2/NCOA4 signaling axis in mediating ferritinophagy and ferroptosis, and demonstrate that targeting this pathway is a key mechanism by which morroniside suppresses liver fibrosis progression.This study provides compelling evidence that morroniside alleviates liver fibrosis in mice by directly targeting ACYP1 to inhibit HERC2-mediated ubiquitination of NCOA4, thereby promoting ferritinophagy and ferroptosis in HSCs. These results provide new mechanistic insights into the anti-fibrotic activity of morroniside and support its further development as a potential intervention for chronic liver diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) represents a significant health burden in older individuals, and early diagnosis remains a challenge. miR-766-5p is dysregulated in COPD. However, its specific role and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Exploring the diagnostic value of miR-766-5p in COPD and its protective mechanism through targeting MAPK1 holds significant clinical importance for the identification of novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Serum samples were obtained from elderly COPD patients and healthy controls to measure miR-766-5p expression and analyze its clinical significance. In vitro, a cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-induced injury model was established using BEAS-2B cells. Transfection was employed to alter the expression of miR-766-5p and MAPK1, followed by assessments of cell viability, inflammatory responses, oxidative stress, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). The direct targeting relationship was confirmed by a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Serum miR-766-5p expression was significantly downregulated in COPD patients compared to healthy controls. Its level showed a positive correlation with pulmonary function and demonstrated diagnostic value for COPD. In cellular experiments, overexpression of miR-766-5p alleviated CSE-induced reductions in cell viability, the release of inflammatory factors (IL-6, IL-1β, TGF-β1), oxidative stress (increased MDA and decreased SOD), and EMT. Mechanistically, MAPK1 was identified as a direct target of miR-766-5p. Furthermore, overexpression of MAPK1 reversed the protective effects of miR-766-5p against CSE-induced cellular injury. miR-766-5p is markedly reduced in COPD and holds potential as a diagnostic biomarker. It exerts a protective role against airway epithelial cell injury by targeting and inhibiting MAPK1.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The Mizoram state of Northeast India has one of the highest HIV prevalence rates in Asia, yet the host genetic factors influencing HIV susceptibility in this Tibeto-Burman population remain uncharacterised.We performed whole-exome sequencing using Illumina NovaSeq 6000, mean coverage 100X on 76 HIV-negative Mizo individuals. Variants were called using GATK HaplotypeCaller v4.3 against GRCh38p14, annotated with ANNOVAR, and filtered using hard-quality thresholds (QD ≥ 2, SOR ≤ 3, MQ ≥ 40, DP ≥ 10, GQ ≥ 20). The allele frequencies were compared against gnomAD v2.1.1 population databases. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was assessed using the Wigginton exact test with Bonferroni correction.Post-quality filtering resulted in 12,011 sample-variants across 2,821 unique positions from 36 HIV-associated loci (33 protein-coding genes, 2 chemokine ligands, and 3 lncRNA targets). Of these, 784 observations (51 unique positions) were high-impact nonsynonymous or loss-of-function variants. ADAR rs2229857 (p.K384R, NM_015840) was the most frequently observed variant (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.895; 95% CI: 0.806-0.946). CXCR1 rs16858808 (p.R335C) showed the greatest population enrichment (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.197; 95% CI: 0.123-0.300; 7.65-fold carrier-frequency enrichment versus gnomAD South Asian; CADD = 15.60). Sixteen of 20 tested variants deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium after Bonferroni correction (p < 0.0025), predominantly showing excess homozygosity consistent with the endogamous Mizo population. The protective variant CCR5-Δ32 was absent in all the 76 individuals tested.This first whole-exome characterization of HIV host genes in the Mizo population identifies CXCR1 rs16858808 as the most population-enriched functional variant and reveals a pervasive endogamy signature. These findings provide a population-specific genetic framework for future HIV susceptibility studies and ART pharmacogenomics research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Primary hypertension is a prevalent cardiovascular disease contributing to a heavy global health burden. To investigate serum miR‑378a‑3p expression in hypertensive patients and its mechanism in OX‑LDL‑mediated vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dysfunction.286 primary hypertension patients and 132 healthy controls were enrolled, and serum miR‑378a‑3p levels and clinical parameters were detected. ROC curve and multivariate logistic regression were applied for diagnostic and risk factor analyses. In vitro cultured human aortic VSMCs were used to assess cell function, and phenotypic transformation via qRT‑PCR, CCK‑8, Transwell, and Western blot. Target gene binding was verified by bioinformatics and dual‑luciferase assay.miR‑378a‑3p was significantly reduced in hypertension sufferers, and served as an independent protective factor, whereas LDL‑C, PRA, Ang II, and ALD were independent risk factors. OX‑LDL downregulated miR‑378a‑3p and promoted VSMC dysfunction, while miR‑378a‑3p overexpression alleviated these injuries by directly targeting MAPK1.miR-378a-3p shows potential as an auxiliary screening biomarker for hypertension risk stratification and may serve as a promising therapeutic target by regulating VSMC function via MAPK1.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are usually treated as unrelated, yet depressive symptoms occur in a substantial minority of people with ALS and may appear early. These symptoms are heterogeneous and may reflect syndromal MDD, psychological and functional burden, fatigue, apathy, pseudobulbar affect, frontotemporal involvement, sleep or respiratory disturbance, medication effects, or shared affective vulnerability. A proposed pruning-continuum model suggests both disorders may share vulnerability in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning, with ALS amplified by autophagy and protein-quality-control failure and MDD by RNA-processing, stress, and immune dysregulation. We performed an exploratory secondary transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)/pathway-integration analysis to test whether predefined nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-nominated pathways map onto this vulnerability.We integrated precomputed S-PrediXcan outputs for MDD and ALS across available brain-relevant tissues. Ten Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were predefined from a prior re-analysis of NMN-associated transcriptional programs in aged mouse metabolic tissues. Mouse-derived candidates were represented by human ortholog symbols before the human TWAS screen. The analysis tested nominated pathways rather than the 35-gene NMN-robust list as a standalone set. Cross-tissue screening used Stouffer Z aggregation, tissue-level Wilcoxon testing, competitive permutation testing, percentile bootstrap intervals, pairwise disease statistics, Levene variance tests, concordance measures, and leave-one-out sensitivity analysis. No analysis was treated as confirmatory or evidence of causal mediation.MDD showed the strongest Stouffer-based exploratory signal in the synaptic vesicle cycle pathway, with a meta-across-tissue Stouffer Z of 3.41 and a wide bootstrap 95% confidence interval of -0.46 to 7.40. This signal did not survive competitive permutation testing (p = 0.1222) or Wilcoxon testing (p = 0.1926). The strongest tissue-level result occurred in the amygdala (Z = 4.057; nominal Wilcoxon p = 0.0093), although tissue-level permutation testing was not performed in the multi-gene-set run. ALS showed no significant meta-across-tissue enrichment among the 10 nominated pathways but displayed candidate gene-level signals in autophagy, endosomal, and vesicle-related genes, including TBK1 and C9orf72. Exploratory Levene tests indicated variance heterogeneity in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, endocytosis, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction; the actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis remained significant in pooled global false discovery rate (FDR) analysis. Fourteen genes were influential in at least two focus pathways, including EGF, KNG1, FGF8, RAC1, PAK1, PAK2, RAF1, MAPK1, and FGFR1.These findings are hypothesis-generating. MDD and ALS may stress overlapping cellular logistics processes while engaging largely different genes. MDD showed the strongest exploratory pathway-level signal in synaptic vesicle biology, whereas ALS showed candidate gene-level coherence in autophagy and endosomal processes without significant meta-pathway enrichment. NMN/NAD+ repletion is not established as a treatment for MDD, ALS, or their comorbidity. These findings generate hypotheses about NAD+-linked cellular stress pathways for future preclinical and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567442 is a review article
To investigate the effect of post-operative ganciclovir therapy on transplant-free liver survival in children with biliary atresia (BA) complicated by cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, and to propose an intervention mechanism hypothesis based on the 'CMV-hepatic stellate cell-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis.This retrospective study included children diagnosed with BA complicated by CMV infection at a tertiary children's hospital between January 2017 and October 2023. Patients were divided into a treatment group and a non-treatment group based on whether ganciclovir was administered for ≥ 1 week within 3 months after Kasai portoenterostomy (KPE). All patients had follow-up of at least 2 years by 1 October 2025. Baseline characteristics and clinical outcomes (transplant-free liver survival time and 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate) were compared between groups. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to generate survival curves, and differences were assessed using the Log-Rank test. Evidence from basic and clinical research was integrated to construct a mechanistic hypothesis diagram for CMV-driven hepatic fibrosis and antiviral intervention.A total of 17 children with BA were included, with 6 in the treatment group and 11 in the non-treatment group. Baseline characteristics indicated no significant differences between the two groups in terms of sex, hepatic fibrosis stage, age at surgery, preoperative DBIL and other clinical indicators, demonstrating balanced comparability (p > 0.05). Comparison of clinical outcomes and Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that transplant-free liver survival time was significantly longer in the treatment group than in the non-treatment group: 1518 (217, 2825) versus 190 (83, 265) days, p = 0.035; the survival curve showed an improving trend (Log-Rank p = 0.087). The 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate did not differ significantly between groups (p > 0.05). The mechanistic hypothesis diagram suggested that CMV may activate hepatic stellate cells via multiple pathways, including CCL19/CCR7 and TGF-β, accelerating fibrosis progression, while ganciclovir may block this process.Ganciclovir antiviral therapy may be associated with improved transplant-free liver survival in CMV-positive children with BA, exerting a specific effect on long-term fibrosis progression rather than short-term bile drainage. This clinical observation aligns with the 'CMV-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis hypothesis and provides preliminary evidence for clinical antiviral treatment.© 2026 Paediatrics and Child Health Division (The Royal Australasian College of Physicians).
The complex nonlinear dynamics of tumor-immune interactions drive tumor heterogeneity and complicate treatment strategies. While bifurcation and multistability analyses of mathematical models can uncover critical system dynamics, few studies have explored bifurcation-particularly cusp bifurcation-in high-dimensional tumor-immune systems, as most existing analyses are limited to simplified two-dimensional models. In this study, we extend the tumor-immune model proposed by Anderson et al. (2024a) to incorporate combination therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) antagonists. By combining linear algebra methods, Sotomayor's theorem, projection singularity analysis, numerical simulation, and continuation techniques, we explicitly identify transcritical and saddle-node bifurcations, conduct a systematic cusp bifurcation analysis as a classical two-parameter problem, and derive explicit quantitative conditions. Calibration against four independent murine datasets demonstrates the model's ability to reproduce tumor growth dynamics across multiple tumor datasets. Bifurcation analysis characterizes the multiplicity of tumorous equilibria, and reveals the emergence of monostable and bistable regimes. In particular, the saddle-node bifurcation curve partitions the two-parameter space under combination therapy into monostable and bistable regions. Notably, a dose-dependent inverse correlation between ICIs and CCR2 antagonists emerges along this bifurcation boundary. Our results demonstrate that effective tumor control depends not only on treatment intensity but also on the patient's initial tumor burden. The corresponding critical thresholds are determined by bifurcation structure and the stable manifold (or characteristic space) of the saddle point, respectively. These findings provide theoretical guidance for treatment design under different tumor states. Importantly, the identification of a stable low-tumor state-being clinically acceptable and controllable-highlights the potential for sustained tumor control as an alternative therapeutic objective to complete tumor eradication.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent whose antitumor benefits are limited by a well-recognized, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. While previous studies have implicated inflammatory pathways in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC), the role of CCR2 in this process remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether CCR2 deficiency confers cardioprotection against DIC and to uncover the molecular mechanisms involved.CCR2 knockout (CCR2⁻/⁻ ) mouse was subjected to both acute and chronic DIC models. Bone marrow transplantation was used to establish the functional contribution of CCR2-deficient macrophages. Autophagic flux was evaluated using complementary approaches, including a tandem mRFP-GFP-LC3 reporter, western blotting, immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopy. The mediator linking CCR2-deficient macrophages to cardiomyocytes was identified by proteomics and validated using recombinant IL12B protein and a neutralizing antibody.CCR2 deficiency substantially improved cardiac function, as evidenced by preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening and reduced serum cardiac injury markers. Mechanistic studies revealed that CCR2⁻/⁻ hearts exhibited enhanced autophagic flux, with increased LC3B lipidation, autophagosome formation, and clearance of damaged cellular components. Proteomic profiling of cardiac macrophages identified interleukin-12B (IL12B) significantly upregulated in CCR2⁻/⁻ mouse. Recombinant IL12B protein administration activated cardiomyocyte autophagy through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and reproduced the cardioprotective effects in WT mouse. Conversely, IL12B neutralization completely abolished CCR2 deficiency-mediated protection.Our findings identify a novel CCR2-IL12B-autophagy axis that critically regulates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. CCR2 deficiency promotes IL12B secretion from cardiac macrophages, which directly activates protective autophagy in cardiomyocytes. These results establish CCR2 inhibition and IL12B supplementation as two promising therapeutic strategies to prevent chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy, providing a transformative approach to cardio-oncology.© The author(s).
This study investigated influence of cysteine-cysteine chemokines (CCR5, CCR5-59029A/G, CCR2), and stoma cell derived factor 1 (SDF1); as AIDS restriction genes (ARGs), on treatment outcomes among people with HIV (PWH) on long term antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Ghana.This cross-sectional study was conducted among 167 PWH and receiving ART in Accra, Ghana. Genomic DNA from PBMCs was used to genotype CCR5-Δ32, CCR2-V64I, CCR5 A59029G, and SDF1-3'A variants using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism, CCR5 expression was estimated by RT-qPCR.All participants carried the wild-type CCR5 genotype. No AIDS Restriction Genes was associated with virologic or immunological outcomes (p>0.05). However, individuals with the CCR5 A59029G GG genotype exhibited significantly higher proviral DNA levels than those with the AA genotype (p < 0.05), and the GG genotype independently predicted higher proviral DNA burden in multivariable analysis (β = 0.840, p = 0.011).No ARG variant was significantly associated with virologic or immunological outcomes. However, CCR5 A59029G was associated with differences in proviral DNA burden and CCR5 mRNA expression, suggesting a potential role in HIV reservoir dynamics during suppressive ART.Copyright © 2026 Appiah, Bonney, Obirikorang, Aboagye, Hanson, Agomuo, Effah, Annani-Akollor and Kyei.
STAT5A is unique in its diverse expression in different cells. Here, we show that STAT5A deficiency results in reduced expression of the actin-bundling protein α-actinin-1, which alters cytoskeletal reorganization, including loss of actin bundles, reduction of cellular motility, and clustering of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum in the perinuclear region. These changes in cellular architecture led to production of ROS by the mitochondria, which may be explained by reduced peroxisome abundance. This, in turn, results in dsDNA breaks and formation of cytoplasmic micronuclei, and activating the cGAS-STING pathway, and mediating type I IFN production and the expression of IFN-stimulated genes. The ectopic expression of α-actinin-1 or STAT5A in STAT5A knockout cells is sufficient to restore actin bundle formation and nullifies all downstream effects. Conversely, inhibiting downstream steps suppresses only subsequent events in the pathway. STAT5A knockout results in a similar phenotype as seen with cytochalasin B, an inhibitor of actin polymerization. Overall, we show that STAT5A-α-actinin-1 links cytoskeleton integrity to mitochondrial immune regulation.© 2026 Sun et al.
CXCL12 is a critical chemokine involved in immune cell trafficking and tumor metastasis through its interaction with CXCR4 and CXCR7. The C55Y mutation in CXCL12 is hypothesized to disrupt its structure and function. Unlike previously reported CXCL12 mutations that affect transcriptional regulation or single-receptor binding, C55Y targets a conserved cysteine residue essential for a structural disulfide bridge, potentially inducing unique global destabilization. This study investigates the molecular consequences of the C55Y mutation using computational tools.This study aimed to evaluate the structural and functional impact of the C55Y mutation in CXCL12, particularly its interactions with CXCR4 and CXCR7, and its relevance to prostate cancer pathogenesis.Molecular dynamics simulations (MDS), evolutionary conservation analysis, and molecular docking with CXCR4 and CXCR7 receptors were performed to assess the impact of the C55Y mutation. Tools such as I-TASSER, Meta-SNP, and PolyPhen-2 were used to analyze structural stability, while HDOCK and Schrödinger simulations assessed receptor binding. RMSD and RMSF calculations were used to evaluate protein dynamics.The C55Y mutation induces significant structural instability in CXCL12, with increased RMSD and altered secondary structure. Molecular dynamics simulation further demonstrated the stability of the complexes through RMSD, RMSF, hydrogen bond, and Radius of Gyration (RoG) analyses, where the normal complexes exhibited comparatively stable structural compactness during the simulation period. Docking studies showed reduced binding affinity to CXCR4 and CXCR7, indicating disrupted receptor interactions. Notably, this dual-receptor binding loss distinguishes C55Y from other mutations that typically impair only CXCR4 signaling. These findings suggest that the mutation impairs CXCL12's function in prostate cancer, metastasis of prostate cancer, and immune response.The C55Y mutation in CXCL12 disrupts its structural integrity and receptor binding, uniquely compromising both the CXCR4 and CXCR7 pathways. This highlights its potential role in prostate cancer progression through mechanisms distinct from previously characterized CXCL12 variants. This study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms of CXCL12-mediated signaling and its implications for future therapeutic strategies targeting chemokine signaling to inhibit prostate cancer.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559176 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558552 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the deadliest malignancies to date and characterized by a unique immunosuppressive and highly desmoplastic tumor microenvironment (TME). These features drive profound T-cell dysfunction and maintain high resistance to current immunotherapy. By recapitulating the complex 3D architecture of human PDAC, we demonstrate the key immunosuppressive mechanisms that drive T-cell dysfunction within the tumor microenvironment.3D PDAC spheroids-generated from PANC-1 cells alone or together with primary pancreatic stellate cells (PSC)-were infiltrated with primary human T-cells from healthy donors, allowing controlled analysis of T-cell infiltration, activation, and checkpoint regulation. Furthermore, patient-derived spheroids (PDS) composed of primary tumor cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts were infiltrated with autologous T-cells.Infiltrated T-cells exhibited a pronounced exhaustion signature, including strong upregulation of PD-1, LAG-3, and CTLA-4, closely mirroring the phenotype of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) isolated from PDAC patient samples. Incorporation of pancreatic stellate cells (PSC) generated a fibrotic barrier around the tumor cells that markedly restricted T-cell infiltration, modeling the desmoplastic TME characteristic of PDAC. From a mechanistic perspective, stromal CXCL12-CXCR4 enhanced T-cell exclusion: pharmacological CXCR4 blockade with AMD3100 significantly enhanced T-cell infiltration into PSC-containing spheroids. Furthermore, treatment with the anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody pembrolizumab partially restored the effector cell function of T-cells within the 3D system. These results demonstrate that this minimalistic platform is capable of capturing complex, cytokine- and stroma-driven immunomodulation typically observed only in advanced organoid or in vivo systems. Crucially, key immunological features-including T-cell exhaustion, stromal exclusion, and therapeutic responsiveness-were fully reproduced in PDS. PDS reproduced patient-specific T-cell suppression patterns and therapeutic responses, underscoring the translational relevance of the platform.Together, our findings identify critical determinants of T-cell dysfunction in PDAC and introduce a versatile, animal-free 3D model that powerfully captures hallmark immune-evasion mechanisms in PDAC. This system provides a scalable and mechanistically faithful tool for dissecting TME-driven immune suppression and for accelerating the functional evaluation of immunotherapeutic strategies, including patient-tailored approaches.Copyright © 2026 Deipenbrock, Hofer, Wilmes, Cetin, Esposito, Weyhe, Stegmaier and Teusch.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
Early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) manifests as patch or plaque lesions, and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) may promote tumorigenesis and Th2-skewed microenvironment. This study aimed to investigate genomic and transcriptomic changes from patch to plaque MF and assess their prognostic significance in early-stage disease. Whole-genome sequencing, CosMx Spatial Molecular Imaging, a single-cell-resolution spatial transcriptome, and immunohistochemical staining for CAF markers FAP, TIMP-1, and CXCL12 were conducted. Whole-genome sequencing showed similar single-nucleotide, copy-number, and structural variants in patch and plaque lesions. Spatial transcriptomics identified fibroblasts as a key signaling cells in both lesion types, with plaque lesions exhibiting expanded fibroblast-driven communication networks, including greater interactions with B cells and enhanced T-cell chemotaxis. CXCL12 was markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from plaque-MF and correlated with collagen gene expression and CCL19, a key ligand mediating fibroblast-T-cell signaling. T cells in plaque lesions also displayed higher CXCL12 and CCL19 expression and lower expression of cytotoxicity-related genes. In the immunohistochemical cohort, high FAP and TIMP-1 expression correlated with poorer progression-free survival, whereas CXCL12 expression was associated only with progression to tumor-stage disease. In conclusion, this study identifies differences between patch and plaque MF and underscores the clinical and prognostic significance of CAFs in patients with early-stage disease.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Natural killer (NK) cells undergo stepwise differentiation from multipotent progenitors within secondary lymphoid tissues. Despite the central importance of the tissue microenvironment in their development, little is known about cell-cell interactions that regulate human NK cell trafficking and maturation. Here, we identify the chemokine receptor CXCR4 and its ligand CXCL12 as regulators of stromal-NK cell interactions required for NK cell maturation. We demonstrate that CXCR4 is expressed throughout human NK cell development in peripheral blood and tonsil, and CXCL12 is enriched in stromal niches containing developing NK cells. Pharmacologic blockade or genetic disruption of CXCR4 resulted in diminished adhesion to integrin ligands, and high-resolution imaging demonstrated crosstalk between CXCR4 and integrins, providing a mechanistic basis for chemokine-dependent modulation of adhesion. Further, CXCR4 blockade resulted in altered contact-dependent motility on stromal cells and integrin ligands, with decreased stable stromal engagement and increased cell speed. Consistent with a requirement for these interactions, treatment with the CXCR4 antagonist plerixafor (AMD3100) impaired NK cell generation from CD34+ precursors. Analysis of NK cells from WHIM syndrome patients with CXCR4 gain-of-function mutations treated with plerixafor revealed similar defects in migration and adhesion, supporting the in-vivo relevance of CXCR4-dependent regulation of NK cell adhesion and motility.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Programmable large-fragment genome integration using prime-editing-coupled serine integrases, such as PASTE and PASSIGE, remains constrained by the limited activity of wild-type Bxb1 (WT Bxb1) in mammalian cells. Recently, the AI-guided protein engineering framework EVOLVEpro enabled efficient identification of functional protein variants from limited experimental sampling and nominated epBxb1(T166R) as a highly active Bxb1 variant in episomal plasmid-to-plasmid recombination screens. Here, we systematically benchmarked epBxb1 (T166R) against WT Bxb1 and the previously validated high-activity eeBxb1 (V74A/E229K/V375I) variant in genome-integrated reporter and endogenous-locus PASSIGE assays at three well-characterized benchmarking loci (AAVS1, CCR5, and ACTB). epBxb1 showed reduced and variable transferability, with no detectable advantage over WT Bxb1 in the genome-integrated reporter system or at the AAVS1 safe-harbor locus, but produced modest, locus-dependent improvements at CCR5 and ACTB, with 1.89-fold and 1.58-fold increases, respectively. By contrast, eeBxb1 consistently showed superior activity, achieving up to ∼12-fold improvement over WT Bxb1. Four additional rounds of EVOLVEpro-guided optimization on the eeBxb1-BPNLS scaffold identified no reproducibly improved variant among 40 tested single-amino-acid substitutions. These results indicate reduced and genomic context-dependent transferability of EVOLVEpro-nominated Bxb1 variants and highlight the importance of application-matched genomic benchmarking when implementing AI-guided protein optimization for therapeutic genome writing.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
For most people living with Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), virus control and sufficient immune function can be achieved with polypharmacotherapy. A minority is intolerant to thereto, and drug-resistant mutants are emerging. Additionally, people living with HIV (PLWH) have significantly higher risk of cardiovascular morbidity and malignant diseases. HIV is in principle immunogenic. If T-cell depletion could be avoided immunological HIV eradication should be achievable. The "Berlin patient" in whom allogeneic stem cell transplantation from a CCR5Δ32/Δ32 donor induced long-term remission without antiviral therapy raised the hope that stem cell gene therapy with CCR5-deleted autologous stem cells could provide a cure, but the strategy did not live up to expectations. We propose to test an alternative strategy, namely expression of a designer recombinase which specifically excises HIV provirus from the genome under a Tat-inducible promoter so that expression is restricted to infected cells. A cGMP-compliant manufacturing protocol and quality control strategy for this investigational medicinal product was developed, validated, and a manufacturing authorization obtained. A First-in-Human-clinical trial, testing engraftment, repopulation of peripheral specific immunity, and ability to control HIV infection without antiviral medication is in preparation. Protocols can be adapted to other stem cell gene therapies by transferring alternative lentviral cargo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
Secondary brain injury (SBI) following spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a critical determinant of neurological outcome. It is closely associated with neuronal death, and inflammatory responses. However, current research on SBI after ICH remains limited, and effective therapeutic targets are still lacking.In this study, a collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) model was employed, and experiments were conducted 24 h after hemorrhage induction. For in vitro experiments, differentiated PC12 cells were stimulated with hemin and the CKLF1 agonist peptide C27 to evaluate the potential of CKLF1 to induce neuronal ferroptosis. Mechanistically, the CKLF1 antagonist peptide C19, the CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc (MVC), and a p38 MAPK inhibitor were applied, in combination with immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays and overexpression of p53 site mutation, to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying CKLF1-induced ferroptosis in PC12 cells. In vivo, the effects of CKLF1 knockdown on secondary brain injury after ICH were assessed using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), Western blotting (WB), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and immunofluorescence (IF) analyses.Mechanistic studies revealed that CKLF1 binds to its receptor CCR5 to activate p38 MAPK, which promotes ferroptosis by regulating p53 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, while the mutation of p53 partially reversed the effect. This signaling cascade leads to the downregulation of ferroptosis-suppressing proteins (SLC7A11 and GPX4) and the upregulation of pro-ferroptotic proteins (COX2 and ACSL4), thereby exacerbating lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Conversely, AAV-mediated knockdown of CKLF1 significantly suppressed this ferroptotic signaling pathway in vivo/vitro, reduced iron deposition and neuronal ferroptosis in perihematomal tissue, improved blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, inhibited microglial activation, and enhanced both neurological function scores and 7-day survival rates in ICH rats.The present study identifies CKLF1 as a previously unrecognized regulator of neuronal ferroptosis following ICH through the CCR5/p38/p53 signaling pathway. These findings provide new mechanistic insights into ICH pathogenesis and highlight CKLF1 as a promising therapeutic target for precision treatment of hemorrhagic stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Immune evasion remains a major barrier to effective immunotherapy in cancer. Coordinated activation of different immune cell types shapes immune responses within the tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, we uncovered a spatiotemporal synergy between cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells in tumors with low T-cell infiltration. An integrative multiomics approach combining spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and high-dimensional flow cytometry demonstrated that vaccination, capable of activating both innate and adaptive immunity, rapidly reshapes the TME. Early infiltration of IRF8+KLRG1+ NK cells established a chemokine-rich niche together with myeloid cells that promoted the recruitment of antigen-primed CXCR3+ CTLs. The accompanying inflammatory monocyte recruitment and dendritic cell activation led to the coordinated structural and chemotactic remodeling of the TME. Functionally, NK-CTL clustering at the tumor margin was associated with enhanced cytotoxic activity and sustained immune engagement. These spatially organized immune interactions involved CCR5-CCL5 and CXCR3-CXCL9 signaling pathways that coordinate communication between innate and adaptive immune compartments. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized NK-CTL cooperative program that promotes the transition of poorly infiltrated tumors toward an inflamed, immune-responsive state. More broadly, this study illustrates how spatially resolved multiomics approaches can uncover immune interactions and provides a conceptual framework for designing next-generation immunotherapies that mobilize coordinated innate and adaptive immunity.Early infiltration of NK cells followed by T cell accumulation reshapes the tumor microenvironment to promote antitumor immunity following vaccination, providing a mechanistic rationale for the development of effective vaccine-based immunotherapy strategies.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Plasma inflammatory protein biomarkers associated with clinical milestone heterogeneity in Parkinson's disease (PD) remain undefined. We measured 92 inflammation-related plasma proteins in 82 PD patients using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay. No proteins differed significantly between fallers and non-fallers. However, among fallers, plasma interleukin-24 showed the strongest correlation with observed time to first fall (unadjusted r = 0.752, q = 0.071), and this signal was also observed in an exploratory covariate-adjusted model (q = 0.030). Colony-stimulating factor 1 showed a comparable but non-significant correlation. In group comparisons for symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, CCL11 differed significantly between patients with and without symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (q = 0.0004). These exploratory findings highlight candidate inflammatory protein profiles related to milestone heterogeneity in PD, warranting validation in longitudinal cohorts.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
There is a growing number of research suggesting that there is an association between gut microbiota and central nervous system (CNS) tumor. However, the causal relationships and the mediation effects of inflammatory proteins in the associations are unclear. We extracted genetic variants associated with gut microbiota, inflammatory proteins, and 4 subtypes of CNS tumors from published genome-wide association studies and performed a Mendelian randomization analysis to identify potential causal effects. The inverse variance weighted method was used as the main method. Mediation analysis and single-cell RNA-seq analysis were performed to explore the mediation effects and the expression in cells. This study identified 73 gut microbial taxa and 11 inflammatory proteins that were significantly associated with CNS tumors. The inflammatory proteins may act as intermediate mediators in the potential causal association between gut microbiota and 4 CNS tumor subtypes. Mediation analysis suggested that CX3CL1 may partially mediate the relationship between gut microbiota and Glioblastoma, while Eotaxin, CSF-1, IL-15RA and the other 5 cytokines may serve as subtype-specific potential mediators for the remaining 3 tumor types. Our research supports a hypothesized "gut-immune-brain" axis that may mediate the effects of gut microbiota on different CNS tumor subtypes, with distinct immune proteins implicated for each. These findings strongly suggest potential targets for microbiome therapy and immune therapy, though the underlying mechanistic links require experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
The utilization of plant protein in aquafeeds to reduce dependence on fishmeal has become an important strategy for improving the sustainability of marine aquaculture. This study investigated the effects of low-fishmeal plant protein diets on growth performance and gut-liver molecular responses in large yellow croaker. A total of 2,048 fish were fed two diets for 206 days: a commercial-like control diet containing 280 g/kg fishmeal (C group) and a low-fishmeal diet containing 100 g/kg fishmeal with increased inclusion of plant protein sources (P group). Growth trials indicated that fish in the C group had significantly higher weight gain rate and specific growth rate than those in the P group (p < 0.001). Transcriptomic analysis identified 546 and 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hindgut and liver, respectively. Hindgut DEGs were mainly enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism, immune responses, and signal transduction, whereas liver DEGs were primarily involved in lipid metabolism, immune regulation, and apoptosis. Several pathways, including fat digestion and absorption, complement and coagulation cascades, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, antigen processing and presentation, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, were enriched in both tissues, suggesting coordinated gut-liver regulation. Representative genes involved in lipid metabolism and immune regulation, including apob, scarb1, c3, b2m, and ccr9, exhibited tissue-specific and coordinated expression changes. PPI network analysis further identified c3, scarb1, vwf, and apob as key regulatory nodes potentially involved in coordinated metabolic and immune adaptation. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying gut-liver adaptation to plant-based diets in marine fish.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Periodontitis is a long-term inflammatory disease of the gums that damages the tissues and bone supporting the teeth. Recent studies suggest that changes in cellular metabolism may influence immune responses during chronic inflammation; however, the contribution of fumarate-associated transcriptional programs to periodontitis remains unclear. In this study, we integrated bulk transcriptomic data from human periodontal tissues with single-cell RNA sequencing data to identify fumarate-associated genes and cell clusters associated with periodontitis. Our analyses revealed a fumarate-associated immune regulatory signature that was enriched in periodontitis. Three genes, C3, CXCR4, and MEF2C, were consistently increased in diseased tissues and showed similar expression trends in a ligature-induced mouse model of periodontitis. These genes showed transcript-level diagnostic potential and were predominantly expressed in immune cells, including myeloid cells and neutrophils, as well as stromal cells. In addition, computational drug screening and molecular docking highlighted carbenoxolone and a CXCR4 antagonist (USL311) as potential candidates for future study. Overall, this study provides an integrative view of fumarate-associated immunometabolic alterations in periodontitis and identifies candidate transcriptomic markers and therapeutic hypotheses that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Immunotherapeutic strategies for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have yielded only modest response rates, severely limiting patients' clinical outcomes. Clarifying the underlying mechanisms to reverse immunotherapy resistance therefore represents a critical unmet need. In this study, we employed the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of human TNBC tissues to identify inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) as a central regulator governing cytotoxic T lymphocyte trafficking into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Ectopic expression of ITPKB robustly enhanced the secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), a critical chemokine required for effective anti-tumor immune responses. Mechanistically, elevated ITPKB activity accelerated the conversion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) to inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), thereby dampening IP3-driven endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release. Attenuated intracellular calcium ions (Ca2 +) flux, in turn, promoted the recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) to CXCL9 promoter, driving robust CXCL9 transcription. In addition, utilizing a stepwise virtual screening strategy of 3677 compounds, we identified amentoflavone (AMF) as a novel ITPKB agonist-like compound. AMF treatment could stabilize ITPKB by preventing Trim25-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, in 4T1 and EMT6 syngeneic TNBC murine models, ITPKB-overexpressing or AMF administration exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (αPD-1) immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these results position ITPKB as a therapeutically tractable molecular switch that remodels the tumor immune landscape via Ca2+-dependent transcriptional rewiring. Targeting ITPKB thus represents a promising strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance and expand the pool of TNBC patients who may benefit from αPD-1-based immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The blood-brain and blood-tumor barriers impede therapeutic delivery to glioblastoma (GBM). Furthermore, dysfunctional endothelial cells in GBM enable an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) and enhance therapeutic resistance. However, the significance of endothelial dysfunction for GBM progression also positions the endothelium as a rich target for gene therapy. Here, we leveraged the presence of exofacial thiols (SH) on cells within the TME and developed polymeric, plasmid-bearing, densely PEGylated, polyethyleneimine nanoparticles (NPs) functionalized with free thiol groups to facilitate targeting and transfection (SH-NPs). Delivering SH-NPs to GBM with focused ultrasound (FUS) elicited exceptionally high tropism for GBM endothelium (>70% efficiency), significantly surpassing that achieved via convection-enhanced delivery (CED). "Sonoselective," endothelial cell-specific, transfection was then achieved by incorporating the CD144 promoter. Using this system, we delivered a CXCL9 plasmid to GBM endothelium. This intervention enhanced CD8+ effector and CD4+ helper T cell representation in the TME and significantly improved responsiveness of the tumor to aPD1 checkpoint inhibition. Broadly considered, this sonoselective non-viral transfection platform may be adapted to multiple therapeutic strategies. Further, the approach holds an advantage over AAVs with tropism for brain endothelial cells due to the ability of FUS to provide locoregional targeting specifically to brain tumor endothelium.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Intrinsic capacity (IC) reflects multidomain functional reserve and a measurable phenotype of healthy ageing, but its biological correlates remain incompletely understood. We examined associations of neurofilament light chain (NfL), CXCL9 and inflammatory biomarkers with IC in community-dwelling older adults. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis within the Screening and Prevention of Intrinsic Capacity Decline in Elders (SPICE) programme. IC was derived from locomotion (SPPB), cognition (MoCA), psychological health (PHQ-9), and vitality (MNA-SF), rescaled to a 0-100 composite and analysed as both z scores and tertiles. NfL, CXCL9, and TNFRSF11B were measured using Olink assays, and interleukin-6 (Il-6) by electrochemiluminescence. Multivariable linear and multinomial regression models assessed associations with IC. Mediation analyses evaluated indirect effects of inflammatory biomarkers via NfL. Among 199 participants (mean age 71.9 ± 5.2 years), NfL, CXCL9, IL-6, and TNFRSF11B increased across decreasing IC tertiles. In multivariate models, only NfL remained independently associated with IC (β - 0.41, 95% CI - 0.72 to - 0.12), with attenuation of other biomarkers after NfL adjustment. Higher NfL was associated with increased likelihood of low versus high IC (RRR 6.62, 95% CI 1.84-23.76). Mediation analyses showed significant indirect effects via NfL for CXCL9 (27.6%) and TNFRSF11B (53.9%), but not IL-6. Domain-specific analyses indicated distinct biomarker associations: NfL with locomotion and psychological health, IL-6 with locomotion, CXCL9 with vitality and TNFRSF11B with cognition. NfL was significantly associated with IC and partially mediated inflammatory associations. Integrating blood-based biomarkers with IC assessment may enhance early detection of multidomain vulnerability in ageing.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to American Aging Association.
Sorafenib refractoriness severely compromises therapeutic efficacy in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study identifies ferritin heavy chain 1 pseudogene 7 (FTH1P7) as a critical driver and propagator of sorafenib resistance. FTH1P7 was significantly upregulated in HCC cells resistant to sorafenib. Mechanistically, the self-sustaining FTH1P7/microRNA-182-5p/FOXC1 positive feedback loop maintained high FTH1P7 expression levels in resistant cells. Elevated FTH1P7 functioned as a competing endogenous RNA to the mRNA of its parental gene, ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1). Increased FTH1 levels enhanced Fe2+ oxidation, thereby inhibiting ferroptosis-a key anticancer mechanism of sorafenib-thereby conferring resistance. Furthermore, exosomes derived from resistant cells transferred FTH1P7 to sorafenib-sensitive cells, thereby horizontally propagating resistance. To counter sorafenib resistance, we developed a nanoliposome co-delivering sorafenib and FTH1P7-targeting siRNA (SR-siFTH1P7-LIP). This nanomedicine synergistically and effectively silenced FTH1P7 expression and reversed resistance. These results elucidate novel mechanisms of sorafenib resistance, involving FTH1P7-mediated induction and exosomal propagation of ferroptotic resistance, and propose a promising nanomedicine-based strategy to combat sorafenib refractoriness in HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In the developing human placenta, three subtypes of trophoblast cells, cytotrophoblasts (CTBs), extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs), and syncytiotrophoblasts (STBs), mediate critical functions essential for a successful pregnancy. CTBs constitute the stem/progenitor compartment and differentiate into STBs and EVTs within the floating and anchoring villi, respectively. STBs establish the maternal-fetal exchange interface and secrets human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone vital for the maintenance of early pregnancy. EVTs anchor the maternal endometrium and invade the uterine tissue to remodel maternal cells, supporting implantation and progression of pregnancy. In this study, we used human trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs) as a model system and performed quantitative, label-free liquid chromatography tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to profile proteome and phosphoproteome in TSC stem state (analogous to undifferentiated CTBs) and following their differentiation to STBs and EVTs. Through a multiomics approach, we integrated our proteomics data with global gene expression profiles to correlate cell type specific gene and protein expression during human trophoblast development. We also identified global phosphoproteome and analyzed kinases that are specifically active in hTSC stem state, as well as in differentiated STBs and EVTs. We experimentally validated specific kinases, such as BUB1B, PAK6, PKYMT1 and TNIK are essential for maintaining the hTSC stem state. Additionally, atypical protein kinase C isoforms PKC zeta is essential for STB development, while PTK2B, SRC, TRIO and LYN are important for EVT development. Our findings highlight key kinases uniquely required for specific stages of trophoblast development during human placentation and suggest that pharmacological inhibition of these kinases could negatively impact the placentation process during pregnancy.
This study aimed to identify and characterize macrophage-associated inflammatory regulatory signatures in ulcerative colitis (UC) by integrating bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data, and to explore their potential regulatory and pharmacological relevance.Two colonic bulk microarray datasets (GSE179285 and GSE87466) and one single-cell RNA-sequencing dataset (GSE231993) were analyzed. Differential expression analysis, area under the recovery curve-based single-cell gene-set scoring (AUCell) scoring, macrophage high-dimensional Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (hdWGCNA), and three machine learning algorithms were combined to prioritize candidate genes. Their expression and diagnostic performance were externally validated. Macrophage trajectory analysis, cell-cell communication analysis, virtual perturbation, transcription factor activity inference, compound prediction, and molecular docking were further performed.Single-cell preprocessing retained 30,737 high-quality cells, and macrophages exhibited relatively high innate immune cell barrier-related gene activity. Integrated screening identified CCL3, CCL4, JUNB, and FOS, whereas machine learning consensus retained CCL3, CCL4, and JUNB as the final signatures. These genes were consistently upregulated in UC, with validation area-under-the-curve values of 0.917, 0.958, and 0.888, respectively. Their expression varied along an inferred macrophage inflammatory state continuum, and UC showed remodeled macrophage-centered communication, including CXCL8-ACKR1 signaling. Virtual perturbation linked CCL3 and CCL4 to chemotaxis and lysosomal programs and JUNB to antigen processing and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II pathways; RFX5 was prioritized as a potential upstream regulator. CID11879209 was predicted as a shared candidate compound, with docking energies of -6.55, -6.31, and -4.50 kcal/mol for CCL3, CCL4, and JUNB, respectively.CCL3, CCL4, and JUNB constitute a macrophage-associated inflammatory signature connecting tissue-level UC dysregulation with macrophage state remodeling. These findings provide testable molecular and pharmacological hypotheses requiring further experimental and clinical validation.
Myelination, driven by differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells, is critical for metabolic and structural support and efficient axonal signal transmission in neurons. Loss of myelin is a hallmark of multiple sclerosis and other devastating demyelinating disorders. As demyelination persists, neurons become increasingly vulnerable, leading to neurodegeneration and chronic disability. Restoring myelin through endogenous repair mechanisms offers a promising therapeutic approach to mitigate progressive neuronal loss. One key regulator of myelination is the G protein-coupled receptor 17, GPR17, whose chronic upregulation in oligodendrocyte precursor cells is commonly seen with myelin injury. In line with single-nucleus transcriptomic data showing predominant expression of GPR17 in committed oligodendrocyte precursor cells, our postmortem immunohistochemical analyses of MS patient tissue revealed a significant upregulation of GPR17+/BCAS1+ oligodendrocyte precursor cells adjacent to and in demyelinated lesions. Importantly, remyelinated lesions lacked GPR17 immunoreactivity, consistent with a model in which sustained GPR17 expression is associated with demyelination and impaired oligodendrocyte precursor cell differentiation. To test the impact of pharmacological GPR17 inhibition on remyelination, we evaluated the effects of a novel, selective GPR17 antagonist in cuprizone-induced murine demyelination models. This toxin-induced approach has been widely used to study mechanisms of de- and remyelination, in the absence of the full inflammatory complexity of demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis. We show that oral treatment results in robust functional recovery consistent with remyelination, as evidenced by improved spatial memory and recovery of visual evoked potential latency delays. GPR17 antagonism also accelerated structural remyelination in the corpus callosum and optic nerve. Together, these findings support a role for pharmacological GPR17 antagonism in promoting remyelination and highlight this G protein-coupled receptor as a promising therapeutic target for demyelinating disorders.Copyright: © 2026 De Herdt et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Cerebral small vessel diseases (CSVDs) are a group of disorders affecting the small arteries, veins, and capillaries supplying the white matter and deep grey matter structures. They are the most common form of cerebrovascular disease, accounting for approximately half of vascular dementia cases and 20% of stroke incidence. Whilst genetic testing is a routine diagnostic tool for monogenic CSVDs, less than 20% of patients have a causal variant in known CSVD genes. We performed whole exome sequencing on 117 patients suspected of monogenic CSVD who previously tested negative for pathogenic variants in seven well-characterised CSVD genes (NOTCH3, HTRA1, COL4A1, COL4A2, TREX1, GLA, and FOXC1). Targeted analysis was conducted on known and associated CSVD genes, as well as candidate genes which cause conditions with overlapping symptomology to CSVD. Burden analysis focussing on rare, functional variants was used to identify novel associations when compared against a cohort of 1035 non-neurological controls. We identified 18 suspected disease-causing variants across nine CSVD-associated genes and a significant burden of both rare and rare, likely disease-causing heterozygous variants in ABCC6. Two genes from stroke and neurodegenerative disease gene panels also possessed a significant burden of rare, likely disease-causing variants, MYH11 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2) and NOTCH1 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2). We further identified novel associations for seven genes (COL7A1, HMCN1, LAMA1, MMP9, TENM4, TNC, TTN) with monogenic CSVD in this cohort. Our findings implicate several genes as potentially causal of monogenic CSVD, highlighting the need for more extensive genetic screening in suspected CSVD cases, and functional characterisation of implicated variants to determine their mechanistic role in CSVD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The instability of atherosclerotic plaques, particularly intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH), drives life-threatening cardiovascular events, a process in which vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-derived foam cells play a significant role. We aim to identify key biomarkers associated with VSMC-derived foam cells and IPH by analyzing data from human IPH datasets and VSMC-derived foam cell datasets (GSE163154, GSE68021, GSE28829, and GSE43292). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), differential expression analysis, and machine learning algorithms (LASSO and SVM-RFE) were employed to identify hub genes. The identified genes were validated in independent datasets and in experimental models, including oxidized low-density lipoprotein-stimulated VSMCs and atherosclerotic aortic tissues of high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mice. Transcription factor (TF) prediction and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to explore upstream regulatory mechanisms. We identified CD68 and CYBA as key hub genes significantly upregulated in both VSMC-derived foam cells and unstable atherosclerotic plaques, with high diagnostic accuracy (AUC > 0.9) by ROC analysis. Experimental validation confirmed their upregulated expression. FOXC1 was identified as a common upstream transcription factor regulating both CD68 and CYBA. FOXC1 protein levels were elevated in VSMC-derived foam cells, and dual-luciferase assays confirmed its direct activation of CD68 and CYBA promoters. FOXC1 overexpression promoted CD68 and CYBA expression and enhanced lipid accumulation in VSMCs, while FOXC1 knockdown exerted opposite effects. Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant correlations between these hub genes and immune cell populations in unstable plaques. This study identifies FOXC1 as a key TF regulating CD68 and CYBA expression, thereby promoting VSMC-derived foam cell formation and plaque instability.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
The treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors is not universally effective, and the efficacy is challenging to predict using a single biomarker. Breast cancer (BC) cells develop within a complex microenvironment, which includes tumor cells, immune cells, and extracellular matrix, and they may interact through paracrine signaling. Elucidating the mechanisms of immune microenvironment regulation and intercellular interactions in BC is fundamental for screening efficacy markers and developing new immunotherapeutic targets. Based on the immune phenotype cellular infiltration characteristics and transcriptomic changes, we constructed a two-way orthogonal partial least square (O2PLS) model to identify immune cell infiltration (ICI) genes, quantitatively characterizing the immune microenvironment within BC to predict patient prognosis, select sensitive populations for immunotherapy, and provide a theoretical basis for the combination of immunotherapy with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. We described the T cell differentiation trajectories and intercellular communication landscapes and revealed the synergistic effects of receptors and ligands (CXCL9-CXCR3, CCL5-ACKR1, and GZMA-F2R) on the immune microenvironment and prognosis. These findings may contribute to elucidating the factors that shape the immune microenvironment and identifying new therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sepsis triggers profound organism-wide disturbances, yet the cellular logic underlying its systemic impact remains poorly defined. By integrating single-cell transcriptomes from six septic tissues, we uncovered a conserved cross-tissue program characterized by inflammation-driven senescence, disrupted intercellular communication, and coordinated transcriptional reprogramming. Senescence signatures were broadly elevated across cell types and strongly coupled to altered communication networks, suggesting that septic stress induces both cell-intrinsic and network-level remodeling. We identified several key transcription factors, with activation of Atf4, Cebpb and Cebpd, alongside repression of Foxo1, Gata4, and Yy1, which might rewire inflammatory and stress-adaptive programs toward senescence-like states. Endothelial and neutrophil populations were inferred to act as the principal amplifiers of this response through predicted Cxcl1-Cxcr2 and Cxcl2-Ackr1 circuits, potentially establishing self-reinforcing inflammatory-senescent loops. Finally, the neutrophil-derived signature serves as a robust molecular adjunct to traditional clinical metrics, significantly improving risk stratification and enhancing the prognostic accuracy for sepsis patients. Together, our findings position sepsis as a potent driver of accelerated immunological aging and provide conserved regulatory mechanisms that may represent therapeutic targets for mitigating both acute injury and long-term sequelae.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) is a non-endothelial mode of tumor vascularization in which aggressive cancer cells form vessel-like networks that support microcirculation, metastasis, and resistance to anti-angiogenic therapies. VM is particularly prominent in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but its molecular regulators remain incompletely understood. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and its paralog, proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2), are closely related non-receptor tyrosine kinases implicated in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), invasion, and metastasis in TNBC. However, their roles in VM have not been defined. Here we perform transcriptomic analysis of FAK and Pyk2 clinical expression patterns using TNMplot V2, DepMap, and patient cohort datasets to systematically dissect the distinct contributions of FAK and Pyk2 to VM in TNBC. Our in vitro tube formation assay shows that in TNBC cells, knockdown of FAK, but not Pyk2, results in failure to form robust 3D vessel-like networks in Matrigel. Similarly, overexpression of Pyk2, but not FAK, in TNBC cells results in poor vessel-like network formation. Consistent with these findings, analysis of two independent patient cohorts (TCGA-BRCA and METABRIC) revealed selective upregulation of FAK in TNBC, while Pyk2 was inversely associated with vasculogenic-mimicry-associated gene expression, supporting the opposing roles of the two kinases in patient tumors. Taken together, these findings establish that FAK and Pyk2 govern VM through non-redundant, kinase-specific, and functionally opposed mechanisms: FAK acting as a positive regulator of VM, and Pyk2 as a context dependent suppressor of VM at elevated levels. These results nominate FAK as a candidate target for suppressing VM-driven tumor perfusion in TNBC and suggest that dual FAK/Pyk2 inhibition warrants caution hypotheses that remain to be tested pharmacologically.
This study investigates the role of CIT gene in uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) progression, focusing on its regulation by m6A methylation. Bioinformatics and experimental analyses (EdU, colony formation assay, Dot blot, MeRIP-PCR, RNA pull-down, qRT-PCR, Western Blotting, apoptosis assay) revealed that CIT was significantly overexpressed in UCEC. Mechanistically, we found that the m6A writer RBM15-mediated CIT mRNA methylation, which was then recognized by the reader IGF2BP1 to enhance CIT mRNA stability and expression. Consequently, this m6A-mediated upregulation of CIT inhibited the Hippo signaling pathway, ultimately suppressing apoptosis and promoting malignant proliferation in UCEC. These findings elucidated a novel RBM15/IGF2BP1-CIT-Hippo axis, providing new theoretical insights and potential therapeutic targets for UCEC.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Isoquercitrin (ISO), a neuroprotective flavonoid, alleviates ischemic stroke (IS) by inhibiting ferroptosis. In present study, we explored the mechanism of ISO attenuates neuronal ferroptosis in IS.HT22 cells and primary neurons underwent oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) to mimic in vitro IS. Dual‑luciferase reporter assays detected luciferase activity. H3K9 acetylation levels at the RBM15 promoter were assessed by ChIP. The m6A modification of SLC25A28 mRNA was analyzed by MeRIP. The binding of RBM15 and IGF2BP3 to SLC25A28 mRNA was examined via RIP. Lipid and intracellular ROS levels were measured by C11-BODIPY and DCFH-DA staining. The levels of ferroptosis-related indicators were determined with commercial kits. Cell viability was examined using the CCK-8 assay. In vivo, the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat model was used to explore the effect of ISO.ISO protected against OGD/R-induced ferroptosis and restored viability. ISO inhibited neuronal ferroptosis by reducing RBM15 expression. ISO suppressed RBM15 via SIRT1-mediated H3K9 deacetylation. Subsequently, RBM15 promoted m6A modification of SLC25A28 mRNA to enhance its stability. Reversal of ISO-mediated ferroptosis suppression by SLC25A28 overexpression was partly counteracted by RBM15 knockdown. In the MCAO model, ISO reduced infarct volume, lowered MDA levels, and restored GPX4 expression, which were partly reversed by RBM15 overexpression.ISO promoted SIRT1-mediated H3K9 deacetylation at the RBM15 promoter to suppress its transcription. RBM15 downregulation inhibited SLC25A28 stability by m6A-IGF2BP3-dependent, ultimately attenuating neuronal ferroptosis in IS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
Salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (SACC) is an immunologically cold malignancy with limited response to current immunotherapies. Integrated transcriptomic profiling of peripheral blood, primary tumors, lung metastases, and a two-donor single-cell dataset revealed compartment-specific expression signatures and, through computational inference, systemic immune dysregulation marked by hematopoietic suppression, T-cell exhaustion, compensatory myelopoiesis, and an immature B-cell expansion. To explore the transcriptional basis of this peripheral immune aberration, blood-derived RNA-seq was interrogated, identifying only 32 unique genes meeting |log2FC| > 1 and q < 0.05 among 34,999 transcripts; qPCR confirmed concordant upregulation of IL33 and CCL14, providing directional rather than confirmatory support, suggesting peripheral immune molecular aberrations that still require validation through broader differential gene expression validation. Complementing this transcriptomic signature, detection of MYB-NFIB fusion transcripts matching tumor tissue in one patient's blood suggested that tumor-derived signals may access the circulation, although cohort validation remains necessary. Extending these peripheral observations to tissue compartments, we applied expression stratification, correlation networks, ligand-receptor mapping, and a virtual gain-loss model to computationally predict regulatory associations involving IL17RB/OLIG1/NOTCH1 in primary tumors and a CD24/IL17RB/MYB/MYBL2/CXCL13/CXCR5 module in lung metastases. At the single-cell level, cluster 10 emerged as a cell-cycle-high tumor population with transcriptional overlap with proliferating immune progenitors, providing a potential cellular basis for tumor cell entry into the circulation. Collectively, these computational inferences generate testable hypotheses for multicompartment immune dysregulation in SACC, positioning IL17RB as a candidate molecule that warrants prospective validation in SACC-specific preclinical models.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is associated with poor prognosis and limited responses to immunotherapy, partly due to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Tumor-associated macrophages, especially M2-like macrophages, play important roles in HCC progression. Interleukin-4-induced gene 1 (IL4I1), a tryptophan-metabolizing enzyme, has been implicated in tumor immune regulation. However, the role and prognostic significance of IL4I1-expressing M2-like macrophages in HCC remain unclear. This study investigated the expression pattern, spatial distribution, functional association, and prognostic relevance of IL4I1-expressing M2-like macrophages in HCC and their association with patient outcomes.We analyzed public databases (TIMER, UALCAN, TISCH2) for gene expression and prognostic significance. An in vitro co-culture system was established using a Huh7 HCC cell line and THP-1-derived M2-like macrophages with and without IL4I1 knockout via CRISPR/Cas9. We assessed cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cytokine profiles. Multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) was performed on tissue microarrays from 92 HCC patients to analyze the spatial distribution of IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages.IL4I1 was highly expressed in HCC, predominantly within macrophages, and correlated with poor prognosis. In a THP-1-derived macrophage/Huh7 co-culture model, IL4I1 expression in M2-like macrophages was associated with increased Huh7 cell proliferation and migration and reduced apoptosis. This was associated with increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., CCL15, TNF-α) and decreased levels of IL-10 and TGF-β1. mIF analysis further showed that a high density of IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages in the epithelial/parenchymal tumor region was significantly associated with poorer overall survival (p = 0.033).IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages are associated with a pro-tumorigenic microenvironment and adverse patient outcomes in HCC. Our findings support IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages as a prognostically relevant macrophage subset, while further mechanistic validation, particularly of IL4I1-derived metabolites and AHR pathway activation, is required before IL4I1 can be considered a validated therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Lu, Li, Bao, Lu and Xiong.
Dual-specificity protein kinase CLK4 plays a pivotal role in regulating alternative mRNA splicing, DNA repair, and various cellular processes through precise phosphorylation. In this study, we analyzed 3825 global human cellular phosphoproteome studies, identifying 430 qualitative profiles and 55 quantitative differential datasets featuring high-confidence Class-1 phosphosites (localization probability ≥ 75%; A-score ≥ 13). Notably, S136 and S138 emerged as predominant phosphorylation sites outside the kinase domain. These sites showed frequent detection and differential expression in liver, lung, and head and neck cancers, as documented in PhosphositePlus. We identified a high-confidence set of co-regulated phosphoproteins, including SQSTM1, SRRT, RPS6, TP53BP1, TNKS1BP1, THUMPD1, OTUD4, and TCEA1. These proteins link CLK4 to critical pathways, including RNA splicing, autophagy, DNA damage response, and cancer progression. Binary interactors, including SRRM2, Interacts with SPT6 1 (IWS1), RBBP6, ZC3H18, BUD13, and DYRK1A, further connect CLK4 to RNA processing and splicing. Predicted downstream substrates, such as CCNL2, CDK11B, PRDX6, YTHDC1, RBM15, SRRM1, SFSWAP, HNRNPU, and DOCK7, highlight CLK4's broad regulatory scope. Upstream kinases were also predicted for S136 and S138. Site-resolved analyses revealed tumor-specific dysregulation of CLK4 phosphorylation at key residues. Co-occurring phosphosite alterations and nearby somatic mutations suggest disrupted CLK4 regulation in cancer. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive phosphoproteomic resource that maps CLK4's co-regulatory networks, paving the way for mechanistic investigations and targeted cancer therapies.
T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR) remains a major barrier to long-term kidney allograft survival, driven by recipient immune responses against donor antigens. A comprehensive understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying TCMR is essential for developing novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.We integrated two public single-cell RNA sequencing datasets (GSE145927 and E-MTAB-12051) to construct a comprehensive single-cell atlas of kidney allograft biopsies. Unsupervised clustering, functional scoring, trajectory inference, gene regulatory network analysis, and cell-cell communication analysis were performed. Key findings were validated in a murine TCMR model.In the single TCMR sample analyzed, we observed several cell populations that were enriched and may be associated with TCMR. An NQO1+NDUFS4+ proximal tubular subset exhibited marked activation of oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid metabolism, consistent with metabolic remodeling under inflammatory stress. An S100A8+ macrophage subset displayed a pro-inflammatory phenotype and actively recruited CD8+ T and NKT cells via chemokine signaling. A CCL4L2+ NKT subset exacerbated rejection by enhancing immune recruitment and cytotoxic functions. These innate immune cells formed extensive communication networks with adaptive immune cells through chemokine (CXCL10-CXCR3) and inflammatory (TNF-TNFRSF1A/B) axes, suggesting a potential molecular basis for innate-adaptive immune crosstalk. Additionally, a DUSP1+ effector CD8+ T subset was selectively enriched in TCMR and showed robust T cell receptor activation, and may be associated with graft injury potentially through the B2M/MHC class I axis. In a murine model, we observed upregulation and functional dependence of Dusp1+ CD8+ T cells, consistent with the findings from the single human TCMR case.This hypothesis-generating study, based on a single TCMR case, provides a single-cell atlas of the TCMR immune microenvironment and suggests several subsets and pathways that may be involved. Our findings suggest that innate immune cells may initiate and amplify adaptive responses through chemokine and inflammatory networks, providing new insights into the potential role of innate immunity in allograft injury. The DUSP1+ effector CD8+ T cell-B2M/MHC class I axis was observed in this single case and may represent a candidate for further investigation.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Chen, Liang, Wu, Zhang, Guo, Dong, Chen, Williams, Johnson, He, Du and Wang.
Diabesity, defined as obesity accompanied by Type 2 diabetes mellitus, is characterized by metabolic dysfunction and mitochondrial impairment. Here, we investigate the role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-mediated RNA regulation in regulating hepatic mitochondrial function and fatty acid β-oxidation during diabesity progression. Diabesity was modeled in male C57BLKS/J db/db mice, with db/m lean mice as controls; in vitro models were established using primary hepatocytes isolated from male C57BL/6J mice exposed to high glucose and palmitate. Our results showed that MCM3 was significantly downregulated in diabesity models. MCM3 overexpression improved hepatic mitochondrial function and fatty acid β-oxidation. Mechanistically, MCM3 increased NRF2 in hepatocytes by competitive combination with KEAP1. In addition, RBM15 overexpression accelerated m6A-YTHDF2-mediated MCM3 mRNA decay. As expected, MCM3 knockdown negated the metabolic benefits of RBM15 knockdown. In conclusion, m6A-dependent MCM3 downregulation by RBM15/YTHDF2 impaired hepatic mitochondrial function and fatty acid β-oxidation in diabesity by reducing NRF2.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liver fibrosis and cirrhosis are major global health burdens with limited treatments. Activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) drive fibrosis through increased proliferation, migration, collagen deposition and glycolysis. The aim of this study is to elucidate the signaling events that lead to enhanced glycolysis, subsequent HSC activation, and liver fibrosis.Utilizing a phospho-kinase array, we identified with no lysine kinase 1 (WNK1) as a new kinase in primary human HSCs activated by the pro-fibrotic platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF). PDGF-mediated glycolysis in HSCs was attenuated by WNK1 selective inhibitor, WNK-IN-11, as measured by live-cell metabolic assay, Glifon-300 fluorescence, Glucose-Glo assay and glucose transporter 1 immunofluorescence. To understand how WNK1 promotes glycolysis, we employed chemical genetics where an engineered WNK1T301G mutant with a modified ATP pocket accommodated a specific ATP-γ-S analogue to thio-phosphorylate its substrates. Thio-phosphorylated proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry which identified the glycolytic protein, triosephosphate isomerase 1 (TPI1), as a novel WNK1 direct substrate. TPI1 interacted with WNK1 in condensates, membrane-less phase separation structures. Condensate disruption and knockdown of TPI1 or WNK1 reduced HSC proliferation and migration in vitro. In vivo, pharmacological or genetic WNK1 inhibition significantly attenuated liver fibrosis in carbon tetrachloride and high-fat, choline-deficient, L-amino-acid diet mouse models. Finally, WNK1 inhibition reduced fibrogenesis ex vivo in human precision-cut liver slices.These findings identify WNK1 as a previously unrecognized kinase that promotes HSC activation and liver fibrosis via TPI1-mediated glycolysis, highlighting the WNK1-TPI1 axis as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) directs immune cell homing to secondary lymphoid organs and has been implicated in cancer metastasis through its ligands CCL19 and CCL21. Human CCR7 pre-mRNA undergoes alternative splicing to generate five transcripts that encode three protein isoforms with distinct N-termini, termed CCR7A, CCR7B, and CCR7C, but their comparative properties and cross-regulation are not well defined. Here, we cloned these three isoforms and systematically characterized their expression, localization, signaling, and mutual interactions in mammalian cells under both strong (CMV) and weaker (ubiquitin C, UbiC) promoter control to reduce overexpression-related artifacts. Variant-specific RT-PCR revealed that transcripts encoding CCR7A (V1) and CCR7B (V2) predominate in diverse human cell lines, whereas CCR7C-encoding variants (V3-V5) are weakly expressed. EGFP imaging and HiBiT-based assays showed efficient plasma-membrane targeting of CCR7A, partial membrane localization and prominent perinuclear accumulation of CCR7C, and largely cytosolic retention of CCR7B. Under UbiC-driven expression, CCR7A mediated robust CCL19- and CCL21-induced Gi/o and Gq-like activation, intracellular Ca² ⁺ mobilization, ERK phosphorylation, GRK3-dependent Gβ1 recruitment, and β-arrestin1 binding, whereas CCR7C displayed weaker and mainly CCL19-biased signaling. CCR7B did not respond to either chemokine in any signaling readout and thus behaved as a non-signaling isoform. NanoBiT-based assays and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that all three isoforms form homo- and heterodimers, with particularly strong association between CCR7A and CCR7B. Co-expression of CCR7B reduced CCR7A surface expression and markedly attenuated chemokine-induced Ca² ⁺ responses, mini-Gi interaction, and β-arrestin1 recruitment, while confocal microscopy revealed redistribution of CCR7A-EGFP from the plasma membrane to intracellular compartments. Moreover, MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, which express CCR7A and CCR7B transcripts, did not migrate toward CCL19 or CCL21 despite preserved motility toward low-serum medium. These findings identify CCR7A as the dominant functional isoform, CCR7C as a weak CCL19-biased receptor with inefficient membrane targeting, and CCR7B as a non-signaling dominant-negative isoform that dampens CCR7A-mediated responses, suggesting that CCR7 splicing fine-tunes chemokine responsiveness in immune and cancer cells.Copyright: © 2026 Cho et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Postmenopausal atrophic vaginitis (PAV) is a prevalent and undertreated condition driven primarily by estrogen deficiency. Whether circulating inflammatory proteins causally contribute to PAV pathogenesis remains unknown.Genetic instruments for 91 inflammatory proteins were derived from large-scale proteogenomic GWAS of European ancestry individuals. PAV outcome data were obtained from the FinnGen Consortium Release 12. Primary causal estimates were obtained using the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, complemented by MR-Egger, weighted median, and weighted mode analyses. Candidate proteins were defined by IVW p < 0.05 and directional consistency across all four methods. Sensitivity analyses included the MR-Egger intercept test, Cochran's Q test, leave-one-out analysis, funnel plot assessment, and reverse MR. Transcriptomic validation was performed using the publicly available vaginal tissue dataset GSE26761.Six inflammatory proteins met the candidate criteria: CCL19 (OR: 1.063, 95% CI: 1.003-1.126) and IL12B (OR: 1.050, 95% CI: 1.002-1.100) were associated with increased PAV risk, while CXCL5 (OR: 0.935, 95% CI: 0.874-0.999), TNFRSF9 (OR: 0.930, 95% CI: 0.869-0.996), IL10RA (OR: 0.906, 95% CI: 0.831-0.988), and TGFA (OR: 0.880, 95% CI: 0.790-0.981) were inversely associated with PAV risk. Sensitivity analyses revealed no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity. Transcriptomic analysis confirmed significantly lower TGFA expression in atrophic compared to control vaginal tissue (P = 0.039), consistent with its MR-derived protective effect.This study provides genetic evidence that circulating inflammatory proteins causally influence PAV risk through distinct immune pathways. TGFA emerges as the most robustly supported candidate, with convergent MR and transcriptomic evidence suggesting a role in vaginal epithelial maintenance. These findings highlight inflammation as a potential contributor to PAV pathogenesis and nominate candidate targets for future mechanistic and therapeutic investigation. Given that multiple inflammatory proteins were tested, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and warrant further validation in independent cohorts.© 2026 Hu et al.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) represents a prevalent chronic inflammatory disease affecting the nasal mucosa, yet effective diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets remain elusive. This investigation sought to examine plasma miR-337-5p expression and its diagnostic utility in AR patients, additionally dissecting its role and molecular mechanism during IL-13-induced nasal epithelial inflammatory injury.RT-qPCR quantified plasma miR-337-5p in 100 AR patients versus 100 controls, with ROC curve analysis establishing diagnostic value. For in vitro experiments, IL-13 exposure generated a Th2-type inflammation model in HNEpC cells. Post-transfection with miR-337-5p mimic or inhibitor, assessments encompassed cell viability, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8), plus oxidative stress markers (SOD, MDA). Bioinformatics predicted target genes, subsequently validated through dual-luciferase reporter assay. Rescue experiments further clarified WNK1 involvement.AR patients exhibited significantly higher plasma miR-337-5p concentrations, which correlated positively with TNSS scores and eosinophil counts. The resulting ROC curve demonstrated an AUC of 0.840, reflecting good diagnostic value. Within IL-13-stimulated HNEpC cells, miR-337-5p overexpression worsened cell injury, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release, and oxidative stress, while miR-337-5p inhibition conferred protection. Bioinformatics, coupled with dual-luciferase reporter assay, identified WNK1 as a direct miR-337-5p target. WNK1 expression was reduced in AR patients and showed a negative correlation with miR-337-5p levels. WNK1 knockdown partially abrogated the protective impact of miR-337-5p inhibition.Increased plasma miR-337-5p holds potential as a diagnostic biomarker for AR. Through WNK1 targeting, miR-337-5p aggravates IL-13-induced nasal epithelial inflammatory injury, implicating its contribution to AR pathogenesis.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528257 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.1018.].Copyright © 2026 Zijian Chen et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553440 is a review article
Advances in single-cell technologies have provided detailed insight into cellular heterogeneity within tumor microenvironments. However, the regulatory mechanisms driving macrophage-mediated immune suppression in thyroid cancer remain incompletely understood.We applied integrated single-cell multi-omics approaches to tumor samples from patients and murine thyroid cancer models, including single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing, mass cytometry, spatial/histological validation, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays.We identified a prominent enrichment of TREM2+ tumor-associated macrophages within the thyroid cancer immune microenvironment. These macrophages displayed an immunosuppressive transcriptional and metabolic profile and promoted immune evasion through activation of the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine signaling axis, leading to impaired CD8+ T-cell function. Pharmacological inhibition of AHR and IDO1 reversed immune suppression and reduced tumor burden in experimental models.These findings reveal a TREM2+ macrophage-driven immunometabolic mechanism in thyroid cancer and suggest that targeting the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine pathway may provide a potential strategy for improving antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Le, Huang, Jiang, Lv and Chen.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552179
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary pathogenic mechanism underlying dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate mitochondrion-targeted therapeutic strategies, we utilized the MitoPark mouse model, in which mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is selectively ablated in midbrain dopamine neurons, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration. We designed multifunctional lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles (LCNPs) of the cubosome and hexosome types for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery. These nanocarriers were engineered with lipids essential for membrane integrity (plasmalogens and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)) and a nonlamellar structural lipid (monoolein). They coencapsulated the neuroprotective antioxidants ginkgolide B and quercetin. To facilitate neuronal targeting and uptake, the surface of the LCNP was modified by conjugation with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and a rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG)-derived peptide-oleic acid (RVG-OL) conjugate. In vitro studies using differentiated SH-SY5Y cells subjected to oxidative stress demonstrated that the targeted LNPs enhanced cellular uptake and activated key neuroprotective signaling cascades, including AKT, ERK, and STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, intranasal administration of the optimized LNPs in MitoPark mice was associated with a trend toward the preservation of dopaminergic neuronal markers (such as tyrosine hydroxylase) and the regulation of mitochondrial-related proteins such as ATP5A1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive molecular reprogramming. The peptide-functionalized LNPs upregulated genes enriched in mitochondrial biogenesis (Ppargc1a and Pink1) and survival (Bcl2) but downregulated the expression of neuroinflammatory mediators (Il6, Nos2, Myd88, and Trem2) and apoptotic effectors. These findings establish peptide-targeted, therapeutic lipid (plasmalogen/PUFA)-based nanoassemblies as a potent nonviral platform for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery that may modulate mitochondrial- and neurodegeneration-related signaling pathways in a genetic model of PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic stress is increasingly recognized as a driver of cancer metabolism, highlighting the need to elucidate the mechanism linking chronic stress to metabolic reprogramming. Here, we performed untargeted metabolomics on serum samples from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients and integrated the results with clinical and stress-related assessments, revealing pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) enrichment accompanied by elevated epinephrine levels in patients with stress-associated features. β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activated by chronic stress stabilized MYCBP by competitively displacing VHL, thereby enhancing MYC transcriptional activity and upregulating key PPP enzymes, including G6PD and TKT. Unexpectedly, stress-associated stimulation not only activated ADRB2 signaling but also increased ADRB2 protein abundance. Mechanistically, stress exposure enhanced RNMT-dependent N7-methylguanosine (m7G) cap modification of ADRB2 mRNA, thereby increasing its translational efficiency. Together, these findings define an RNMT-ADRB2-MYCBP-PPP axis that integrates epitranscriptomic regulation with adrenergic signaling to promote metabolic reprogramming and malignant progression in ESCC. The stress-associated RNA modification-metabolism circuitry comprises potential therapeutic targets to overcome stress-associated ESCC progression.
Lnk is an adaptor protein that attenuates cytokine receptor signaling in hematopoietic and immune cells, but its role in the behavior of CD8+ T cells within solid tumors is not well defined. Using a murine melanoma model, we compared tumor growth and immune infiltration in Lnk-deficient mice and in wild-type controls and evaluated CD8+ T cell trafficking toward chemokine signals produced by melanoma cells. Lnk-deficient mice developed smaller tumors containing greater numbers of intratumoral CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. Tumor chemokine profiles, including high levels of interleukin-8 family signals such as CXCL2, were comparable between groups, yet CD8+ T cells lacking Lnk showed enhanced migration toward melanoma-derived cues ex vivo and accumulated more effectively within tumors in vivo. Pharmacologic inhibition of CXCR1/2 abolished this migratory advantage. Upon stimulation with interleukin-8 family chemokines, Lnk-deficient CD8+ T cells exhibited increased activation of STAT3 and ERK signaling pathways. Moreover, antisense-mediated downregulation of Lnk in wild-type T cells resulted in enhanced accumulation within melanoma tumors following adoptive transfer into wild-type hosts. These findings identify Lnk as a negative regulator of CXCR1/2-dependent trafficking of CD8+ T cells in melanoma and suggest that modulating this intracellular checkpoint may improve T cell trafficking into solid tumors and enhance the effectiveness of adoptive cellular immunotherapies.© 2026 The Authors.
Background: Hexoprenaline, a widely used tocolytic, is a β2 adrenergic receptor agonist that when administered relaxes the smooth muscles in the uterus and cervix. The Gly16Arg polymorphism in the ADRB2 gene is known to be associated with the risk of threatened preterm labor (TPL). Moreover, the Gly16Arg and Gln27Glu polymorphisms that form haplotypes can modulate receptor function, changing the pharmacological response to β2 agonists. Aims: This study aimed to investigate the effects of ADRB2 gene polymorphisms on TPL and the response to tocolytic treatment with hexoprenaline in pregnant Russian women. Materials and Methods: This prospective case-control study on tocolytic therapy included 60 pregnant women with TPL who received tocolytic treatment with hexoprenaline and a control group consisting of 60 pregnant women not at risk of TPL. A polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis was conducted to determine the frequencies of Gly16Arg and Gln27Glu polymorphisms in the ADRB2 gene in both groups. These data were compared with the TPL status and the tocolytic effect of hexoprenaline. Results: It is shown that carrying the ADRB2 16Arg allele is associated with decreased incidence of preterm birth (PTB), while the 16Gly/Gly genotype is related to an increased risk of PTB (OR = 2.444; CI95% = 1.167-5.121). The allele frequencies of the Gly16Arg and Gln27Glu polymorphisms in the ADRB2 gene in healthy pregnant Russian women are consistent with those in the European population. Due to small subgroup sizes, tocolytic outcomes are presented descriptively without a powered statistical analysis. Conclusions: These findings suggest a preliminary association between the ADRB2 16Gly allele and the 16Gly/Gly genotype with an increased risk of PTB in pregnant Russian women. While carriers of the 16Arg allele may have a decreased risk, these pharmacogenetic insights require independent validation in larger cohorts before clinical recommendations can be formulated.
Acute leukemias of ambiguous lineage, not otherwise specified (ALAL, NOS), represent a rare but clinically significant subset of leukemias characterized by immunophenotypic heterogeneity and an absence of lineage-defining markers.We report a diagnostically challenging case of ALAL, NOS, in a 59-year-old man who presented with constitutional symptoms and was found to have marked leukocytosis, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and 96% circulating blasts.Flow cytometry revealed expression of progenitor markers (CD34, HLA-DR, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase) with weak and variable expression of B-cell (CD19, CD22), T-cell (CD5, CD7), and myeloid (CD13, CD33) markers. Immunohistochemistry confirmed CD79a expression but lacked the lineage-defining markers myeloperoxidase, CD3, strong CD19, and PAX5.Cytogenetic and molecular testing revealed a constitutional Robertsonian 13;14 translocation and SH2B3 mutations without diagnostic alterations characteristic of acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic lymphoma. The case met diagnostic criteria for ALAL, NOS, per the 2022 International Consensus Classification and World Health Organization 5th edition classifications. Treatment was initiated with hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone chemotherapy, and the patient ultimately achieved minimal residual disease negativity. The patient subsequently underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation approximately 7 months after diagnosis.This case underscores the diagnostic challenges and therapeutic considerations in managing ALAL, NOS.© The Author(s) (2026). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) is a predominant aeroallergen for allergic rhinitis (AR) in northern China. However, the molecular changes linking local nasal mucosal inflammation with systemic alterations remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to explore the cross-level regulatory network in a mouse model of mugwort-induced AR by combining nasal mucosal transcriptomics and serum metabolomics.BALB/c mice were sensitized with mugwort extract and then challenged intranasally to establish an AR model. Nasal mucosal tissues were collected for RNA sequencing, and serum samples from the same cohort were subjected to non-targeted metabolomic analysis. Transcription factor (TF)-associated analysis, pathway enrichment analysis, and integrative multi-omics analysis were used to identify candidate regulatory factors and pathways involved in mugwort-induced allergic inflammation. Targeted validation of arginine-related changes was performed by measuring serum Arg1 and L-arginine levels, followed by ARG2 knockdown analysis in BEAS-2B epithelial cells after mugwort extract stimulation.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a clear Th2-type immune response in the model group, with significant upregulation of Il13, Arg1, Ccl24 and Il6. In addition, many downregulated genes were enriched in pathways related to ciliary function and epithelial differentiation, accompanied by suppression of structural genes such as Krt25 and Krt71. Gene set enrichment and TF-associated analyses further highlighted cytokine-mediated signaling and potential upstream regulators, including Fos, Batf, and Mafb. Serum metabolomics showed increased 1-methylhistamine and enrichment of arachidonic acid metabolism in mugwort-treated mice. Integrated analysis of the two omics datasets further pointed to arginine-related metabolism as a shared altered pathway. Consistently, targeted assays showed increased serum Arg1 levels and decreased serum L-arginine concentrations in the mugwort group. In BEAS-2B cells, ARG2 knockdown attenuated the induction of IL6 and CCL26 after mugwort extract stimulation.Together, our findings indicate that mugwort-induced AR is accompanied by coordinated local and systemic changes, including immune activation, epithelial/ciliary dysfunction, and serum metabolic remodeling. The arginine-related alterations supported by both omics analysis and targeted validation provide a potential link between nasal mucosal inflammation and systemic metabolic changes in mugwort allergy.© 2026 Chi, Chen, Jin, Sun and Xu.
Bone-tendon interface (BTI) injuries pose a major clinical challenge because surgical repair often fails to restore the native enthesis and its structural and mechanical integrity. Although local repair mechanisms have been extensively studied, whether central neuroimmune circuits contribute to BTI healing remains unclear. Here, using a murine rotator cuff injury model, we provide evidence that BTI injury engages a sensory-central-sympathetic regulatory axis that contributes to impaired repair. BTI injury activated sensory afferent signaling and was associated with microglia-mediated neuroinflammation in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), reduced PVN neuronal activity, and increased central adenosine-related signaling. Chemogenetic activation of PVN microglia suppressed PVN neuronal activity, enhanced sympathetic-associated changes, and impaired BTI healing, whereas microglial inhibition produced the opposite effects. Metabolomic, microdialysis, and pharmacological analyses identified extracellular adenosine as a microglia-associated signaling mediator, likely involving A1R-expressing PVN neurons. Downstream, increased sympathetic signaling at the healing interface was associated with elevated β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activity and reduced osteogenic and chondrogenic factor expression. Local ADRB2 blockade improved molecular, structural, and histological indices of BTI repair, supporting ADRB2 as a peripheral effector node of this neuroimmune-sympathetic pathway. Together, these findings suggest that central microglia-adenosine-related signaling contributes to BTI repair impairment through sympathetic ADRB2 activation. Targeting central neuroimmune signaling or local ADRB2 activity may provide potential strategies for improving BTI healing.© 2026. The Author(s).
Severe asthma is a heterogeneous disease. The mechanisms driving airway pathology when type 2 (T2) cytokine activity is suppressed remain poorly understood. This study aimed to provide insight by identifying the airway molecular pathways of T2 biomarker-high and -low severe asthma. We analysed clinical and transcriptomic data from bronchial biopsies and brushes in the UK Refractory Asthma Stratification Programme multi-centre severe asthma cohort (18 corticosteroid-resistant T2 biomarker-high [T2-high], 23 T2 biomarker-intermediate [T2-intermediate], 11 T2 biomarker-low [T2-low]) plus 20 healthy controls pre- and post-treatment with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). Many genes dysregulated in asthma vs. health were concordantly dysregulated in healthy subjects receiving ICS. Severe asthma as a whole, independent of confounding by ICS, was characterised by upregulation of mucins, CEACAM5, typical T2-genes (POSTN, CLCA1, CCL26), epithelial mast cell genes, and CPA4. T2-high severe asthma demonstrated upregulated T2-dependent genes, epithelial barrier and keratin genes, adaptive immune responses, and impaired ciliary function. T2-low asthma showed upregulated Th1- and IL-17-associated genes (IDO1, CXCL10, GBP1, LAG3), interferon-γ signalling, neuroimmune pathways, airway smooth muscle-related genes, and neutrophil enrichment. T2-intermediate asthma exhibited a mixed molecular profile sharing features of T2-high and T2-low endotypes, with selective expression of the pathogen defence and antiviral response genes. The results were validated using bronchoscopy data from the U-BIOPRED Consortium. This study defines airway molecular endotypes of severe asthma associated with T2 biomarker high and low phenotypes, independent of corticosteroid effects. These findings offer insights for severe asthma management and the development of targeted biologic therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Autoimmune diseases (ADs) are associated with increased myocardial infarction (MI) risk, suggesting shared genetic susceptibility. We systematically investigated the shared genetic architecture, pleiotropic loci, and candidate therapeutic targets linking ADs and MI.We analyzed genome-wide association study summary statistics for 10 ADs and MI, primarily from European-ancestry populations. Linkage disequilibrium score regression, high-definition likelihood, stratified linkage disequilibrium score regression, pleiotropy analysis, Bayesian colocalization, and immune-trait colocalization were performed. Candidate genes were prioritized using summary-data-based Mendelian randomization and followed up using quantitative polymerase chain reaction in hypoxia-treated HL-1 cardiomyocytes and by descriptive expression profiling in single-cell RNA sequencing datasets from human atherosclerotic plaques and cardiac resident immune cells.MI showed significant positive genetic correlations with Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) after false discovery rate correction. We identified 49 pleiotropic loci, including 7 with colocalization evidence compatible with a shared causal variant. Integrative analyses prioritized 12 candidate genes, with SH2B3, TMEM116, and ACAD10 highlighted across multiple disease pairs. Immune-trait colocalization highlighted activated monocyte- and T-cell-related features in RA-MI and PBC-MI. In HL-1 cardiomyocytes, hypoxia increased Acad10, Sh2b3, and Tmem116 expression over time. In single-cell datasets, SH2B3 showed prominent expression in plaque macrophages, endothelial cells, and cardiac resident macrophages.Specific ADs and MI share an immunogenetic architecture involving immune and vascular pathways. These findings prioritize pleiotropic loci, candidate genes, and immune-cell contexts that warrant further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Among different types of resistant starch (RS), high-amylose maize starch serves as a representative B-type starch (B-type) sample and exhibits strong digestive resistance. However, the relationships among its structure-derived digestive resistance, microbial metabolism, intestinal epithelial stem cell activity, and barrier-related phenotypes remain unclear. In this study, common maize starch and high-amylose maize starch were used as representative A-type starch (A-type) and B-type samples, respectively. Multiscale structural characterization, in vitro digestion, fecal fermentation, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, untargeted metabolomics, and a mouse colonic organoid model were integrated. Compared with A-type, B-type showed smaller and more heterogeneous granules, a distinct crystalline structure, altered short-range order, and higher thermal transition temperatures. The hydrolysis index decreased from 98.03% in A-type to 82.14% in B-type, whereas RS content increased from 15.71% to 24.57%, together with slower hydrolysis. During in vitro fermentation, B-type reshaped the bacterial community structure and increased the relative abundances of Bifidobacterium adolescentis and Bacteroides ovatus compared with A-type. These shifts were accompanied by differences in PICRUSt2-predicted microbial functional potential and fermentation metabolite profiles, mainly involving amino acid, central carbon, and coenzyme-related metabolism. B-type fermentation supernatant produced the strongest organoid budding response, with significantly more buds than the control and A-type groups. Lgr5 and ChgA signals were also higher than in the A-type group, consistent with stronger epithelial stem-cell activity and differentiation-related phenotypes. Integrated correlation analysis and structural equation modeling showed positive associations among starch resistance, microbiota remodeling, predicted microbial functional potential, metabolite shifts, and epithelial growth- and barrier-related phenotypes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546819 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538417 is a review article
Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) is increasingly associated with long-term cardiovascular complications, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms, remain poorly understood. Host genetic susceptibility is likely to modulate post-viral cardiac vulnerability, but its interaction with persistent molecular remodelling after SARS-CoV-2 infection has not been systematically investigated. We employed an integrative multi-omics framework combining a pilot genome-wide association study (GWAS) of Indian PASC patients with post-acute cardiac transcriptomic profiling from a SARS-CoV-2-infected Golden Syrian hamster (GSH) model. GWAS signals were mapped to differentially expressed genes, followed by integrative stratification based on genetic risk and transcriptional perturbation. Consequences of genetic variations were quantified using structural bioinformatics approaches involving Molecular Dynamics. GWAS identified multiple loci associated with PASC, including genes implicated in arrhythmia, myocardial remodelling, vascular signaling, and cardiometabolic regulation. Integration with post-acute cardiac transcriptomics of GSH revealed 15 genes with convergent genetic and transcriptional evidence. Although no global monotonic correlation was observed between genetic risk and expression magnitude, genes segregated into distinct mechanistic classes, including genetically primed and virally activated drivers, inherited susceptibility genes with minimal post-viral expression change, and virus-driven transcriptional responses. Structural and molecular dynamics analyses of EYA2, TTN, VAV2, and KCNQ1 demonstrated variant-specific destabilization affecting myocardial stress adaptation, sarcomeric mechanics, vascular signalling, and cardiac electrical stability. These findings support a model where inherited genetic susceptibility interacts with persistent post-infectious cardiac remodelling to drive chronic cardiovascular dysfunction observed in PASC patients. Integrative host genomics provides a mechanistic framework for risk stratification and precision surveillance of post-COVID cardiovascular disease (CVD).Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objective: To understand the potential parent-of-origin effect (POE) of imprinted gene KCNQ1 on the risk for hypertension by using a family-based design. Methods: Probands and their relatives in 9 rural areas in Fangshan District, Beijing, were included in this study. Mixed-effects model was used to evaluate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the KCNQ1 gene and hypertension. The POE effects were evaluated by adopting log-linear model, and the interactions between POE and environmental factors, including smoking, alcohol consumption, were analyzed by using Wald χ2 test. The POE was assessed by the ratio of maternal relative risk to paternal relative risk (RRm/RRf). Results: A total of 195 SNPs in the KCNQ1 gene were included in the analysis after quality control. The association analysis in 1 261 study participants identified 13 loci in the KCNQ1 gene associated with hypertension (all P<0.05). POE analysis, involving 167 study participants from 54 core families, identified 6 loci that showed possible POE with hypertension (all P<0.05). The most significant locus was rs231879, with an RRm/RRf of 3.46 (95%CI: 1.36-8.57, P=0.009), indicating that the relative risk of inheriting the risk allele from mother was 3.46 times higher than that from father. Analysis on the interactions between POE and environmental exposure revealed that sleep duration might potentially modify the POE of rs170786 (interaction for P=0.023). Conclusion: The imprinted gene KCNQ1 might be associated with the risk for hypertension through POE.
Backgrounds: Cyclin-dependent kinase 7 (CDK7) plays key roles in transcription and cell cycle regulation, and its inhibition has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The primary research objective of this study is to identify and validate CDK7-associated prognostic genes in HCC using bioinformatics approaches, construct a reliable prognostic risk model, and explore the functional role of CDK7 in HCC progression through in vitro and in vivo experiments, with a specific focus on its association with RelA/p65 phosphorylation, so as to provide evidence supporting CDK7 as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC. Methods: Two independent HCC cohorts from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-HCC and the Gene Expression Omnibus (dataset GSE14520) were analyzed. Patients were stratified by CDK7 expression. Differentially expressed genes were identified in both CDK7-based and tumor-versus-normal comparisons, and the intersection of these genes was analyzed. Univariate Cox regression and machine learning were used to screen prognostic genes and construct a risk model. The model's predictive utility was assessed using Kaplan-Meier and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses. Mutation landscapes were compared between risk groups. The functional association of CDK7 was validated through in vitro and in vivo experiments. Results: Eight prognostic genes (CHGA, SH2D5, ACTBP12, SOX2, AGR2, ISM2, KRT12, and BRDT) were screened from 98 intersecting genes via univariate Cox regression and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression analyses to construct a risk model. In the TCGA-HCC (374 HCC samples and 50 control samples) and GSE14520 cohorts (222 HCC samples and 212 control samples), patients in the high-risk group had significantly worse overall survival than those in the low-risk group (Hazard Ratio [HR] = 0.003-0.036, 95% Confidence Interval [CI] = 1.01-4.28, p < 0.05). The predictive accuracy of the model was moderate, with the areas under the ROC curves (AUCs) for 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival exceeding 0.6 (specifically, 0.69 for 3-year survival). In vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that CDK7 expression is associated with HCC proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor growth, and this association might be related to RelA/p65 phosphorylation. Conclusions: This study identified a novel eight-gene prognostic signature linked to CDK7 in HCC and provided experimental evidence that CDK7 promotes tumor aggressiveness. These findings suggest the potential of CDK7 as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC, though further validation of its clinical utility is needed.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a relapsing inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract with increasing global incidence. Current therapies are often limited by side effects, loss of efficacy, and high cost, underscoring the need for safer and more effective alternatives, particularly multi-target agents derived from natural products.This study aimed to elucidate the protective mechanisms of Yiyi Fuzi Baijiang formula (YFB), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formulation, against dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced acute colitis, focusing on its systemic regulation of the gut barrier-microbiota-metabolism axis.We employed an integrated approach combining network pharmacology, UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS-based phytochemical analysis, in vivo evaluation in a DSS-induced colitis mouse model, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and untargeted metabolomics to assess the effects of YFB and uncover its mechanisms of action.Network pharmacology predicted, and experiments confirmed, that core YFB components (e.g., quercetin, kaempferol) act via IL-17, TNF, and NF-κB pathways. YFB administration dose-dependently improved disease activity index, colon shortening, and histopathology in colitis mice. It restored intestinal barrier integrity by upregulating ZO-1, Occludin, and MUC2, while suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, IL-17A) and NF-κB activation. Critically, YFB promoted epithelial repair by restoring the expression of intestinal stem cell marker LGR5 and progenitor cell marker SOX9, and by normalizing the aberrant increase in endocrine cell marker CHGA. YFB treatment was associated with reversal of DSS-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis, restoration of diversity, enrichment of beneficial bacteria (e.g., Lachnospiraceae), and suppression of opportunistic pathogens (e.g., Enterobacteriaceae). Untargeted metabolomics showed that YFB treatment was associated with modulation of DSS-altered fecal metabolites (e.g., fatty acids, bile acids) and pathways such as "microbial metabolism in diverse environments".YFB, when administered concomitantly with DSS, protects against DSS-induced colitis via the synergistic effects of its multi-component system. Its mechanism entails systemic regulation of the gut barrier-microbiota-metabolism axis, involving suppression of NF-κB-driven inflammation, promotion of intestinal epithelial repair (via LGR5/SOX9/CHGA modulation), restoration of the intestinal barrier, alterations in gut microbiota, and modulation of host-microbial co-metabolism. These findings provide a scientific basis for YFB's clinical application and highlight the value of TCM formulations in managing complex multi-factorial diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Missense variants in the potassium channel KCNQ1 underlie most cases of congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS), one of the most common genetic arrhythmias. Variants affect protein stability, trafficking, and function, which are measurable properties that support variant interpretation. Leveraging the extensive experimental data generated by our laboratories, we developed random forest classifiers that predict seven KCNQ1 metrics: four electrophysiology and three trafficking measurements. The features for our classifiers integrate predictions from large machine learning models with protein-specific biophysical values, outperforming using either set of features alone. We applied our classifiers to interpret ClinVar variants of uncertain significance and AlphaMissense-ambiguous variants and developed global dysfunction and mistrafficking scores which distinguished benign from pathogenic variants. Global scores complemented AlphaMissense predictions, linking variants with LQTS-causing mechanisms. While effective for KCNQ1, our approach to variant prediction is generalizable to other ion channels and we recommend systematic benchmarking as done in this work to fully assess performance of future variant effect predictors.
Next-generation HER2-targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) improve survival of HER2-positive cancer patients. However, mechanisms of primary and acquired resistance remain unclear. Here, we reported that primary HER2-specific targeted therapy (tucatinib) resistant or sensitive breast cancers derived from clinical trial patients exhibited differential protein profiles. Prolonged tucatinib exposure induced autophagy pathway enrichment in HER2-positive breast cancer cells. Integrated high-throughput analyses identified A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)13 as a critical molecule involved in both primary and acquired resistance and an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Silencing of AKAP13 significantly diminished novel HER2-targeted therapies resistance. Mechanistically, AKAP13 inhibits autophagosome formation by suppressing the expression of ULK1, a kinase essential for autophagy initiation. ULK1 transcription is driven by GLI1, which binds to the ULK1 promoter via its arginine-592 residue. We further elucidated that the RhoGEF domain of AKAP13 activates RhoA, which subsequently triggers the activation of PKA anchored to AKAP13. The activated PKA then inhibits the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thereby repressing its transcriptional activity on ULK1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated the synergistic efficacy of tucatinib and AKAP13 inhibitor A13. In the validation phase, organoids were constructed using tissue obtained via puncture from patients resistant to trastuzumab deruxtecan, confirming upregulation of AKAP13 and A13-mediated reversal of resistance to novel HER2-targeted therapies. Collectively, these findings highlight the role of AKAP13 in drug resistance and propose A13 as a promising therapeutic strategy for HER2-positive breast cancer. Model diagram of this study and proposed molecular mechanisms.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
GPR101 is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) with unusually high constitutive activity and has recently emerged as a target for specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs), endogenous lipids that actively terminate inflammation and promote tissue repair. Given the therapeutic relevance of pro-resolution signaling in chronic pain and inflammatory disorders, understanding how SPMs engage GPR101 is of great significance. Although cryo-EM structures suggest an occluded orthosteric cavity, SPMs such as RvD5n‑3 DPA are potent agonists, creating uncertainty about their binding modes. Long-timescale molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, MM-GBSA per-residue energy decomposition, residue-interaction network analysis, and alchemical relative binding free-energy (RBFE) calculations were used to predict interactions between SPMs with GPR101. MD trajectories revealed a stable RvD5n‑3 DPA pose beneath an extracellular loop, stabilized by M184, W186, and Y415. Transmembrane distance metrics across five independent 1 μs MD simulation trajectories showed persistent stabilization of an active-like state even without modeled G-protein coupling. RBFE analyses quantified the scaffold-dependent effects of C17 alcohol stereochemistry, oxidation, methylation, and 3-oxa substitution. A double mutant cycle calculation identified a coupling between C17 alcohol and residue M184. Novel dual-modified analogs were computationally predicted to retain high affinity while improving metabolic stability. Benchmarking demonstrated that membrane-free thermodynamic integration (AMBER) yielded accurate, low-variance results with shorter wall time than membrane-inclusive replica exchange (NAMD). These results provide the first atomistic model of SPM binding to GPR101 and establish an RBFE-guided framework for designing next-generation pro-resolving mediator analogs with enhanced pro-resolving effects and stability.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Granulopoiesis is a tightly regulated process encompassing the production, maturation, and release of neutrophils in the bone marrow, ensuring their optimal physiological contribution to host defence. The mechanisms that maintain a balanced regulation of neutrophil effector functions during this process remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify bone marrow-resident erythroblasts as a key source of specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) and show that they imprint neutrophil development and function. Terminally differentiating erythroblasts highly express the key SPM biosynthetic enzyme 12/15-lipoxygenase (Alox15) and accordingly generate several SPMs, including n-3 docosapentaenoic acid-derived Resolvin D5 (RvD5n-3 DPA). Conditional erythroblast-specific depletion of Alox15 decreased bone marrow SPM levels and caused altered neutrophil phenotypes, including augmented release of reactive oxygen species and neutrophil extracellular traps, as well as increased migration to chemotactic stimuli. This was accompanied by increased neutrophil sequestration in peripheral organs and concomitant neutropenia. Mice with erythroblast-specific Alox15 depletion displayed impaired bacterial clearance in experimental peritonitis and increased severity in DSS-colitis. Aberrant neutrophil phenotypes were rectified by the reconstitution of RvD5n-3 DPA and were largely recapitulated by the specific depletion of the SPM receptor Gpr101 in bone marrow macrophages, but not in neutrophil precursors, suggesting involvement of the macrophage niche in mediating the SPM effects on granulopoiesis. Our findings establish a central role for erythroblasts and their SPM production in instructing granulopoiesis for balanced functional neutrophil responses.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) facilitates the enzymatic breakdown of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), through its four distinct isotypes, namely PDE4A to PDE4D, along with more than 25 splice variants. It plays a crucial role in cancer development, respiratory issues such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), autoimmune diseases like psoriasis, and neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Various methods are being developed to enhance clinical efficacy and reduce side effects. Some of these methods include drug delivery via inhalation and the development of non-emetic PDE4 inhibitors and mixed PDE inhibitors. These inhibitors offer several advantages over traditional formulations, including selectivity for specific inhibitors, targeted tissue distribution, and oral effectiveness. All these efforts have led to the emergence of novel PDE4 inhibitors, with some having progressed to clinical trial stages and others approved as medications. This review summarises PDE4 inhibitors currently in clinical trials, highlighting their therapeutic potential, limitations, and future prospects.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Jiao-tai-wan (JTW) is a classic formula for Heart-Kidney Disharmony insomnia, yet its mechanism in hippocampal neurons remains unclear.To investigate whether JTW ameliorates insomnia-induced hippocampal neuronal damage by inhibiting ferroptosis and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.UPLC-Q-TOF/MS analyzed JTW constituents. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted core targets. A mouse insomnia model was established using PCPA combined with MMPM. Behavioral tests, pathological examinations, and ferroptosis markers were evaluated. In vitro, HT22 cells underwent IKE-induced ferroptosis to validate Jiao-tai-wan drug-containing serum (JTWS) and the PDE4D inhibitor Zatolmilast (ZAT).413 compounds were identified in JTW, with 47 predicted to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations predicted PDE4D and BDNF as core targets. In vivo, JTW ameliorated cognitive deficits, attenuated hippocampal neuronal damage, and restored mitochondrial ultrastructure. Mechanistically, JTW downregulated Ptgs2 expression, upregulated Gpx4, Fth1, and Acsl3 expression, reduced lipid peroxidation and iron accumulation, while simultaneously suppressing Pde4d and restoring Bdnf levels. In vitro, ZAT mimicked the anti-ferroptotic effects of JTW.JTW inhibits hippocampal neuronal ferroptosis through multi-target regulation, ameliorating insomnia-related neuronal damage and providing a molecular basis for its traditional efficacy in restoring Heart-Kidney communication.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Alcoholic dementia (AlD) is a severe neurological disorder with no effective treatment. Development of pan-phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors for clinical treatment of neurological conditions has been hampered by emetic side effects primarily mediated by PDE4D, one of the four subtypes of PDE4. Although PDE4A was shown to be upregulated by chronic alcohol exposure, its therapeutic relevance to AlD remains unclear.A stable mouse model of AlD was established in 3-month-old 3xTg-AD mice using a free-choice two-bottle protocol (25% alcohol) for 19 weeks. Mice received either rolipram injections for 3 weeks or PDE4A knockdown for 6 weeks. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and Y-maze tests. Hippocampal neuropathology-including Aβ deposition, synaptic integrity, Tau phosphorylation (at Ser214/Ser404), and neuronal apoptosis-was evaluated by immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry. Changes in key proteins of the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway were analyzed by Western blotting.This study demonstrated that selectively targeting PDE4A rescued cognitive and neuropathological deficits in a validated mouse model of AlD. Behavioral tests showed that PDE4A knockdown significantly improved spatial memory and cognition in the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and the Y maze in the AlD mice. Pathological analysis revealed that PDE4A knockdown reduced amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposition and phosphorylated Tau levels. Furthermore, it restored synaptic integrity, as evidenced by the upregulation of PSD95 and Synaptophysin, enhanced dendritic complexity, and increased spine density, while also exerting neuroprotective effects by suppressing neuronal apoptosis in AlD mice. Mechanistically, the therapeutic benefits of PDE4A knockdown were mediated through the reactivation of the critically impaired cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway, leading to elevated cAMP levels, increased PKA activity, and enhanced phosphorylation of CREB.Our findings established PDE4A as one of the key AlD pathological drivers and identified its selective inhibition as a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for AlD, offering a viable approach to circumvent the adverse effects associated with broad-spectrum PDE4 inhibition.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the CINP.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoinflammatory skin disease lacking curative options. Ronomilast is a novel PDE4i inhibitor with potent anti-inflammatory properties. To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of topical ronomilast, alone and combined with clobetasol, in an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis mouse model. Fifty BALB/c male albino mice were randomly assigned to five groups (n = 10): healthy control, imiquimod-induced, clobetasol-treated (0.05%), ronomilast-treated (0.3%), and combination-treated (ronomilast 0.15% + clobetasol 0.025%). Psoriasis-like lesions were induced by daily topical application of 5% imiquimod for five consecutive days. Treatments were applied topically 3 h after imiquimod. Skin samples were analyzed for IL-17A and IL-23 levels via ELISA, TNF-α expression via immunohistochemistry, and histopathological changes. In silico molecular docking with PDE4B and PDE4D targets was also conducted. Ronomilast significantly reduced IL-17A and IL-23 levels compared to the induction group. The combination therapy produced the greatest reduction in IL-17A and IL-23. TNF-α expression scores were also significantly decreased by ronomilast and the combination relative to the induction group, consistent with histopathological improvements. Molecular docking demonstrated that ronomilast has higher binding affinity than roflumilast for PDE4B and comparable affinity for PDE4D. Topical ronomilast alone or combined with clobetasol, substantially ameliorates psoriasiform dermatitis by inhibiting key inflammatory cytokines. These results strengthen its prospects as an antipsoriatic candidate; nonetheless, more clinical investigations are necessary to validate its effectiveness and safety in humans.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
As an important reproductive trait, teat number plays a vital role in the pork industry, which is related to the ability of sows to host more piglets. However, the genetic mechanism of the teat number in pigs is still not very clear. We collected phenotype data, including the total teat number (TTN), left teat number (LTN), and right teat number (RTN), from 300 Jishen Black (JSB) sows and performed genotyping using a porcine SNP 50K panel. Most JSB sows exhibited 14, 15, or 16 TTN (259, 86%). Only 41 pigs (14%) had TTN values outside this range. Moreover, the LTN and TTN exhibited approximate frequency distribution in the studied population. Seven was the most common LTN and RTN in JSB sows, accounting for 181 (60%) and 173 (57%), respectively. Additionally, these traits exhibited low-to-medium heritability (0.14-0.22). Using the BLINK and FarmCPU models, three, six, and three key loci were identified in the GWAS of TTN, LTN, and RTN, respectively. Additionally, five key genes were detected to play vital roles in teat number traits, including ME1, SCN8A, EVC, UBC, and PDE4D. Our research provided efficient molecular markers and new insights into further improvement and understanding for teat number traits in Jishen Black pigs.
NTRK-rearranged neoplasms may occur at many body sites. In the female genital tract, they are most common in the uterus with a predilection for the cervix where they often exhibit aggressive behaviour, justifying the designation sarcoma. Typically, these sarcomas are composed of monomorphic spindled cells arranged in fascicular or herringbone patterns. We report two cases of uterine sarcoma (1 cervix, 1 corpus) with next generation sequencing-detected NTRK rearrangements and novel "aberrant" morphologic and immunohistochemical features, including heterologous rhabdomyoblastic and cartilaginous differentiation, negative staining with panTRK and loss of H3K27me3 expression. One case harbored a AKAP13::NTRK3 rearrangement, which has not been previously reported in NTRK-rearranged sarcomas, with co-occurring LZTR1 and TP53 variants. The other case contained hotspot and nonsense variants in DICER1, and was ultimately classified as a DICER1 sarcoma. Our findings expand the morphological and immunohistochemical spectrum of NTRK-rearranged uterine sarcomas, highlight important diagnostic pitfalls and raise the important question of driver versus passenger molecular events. Recognition of tumours with these unusual features is crucial, as NTRK-rearranged sarcomas frequently show aggressive clinical behaviour but are potentially amenable to targeted therapy with selective TRK inhibitors.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554772 is a review article
Cyclic Cushing syndrome, a rare endocrine disorder marked by periodic fluctuations of cortisol secretion and clinical manifestations, is diagnostically challenging. This study integrates clinical and multi-omics data to advance early diagnosis. We analyzed four patients with pituitary cyclic Cushing syndrome and fifty-six patients with conventional Cushing disease. Proteomics profiling identified differentially expressed proteins; Annexin A1 expression was validated via immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Single-cell RNA sequencing mapped its cellular origin. Annexin A1 expression was significantly elevated in pituitary tumors and serum of patients with cyclic Cushing syndrome. Serum Annexin A1 measured during the remission phase in patients with cyclic Cushing syndrome demonstrated promising diagnostic ability, and a related diagnostic approach was proposed. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed a distinct Annexin A1-enriched tumor subpopulation, predominantly in patients with cyclic Cushing syndrome. Multi-omics and clinical integration identify Annexin A1 as a diagnostic biomarker for cyclic Cushing disease.© 2026 The Authors.
Sepsis and septic shock are associated with high mortality rates and constitute the primary cause of death in intensive care units worldwide. Activation of the circulating renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is an early event, and elements of the RAAS, including renin, Angiotensinogen, and ACE2, may be predictive of worse outcomes and higher mortality that reflect a failure to increase the circulating levels of the vasopressor Ang II. Emerging evidence suggests that dipeptidyl peptidase III (DPP3) is involved in the metabolism of Ang II, and higher DPP3 in septic shock may contribute to lower Ang II tone. The current review considers the role of a dysfunctional RAAS to maintain blood pressure and adequate tissue perfusion in septic shock.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) maintain immune homeostasis and suppress inflammation, and emerging evidence indicates they also modulate neuronal function and regeneration. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons transmit pain signals and are damaged by chemotherapeutic agents such as paclitaxel (PTX), leading to neuropathic pain. Although Tregs show therapeutic promise in neuropathic pain, the mechanisms of Treg-neuron interactions remain poorly defined. Using in vitro co-culture, we examined interactions between primary DRG neurons and Tregs and their effect on PTX-induced neurotoxicity. Live-cell imaging showed that activated Tregs enhanced neurite length and branching and preferentially localised to neuron/neurite-rich regions. Additionally, activated Tregs rescued PTX-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Pharmacological blockade identified Treg-derived amphiregulin (AREG) as essential for neurite outgrowth, while both AREG and neuropeptide Y were required for Treg-mediated protection against PTX-induced neurotoxicity. These findings identify Tregs as direct promoters of sensory neuron growth and protection from PTX-induced neurotoxicity through specific molecular mediators, supporting their potential therapeutic relevance in peripheral neuropathic pain.© 2026 The Authors.
The genetic mechanisms underlying tardive dyskinesia (TD) are crucial for understanding its development. This study aimed to examine the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the Glutamate Ionotropic Receptor NMDA Type Subunit (GRIN2A) and Cholinergic Receptor Muscarinic 2 (CHRM2) genes and their interactions with the susceptibility, severity of symptoms, and cognitive function of TD in Chinese Han patients with schizophrenia (SZ). A total of 216 SZ patients were categorized into TD and those without TD (WTD) groups. DNA was extracted using the high-salt method, and the SNP genotyping was conducted. TD severity was assessed using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), while cognitive function was measured with the Repetitive Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). The GRIN2A rs7206256 GG + GA genotypes showed significantly different frequencies compared to the AA genotype (OR = 0.32, 95% CI = 0.13-0.79, p = 0.007). TD patients with the rs7206256 GG genotype exhibited higher limb trunk scores (p < 0.01), and lower orofacial scores (p < 0.01). Additionally, significant differences in attention and total RBANS scores were observed across CHRM2 rs2061174 genotypes within the TD group (F = 2.55, p = 0.05; F = 5.08, p = 0.05). The combination of CHRM2 (rs1824024)-GRIN2A (rs7206256) and CHRM2 (rs2061174)-GRIN2A (rs7206256) were identified as the best two-SNP model for predicting TD risk (p = 0.05). In Chinese Han SZ patients, GRIN2A rs7206256 is associated with increased susceptibility to TD and greater symptom severity. CHRM2 rs2061174 might influence cognitive dysfunction in TD, and a potential gene-gene interaction between GRIN2A and CHRM2 loci was observed. These findings need confirmation through larger, multi-center studies with diverse populations and functional genomic analyses to uncover the biological mechanisms involved.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part of Springer Nature.
Fmr1 (fragile X messenger ribonucleoprotein 1)-knockout (KO) rats, modeling the human Fragile X Syndrome (FXS), are of particular interest for exploring the ASD-like phenotype in preclinical studies. Gestational exposure to chlorpyrifos (CPF) has been associated with ASD diagnosis in humans and ASD-like behaviors in rodents and linked to the microbiota-gut-brain axis. In this study, we have used both Fmr1-KO and wild-type male rats (F2 generation) at postnatal days (PND) 7 and 40 obtained after F1 pregnant females were randomly exposed to 1 mg/kg/mL/day of CPF or vehicle. A nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomics approach together with gene expression profiles of these F2 generation rats were employed to analyze different brain regions (such as prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum), whole large intestine (at PND7) and gut content (PND40). The statistical comparison of each matrix spectral profile unveiled tissue-specific metabolic fingerprints. Significant variations in some biomarker levels were detected among brain tissues of different genotypes, including taurine, myo-inositol, and 3-hydroxybutyric acid, and exposure to CPF induced distinct metabolic alterations, particularly in serine and myo-inositol. Additionally, this study provides a set of metabolites associated with gastrointestinal dysfunction in ASD, encompassing several amino acids, choline-derived compounds, bile acids, and sterol molecules. In terms of gene expression, genotype and gestational exposure to CPF had only minimal effects on decarboxylase 2 (gad2) and cholinergic receptor muscarinic 2 (chrm2) genes.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) transduce the effects of many neuromodulators including dopamine, serotonin, epinephrine, acetylcholine, and opioids. The localization of synthetic or endogenous GPCR agonists impacts their action on specific neuronal pathways. In this paper, we show a series of single-protein chain integrator sensors that are highly modular and could potentially be used to determine GPCR agonist localization across the brain. We previously engineered integrator sensors for the mu- and kappa-opioid receptor agonists called M- and K-Single-chain Protein-based Opioid Transmission Indicator Tool (SPOTIT), respectively. Here, we engineered red versions of the SPOTIT sensors for multiplexed imaging of GPCR agonists. We also modified SPOTIT to create an integrator sensor design platform called SPOTIT for all GPCRs (SPOTall). We used the SPOTall platform to engineer sensors for the beta 2-adrenergic receptor (B2AR), the dopamine receptor D1, and the cholinergic receptor muscarinic 2 agonists. Finally, we demonstrated the application of M-SPOTIT and B2AR-SPOTall in detecting exogenously administered morphine, isoproterenol, and epinephrine in the mouse brain via locally injected viruses. The SPOTIT and SPOTall sensor design platform has the potential for unbiased agonist detection of many synthetic and endogenous neuromodulators across the brain.
A role of Yes1-associated transcriptional regulator (YAP) and WW domain-containing transcription regulator 1 (TAZ) in vascular and gastrointestinal contractility due to control of myocardin (Myocd) expression, which in turn activates contractile genes, has been demonstrated. Whether this transcriptional hierarchy applies to the urinary bladder is unclear. We found that YAP/TAZ are expressed in human detrusor myocytes and therefore exploited the Itga8-CreERT2 model for the deletion of YAP/TAZ. Recombination occurred in detrusor, and YAP/TAZ transcripts were reduced by >75%. Bladder weights were increased (by ≈22%), but histology demonstrated minimal changes in the detrusor, while arteries in the mucosa were inflamed. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) using the detrusor demonstrated reductions of Myocd (-79 ± 18%) and serum response factor (Srf) along with contractile genes. In addition, the cholinergic receptor muscarinic 2 (Chrm2) and Chrm3 were suppressed (-80 ± 23% and -80 ± 10%), whereas minute increases of Il1b and Il6 were seen. Unlike YAP/TAZ-deficient arteries, SRY (sex-determining region Y)-box 9 (Sox9) did not increase, and no chondrogenic differentiation was apparent. Reductions of smooth muscle myosin heavy chain 11 (Myh11), myosin light-chain kinase gene (Mylk), and Chrm3 were seen at the protein level. Beyond restraining the smooth muscle cell (SMC) program of gene expression, YAP/TAZ depletion silenced SMC-specific splicing, including exon 2a of Myocd. Reduced contractile differentiation was associated with weaker contraction in response to myosin phosphatase inhibition (-36%) and muscarinic activation (reduced by 53% at 0.3 µM carbachol). Finally, short-term overexpression of constitutively active YAP in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells increased myocardin (greater than eightfold) along with archetypal target genes, but contractile genes were unaffected or reduced. YAP and TAZ thus regulate myocardin expression in the detrusor, and this is important for SMC differentiation and splicing as well as for contractility.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study addresses the hypothesis that YAP and TAZ have an overarching role in the transcriptional hierarchy in the smooth muscle of the urinary bladder by controlling myocardin expression. Using smooth muscle-specific and inducible deletion of YAP and TAZ in adult mice, we find that YAP and TAZ control myocardin expression, contractile differentiation, smooth muscle-specific splicing, and bladder contractility. These effects are largely independent of inflammation and chondrogenic differentiation.
GPCRs transduce the effects of many neuromodulators including dopamine, serotonin, epinephrine, acetylcholine, and opioids. The localization of synthetic or endogenous GPCR agonists impacts their action on specific neuronal pathways. In this paper, we show a series of single-protein chain integrator sensors to determine GPCR agonist localization in the whole brain. We previously engineered integrator sensors for the mu and kappa opioid receptor agonists called M- and K-SPOTIT, respectively. Here, we show a new integrator sensor design platform called SPOTall that we used to engineer sensors for the beta-2-adrenergic receptor (B2AR), the dopamine receptor D1, and the cholinergic receptor muscarinic 2 agonists. For multiplexed imaging of SPOTIT and SPOTall, we engineered a red version of the SPOTIT sensors. Finally, we used M-SPOTIT and B2AR-SPOTall to detect morphine, isoproterenol, and epinephrine in the mouse brain. The SPOTIT and SPOTall sensor design platform can be used to design a variety of GPCR integrator sensors for unbiased agonist detection of many synthetic and endogenous neuromodulators across the whole brain.
The contribution of genetic factors to the presence of an overactive bladder is recognized. This study aimed to (1) assemble and synthesize available data from studies assessing differential gene expression in patients with overactive bladder vs controls without overactive bladder and (2) determine possible correlations and functional pathways between genes.We searched PubMed, Ovid or Medline, and Wiley Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases between January 1, 2000, and December 15, 2021.Studies were included if gene expression was detected and quantified using molecular approaches performed on human bladder tissue specimens directly and excluded if the gene expression analysis was carried out from blood and urine specimens alone.A systematic review was completed to identify publications that reported differently expressed gene candidates among patients with overactive bladder vs healthy individuals. Gene networking connections and pathway analysis were performed employing Metascape software, where inputs were identified from our systematic review of differentially expressed genes in overactive bladder.A total of 9 studies were included in the final analysis and 11 genes were identified as being up-regulated (purinergic receptor P2X 2 [P2RX2], smoothelin [SMTN], growth-associated protein 43 [GAP43], transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8 [TRPM8], cadherin 11 [CDH1], gap junction protein gamma 1 [GJC1], cholinergic receptor muscarinic 2 [CHRM2], cholinergic receptor muscarinic 3 [CHRM3], and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 4 [TRPV4]) or down-regulated (purinergic receptor P2X 2 [P2RX3] and purinergic receptor P2X 5 [P2RX5]) in patients with overactive bladder. Gene network analysis showed that genes are involved in chemical synaptic transmission, smooth muscle contraction, blood circulation, and response to temperature stimulus. Network analysis demonstrated a significant genetic interaction between TRPV4, TRPM8, P2RX3, and PR2X2 genes.Outcomes of this systematic review highlighted potential biomarkers for treatment efficacy and have laid the groundwork for developing future gene therapies for overactive bladder in clinical settings.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35256578 is a review article
Decreased vagal modulation, which has consistently been observed in schizophrenic patients, might contribute to increased cardiac mortality in schizophrenia. Previously, associations between CHRM2 (Cholinergic Receptor Muscarinic 2) and cardiac autonomic features have been reported. Here, we tested for possible associations between these polymorphisms and heart rate variability in patients with schizophrenia.A total of three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in CHRM2 (rs73158705 A>G, rs8191992 T>A and rs2350782 T>C) that achieved significance (p < 5 * 10-8) in genome-wide association studies for cardiac autonomic features were genotyped in 88 drug-naïve patients, 61 patients receiving antipsychotic medication and 144 healthy controls. Genotypes were analysed for associations with parameters of heart rate variability and complexity, in each diagnostic group.We observed a significantly altered heart rate variability in unmedicated patients with identified genetic risk status in rs73158705 A>G, rs8191992 T>A and rs2350782 T>C as compared to genotype non-risk status. In patients receiving antipsychotic medication and healthy controls, these associations were not observed.We report novel candidate genetic associations with cardiac autonomic dysfunction in schizophrenia, but larger cohorts are required for replication.
Bile acids (BAs) arising from duodenogastric reflux are known to facilitate gastric cancer (GC) development. Although BAs traditionally contribute to carcinogenesis through direct cellular cytotoxicity, increasing evidence implicates nuclear and membrane BA receptors (BARs) as additional factors influencing cancer risk. Indeed, some BARs are already linked with GC, but conflicting evidence and lack of information regarding other endogenous BARs warrant further investigation. In this study, we meta-analyzed multiple data sets to identify clinically relevant relationships between BAR expression and prognosis, clinicopathology, and activity in GC.We collected transcriptomic data from the Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas to analyze associations between BAR expression and GC prognosis, subtype, and clinicopathology. We also used Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to assess and predict functions, upstream regulators, and downstream mediators of membrane and nuclear BARs in GC.BARs showed differential distribution in GC; membrane BARs (G protein-coupled BAR 1, sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2, and cholinergic receptor muscarinic 2) were enriched in diffuse-, genome-stable, and mesenchymal-type tumors, whereas nuclear BARs (pregnane-X-receptor, constitutive androstane receptor, and farnesoid-X-receptor) were enriched in chromosome instability and metabolic subtypes. High expression of all membrane but not nuclear BARs was associated with poor prognosis and unfavorable GC clinicopathologic features. Similarly, expression patterns of membrane but not nuclear BARs varied geographically, aligning with Helicobacter pylori infection and GC mortality rates. Finally, GC-related oncogenes, namely transforming growth factor β1, were associated with membrane BARs, whereas many metabolic-associated genes were associated with nuclear BARs.Through transcriptomic meta-analysis, we identified distinct expression profiles between nuclear and membrane BARs that demonstrate prognostic relevance and warrant further investigation.Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of The American College of Gastroenterology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42389427
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease; the precise pathogenesis of sporadic ALS (sALS) has not yet been elucidated up to now. Previous studies revealed that the abnormal alterations of some non-motor neurons (non-MN) were a potential pathogenesis of sALS. Therefore, this study aims to search the potential evidences of non-MN in the pathogenesis of ALS via exploring potential relationships between 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons and the development of ALS.We employed fluorescent immunohistochemistry to investigate the altered distribution patterns of 5-HT and tryptophan hydroxylase 2 in the spinal cord and brainstem of Tg(SOD1*G93A)1Gur (TG) and wild-type (WT) mice. Additionally, we used western blot to analyze the expression levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HTR1A) and 5-HTR2A.Our findings revealed that 5-HT synapses were primarily distributed in the funiculus lateralis, anterior horn, posterior horn, central lateral column, and the area around the central canal of cervical, thoracic, and lumbar segments, and raphe nucleus as well as lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, and gradually reduced following age increase in WT mice. However, 5-HT synapses in the spinal cord and 5-HT neurons in the brainstem gradually increased following the progression of disease and presented a significantly negative correlation between the increased distribution of 5-HT synapses and neurons and the reduction of neural cell number (positively correlated with the increase in neural cell death) at the onset and/or progression stage of TG mice. 5-HTR1A significantly increased, while 5-HTR2A significantly decreased at the onset stage of TG mice.Our study speculated that the distribution changes of 5-HT synapses in the spinal cord and 5-HT neurons in the brainstem play a potential protective role in the pathogenesis of sALS through a compensatory 5-HT increase.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition marked by pronounced heterogeneity in brain structure, which limits the development of targeted interventions. Morphological brain networks (MBNs) enable the mapping of coordinated structural features across brain regions at the individual level. However, the specific organisation of such networks in ASD and their potential relationships with underlying neurotransmitter systems remain largely unexplored.To characterise alterations in cortical thickness-based MBNs among adolescent males with ASD and to test whether these network changes spatially correspond to normative positron emission tomography-derived neurotransmitter receptor/transporter maps.In this cross-sectional study, T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data from 424 adolescent males (207 with ASD, 217 typically developing) in the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange were analysed. MBNs were constructed using interregional cortical thickness similarity quantified by Jensen-Shannon divergence. Graph theoretical metrics were computed, and group differences were assessed with permutation tests controlling for age and intelligence quotient (IQ). Spatial correlations between left lateral orbitofrontal morphological similarity and atlas-based neurotransmitter maps were investigated using the JuSpace toolbox.The ASD group exhibited a significantly increased normalised clustering coefficient (t = 2.40, p = 0.020) and decreased nodal centrality in the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). This region showed reduced morphological similarity with 65 other brain regions. Furthermore, the OFC-based similarity patterns were significantly associated with the spatial distributions of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAa), 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HT1a) and μ-opioid receptor systems (r = 0.22, p = 0.017, spin-corrected). These alterations were robust to stringent cross-family correction.These findings highlight the left lateral OFC as a structural key hub in adolescent males with ASD. The robustness of these OFC-centred network alterations under stringent cross-family correction, together with their associations with neurotransmitter systems, provides a potential neurobiological basis for targeted interventions in this population.© 2026 The Author(s). General Psychiatry published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Mental Health Center.
Based on the &quot;gut-brain&quot; axis, this study investigated the molecular mechanism of the antidepressant effect of Bupleuri Radix. The effect of Bupleuri Radix on human intestinal flora cultured in vitro was analyzed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Differential bacteria were identified by real-time quantitative PCR(qPCR). Short-chain fatty acid(SCFA) content was determined by the GC-FID method. A depression-like mouse model was established using the &quot;triple-one&quot; compound stress method. Mice were administered the aqueous extract of Bupleuri Radix by gavage, transplanted with Bacteroides acidifaciens or spore-forming bacteria, or gavaged with SCFAs. Behavioral changes were assessed. SCFA content in feces was measured by GC-FID. Hippocampal(fibroblast growth factor 21, FGF21) protein expression was detected by Western blot. The formation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 1-5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A(FGFR1-5-HT_(1A)R) heterodimers was examined using the Duolink PLA method. The results showed that Bupleuri Radix significantly increased the abundance of the three spore-forming bacterial genera Ruminococcus, Dorea, and Blautia(P&lt;0.05), as well as B. acidifaciens(P&lt;0.001). Administration of Bupleuri Radix(P&lt;0.001 or P&lt;0.05) and transplantation of B. acidifaciens(P&lt;0.01) both increased the levels of SCFAs such as acetic acid and butyric acid in bacterial metabolites. Treatment with Bupleuri Radix, transplantation of B. acidifaciens, or high doses of SCFAs significantly improved depression-like behaviors in mice, increased hippocampal FGF21 expression(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01, or P&lt;0.001), and promoted FGFR1-5-HT_(1A)R heterodimer formation(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01), whereas transplantation of spore-forming bacteria showed no obvious antidepressant effect. In conclusion, the antidepressant effect of Bupleuri Radix is mediated by intestinal bacteria such as B. acidifaciens, which regulate the synthesis and metabolism of SCFAs, thereby modulating hippocampal FGF21 expression and activating FGFR1-5-HT_(1A)R heterodimers.
Obesity and aging synergistically reinforce neuroinflammation and disruption of homeostatic mechanisms, triggering pathological behaviors such as increased anxiety. Cannabidiol (CBD) has been reported to exert anxiolytic, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective effects, supporting the hypothesis that it may attenuate the detrimental consequences of obesity, even in aged animals. To test this hypothesis, 18-month-old male Wistar rats were divided into four experimental groups: control + vehicle (CT + vehicle), CT + CBD, cafeteria diet + vehicle (CAF + vehicle) and CAF + CBD. The animals were fed their diets for 8 weeks. Oral treatment with CBD (15 mg/kg/day) or vehicle began in the 9th week and continued until the end of the experiment, concurrently with the ongoing diet. We found that the CAF increased anxiety-like behaviors in the open field and elevated plus maze tests, while CBD mitigated these behaviors in the open field. Obesogenic diet also increased circulating levels of lipopolysaccharide, which were reduced by CBD. In the prefrontal cortex, CAF increased levels of interleukin 6 (IL-6), which were decreased by CBD. Additionally, CBD reduced the expression of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). CAF feeding also caused a reduction in the main endocannabinoids, 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide (AEA). In the prefrontal cortex, CAF increased transcripts of cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) and reduced those of cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2) and serotonin receptor 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (HTR1A). Moreover, levels of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) were reduced by the diet. These findings support the notion that obesity, through its metabolic and inflammatory consequences, exacerbates neuroinflammation and contributes to the dysregulation of the endocannabinoid system in aged animals. Notably, CBD demonstrated the ability to attenuate inflammatory markers and improve anxiety-like behavior, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic strategy to counteract obesity-induced neurobiological alterations in aging.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dual inhibitors of 5HT1A and 5HT7 serotonin receptors provide improved therapeutic effectiveness for depression, anxiety disorders, and neuropsychiatric conditions, potentially decreasing the necessity for multiple medications and reducing side effects. This study presents a cutting-edge computational framework for the discovery and optimization of dual 5HT1A/5HT7 inhibitors, integrating machine learning (ML), molecular docking, and virtual screening. A meticulously curated dataset of dual inhibitors was employed to develop regression and classification models using state-of-the-art ML algorithms. The consensus regression model achieved remarkable predictive performance (R²Test>0.93), and reduced RMSECV by 30-40 % compared to individual models. In classification tasks, the majority voting method boosts accuracy to 92 % and achieves a 25 % increase in F1 scores, surpassing individual models and showcasing strong generalization across 5-fold cross-validation and y-randomization tests. The validated consensus-based QSAR model was employed as endpoint analysis of virtual screening of dual 5HT1A/5HT7 inhibitors. This research highlights the power of consensus modeling and ensemble approaches in enhancing predictive accuracy and robustness. By integrating machine learning, structural insights, virtual screening and ADMET analysis, we provide a reliable and efficient strategy for identifying novel 5HT1A/5HT7 inhibitors, paving the way for future experimental validation and therapeutic development of next-generation treatments for serotonin-related disorders.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Propofol, a commonly used anesthetic, is known to cause postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD), particularly after prolonged or high-dose administration. Its effects on neural remodeling in the hippocampal region, which is vital for cognitive function, remain poorly understood. This study employs single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and high-throughput transcriptomic analysis to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which propofol impairs hippocampal neural remodeling. Our findings indicate that propofol suppresses the (5-Hydroxytryptamine Receptor 1A/Glutamate Receptor 2/Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase Regulatory Subunit 1) HTR1A/GRIA2/PIK3R1 signaling pathway, contributing to cognitive dysfunction in mice. In vitro experiments reveal that propofol treatment reduces the expression of HTR1A/GRIA2/PIK3R1-related factors, decreases neuronal activity and synaptic plasticity, and increases apoptosis and inflammation. In vivo experiments demonstrate significant impairments in spatial memory and learning abilities in mice treated with propofol. These results provide new insights into the long-term effects of anesthetic drugs and offer a scientific basis for their judicious use in clinical practice. The study highlights potential strategies and targets for preventing and treating POCD, emphasizing the importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying anesthetic-induced cognitive dysfunction.© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.
Asiaticoside, the main active ingredient of Centella asiatica, is a pentacyclic triterpenoid compound. Previous studies have suggested that asiaticoside possesses neuroprotective and anti-depressive properties, however, the mechanism of its anti-depressant action not fully understood. In recent years, a growing body of research on anti-depressants has focused on the microbiota-gut-brain axis, we noted that disruption of the gut microbial community structure and diversity can induce or exacerbate depression, which plays a key role in the regulation of depression.Behavioral experiments were conducted to detect depression-like behavior in mice through sucrose preference, forced swimming, and open field tests. Additionally, gut microbial composition and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) levels in mouse feces were analyzed 16S rRNA sequencing and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HT1A) expression in mice was assessed by western blotting. Changes in serum levels of inflammatory factors, neurotransmitters, and hormones were measured in mice using ELISA.This study revealed that oral administration of asiaticoside significantly improved depression-like behavior in chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mice. It partially restored the gut microbial community structure in CUMS mice, altered SCFA metabolism, regulated the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis) and inflammatory factor levels, upregulated BDNF and 5-HT1A receptor protein expression, and increased serum serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) concentration. These findings reveal that asiaticoside exerts antidepressant effects via the microbiota-gut-brain axis.These results suggested that asiaticoside exerts antidepressant effects through the microbiota-gut-brain axis in a CUMS mouse model.Copyright © 2024 Ren, He, Sun, Gao, Zhou, Qin, Zhang, Wang, Wang, Wei and Wang.
Dysregulation of brain innate immunity involving microglia is implicated in the pathology of neurological disorders including depression. Depression is a prominent medical challenge to global public health systems. Synthetic antidepressant drugs are limited by severe side effects. The present study aimed to identify the active compounds from the well-documented herbal medicine formula Banxia-Houpo decoction (BHD) and discover the underlying mechanisms for tuning microglia. We initially employed Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) profiling and network pharmacology analysis to predict the active compound-target interaction networks. We subsequently validated the potential active compounds and targets in a mouse model of corticosterone (CORT)-induced depression and postsynaptic microglia BV2 cells. As a result, 64 compounds were identified in the ethanolic Banxia-Houpo decoction extract and predicted to target 25 depression-related genes. Interestingly, the serotonergic synapse pathway received the highest enrichment score while 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (HTR1A) was targeted by 6 compounds (i.e. baicalein, luteolin, N-nornuciferine, roemerine, scutellarin, and 6-shogaol). In parallel assays, a six-compound combo (SCC) and Banxia-Houpo decoction markedly ameliorated the depressive-like behaviors in corticosterone-lesioned mice and well-protected highly differentiated (HD) PC12 cells against corticosterone challenge. Moreover, six-compound combo and Banxia-Houpo decoction effectively induced hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A expression in mice and postsynaptic microglia BV2 cells. Hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A antagonist WAY-100635 at 1 mg/kg/d via intraperitoneal injection attenuated the effects of six-compound combo and Banxia-Houpo decoction on the depressive behaviors in mice. These results suggest that six-compound combo might be a potential remedy against depression and other neurological disorders via targeting hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A in microglia.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Portal hypertension (PH) is one of the most frequent complications of chronic liver disease. The peripheral 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) level was increased in cirrhotic patients. We aimed to elucidate the function and mechanism of 5-HT receptor 1A (HTR1A) in the portal vein (PV) on PH.PH models were induced by thioacetamide injection, bile duct ligation, or partial PV ligation. HTR1A expression was detected using real-time polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization, and immunofluorescence staining. In situ intraportal infusion was used to assess the effects of 5-HT, the HTR1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT, and the HTR1A antagonist WAY-100635 on portal pressure (PP). Htr1a-knockout (Htr1a-/-) rats and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-specific Htr1a-knockout (Htr1aΔVSMC) mice were used to confirm the regulatory role of HTR1A on PP.HTR1A expression was significantly increased in the hypertensive PV of PH model rats and cirrhotic patients. Additionally, 8-OH-DPAT increased, but WAY-100635 decreased, the PP in rats without affecting liver fibrosis and systemic hemodynamics. Furthermore, 5-HT or 8-OH-DPAT directly induced the contraction of isolated PVs. Genetic deletion of Htr1a in rats and VSMC-specific Htr1a knockout in mice prevented the development of PH. Moreover, 5-HT triggered adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate pathway-mediated PV smooth muscle cell contraction via HTR1A in the PV. We also confirmed alverine as an HTR1A antagonist and demonstrated its capacity to decrease PP in rats with thioacetamide-, bile duct ligation-, and partial PV ligation-induced PH.Our findings reveal that 5-HT promotes PH by inducing the contraction of the PV and identify HTR1A as a promising therapeutic target for attenuating PH. As an HTR1A antagonist, alverine is expected to become a candidate for clinical PH treatment.Copyright © 2024 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurogenic bladder is caused by disruption of neuronal pathways regulating bladder relaxation and contraction. In severe cases, neurogenic bladder can lead to vesicoureteral reflux, hydroureter, and chronic kidney disease. These complications overlap with manifestations of congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT). To identify novel monogenic causes of neurogenic bladder, we applied exome sequencing (ES) to our cohort of families with CAKUT. By ES, we have identified a homozygous missense variant (p.Gln184Arg) in CHRM5 (cholinergic receptor, muscarinic, 5) in a patient with neurogenic bladder and secondary complications of CAKUT. CHRM5 codes for a seven transmembrane-spanning G-protein-coupled muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. CHRM5 is shown to be expressed in murine and human bladder walls and is reported to cause bladder overactivity in Chrm5 knockout mice. We investigated CHRM5 as a potential novel candidate gene for neurogenic bladder with secondary complications of CAKUT. CHRM5 is similar to the cholinergic bladder neuron receptor CHRNA3, which Mann et al. published as the first monogenic cause of neurogenic bladder. However, functional in vitro studies did not reveal evidence to strengthen the status as a candidate gene. Discovering additional families with CHRM5 variants could help to further assess the genes' candidate status.© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study aims to explore the medication rules and mechanisms of treating chronic renal failure(CRF) by Jinling medical school based on data mining, network pharmacology, and experimental validation systematically and deeply. Firstly, the study selected the papers published by the inherited clinicians in Jinling medical school in Chinese journals using the subject headings named &quot;traditional Chinese medicine(TCM) + chronic renal failure&quot;, &quot;TCM + chronic renal inefficiency&quot;, or &quot;TCM + consumptive disease&quot; in China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang, and VIP Chinese Science and Technology Periodical Database and screened TCM formulas for treating CRF according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The study analyzed the frequency of use of single TCM and the four properties, five tastes, channel tropism, and efficacy of TCM used with high frequency and performed association rule and clustering analysis, respectively. As a result, a total of 215 TCM formulas and 235 different single TCM were screened, respectively. The TCM used with high frequency included Astragali Radix, Rhei Radix et Rhizoma, Salviae Miltiorrhizae Radix et Rhizoma, Poria, and Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma(top 5). The single TCM characterized by &quot;cold properties, sweet flavor, and restoring spleen channel&quot; and the TCM with the efficacy of tonifying deficiency had the highest frequency of use, respectively. Then, the TCM with the rules of &quot;blood-activating and stasis-removing&quot; and &quot;diuretic and dampness-penetrating&quot; appeared. In addition, the core combination of TCM [(Hexin Formula, HXF)] included &quot;Astragali Radix, Rhei Radix et Rhizoma, Poria, Salviae Miltiorrhizae Radix, and Angelicae Sinensis Radix&quot;. The network pharmacology analysis showed that HXF had 91 active compounds and 250 corresponding protein targets including prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2(PTGS2), PTGS1, sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5(SCN5A), cholinergic receptor muscarinic 1(CHRM1), and heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1(HSP90AA1)(top 5). Gene Ontology(GO) function analysis revealed that the core targets of HXF predominantly affected biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions such as positive regulation of transcription by ribonucleic acid polymerase Ⅱ and DNA template transcription, formation of cytosol, nucleus, and plasma membrane, and identical protein binding and enzyme binding. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) analysis revealed that CRF-related genes were involved in a variety of signaling pathways and cellular metabolic pathways, primarily involving &quot;phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) pathway&quot; and &quot;advanced glycation end products-receptor for advanced glycation end products&quot;. Molecular docking results showed that the active components in HXF such as isomucronulatol 7-O-glucoside, betulinic acid, sitosterol, and przewaquinone B might be crucial in the treatment of CRF. Finally, a modified rat model with renal failure induced by adenine was used, and the in vivo experimental confirmation was performed based on the above-mentioned predictions. The results verify that HXF can regulate mitochondrial autophagy in the kidneys and the PI3K-Akt-mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR) signaling pathway activation at upstream, so as to alleviate renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis and then delay the progression of CRF.
To explore the changes of CKLF-like MARVEL transmembrane domain-containing 6 (CMTM6) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in gastric mucosal epithelial cells after Helicobacter pylori infection and the regulation of CMTM6 on PD-L1, and to analyze the mRNA expression differences before and after CMTM6 gene knock-out in helicobacter pylori infected gastric epithelial cells by microarray analysis.The standard Helicobacter pylori strain ATCC 26695 was co-cultured with human gastric epithelial cell GES-1 for 6, 24 and 48 hours, and the mRNA and protein levels of CMTM6 and PD-L1 were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. Using CRISPR/Cas9 to construct CMTM6 gene knockout plasmid and knockout CMTM6 gene of GES-1 cells. Helicobacter pylori was co-cultured with CMTM6 gene knockout and wild type GES-1 cells for 48 hours to detect PD-L1 transcription and protein level changes, and CMTM6 gene knockout GES-1 cells were treated with the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 to detect the changes in PD-L1 protein levels. Agilent Human ceRNA Microarray 2019 was used to detect the differentially expressed genes in CMTM6 gene knockout and wild-type GES-1 cells co-cultured with Hp for 48 hours, and the signal pathway of differentially expressed genes enrichment was analyzed by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database.The mRNA and protein levels of CMTM6 and PD-L1 in GES-1 cells were significantly up-regulated after Helicobacter pylori infection, and CMTM6 mRNA was most significantly up-regulated 48 hours after infection. After CMTM6 gene knockout, the CD274 gene transcription level of Helicobacter pylori infected GES-1 cells did not change significantly, but PD-L1 protein level was significantly down-regulated, and the PD-L1 level increased after the application of proteasome inhibitor MG-132. After CMTM6 gene knockout, 67 genes had more than two times of differential expression. The transcription levels of TMEM68, FERMT3, GPR142, ATP6V1FNB, NOV, UBE2S and other genes were significantly down-regulated. The transcription levels of PCDHGA6, CAMKMT, PDIA2, NTRK3, SPOCK1 and other genes were significantly up-regulated. After CMTM6 gene knockout, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2S (UBE2S) gene expression was significantly down-regulated, which might affect protein ubiquitination degradation. After CMTM6 gene knockout, adrenoceptor alpha 1B (ADRA1B), cholinergic receptor muscarinic 1 (M1), CHRM1, platelet activating factor receptor (PTAFR) gene expression was significantly up-regulated.Helicobacter pylori infection up-regulates the expression level of CMTM6 in gastric mucosa cells, and CMTM6 can stabilize PD-L1 and maintain the protein level of PD-L1. CMTM6 gene knockout may affect biological behaviors such as protein ubiquitination and cell surface receptor expression.
The five members of the mammalian muscarinic acetylcholine receptor family are encoded by the cholinergic receptor, muscarinic, 1-5 (CHRM1-5) genes. CHRM genes are incriminated in formation of various cancer types, but their roles in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are improperly understood. Aberrant epigenetic modifications of specific tumor-suppressor genes and oncogenes are known to promote cancer development. We aimed to analyze the connection between methylation of CHRM genes and HNSCC recurrence, with specific reference to human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal carcinoma.We investigated the methylation state of CHRM1-CHRM5 genes expressed in 305 samples of primary HNSCCs by quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. We explored associations between methylation of these genes and the clinicopathological characteristics of HNSCC (location of the tumor as well as recurrence) Results: We found 1.08±0.94 methylated genes per sample (range=0-5), with promoters of CHRM1-5 genes methylated in 85.9%, 47.5%, 10.2%, 17.7%, and 19.3%, respectively, of the evaluated samples. Methylation levels of CHRM2 were significantly raised in HNSCC samples compared to corresponding normal tissues (p<0.001). Although there was no significance of tumor location, analysis by Kaplan-Meier estimate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard methods showed that methylated CHRM2 was significantly associated with increased recurrence of HNSCC with HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer.CHRM methylation status is associated with HNSCC pathogenesis.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a prevalent complication following anesthesia and surgery, particularly in the elderly, leading to increased mortality and reduced quality of life. Despite its prevalence, there are no effective clinical treatments. Exercise has shown cognitive benefits in aging and various diseases, which can be transferred to sedentary animals through plasma. However, it is unclear if exercise-conditioned plasma can replicate these benefits in the context of POCD.Sixteen-month-old male C57BL/6J mice underwent 30 days of voluntary running wheel training or received systemic administration of exercise-conditioned plasma, followed by tibial fracture surgery under general anesthesia at 17 months of age. Cognitive performance, hippocampal synaptic deficits, neuroinflammation, BDNF/TrkB signaling, and medial septum (MS)-hippocampal cholinergic activity were evaluated through immunohistochemical staining, transmission electron microscopy, Western blotting, and biochemical assays. To investigate the role of hippocampal BDNF signaling and cholinergic activity in the therapeutic effects, the TrkB antagonist ANA-12 and the cholinergic receptor muscarinic 1 (CHRM1) antagonist trihexyphenidyl (THP) were administered via intraperitoneal injection, and adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Chrm1 shRNA were delivered via intrahippocampal stereotaxic microinjection.Exercise-conditioned plasma mimicked the benefits of exercise, alleviating cognitive decline induced by anesthesia/surgery, restoring hippocampal synapse formation and levels of regulators for synaptic plasticity, inhibiting neuroinflammatory responses to surgery by microglia and astrocytes, augmenting BDNF production and TrkB phosphorylation in hippocampal neurons, astrocytes, and microglia, upregulating MS expression of choline acetyltransferase (CHAT) and hippocampal expression of CHRM1 in neurons and astrocytes, and enhancing hippocampal cholinergic innervation and acetylcholine release. Conversely, ANA-12 administration blocked TrkB activation and reduced the protective effects on cognition, synaptic deficits, and neuroinflammatory reactivity of glial cells post-surgery. Similarly, THP administration or intrahippocampal delivery of AAV-Chrm1 shRNA inhibited the activation of the hippocampal cholinergic circuit by exercise plasma, negating the cognitive and neuropathological benefits and reducing BDNF/TrkB signaling enhancements.Exercise-conditioned plasma can replicate the protective effects of exercise against anesthesia/surgery-induced neuroinflammation, synaptic, and cognitive impairments, at least partly, through CHRM1-dependent regulation of hippocampal cholinergic activity and BDNF/TrkB signaling.© 2024. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 38505261
Loss of Cholinergic Receptor Muscarinic 1 (CHRM1) has been linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our recent study found significantly lower CHRM1 protein levels in AD patient cortices, linked to reduced survival. Furthermore, using knockout mice (Chrm1-/-) we demonstrated that deletion of Chrm1 alters cortical mitochondrial structure and function, directly establishing a connection between its loss and mitochondrial dysfunction in the context of AD. While CHRM1's role in the brain has been extensively investigated, its impact on peripheral neurons in AD remains a crucial area of research, especially considering reported declines in peripheral nerve conduction among AD patients.The objective was to characterize Chrm1 localization and mitochondrial deficits in Chrm1-/- dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons.Recombinant proteins tagged with Green or Red Fluorescent Protein (GFP/RFP) were transiently expressed to investigate the localization of Chrm1 and mitochondria, as well as mitochondrial movement in the neurites of cultured primary mouse DRG neurons, using confocal time-lapse live cell imaging. Transmission electron microscopy was performed to examine the ultrastructure of mitochondria in both wild-type and Chrm1-/- DRGs.Fluorescence imaging revealed colocalization and comigration of N-terminal GFP-tagged Chrm1 and mitochondrial localization signal peptide-tagged RFP-labelled mitochondria in the DRGs neurons. A spectrum of mitochondrial structural abnormalities, including disruption and loss of cristae was observed in 87% neurons in Chrm1-/- DRGs.This study suggests that Chrm1 may be localized in the neuronal mitochondria and loss of Chrm1 in peripheral neurons causes sever mitochondrial structural aberrations resembling AD pathology.
Kidney renal clear-cell carcinoma (KIRC) is a malignant tumor. At an early stage, KIRC patients may experience only mild fever and fatigue or even no symptoms, and these early nonspecific indications can delay treatment. Neurotransmitters and their receptors may be very useful in determining tumorigenesis and predicting metastasis.The study intended to investigate the predictive value of neurotransmitter receptor-related genes (NRRGs) using public KIRC data, by determining the biological processes that implicate the prognostic NRRGs and establishing a predictive NR-related risk model, to provide an empirical basis for identifying and treating KIRC patients.The research team performed a genetic case-control study.The study took place at Research Center of Health, Big Data Mining and Applications, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu, China.The research team: (1) obtained the transcriptome data related to KIRC from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and ArrayExpress databases; (2) developed the differentially expressed NRRGs (DENRRGs) by identifying the NRRGs that intersected with DEGs in KIRC and normal samples; (3) carried out functional enrichment analyses of the DENRRGs; (4) screened the characteristic genes of the DENRRGs using machine learning; (5) created a predictive model using multivariate Cox analyses of the distinctive genes; (6) obtained independent prognostic factors for KIRC patients and established a nomograph model; (7) investigated the sensitivity of KIRC patients to therapeutic agents to examine the variations in immunological features between high-risk and low-risk individuals.Differential analysis found that 115 NRRGs intersected with 5275 DEGs to provide 52 DENRRGs. Functional enrichment showed that DENRRGs were mainly involved in signal transduction in the nervous system. The machine learning on the 52 DENRRGs filtered out nine characteristic genes. Subsequently, the research team found eight prognostic biomarkers-histamine receptor H2 (HRH2), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor subunit epsilon (GABRE), cholinergic receptor nicotinic delta subunit (CHRND), glutamate receptor ionotropic subunit 2D (GRIN2D), glutamate metabotropic receptor 4 (GRM4), glycine receptor alpha 3 (GLRA3), cholinergic receptor nicotinic beta 4 subunit (CHRNB4), and cholinergic receptor muscarinic-1 (CHRM1)-and established a predictive model. Furthermore, the team precisely predicted the KIRC patients' prognoses using a nomogram that combined their ages, risk scores, and M stages. The infiltration levels of 21 immune cells also significantly differed between the high-risk and low-risk groups, with neutrophils having a significant positive correlation with GABRE and HRH2 and a significant negative correlation with CHRNB4 and GRM4. Finally, the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) values for various drugs, such as 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR), 8-hydroxy-7-(6-sulfonaphthalen-2-yl)diazenyl-quinoline-5-sulfonic acid (NSC-87877), Sunitinib, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibitor VIII, and tanespimyci (X17.AAG) were significantly lower for high-risk group.By studying the relevance of biomarkers to the immunological microenvironment of KIRC, the current research team was able to propose a new predictive model for KIRC based on NRRGs, to offer a novel viewpoint for investigating KIRC. The study's results suggest new avenues for research into the pathophysiology and therapy of KIRC. Determining the precise molecular processes by which predictive biomarkers regulate KIRC requires further evidence and analysis.
Introduction: In a previous retrospective study using postmortem human brain tissues, we demonstrated that loss of Cholinergic Receptor Muscarinic 1 (CHRM1) in the temporal cortex of a subset of Alzheimer's patients was associated with poor survival, whereas similar loss in the hippocampus showed no such association. Mitochondrial dysfunction underlies Alzheimer's pathogenesis. Therefore, to investigate the mechanistic basis of our findings, we evaluated cortical mitochondrial phenotypes in Chrm1 knockout (Chrm1-/-) mice. Cortical Chrm1 loss resulted in reduced respiration, reduced supramolecular assembly of respiratory protein complexes, and caused mitochondrial ultrastructural abnormalities. These mouse-based findings mechanistically linked cortical CHRM1 loss with poor survival of Alzheimer's patients. However, evaluation of the effect of Chrm1 loss on mouse hippocampal mitochondrial characteristics is necessary to fully understand our retrospective human tissue-based observations. This is the objective of this study. Methods: Enriched hippocampal and cortical mitochondrial fractions (EHMFs/ECMFs, respectively) derived from wild-type and Chrm1-/- mice were used to measure respiration by quantifying real-time oxygen consumption, supramolecular assembly of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS)-associated proteins by blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, post-translational modifications (PTMs) by isoelectric focusing (IEF), and mitochondrial ultrastructure by electron microscopy. Results: In contrast to our previous observations in Chrm1-/- ECMFs, EHMFs of Chrm1-/- mice significantly increased respiration with a concomitant increase in the supramolecular assembly of OXPHOS-associated proteins, specifically Atp5a and Uqcrc2, with no mitochondrial ultrastructural alterations. IEF of ECMFs and EHMFs from Chrm1-/- mice showed a decrease and an increase, respectively in a negatively charged (pH∼3) fraction of Atp5a relative to the wild-type mice, with a corresponding decrease or increase in the supramolecular assembly of Atp5a and respiration indicating a tissue-specific signaling effect. Discussion: Our findings indicate that loss of Chrm1 in the cortex causes structural, and physiological alterations to mitochondria that compromise neuronal function, whereas Chrm1 loss in the hippocampus may benefit neuronal function by enhancing mitochondrial function. This brain region-specific differential effect of Chrm1 deletion on mitochondrial function supports our human brain region-based findings and Chrm1-/- mouse behavioral phenotypes. Furthermore, our study indicates that Chrm1-mediated brain region-specific differential PTMs of Atp5a may alter complex-V supramolecular assembly which in turn regulates mitochondrial structure-function.Copyright © 2023 Sabbir, Swanson, Speth and Albensi.
Introduction: Cholinergic Receptor Muscarinic 1 (CHRM1) is a G protein-coupled acetylcholine (ACh) receptor predominantly expressed in the cerebral cortex. In a retrospective postmortem brain tissues-based study, we demonstrated that severely (≥50% decrease) reduced CHRM1 proteins in the temporal cortex of Alzheimer's patients significantly correlated with poor patient outcomes. The G protein-mediated CHRM1 signal transduction cannot sufficiently explain the mechanistic link between cortical CHRM1 loss and the appearance of hallmark Alzheimer's pathophysiologies, particularly mitochondrial structural and functional abnormalities. Therefore, the objective of this study was to analyze the molecular, ultrastructural, and functional properties of cortical mitochondria using CHRM1 knockout (Chrm1-/-) and wild-type mice to identify mitochondrial abnormalities. Methods: Isolated and enriched cortical mitochondrial fractions derived from wild-type and Chrm1-/- mice were assessed for respiratory deficits (oxygen consumption) following the addition of different substrates. The supramolecular assembly of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS)-associated protein complexes (complex I-V) and cortical mitochondrial ultrastructure were investigated by blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), respectively. A cocktail of antibodies, specific to Ndufb8, Sdhb, Uqcrc2, Mtco1, and Atp5a proteins representing different subunits of complexes I-V, respectively was used to characterize different OXPHOS-associated protein complexes. Results: Loss of Chrm1 led to a significant reduction in cortical mitochondrial respiration (oxygen consumption) concomitantly associated with reduced oligomerization of ATP synthase (complex V) and supramolecular assembly of complexes I-IV (Respirasome). Overexpression of Chrm1 in transformed cells (lacking native Chrm1) significantly increased complex V oligomerization and respirasome assembly leading to enhanced respiration. TEM analysis revealed that Chrm1 loss led to mitochondrial ultrastructural defects and alteration in the tinctorial properties of cortical neurons causing a significant increase in the abundance of dark cortical neurons (Chrm1-/- 85% versus wild-type 2%). Discussion: Our findings indicate a hitherto unknown effect of Chrm1 deletion in cortical neurons affecting mitochondrial function by altering multiple interdependent factors including ATP synthase oligomerization, respirasome assembly, and mitochondrial ultrastructure. The appearance of dark neurons in Chrm1-/- cortices implies potentially enhanced glutamatergic signaling in pyramidal neurons under Chrm1 loss condition. The findings provide novel mechanistic insights into Chrm1 loss with the appearance of mitochondrial pathophysiological deficits in Alzheimer's disease.Copyright © 2023 Sabbir, Swanson and Albensi.
We look at the immunoreactivity of cholinergic receptor muscarinic 1 (CHRM1) in the ovarian tissues of rats with ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) considering the possibility that the muscarinic activity may contribute to the pathophysiology of OHSS.In this study, 14 immature female Wistar Albino rats were divided into two groups at random. The rats were 22 days old. Rats in the control group (n=7) were 22 days old, while those in the OHSS group (n=7) received 10 IU follicle-stimulating hormone subcutaneously over the course of four days and 30 IU human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) on the fifth day to induce ovarian hyperstimulation. All the rats were sacrificed after all the groups' ovaries and blood samples were collected at the conclusion of the experiment. The left ovarian tissues were kept in aluminum foil at -80 °C, while the right ovarian tissues were kept in 10% formalin. Tissue vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured by The Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay technique in the ovarian tissues. CHRM1 immunoreactivity was scored immunohistochemically.Ovarian weight, tissue IL-10, TNF-α, VEGF and MDA levels, and CHRM1 immunoreactivity were significantly increased in the OHSS group.Increased levels of CHRM1 activity may play a role in the pathophysiology of OHSS. With further studies, the effect of luteinizing hormone and hCG on the ovarian and hypothalamic cholinergic system can be further investigated, and useful information can be obtained in determining OHSS prevention strategies.©Copyright 2023 by Turkish Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology | Turkish Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology published by Galenos Publishing House.
Advances in understanding of autoimmune hyperthyroidism and neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) biology have created an opportunity for a novel immunomodulatory treatment approach. This review is timely in evaluating newly emerged literature for FcRn blockers Batoclimab (IMVT-1401), Imeroprubart (IMVT-1402) and Efgartigimod (ARGX-113) in Graves' disease and thyroid eye disease.Preliminary phase 2 clinical trial data of Batoclimab therapy in Graves' disease demonstrated rapid normalisation of thyroid hormone levels with the majority maintaining this after the treatment course. Rapid declines in anti-TSH receptor antibodies were observed with a subset of patients achieving sustained seroconversion. A case report described maintained remission of Graves' disease 23 months following short-course Batoclimab therapy. Batoclimab was well tolerated with no treatment-related adverse events. Phase 3 clinical trials of Efgartigimod therapy in thyroid eye disease were terminated early due to it unlikely achieving the intended clinical efficacy following interim analysis. Mid- and late-phase clinical trials for Imeroprubart and Batoclimab therapy in Graves' disease and thyroid eye disease are ongoing.FcRn blockade is a promising new therapeutic approach for the management of autoimmune hyperthyroidism. Durability, cost-effectiveness and patient selection remain to be defined.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559446 is a review article
Alemtuzumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CD52, is associated with a high incidence of secondary autoimmune disease, most commonly thyroid dysfunction. Alemtuzumab-induced Graves' disease (AIGD) typically follows a relapsing course and may exhibit atypical or severe phenotypes during immune reconstitution (IR).We report a case of severe thyrotoxicosis following alemtuzumab therapy for multiple sclerosis, complicated by the development of thyroid eye disease (TED) and pretibial myxoedema (PTM). Despite escalation of antithyroid therapy, biochemical and clinical control remained suboptimal. Radioiodine therapy was not pursued due to the presence of established orbitopathy. Given persistent severe disease and extrathyroidal manifestations, definitive management with total thyroidectomy was undertaken.Thyroidectomy resulted in rapid biochemical control of thyrotoxicosis. thyroid-stimulating hormone-receptor antibody (TRAb) remained markedly elevated after thyroidectomy, indicating persistent autoimmune activity despite removal of the thyroid gland.This case highlights an aggressive and uncommon presentation of AIGD characterised by severe thyrotoxicosis, orbitopathy and PTM. Clinicians should recognise the potential for atypical and refractory disease following alemtuzumab therapy. In selected cases, early consideration of definitive therapy is warranted, particularly when radioiodine is considered unsuitable.Copyright © 2026 Aongus O’Brolchain and Elham Reda. Case Reports in Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This descriptive clinical case series analyzes five cases of destructive thyrotoxicosis associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, historically referred to as hashitoxicosis, initially misdiagnosed as Graves' disease, highlighting a persistent diagnostic challenge in autoimmune thyroid disorders. The series includes four published cases reported between 2000 and 2025 and one unpublished case contributed by the authors. The cohort comprised three females and two males, with a mean age of 55.4 years (range: 21-69). Clinical presentations were heterogeneous, most commonly fatigue (80%), palpitations (60%), and weight changes (40%), while two patients exhibited no overt hyperthyroid symptoms.Biochemical evaluation demonstrated suppressed thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels in all cases (range: &lt;0.000-0.13 µIU/mL), elevated anti-thyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) antibodies in 80% (range: 41-&gt;1,000 IU/mL), and initially negative thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibodies (TRAb/TSI) in 60% of patients. Seroconversion to positive TRAb/TSI was observed in two cases during follow-up, suggesting autoimmune overlap rather than definitive disease transition. Imaging findings, including thyroid ultrasonography and radioiodine uptake (RAI) studies, consistently favored destructive thyroiditis over stimulatory hyperthyroidism, with heterogeneous echotexture observed in 75% of assessed cases and low or normal RAI uptake in all evaluated patients.Misdiagnosis occurred in 80% of cases, predominantly due to reliance on suppressed TSH levels without TRAb confirmation, resulting in inappropriate antithyroid drug administration in 80% and accelerated hypothyroidism in 60%. Immunopathological interpretation based on existing literature supports a predominantly Th1-mediated destructive process, in contrast to the Th2-driven antibody-mediated stimulation characteristic of Graves' disease, with rare Th1-to-Th2 immune shifts reported. Clinical outcomes ranged from spontaneous resolution to surgical intervention.This case series underscores the importance of mandatory TRAb testing, adherence to American and European Thyroid Association guidelines, and early specialist referral to reduce iatrogenic harm and improve diagnostic precision in autoimmune thyroid disease.
Drug-resistant epilepsy is often associated with a neurodevelopmental disorder, focal cortical dysplasia (FCD). As demonstrated by numerous studies, defects in perisomatic inhibition may play a role in the formation of seizures. In our previous study, we observed an increase in parvalbumin-immunopositive perisomatic input. It has been observed that other perisomatic inhibitory cells expressing cannabinoid receptor type-1 (CB1R) and containing cholecystokinin (CCK) sprout in epileptic hippocampi. Therefore, we have investigated whether CB1R-immunopositive innervation has also changed in FCD. FCDIIB surgical samples were compared to controls with short post-mortem delay. The perisomatic input contacting principal cells was examined by NeuN-CB1R double immunostaining. Quantification in 3D was performed using a confocal fluorescence microscope. The results show that the CB1R-immunopositive synaptic input of principal cells is significantly larger in FCD cases. This condition may be an adaptive response to abnormal activity, or it may be a pre-existing pathology that is exacerbated by seizures. The reorganisation of the perisomatic inhibitory system has the potential to further increase the seizure probability in both cases. It should be noted that alterations in both PV- and CCK-CB1R-expressing basket cells may be implicated in seizure generation.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune disorder of the central nervous system characterized by demyelination, inflammation, and progressive neurodegeneration. Cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) plays a role in neuroprotection and modulation of inflammatory responses, making it a potential therapeutic target in MS. This study evaluated selected natural compounds as CB1 modulators using an integrated computational approach. Compounds were screened based on ADMET properties, followed by molecular docking and 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations. Berberine and curcumin demonstrated binding affinities of -7.9 kcal/mol and -9.4 kcal/mol, respectively. Key binding interactions involved residues VAL137, LEU404, PHE408, ARG405, and ARG409 for berberine, and MET363, LEU193, LEU359, TRP356, PHE189, PHE177, HIS178, PHE174, PHE379, ALA380, and SER383 for curcumin. Stability analyzes including RMSD, RMSF, secondary structure elements, and protein-ligand contacts, indicated stable complex formation. These findings suggest that berberine and curcumin may serve as potential lead candidates targeting CB1 and warrant further experimental validation in multiple sclerosis research.AJCEI Copyright © 2026.
Cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) mediate cannabinoid-induced analgesia, yet CB1-targeted therapies show poor clinical efficacy against neuropathic pain (NP). The present study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism of CB1-mediated analgesia in sensory neurons and to identify potential therapeutic targets. We established a chronic constriction injury (CCI) model in male mice and evaluated pain-related behaviors using von Frey filament and hot plate tests. Transcriptome sequencing was performed to screen differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) following CB1 conditional knockout and nerve injury, with key DEGs validated by qPCR and immunofluorescence. The transcriptional interaction between activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) was further verified using ChIP-qPCR and luciferase reporter assays.We demonstrated that sensory neuronal CB1 plays a vital analgesic role under both physiological and neuropathic conditions. CCI-induced CB1 downregulation in the DRG impairs the analgesic efficacy of CB1 agonists. Genetic deletion of CB1 in sensory neuron activates ATF3 and NPY transcription, causing persistent hyperalgesia. After nerve injury, the expression of CB1 is suppressed in DRG, while the transcription of ATF3 and NPY is activated. ATF3 translocates into the nucleus and subsequently drives the transcription of NPY. Consistently, silencing ATF3 or NPY effectively alleviated hyperalgesia induced by CCI or CB1 conditional knockout. Collectively, our results indicate that CB1 may exert analgesic effects by indirectly inhibiting the ATF3/NPY signaling cascade. Targeting ATF3/NPY signaling provides a promising alternative therapeutic strategy for neuropathic pain, overcoming the clinical limitations of conventional CB1 agonists.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonists (SCRAs) are a large group of structurally diverse designer drugs (analogues of controlled substances) associated with intense and sometimes fatal intoxication. Cardiac symptoms, including tachycardia and arrhythmia, are common consequences of SCRA consumption. However, little is known about the mechanisms through which SCRAs may perturb cardiac rhythm. Here, we used electrophysiological techniques to screen 36 SCRAs on two ion channels responsible for cardiomyocyte repolarization, hERG (also called KV11.1) and KV7.1/KCNE1. We report that the majority of tested SCRAs inhibited hERG, primarily by reducing channel conductance, and some also inhibited KV7.1/KCNE1. In silico data suggest that SCRAs may use both a known drug binding site in the central cavity of the hERG channel, shared by established hERG blockers like astemizole, and a recently identified side pocket site. Experimental and in silico data suggest SCRA structural features associated with prominent inhibitory effects on hERG, with chemical moieties allowing bond formation and/or the ability to fit into binding sites being important. Structure-activity relationships (SAR) for SCRA effects on hERG, KV7.1/KCNE1 and the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) varied, demonstrating the need to assess SCRA effects on multiple potential targets. In conclusion, we found SCRAs to be inhibitors of cardiac voltage-gated potassium channels important for cardiomyocyte repolarization, highlighting the importance of more extensive investigation of SCRAs on cardiac function.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42474488 is a review article
Dopamine receptors (DARs) are a type of evolutionarily conserved G-protein-coupled receptors, which are capable of coordinating the interactions between neuroendocrine and immune systems. However, their roles in the systemic antibacterial immune of invertebrates remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the immunomodulatory functions and the underlying mechanisms of Dopamine receptor D1-like receptor (DAR) in the process of bacterial infection in P. clarkii. In this study, it was found that the expression levels were significantly up-regulated in hemocytes, hepatopancreas, intestines, and gills post V. harveyi stimulation. Pc-DAR regulated the expression of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) genes by promoting the expression of Relish to maintain the homeostasis of the hemolymph microbiota. Moreover, Pc-DAR regulated the melanization process to clear bacteria through the phenoloxidase system. Mechanistically, the inhibition of DAR could regulate the concentrations of downstream cAMP and PKA, thereby influencing intracellular genes expression and enzymes activities. Subsequently, our results revealed that Pc-dar were involved in the cellular immune process. It executed this function by upregulating the expression of the scavenger receptor protein gene (Pc-SRB) and two small GTPases (Pc-rab 7 and Pc-rab 11), which were related to the transportation of phagosomes to lysosomes in the cytoplasm. By detecting changes in the content of antioxidant enzymes, we speculated that Pc-DAR might regulate the reactive oxygen species (ROS) balance in the body by modulating antioxidant enzymes (SOD, CAT, GST). Overall, our results revealed that Pc-DAR plays an important immunomodulatory role in crayfish. We speculated that Pc-DAR is necessary for the effective maintaining of antibacterial immune responses during bacterial infection. And its function is associated with the cAMP-PKA signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is a key component of the mesolimbic dopamine system that is implicated in several neuropsychiatric disorders. The NAc contains transcriptomically distinct medium spiny neuron (MSN) subtypes, but their spatial organization remains unclear. We generated a spatiomolecular atlas of the human NAc by integrating paired single-cell and spatial transcriptomics of postmortem NAc tissue. We identified transcriptionally unique cell populations and spatial domains (SpDs), including D1 islands composed of discrete MSN subtypes enriched for dopamine receptor D1 (DRD1) and OPRM1. We demonstrated continuous spatial gene expression gradients across the NAc and evolutionary conservation of spatial features. We also identified SpDs associated with risk for psychiatric and addiction-related traits and spatially mapped risk-associated ligand-receptor interactions. Finally, we predicted enrichment of drug-responsive transcriptional programs in both SpDs and cell types. Collectively, we provide a spatiomolecular framework for understanding the relevance of the human NAc in neuropsychiatric diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroimmune crosstalk is increasingly recognized in atherosclerosis, yet the contribution of the sympathetic neuron-macrophage axis remains unclear. We investigated whether and how sympathetic innervation promotes atherosclerosis through modulation of macrophage phenotype and function.ApoE-/- mice with or without sympathetic denervation were fed a high-fat diet to examine the role of sympathetic innervation in atherogenesis. Plaque burden and stability, inflammatory cytokine expression, macrophage phenotype, and related signaling pathways were analyzed by histopathological staining, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and Western blot. A macrophage-sympathetic neuron coculture system was used to explore neuron-macrophage interactions in vitro. The role of neuropeptide Y receptor Y1 (Y1R) was evaluated using the selective antagonist BIBO3304.Single-cell RNA sequencing and histopathological analyses supported a role for sympathetic neurons in atherosclerosis through regulation of macrophage function. Sympathetic denervation reduced lesion burden and improved plaque stability in ApoE-/- mice. In vitro, Y1R inhibition significantly attenuated proinflammatory cytokine expression in a macrophage-sympathetic neuron coculture system. In vivo, targeting Y1R with BIBO3304 reduced total atherosclerotic area and necrotic core size, decreased the proportion of proinflammatory macrophages, and enhanced plaque stability. Mechanistically, NPY/Y1R signaling promoted macrophage polarization toward a proinflammatory phenotype by activating the p38 and JNK pathways.Sympathetic signaling accelerates atherosclerosis by driving proinflammatory macrophage polarization through the NPY/Y1R axis. Targeting sympathetic inputs or Y1R may offer a therapeutic approach for suppressing vascular inflammation and promoting plaque stabilization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) in Northeast Thailand is characterized by late diagnosis and poor prognosis, creating a critical need for effective early-detection biomarkers. This study utilized a multi-omics approach to identify novel diagnostic targets and improve CCA screening. Initial serum proteomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed significant upregulation of the luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) in CCA patients, correlating with advanced disease stages. Interaction network analysis subsequently identified its circulating ligand, beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG), as a highly translatable clinical target. The protein expression of β-hCG was assessed via immunohistochemistry (IHC) in 100 tissue samples, and serum levels of β-hCG, alongside routine markers (CA19-9, AFP, and CEA), were quantified in a cohort of 405 individuals, including 153 CCA patients. IHC confirmed significantly higher β-hCG expression in tumor tissues compared to adjacent areas (p < 0.0001). Serum β-hCG levels were significantly elevated in CCA patients and correlated with tumor volume and reduced overall survival. Diagnostically, a combined multiparameter panel (β-hCG, carbohydrate antigen 19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen, and alpha-fetoprotein) yielded excellent accuracy in distinguishing CCA from healthy controls (AUC: 0.962) and hepatocellular carcinoma cases (AUC: 0.890). However, discriminatory efficiency was notably lower when differentiating CCA from benign biliary diseases (AUC: 0.680) and liver metastases (AUC: 0.705). In conclusion, activation of the LHCGR signaling axis is a novel pathophysiological feature in CCA. When integrated into a multi-marker blood panel, circulating β-hCG serves as a valuable complementary risk-stratification and prognostic tool, though further optimization is required to overcome limited specificity in the presence of confounding liver pathologies before routine clinical implementation.
Adequate renal perfusion is critical for maintaining kidney function, and its impairment contributes significantly to acute kidney injury (AKI) and related cardiovascular complications. Dopamine (DA) is clinically employed to improve renal perfusion, but its efficacy remains controversial due to paradoxical vasoconstriction at higher doses.This study systematically evaluates DA-induced vasomotor responses in human intrarenal arteries and elucidates the underlying molecular mechanisms.Human intrarenal artery segments, including interlobar (IA, ∼1 mm), arcuate (AA, ∼500 μm), and interlobular arteries (ILA, ∼200 μm), were analyzed using ex vivo tension assays, pharmacological interventions, RNA sequencing, and siRNA silencing to delineate segment-specific DA responses and molecular basis.DA (1 nM-10 µM) consistently induces vasodilation across all human intrarenal arteries, challenging the conventional notion that "renal-dose DA" causes vasoconstriction. IA and AA segments exhibit more pronounced vasodilation than ILA, mediated by dopamine receptor D1 (DRD1)-dependent protein kinase A (PKA)-BK channel signaling. Specifically, higher expression and activity of the BK channel regulatory β-subunit (KCNMB1) in IA and AA accounted for their increased sensitivity to DA. Transcriptomic profiling further identified distinct molecular heterogeneity among IA, AA and ILA segments, reflecting their divergent physiological roles. In contrast, rodent intrarenal arteries respond to DA with vasoconstriction rather than dilation, due to the lack of the BK channel pore-forming α-subunit (KCNMA1), which shifts the balance toward α-adrenergic vasoconstriction.Our study overturns the traditional paradigm of "renal-dose DA"-induced vasoconstriction, supports DRD1 agonism as a promising strategy for renal hypoperfusion, and emphasizes critical species differences that necessitate human-based validation in translational vascular research.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) is essential for Leydig cell function, gonadal steroidogenesis, and male sexual differentiation. Loss-of-function variants in LHCGR are a rare cause of 46,XY differences of sex development (DSD). We report 2 46,XY adult sisters born to consanguineous parents, who presented with primary amenorrhea and absent secondary sexual characteristics. Both exhibited tall stature, female external genitalia, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism with very low testosterone levels. Imaging revealed bilateral cryptorchid testes and absence of Müllerian structures. Both sisters underwent bilateral gonadectomy, and histopathological findings provide strong morphological support for Leydig cell hypoplasia. Genetic testing identified a novel homozygous splice-site variant (c.384-2A>G) in LHCGR, predicted to cause aberrant splicing and a loss of receptor function. These findings expand the mutational spectrum of LHCGR-related DSD, a rare cause of 46,XY DSD.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Dopamine (DA) regulates diverse physiological processes via dopamine receptors (DRs), yet the molecular activity and physiological relevance of dopamine receptor D4 paralogs in teleosts remain unclear. Here, we identified and characterized Drd4b (LcDrd4b) from Larimichthys crocea. Sequence and phylogenetic analyses supported its assignment to the DRD4 lineage. Heterologous expression in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells showed that LcDrd4b exhibited membrane-associated localization and DA-associated redistribution, reduced forskolin-stimulated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation, and activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation. Gene expression profiling revealed relatively high Lcdrd4b expression in the intestine at early reproductive stages and prominent gonadal expression at stage IV, especially in mature testes. Tyrosine hydroxylase (Lcth) showed high hepatic expression at stages II-III and a sex-related shift at stage IV. Together, these findings establish LcDrd4b as a functional DR in a marine teleost and provide a molecular basis for further studies of DA signaling in teleost physiology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Normal follicular development forms the foundation for female reproductive performance, a process critically supported by angiogenesis. However, vascular endothelial zinc finger 1 (VEZF1), a key transcription factor regulating angiogenesis, was unexpectedly found to negatively regulate the survival of porcine ovarian granulosa cells (GCs) in our previous study. This study aimed to further explore whether and how VEZF1 regulates porcine GC growth. Using cell cycle analysis, cell proliferation assays, and RNA-seq analysis, we found that VEZF1 expression was significantly downregulated during follicular development (p < 0.01). Overexpression of VEZF1 arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, reduced the proportion of S-phase cells, and inhibited cell proliferation (p < 0.05), whereas knockdown of VEZF1 exerted the opposite effects. Overexpression of VEZF1 downregulated Cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (CYP19A1), but upregulated Cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (CYP11A1) and Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR) protein expression, accompanied by increased progesterone levels. Mechanistically, VEZF1 activated the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway through upregulating luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) and adenylate cyclase 8 (ADCY8). In summary, this study demonstrated that VEZF1 acts as a negative regulator of GC proliferation, and its overexpression induces premature luteinization of GCs accompanied by the loss of proliferative activity. These findings establish VEZF1 as a key regulator of follicular development and lay the foundation for further exploring the application of VEZF1 in regulating reproductive performance in sows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastrodin (GAS) is a potent neuroprotective compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicinal herb Gastrodia elata Blume. However, its role in mitigating bisphenol A (BPA)-induced dopaminergic dysfunction and cognitive impairment remains insufficiently explored. Many studies have shown that BPA exposure causes neurodegeneration via mechanisms involving dopaminergic system dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate whether GAS mitigates the effects of BPA-induced cognitive impairment through neuroinflammation in a rat model. Weanling male Wistar rats exposed to BPA (50 µg/kg b.wt. × 30 days, po) were subsequently treated with GAS at two dose levels (30 and 60 mg/kg b.wt., ip × 7 days). After 24 h, neurobehavioral functions (Barnes maze and Y-maze tests), cresyl violet staining, and ultrastructural analysis were performed, demonstrating significant memory deficits and neuronal degeneration in BPA-exposed rats. In contrast, GAS treatment significantly improved memory impairment and reduced neuronal cell death in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). mRNA, protein, and immunohistochemical expression of inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), (Iba-1), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and nuclear factor kappa B-p65 (NFκB-p65) were significantly increased in BPA-treated rats, indicating enhanced glial activation and neuroinflammation, whereas GAS effectively attenuated these alterations. Additionally, dopaminergic markers such as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter-1/solute carrier family 6 member 3 (DAT-1/SLC6A3), and dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) were significantly downregulated following BPA exposure and were restored by GAS treatment. Overall, findings suggested that GAS exerts protection against BPA-induced neurotoxicity by suppressing NF-κB-mediated neuroinflammatory response and modulating dopaminergic signaling, thereby improving cognitive and neuronal outcomes in the PFC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Cognitive improvement is mediated by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and connectome gradient analysis has important potential to explore more comprehensive information for treatment efficacy. However, it remains unclear whether and how rTMS mediates connectome gradient reconstruction and its spatial neurotransmitter associations in subjects on the AD spectrum.A total of 84 subjects on the AD spectrum underwent 4 weeks of conventional neuronavigated rTMS targeting the left angular gyrus (20 Hz, 20 sessions over 4 weeks, 20 minutes per session), including 60 subjects with true stimulation and 24 with sham stimulation. This study identified functional connectome gradients and investigated their neuroplasticity between pre- and post-rTMS intervention. A support vector regression model was subsequently used to explore the cognitive prediction value of baseline measures. Finally, connectome‒neurotransmitter association analysis was used to investigate neurotransmitter profiles related to rTMS therapeutic efficacy.These findings showed that rTMS treatment mainly mediated the decreased gradient values in the somatomotor regions and such baseline values of these regions showed preliminary predictive value for memory improvement after treatment (R 2: 0.40-0.63, mean absolute error: 1.54-3.19, root mean square error: 1.98-3.94, p = 0.0002). Moreover, connectome-neurotransmitter association analysis suggested spatial associations between these gradient changes and normative metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5HT2a) receptor distributions.rTMS mediates plasticity in high-order metric levels in the brain and is linked to the spatial distributions of specific neurotransmitter receptors in subjects on the AD spectrum.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482371 is a review article
New psychoactive substances (NPS) are a heterogeneous group of recreational drugs that mimic the actions and psychoactive effects of existing pharmaceutical products or recreational drugs. As NPS can be highly potent, even exceeding their template compound's potency, there are frequent reports of non-fatal and fatal intoxications. One principal target for hallucinogenic and psychedelic drugs, including NPS, is the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A). Since NPS are designed to evade legal restrictions, this drug market is quickly evolving, and researchers are playing catch-up, investigating these novel compounds for their toxicological and pharmacological properties. Receptor binding affinity (Ki) is an important property describing ligand-receptor interactions and is a prerequisite for receptor activation. Competitive in vitro assays can be used to assess Ki; this is a resource-intensive process. We used publicly available Ki data for the 5-HT2A, calculated molecular descriptors and fingerprints, and trained five classification machine learning models. The predictive performance of the models had precisions and recalls up to 93% and 92%, respectively. We used explainable artificial intelligence, i.e., SHAP values and similarity maps, for model interpretation. The results are in line with previous experiments and support its suitability to predict the binding affinities of possible 5-HT2A ligands.
Methotrexate (MTX), a commonly used chemotherapeutic and immunosuppressive agent, induces dose-dependent neurotoxicity characterized by oxidative stress, glial reactivity, and dysregulation of apoptotic signaling, contributing to chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment. Agomelatine (AGO), a melatonergic melatonin receptor type 1/melatonin receptor type 2 receptor agonist and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2C antagonist, exhibits antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiapoptotic properties, suggesting potential neuroprotection. Twenty-four female Wistar rats were randomly divided into control, MTX, MTX + AGO, and AGO groups (n = 6 each). AGO (20 mg/kg/d, by mouth) was administered for 7 days, with a single MTX injection (20 mg/kg, i.p.) on day 2. Cortical tissues were examined histopathologically (Hematoxylin and Eosin), immunohistochemically (glial fibrillary acidic protein and oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2), and molecularly via RT-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) (Bcl-2-associated X protein and B-cell lymphoma 2 [BCL2]). MTX-induced marked cortical neurodegeneration, vascular hyperemia, gliosis, and parenchymal hemorrhage, accompanied by elevated glial fibrillary acidic protein and oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2 expression. MTX also increased proapoptotic Bcl-2-associated X protein and decreased antiapoptotic BCL2 expression, shifting the Bcl-2-associated X protein/BCL2 ratio toward apoptosis. AGO cotreatment significantly mitigated these alterations, preserving cortical cytoarchitecture, reducing glial activation, and restoring apoptotic balance. AGO alone upregulated BCL2 expression without histopathological abnormalities. AGO confers significant neuroprotection against MTX-induced cortical toxicity by attenuating glial reactivity and re-establishing apoptosis survival equilibrium. These findings highlight AGO as a promising adjunct therapeutic strategy for reducing chemotherapy-related neurotoxicity and improving neurological outcomes in MTX-treated patients. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Agomelatine, a clinically available melatonergic antidepressant, mitigated methotrexate-induced cortical neurotoxicity in rats by dampening astrocytic/oligodendrocytic reactivity and restoring the Bcl-2-associated X protein/B-cell lymphoma 2 apoptotic balance. These findings identify glial apoptotic homeostasis as a tractable target and support repurposing agomelatine as an adjunct to reduce chemotherapy-related neurotoxicity and potentially improve cognitive outcomes in methotrexate-treated patients.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Obesity remains a major global health challenge, and current pharmacotherapies have limitations in long-term efficacy, safety, and cost. Broccoli (Brassica oleracea L. var. italica) seeds are a rich source of sulforaphane (SFN), which has demonstrated anti-obesity effects. However, the bioavailability of SFN from broccoli seeds is limited by suboptimal conversion conditions and competing nitrile-formation pathways.This study aims to standardize a high-yield, SFN-rich broccoli seed hydrolysate (BSH), to evaluate its anti-obesity efficacy in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), and to elucidate its mechanism via molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD).SFN hydrolysis was optimized by Liquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) and High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) across pH, temperature, time, and L-ascorbic acid; 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A) binding was probed by network pharmacology, molecular docking, and 100 ns MD. HFD-fed male C57BL/6 mice (n = 6 per group) received oral broccoli seed water extract (BWE), BSH, or SFN for 8 weeks. Anti-obesity efficacy was assessed by body/tissue weights, micro-computed tomography (Micro-CT), histology, and serum lipid profiling, while 5-HT2A, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and other markers in epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) and liver were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot.SFN production from broccoli seeds was maximized under two hydrolysis regimes: short-term (pH 4 at 35°C for 2 h) and long-term (pH 5 at 25°C for 24 h). In silico analyses predicted stable binding of the sulforaphane-glutathione conjugate (SFN-GSH) to 5-HT2A. In HFD-fed mice, BSH (40-800 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently attenuated HFD-induced body weight gain (800 mg/kg vs HFD, p < 0.001). BWE 400 mg/kg and BSH 40 mg/kg showed broadly comparable effects on body weight. Furthermore, gene and protein analyses in eWAT and liver showed 5-HT2A (Htr2a) suppression, restored AMPK phosphorylation, and downregulation of lipogenic regulators. However, co-administration of the AMPK inhibitor Compound C (5 mg/kg, i.p.) with BSH abolished these BSH-induced effects. Oral administration of a sulforaphane standard (1-10 mg/kg) produced similar effects to BSH (10 mg/kg vs HFD, p < 0.01), suggesting that the anti-obesity effect of BSH is mediated primarily by SFN.In this study, SFN-rich BSH ameliorated obesity in HFD-fed mice via a peripheral 5-HT2A suppression-AMPK activation axis. However, further mechanistic clarification will require studies to more precisely define the role of 5-HT2A in adipocytes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Although neuroticism is a major risk factor for adverse health outcomes, its neural basis is obscured by inconsistent findings from studies of regional gray matter volume (GMV) correlates. This study sought to identify convergent functional brain networks underlying these heterogeneous GMV correlates using functional connectivity network mapping (FCNM), and to explore their neurochemical basis.We systematically identified 10 voxel-based morphometry (VBM) studies (N = 1,595) reporting neuroticism-associated GMV coordinates. Using resting-state fMRI data from 1,093 healthy Human Connectome Project participants, FCNM was applied to map functional connectivity patterns associated with these coordinates. Overlap with canonical networks was assessed. The Juspace toolbox explored spatial relationships between identified networks and major neurotransmitter receptor distributions.Despite spatial heterogeneity, neuroticism-related GMV changes consistently mapped onto three principal functional networks: the default mode network (DMN), frontoparietal network (FPN), and ventral attention network (VAN). These mappings were robust across varied analytical parameters. Moreover, the implicated networks demonstrated significant spatial correlation with the distributions of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A), cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1), and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5).Despite regional variability, GMV correlates of neuroticism converge on common large-scale brain networks involved in self-referential processing, cognitive control, and salience processing. Their significant spatial coupling with 5-HT2A, CB1, and mGluR5 receptor distributions suggests serotonergic, endocannabinoid, and glutamatergic modulatory mechanisms contributing to network-level alterations. This cross-modal and network-based approach provides a unified framework for understanding the biological substrates of neuroticism, reconciling prior inconsistencies, and identifying key targets for prevention or biomarker development.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Yang, Sun, Zhang, Dai, Pan and Gu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41540686 is a review article
The involvement of the serotonin system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia has been proposed for over 60 years, but there has been no prior study to test if there is altered serotonin release in vivo in schizophrenia (to the authors' knowledge).To investigate serotonin release in vivo in schizophrenia and its association with negative symptoms. It was hypothesized a priori that frontal cortex serotonin release capacity would be lower in schizophrenia compared with healthy controls and that this would be associated with more severe baseline negative symptoms.This was a single-center case-control neuroimaging study conducted in London, UK. All participants had dynamic 90-minute [11C]Cimbi-36 positron emission tomography (PET) scans at baseline and 3 hours after oral administration of d-amphetamine 0.5mg/kg. Data were collected between 2015 and 2024. Participants included stable adult outpatients with DSM-5 schizophrenia (antipsychotic free or taking antipsychotics with negligible affinity for 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A [5-HT2A] receptors) and healthy controls matched for age, sex, and body mass index.The primary neuroimaging outcome was the group difference in serotonin release capacity, prespecified as the percentage change in frontal cortex [11C]Cimbi-36 binding potential between the baseline and d-amphetamine scans.A total of 54 individuals were included, 26 with DSM-5 schizophrenia (mean [SD] age, 33.3 [9.1] years, 16 male [62%]; 21 not taking antipsychotic medication [81%]) and 28 healthy controls (mean [SD] age, 32.0 [9.5] years, 19 male [68%]). Frontal cortex serotonin release was significantly greater in the group with schizophrenia compared with healthy controls (18.0%; 95% CI, 2.5%-33.6%; P = .02; Cohen d = 0.69). In schizophrenia, greater frontal cortex serotonin release was correlated with more severe baseline negative symptoms (Brief Negative Symptom Scale: Pearson r = 0.42; P = .04) and poorer functioning (Social Functioning Scale: Pearson r = -0.42; P = .04). Exploratory analyses showed significantly greater frontal cortex serotonin release in deficit schizophrenia, characterized by primary and enduring negative symptoms, compared with healthy controls (mean difference = 32.3%; FDR-corrected P value = 0.001; Cohen d = 1.10) and nondeficit schizophrenia (mean difference = 28.9%; FDR-corrected P value = 0.004; Cohen d = 0.89). These findings were all replicated in 21 individuals with schizophrenia not taking antipsychotic medication. Baseline cortical [11C]Cimbi-36 binding (indexing baseline cortical 5-HT2A receptor levels) was unaltered in schizophrenia.This case-control study found that serotonergic dysfunction in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia was associated with negative symptoms, suggesting the regulation of serotonin release as a target to treat negative symptoms. Results of the exploratory analysis suggest particularly marked serotonergic dysfunction in the subgroup with deficit schizophrenia.
Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a common diabetic complication with a obscure and complicated pathogenesis. Here, we determined that 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2 A (5HT2AR) is selectively and pathologically elevated in the sciatic nerve (SN) tissues of late-stage DPN patients and the SN/dorsal root ganglion (DRG) tissues of late-stage DPN model mice (both type 1 and 2 diabetic mice) compared with the other 13 subtypes of 5HTR, and desloratadine (DLT) as a discovered selective antagonist of 5HT2AR ameliorated the DPN-like pathology in mice. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms, proteomic analysis was performed against the SN tissues of DPN mice and verified by assays against both the SN tissues from DPN patients and the DPN mice with specific 5HT2AR knockdown in the SN and DRG tissues by injection of the adeno-associated virus php.s-5HT2AR-RNAi. We determined the activation of the neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) that is tightly linked to the vascular dysfunction and neuroinflammation in DPN pathology. NETs regulated vascular dysfunction through NE/TF/HIF-1α/MMP-9/2 pathway, and DLT-mediated 5HT2AR inhibition suppressed NETs activation through PKC/NADPH/ROS pathway. Collectively, our findings revealed that 5HT2AR associates with NETs activation in DPN pathology and supported that pharmacological inhibition of 5HT2AR shows promising as a therapeutic strategy for DPN and DLT exhibits high potential in treating the disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
Purely cystic meningiomas are extremely rare extra-axial neoplasms that can mimic aggressive malignancies, like glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), because radiologically and intraoperatively they lack a visible solid component and demonstrate postcontrast enhancement and significant vasogenic edema. The authors present a case of a purely cystic intra-axial meningioma mimicking GBM with an accompanying systematic review of the literature.An 84-year-old female presented with expressive dysphasia. MRI revealed a 3-cm inhomogeneously enhancing intra-axial left temporal lobe mass with apparent MRI presentation of central necrosis, suggesting a high-grade glioma. Intraoperatively, the lesion appeared vascular and infiltrative like a GBM; however, histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses (somatostatin receptor 2 antigen positive, progesterone receptor positive, glial fibrillary acidic protein negative) confirmed an angiomatous meningioma (WHO grade 1). Postoperatively, the patient's symptoms resolved, and 10 years of annual follow-up MRI studies confirmed no recurrence. Only 3 other purely cystic meningioma cases (extra-axial) were identified in the literature.Cystic meningiomas are rarely GBM "imitators." Surgeons should consider cystic meningioma when classic radiological hallmarks are absent. Despite an aggressive imaging profile, these tumors are biologically and clinically benign. Gross-total resection remains the gold-standard treatment, offering excellent long-term prognosis and the potential for a permanent cure. This case highlights the need for histological tissue diagnosis before final treatment plans are considered. https://thejns.org/doi/10.3171/CASE26438.
Paltusotine is a novel, nonpeptide, once-daily oral, selective somatostatin 2 receptor (SST2) agonist. We evaluated the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and safety of oral paltusotine in healthy Japanese adults in single‑dose (20, 40, 60, 80 mg) and repeated‑dose (40 mg once daily for 7 days in a two-sequence, two‑period crossover design) studies. In addition, the effects of food intake and pharmacodynamics were examined in the repeated-dose study. Eight participants were enrolled in each dose of the single-dose study, and 12 participants were enrolled in the repeated-dose study. In both studies, there were no deaths, serious adverse events, or severe adverse events. In the single-dose study, plasma paltusotine exposures increased in a dose-dependent manner for the dose range of 20 to 80 mg (based on Cmax and AUC0-∞), and the elimination half-life (t1/2) was 24-28 h. In the repeated-dose study, similar reductions from baseline in serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-I) were observed for 1-h pre-prandial (-60.1 ± 26.0 ng/mL) and 3-h post-prandial administration (-61.6 ± 17.7 ng/mL) on Day 7. Overall, this study establishes the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and safety in healthy Japanese adults to support the development of paltusotine as a treatment for acromegaly and pituitary gigantism.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology in Drug Development published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Clinical Pharmacology.
Somatostatin receptor 2 (SSTR2) is overexpressed in neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and meningiomas. The objective of this study was to develop an SSTR2-targeted therapy to treat both tumors. We developed a humanized anti-SSTR2 monoclonal antibody demonstrating strong cancer cell binding, internalization in cancer cells, and tumor specificity, as evidenced by flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and live-animal imaging. Antibody-drug conjugates were generated by conjugating the SSTR2 mAb with potent payloads, including monomethyl auristatin F or mertansine. In vitro assessments revealed high cytotoxicity across NET subtypes and meningioma cell lines. In vivo efficacy was confirmed in two mouse models, i.e. subcutaneous NET xenografts and intracranial meningioma xenografts, where treatment inhibited proliferation, induced apoptosis and cell death, exhibited minimal toxicity, and extended survival. The mechanism of action was further elucidated through bulk RNA sequencing after treatment. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of our humanized SSTR2 mAb for targeted payload delivery in NETs and meningiomas.
Nectin-4 has emerged as a clinically relevant target in muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), primarily because of its role in antibody-drug conjugate-based therapies. However, the broader biological context of Nectin-4 expression and its association with tumor-promoting signaling pathways in MIBC remain insufficiently characterized. In this single-institution study, Nectin-4 expression (H-score 0-300) was assessed by immunohistochemistry in two independent MIBC cohorts. Associations between Nectin-4 expression and key markers related to growth signaling, metabolic regulation, and inflammation were analyzed alongside clinicopathological characteristics. Nectin-4 expression was significantly higher in malignant tissue than in non-malignant tissue (p = 0.0016 and p = 0.0302, respectively). Nectin-4 expression was not associated with demographic or clinicopathological parameters; however, a trend toward lower expression in more advanced disease stages was observed. Significant positive correlations were identified between Nectin-4 expression and protein kinase B (p = 0.0004), cytoplasmic (p = 0.0115) and membranous somatostatin receptor 2 (p = 0.0125), insulin receptor substrate 1 (p = 0.03), and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA; p = 0.0045). In contrast, a negative correlation was observed with the IL-1β/IL-1RA ratio (p = 0.0246). Although Nectin-4 expression was not significantly associated with cancer-specific or overall survival, a trend toward shorter relapse-free survival was observed in patients with lower Nectin-4 expression (p = 0.0531). In multivariate analysis, patient age, but not Nectin-4 expression, emerged as an independent prognostic factor. Although Nectin-4 expression does not appear to have independent prognostic value, its biological associations suggest that it reflects an integrated tumor-related signaling context. These findings support further investigation of Nectin-4 as part of rational, biology-driven therapeutic strategies in bladder cancer.
This patent discloses carboxamides as novel somatostatin receptor 4 (SSTR4) agonists, and they are potential treatments for SSTR4-related diseases. It provides details on the synthesis of carboxamides, pharmaceutical compositions, and the uses of such compounds in the treatment of SSTR4-related diseases.Published 2026 by American Chemical Society.
Male lactotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) are often considered more aggressive than those in women, but surgically treated cohorts are highly selected and may reflect differences in presentation and indication for surgery. We examined whether advanced clinical presentation in surgically treated lactotroph PitNETs is accompanied by distinct pathologic features. We reviewed 43 patients who underwent surgery for lactotroph PitNETs between 2018 and 2023 at a high-volume referral center. Cases were classified by surgical indication as preference for surgery/intolerance to dopamine agonists (P/I, n=26), resistance with hormonal symptoms (R/H, n=10), and resistance with mass effect (R/M, n=7). Clinical, radiologic, and pathologic parameters, including Ki-67, cytokeratin (CAM5.2), estrogen receptor, somatostatin receptor 2/5, and O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase, were compared. Postoperative endocrinological remission was assessed at the last follow-up (median: 34 mo). All tumors were prolactin-immunoreactive, confirming lactotroph differentiation. Patients in the R/M group were older (median: 56 y), predominantly male (71.4%), and had larger tumors (median: 26 mm) with more frequent cavernous sinus invasion (Knosp grade 4, 85.7%) than those in the other groups. Long-term endocrinological remission differed significantly by indication (P/I, 88.5%; R/H, 80.0%; and R/M, 0%). In contrast, Ki-67 labeling index did not differ significantly across groups (P/I, 1.3%; R/H, 1.5%; and R/M, 2.6%; P=0.598), and no clear between-group differences were identified in CAM5.2 pattern, estrogen receptor, somatostatin receptor 2/5, or O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase status. These findings suggest that the clinically most advanced surgical cases are not matched by distinct pathologic differences in the markers assessed and that the apparent aggressiveness of male-predominant mass-effect cases should not be interpreted solely as reflecting intrinsically aggressive tumor biology.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Meningiomas are the most common primary intracranial tumor in adults. Beyond surgery and radiation, no standard of care therapy exists. Meningiomas overexpress somatostatin receptor 2 (SSTR2), providing the rationale for somatostatin analogue-based therapies, including octreotide. The addition of everolimus, a mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor, to octreotide marginally improves the 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate. For this reason, novel therapies have emerged for the treatment of refractory meningiomas, including somatostatin receptor targeted radionuclide therapy. However, preliminary results with refractory meningiomas treated with single agent 177Lu-DOTATATE, a β-emitting peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT), demonstrated outcomes comparable to those observed with combination octreotide and everolimus. In contrast, in neuroendocrine tumors (NETs), octreotide combined with PRRT has shown significant prolongation of PFS compared to high-dose octreotide alone. The final analysis of the NETTER-1 trial also yielded a trend towards an improvement in median overall survival, supporting the FDA approval of 177Lu-DOTATATE in 2018 for use in NETs. We present the first case of a refractory meningioma patient treated with combination PRRT and octreotide in a 66-year-old male who received 177Lu-DOTATATE 7.4 GBq (200 mCi) and intramuscular long-acting octreotide 40 mg every 8 weeks for four cycles followed by a single cycle of octreotide 40 mg monotherapy. Treatment was discontinued due to his unfortunate death from non-treatment related causes, occurring 2.5 months from his final octreotide dose. A 7-week post-treatment MRI brain demonstrated stable disease with 11.5% reduction per RANO-Meningioma and a 2.6% reduction per RECIST 1.1 criteria. Combined PRRT and octreotide represents a promising therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory meningioma.Copyright © 2026 Yuen, Jafarvand, Kamson, Chu, Soun, Yong, Hsu, Bow, Zheng and Srinivas.
Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by enthesitis of axial and peripheral joints. Although genetic factors, bacterial infection, dysbiosis, and mechanical stress contribute to its development, the role of epigenetic regulation remains poorly understood. DNA methylation has been implicated in immune dysregulation, and the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, decitabine (DAC), has demonstrated therapeutic effects in autoimmune disease models. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of DAC in the SpA-resembling SKG/Jcl (SKG) mouse model and elucidate the immunological mechanisms.SpA-like arthritis was induced in SKG mice via intraperitoneal injection of curdlan (1,3-β-glucan aggregates). DAC (1 mg/kg) was administered weekly. Arthritis severity and histopathological changes were evaluated in the limb joints and tail, and histopathological enthesitis scores were assessed in the limb joints. Splenic T-cell profiles were analyzed by flow cytometry. CD4⁺ T cells were stimulated in vitro with DAC to assess cytokine production. To investigate epigenetic regulation, reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) and RNA-seq were performed on Achilles tendon tissue containing enthesis. Local expression of IL-17 and vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor 1 (VIPR1) in peripheral entheses was assessed by immunohistochemistry.DAC treatment significantly reduced arthritis severity and improved histopathological findings, including synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, bone erosion, and cartilage loss. Peripheral enthesitis at the Achilles tendon insertion sites was also reduced. Flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that the DAC-treated group reduced IL-17 A expression in splenic CD4⁺ T cells during the early phase (weeks 4-8) and decreased PD-1 expression in regulatory T cells (Tregs) at week 12. In vitro, DAC suppressed IL-17 A secretion and enhanced TGF-β production in stimulated splenic CD4⁺ T cells. Integrated RRBS and RNA-seq analyses identified Vipr1 as a DAC-responsive gene, showing significant hypomethylation (Δmethylation ≥ - 25%) and concordant transcriptional upregulation (log₂FC > 1) in the entheses of DAC-treated mice. Immunohistochemical analysis of the ankle entheses revealed decreased IL-17 A expression and increased VIPR1 expression.DAC ameliorated SpA in SKG mice, possibly through suppression of Th17 responses and epigenetic upregulation of Vipr1, and may be associated with improved Treg-associated regulation. These findings highlight an important role of DNA methylation in SpA pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Since cannabis use (CU) has increased substantially worldwide, understanding the neurobiological mechanisms differentiating CU from cannabis use disorder (CUD) has important public health implications. Leveraging genome-wide data available from UK Biobank, International Cannabis Consortium, the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, and the Million Veteran Program, we characterized the pleiotropy differentially linking brain structural and functional variation to CU and CUD. Specifically, we conducted linkage disequilibrium score regression, local analysis of [co]variant association, and latent causal variable analysis. Distinct patterns of global genetic correlations were observed, where CU was specifically related to default mode network-related functional activity and the functional connectivity between default mode and central executive networks, while CUD was related to functional connectivity linking default mode and salience networks and with white matter microstructure. Latent causal variable analyses suggested partial genetic causality differentially linking the functional connectivity among salience, default mode, and central executive networks to CU and CUD. Local genetic correlation analyses further identified CU and CUD-specific shared genetic architecture with brain variation related to genes involved in neurodevelopment, chromatin regulation, synaptic signaling, and white matter biology. Through gene-set enrichment analyses, we identified pathways related to brain variation converging on inflammatory response and cell activation for CU, and on cellular stress-response and immune regulation for CUD. Applying gene2drug framework, our drug-repurposing analyses identified nine molecular compounds, also including raloxifene (a cannabinoid-receptor 2 inverse agonist) and albendazole (reported to interact with cannabis smoking). Overall, these findings provide new insights into the neurobiological pathways underlying CU and its progression to CUD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aphids are major agricultural pests that cause severe crop damage. While chemical pesticides remain the dominant control strategy, their associated environmental contamination and resistance issues necessitate the development of eco-friendly biopesticides. This study employed network pharmacology and structural biology to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which Macrolactin A protects against aphids, with validation through molecular docking, 100-ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and enzymatic assays. Target prediction identified five aphid proteins as potential targets of Macrolactin A: somatostatin receptor 5 (J9JQH0), allatostatin-A receptor (J9K6V2), cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (J9JTH4), histone deacetylase Rpd3 (J9JSB6), and DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic) site lyase APEX-1 (J9K3U4). Molecular docking and MD simulations confirmed stable binding to all five targets, with binding free energies ranging from -43.18 to -14.12 kcal/mol. Enzymatic assays showed that APEX-1 activity was significantly suppressed in Rhopalosiphum padi and Hyalopterus amygdali after 24 h and 48 h exposure to 300 mg/L and 500 mg/L Macrolactin A. Concurrent bioassays demonstrated strong aphicidal efficacy against R. padi, with corrected mortalities reaching 76.00% and 86.67% at 48 h, respectively. Acute toxicity tests on the silkworm (Bombyx mori) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio) revealed low non-target toxicity (96-h LC50 > 500 mg/L). These findings demonstrate that network-pharmacology-based approaches can improve the accuracy of key target prediction in aphids, and provide an experimental foundation for developing Macrolactin A as an efficient and environmentally friendly microbial aphicide.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A series of twenty-two novel aminoalkyl indole derivatives were rationally designed and synthesized via Friedel-Crafts acylation followed by nucleophilic substitution, targeting the cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2R) as a novel approach for anticonvulsant therapy. Systematic structural optimization of the indole C-3 cycloheptanecarbonyl moiety and the N-1 aminoalkyl side chain was conducted to balance CB2R affinity, subtype selectivity, lipophilicity, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. In vitro pharmacological characterization identified compound 6d as a potent and selective CB2R agonist (EC₅₀ = 4.00 nM), with approximately 46-fold functional selectivity over CB1 receptors. In the subcutaneous pentylenetetrazole (scPTZ) seizure model, compound 6d demonstrated favorable anticonvulsant efficacy (ED₅₀ = 21.28 mg/kg, i.p.) with a high protective index (PI = 21.28), comparing favorably with the reference drug carbamazepine in both potency and safety margin. Compound 6d also exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic properties, including moderate BBB permeability (PAMPA-BBB), acceptable metabolic stability in mouse liver microsomes, sufficient brain-to-plasma exposure ratios, and negligible cytotoxicity in HepG2 cells at therapeutic concentrations. Additionally, analogue 6 g displayed moderate activity in the maximal electroshock (MES) model with a favorable safety profile. These findings indicate that the cycloheptanecarbonyl-indole scaffold represents a valuable lead structure for the development of brain-permeable, selective CB2R-targeted antiepileptic agents.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42459426 is a review article
Bronchial asthma (BA) has a complex pathogenesis involving immune imbalance and airway remodeling (AR). Cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2) plays a role in inflammation regulation, so this study explored the therapeutic potential of a CB2 inverse agonist on BA rats' AR and Th1/Th2 imbalance, and its mechanism via Toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B(TLR4/NF-κB) pathway. Twenty-seven male SD rats (180-220 g) were divided into control (CG), model (MG), and intervention (IG) groups (n=9 each). MG/IG were BA-modeled by ovalbumin (OVA) sensitization (days 1/8: 100 μg OVA +1 mg aluminum hydroxide gel, i.p.) and 1% OVA aerosol challenge (day 15, 3×/week, 8 weeks). IG received CB2 inverse agonist (5 mg/kg, i.p., 3×/week, 4 weeks); CG/MG got saline. TH1/TH2 cytokines, subsets, AR parameters, and lung TLR4/NF-κB-related molecules were detected. Compared with CG, MG had TH1/TH2 imbalance, higher AR indices, upregulated TLR4/NF-κB, shorter asthma latency, and longer attack duration. vs. MG, IG reversed TH1/TH2 imbalance, reduced TLR4/NF-κB-related protein/mRNA (except elevated NFKBIA). CB2 inverse agonist has BA prevention/treatment potential by regulating Th1/Th2 balance, inhibiting AR, and acting on the TLR4/NF-κB pathway.
The cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CB2R), primarily expressed in microglia, the brain's resident immune cells, acts as a central regulator of neuroinflammatory responses. When CB2R is activated, it triggers anti-inflammatory signaling, making it a promising target for modulating microglial function in neuroinflammatory diseases. The ketone body, β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), is gaining attention as a therapeutic agent for neurodegenerative disorders due to its ability to modulate neuroinflammation and preserve blood-brain barrier integrity. One mechanism by which BHB exerts anti-inflammatory effects is through regulation of microglial function; however, the precise mechanisms remain unclear. Since the role of BHB in this context is unexplored, we used two neuroinflammation models to test the hypothesis that CB2R-associated signaling contributes to the effects of BHB. In a mouse model of diet-induced obesity (DIO), characterized by chronic low-grade neuroinflammation, BHB treatment promoted ramified microglial morphology and enhanced debris clearance while sparing synaptic elements. These changes were accompanied by alterations in CB2R-related signaling markers and a slight increase in hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 2 (HCA2), a known BHB target. When primary microglial cultures were challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), BHB helped restore their function. However, that benefit disappeared when CB2R was pharmacologically blocked. Importantly, BHB increased the expression of arginase 1 (Arg1), a hallmark of anti-inflammatory responses, a change reversed by CB2R blockade. Moreover, BHB reduced NF-κB signaling, and CB2R inhibition attenuated this effect, suggesting that CB2R-associated signaling contributes to BHB's anti-inflammatory actions. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that BHB's anti-inflammatory effects are mediated, at least in part, through CB2R signaling, providing new insight into its therapeutic potential for neuroinflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Based on cannabinoid receptor 2(CB2R) mediated Toll-like receptor 4(TLR4) signaling pathway, this study aimed to explore the mechanism of regulating the abnormal polarization of amygdala microglia in mice with anxiety disorder by Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula. The anxiety-like mouse model was established by chronic restraint stress(CRS) 21 d and randomly divided into 6 groups of a blank group, a model group, a high-dose Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula group(10.92 g·kg~(-1)), a medium-dose Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula group(5.46 g·kg~(-1)), a low-dose Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula group(2.73 g·kg~(-1)), and a positive drug diazepam group(2 mg·kg~(-1)). The mice in each group were given intragastric administration on the 8th day of modeling. After 14 days of continuous administration, anxiety-like behavior was evaluated by open field test, elevated plus maze test, and light-dark box test. The number of proto-oncogene c-fos positive cells was detected by immunofluorescence(IF), and glutamic acid(Glu) and gamma-aminobutyric acid(GABA) were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA). Endocannabinoid system-related proteins in amygdala were detected by Western blot. Ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1(Iba-1), a marker protein of microglia in amygdala, was detected by IF, nitric oxide synthase(iNOS) and arginase 1(Arg-1) were detected by IF and Western blot, and the morphology and polarization of microglia were evaluated. Proinflammatory cytokines and anti-inflammatory cytokines were detected by Western blot to evaluate the amygdala inflammation. The protein associated TLR4 signaling pathway was detected by Western blot to evaluate the activation of the TLR4 pathway. The results showed that both Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula and diazepam could significantly improve the anxiety-like behavior of CRS-induced mice, and could increase the center distance and center time in open field test to varying degrees, improve OE% and OT% in the elevated plus maze test, and increase the time spent and distance traveled in the light compartment in the light-dark box test. At the same time, the level of c-fos in amygdala can be significantly reduced and the over-activation of amygdala neurons can be alleviated by Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula. The CB2R feedback protein increase induced by CRS was significantly inhibited by Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula. It also significantly reduced the excessive activation of microglia in amygdala, restored the balance of M1/M2 polarization, and inhibited the production of inflammatory cytokines. The expression of TLR4 pathway-related proteins can be down-regulated. Therefore, Baidi Jielv Anshen Formula may inhibit the TLR4 signaling pathway by activating CB2R, restore the polarization balance of microglia, inhibit neuroinflammation, improve the over-activation of amygdala, and play an anti-anxiety role.
Cannabinoids, including the psychoactive D9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and the non-psychoactive cannabidiol (CBD), interact with receptors within the endocannabinoid system. The major receptors within this system are CNR1 (cannabinoid receptor 1) and CNR2 (cannabinoid receptor 2), which are both seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptors. In this report, we used the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancers (COSMIC) to map and analyze mutations arising in CNR1 and CNR2. The goal was to determine if any trends or signatures could be identified. We identified several mutations in both CNR1 and CNR2. In silico 3D structure of proteins reveals that these mutations cluster on the intracellular regions of CNR1 and CNR2, and certain residues may be able to destabilize the interaction with the G-alpha protein due to their close proximity. mRNA expression showed that CNR1 and CNR2 are within normal expression levels in most cancer types except kidney, where there is a tendency towards over-expression. Neither CNR1 nor CNR2 is a driver gene, and our analysis shows that mutations in cancer cells are deactivating (e.g., loss of function).
This preliminary study aimed to investigate whether passive oscillatory body motion (PBM), a mechanical stimulus that reproduces vertical accelerations comparable to those generated during treadmill running, could activate the β-endorphin (β-END)-related hypothalamus-periaqueductal gray (PAG) pathway and alleviate fracture-induced pain.A murine fracture model was established in C57BL/6J mice by inducing a left tibial fracture followed by 3 weeks of immobilization. Mice were randomly divided into a PBM group and a control group, and PBM was initiated the day after fracture (±5 mm amplitude, 2 Hz, 30 min/day, 5 days/week, for 3 weeks). To measure pain thresholds, paw withdrawal thresholds were measured in an unblinded manner using the von Frey filament test. β-END immunoreactivity and opioid receptor mu 1 (Oprm1) mRNA in the PAG, as well as pro-opiomelanocortin (Pomc) mRNA expression in the hypothalamus, were analyzed by immunofluorescence and qPCR, respectively.PBM significantly increased the paw withdrawal threshold ratio (p < 0.001) and β-END immunoreactivity (p = 0.02) in the PAG. Moreover, as an exploratory observation, Pomc mRNA expression tended to increase in the PBM group (p = 0.07), whereas Oprm1 mRNA expression did not differ between the two groups (p = 0.69).This preliminary study provides initial evidence that PBM may attenuate fracture-induced pain-related behaviors and increase β-END immunoreactivity in the PAG, possibly via the hypothalamus-PAG pathway. PBM may represent a potential exercise-mimetic approach for pain relief, although further studies are needed to confirm its efficacy and underlying mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with a dismal prognosis, characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and rapid development of chemoresistance. The present study investigated the histamine receptor H1 (HRH1), a G protein-coupled receptor, and its functional interplay with the transcriptional coactivator YAP1, a known driver of PDAC progression. Through integrated multi-omics analysis of data from TCGA, ICGC and GEO cohorts, the present study found that HRH1 was consistently overexpressed in PDAC, and its expression correlated with poor prognosis. Mendelian randomization analysis further suggested a causal relationship between the use of fexofenadine, an HRH1 antagonist, and a reduced risk of PDAC. Mechanistically, the present study identified a positive feedback loop in which HRH1 stabilizes and activates YAP1 signaling, while YAP1 knockdown downregulates HRH1 transcription, potentially through direct binding to the HRH1 promoter region. The present study constructed a prognostic model based on the HRH1-YAP1 axis by integrating a panel of 101 machine learning algorithms. The model, which includes HRH1, YAP1, ECT2, ITGB5, SHCBP1, MAML2, YWHAZ and ITGA2, effectively stratified patients into groups with differential risk. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited characteristics associated with worse outcomes, including KRAS mutations, chemoresistance, an immunosuppressive microenvironment and reduced responsiveness to immunotherapy. The present study establishes HRH1 as a novel therapeutic target in PDAC and proposes the repurposing of fexofenadine as a promising strategy to disrupt the oncogenic HRH1-YAP1 feedback loop.Copyright: © 2026 Chen and Wen.
To identify potential biomarkers of atrial fibrillation (AF) using bioinformatics, machine learning (ML) and experimental methods.AF transcriptomic data were obtained from the GEO and MSigDB databases to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and inflammation-related gene sets (IRGs). The overlap between DEGs and IRGs was used to identify the DE-IRGs set. Two machine learning algorithms were used to filter AF-related DE-IRGs. Twelve male SD rats were randomly divided into a control group and an AF group. Rats received acetylcholine (66 μg/mL) and calcium chloride (10 mg/kg) via tail vein injection for five consecutive weeks to establish the AF model. Morphological characteristics of atrial myocytes were assessed with HE staining, while RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to measure changes in mRNA and protein levels.In the training set, 119 DEGs were identified, with IRGs showing the highest correlation with two co-expression modules (r = 0.60 and 0.56, P < 0.0001). The intersection of DEGs and IRGs yielded nine DE-IRGs. The SVM-RFE and RF algorithms identified 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2B gene (HTR2B), latent-transforming growth factor beta-binding protein 2 gene (LTBP2), matrix remodeling associated protein 5 gene ( MXRA5), and transforming growth factor β-induced protein gene (TGFBI) as highly expressed in both the training and test sets in AF groups with high diagnostic efficacy (AUC > 0.77). The electrocardiogram limb leads of AF rats showed numerous f-waves. HE staining revealed disorganized atrial myocyte arrangement and inflammatory cell infiltration in the AF group. The TUNEL fluorescence assay showed an apoptosis rate of (55.34 ± 4.29)% in the AF group, compared to (8.69 ± 3.12)% in the control group (P = 0.0001). There were statistically significant differences in the relative expression levels of LTBP2 and TGFBI between the AF group (4.97 ± 4.20, 2.62 ± 1.85) and the control group (1.12 ± 0.21, 1.18 ± 0.77) (P = 0.0137, P = 0.0444). IHC revealed positive rates of LTBP2 and TGFBI proteins in the AF group of (36.50 ± 1.31)% and (27.39 ± 4.57)%, respectively, compared to (22.95 ± 2.62)% and (18.26 ± 3.70)% in the control group (P = 0.0008, P = 0.0485).The characteristic genes LTBP2 and TGFBI are highly expressed in AF and serve as valuable diagnostic biomarkers.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352256 is a review article
Obesity and related metabolic disorders represent major global health challenges, highlighting the importance of understanding the central regulation of energy homeostasis. The melanocortin system is a conserved circuitry governing food intake and other neuroendocrine processes. Within this system, the melanocortin-3 receptor (MC3R) regulates energy and glucose balance, body composition, and linear growth in rodent models, with evidence of sexually dimorphic expression and function. Whether MC3R exerts similar sex-specific effects in humans remains unclear, largely due to the rarity of loss-of-function (LoF) variants. We analysed data from the UK Biobank (UKB), a population-based study comprising 500,000 individuals, to investigate the phenotypic consequences of the rare MC3R LoF variant rs143321797 (p.F45S). Using the largest UKB whole-genome sequencing dataset to date, we performed comprehensive phenotypic analyses, including the first sex-stratified assessment of this variant. Carriage of the MC3R p.F45S variant was associated with differences in adult stature and the timing of sexual maturation. Though the variant was not associated with increased risk of obesity or metabolic disease, carriers exhibited an altered adipose tissue distribution profile characterised by relatively greater subcutaneous fat deposition. Our findings independently validate the role of MC3R in human stature and sexual maturation and identify a previously unreported association with adipose tissue distribution. The absence of increased obesity or metabolic disease risk in MC3R p.F45S carriers of this study, together with a subcutaneous-biased adipose distribution, suggests that MC3R may influence metabolic health through regulation of adipose tissue distribution rather than overall adiposity.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Appetite regulation is a complex yet vital concept, with several pathways conserved throughout evolution that are still to be fully understood. Appetite, or the drive to search for and consume food, is driven by the integration of different food and environmental cues, as well as internal state. It is dynamically managed by intricate systems that can be broadly categorized into homeostatic (driven by physiological energy needs) and hedonic feeding (driven by pleasure and reward). This review compiles and analyzes recently described and unconventional mechanisms of appetite control in mammals, detailing their underlying molecular pathways and neural circuit integration, and implications for drug discovery. The hypothalamus plays a vital role in this, serving as the main hub for appetite control, integrating peripheral hormonal and neural signals to maintain energy balance and where several pathways converge. Beyond the established hypothalamic Arcuate Nucleus (ARC) circuit, key regulators examined include neuropeptides like Orexin A, Oxyntomodulin, PACAP, and Galanin, alongside key receptor systems such as the Melanocortin-3 receptor (MC3R), the Endocannabinoid (ECS) and the Endorphin Systems. We also explore the roles of the NUCB2/nesfatin-1 pathway and amino acid transporters (SLCs). These examinations resulted in a blurred vision of the distinction between homeostatic and hedonic regulation, with pathways converging on the hypothalamus as well as the mesolimbic reward system. Understanding this interconnected regulatory network is vital for improving therapies for disorders such as obesity, anorexia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder. This comprehensive knowledge paves the way for the development of targeted, precision medicine, or the implementation of multi-target compounds.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Glucocorticoid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head (GIONFH) is a progressive and disabling disease caused by the prolonged use of glucocorticoids. Accumulating evidence has established an association between hyperactivated osteoclasts and pathological bone erosion in GIONFH. Expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2b (Htr2b), a canonical serotonin receptor, is upregulated during osteoclast maturation. Nevertheless, the underlying mechanisms governing this phenomenon, especially in relation to GIONFH, remain unexplored. In this study, the expression of Htr2b in osteoclast precursor cells (OPCs) treated with dexamethasone (DEX) was assessed using RNA sequencing. Functional validation was subsequently performed through siRNA-mediated knockdown and RS-127445-mediated pharmacological inhibition of Htr2b. Based on the developmental physiological features of the murine femoral head, we developed an innovative GIONFH model using six-month-old C57BL/6J mice and subjected them to an RS-127445 therapeutic intervention. RNA sequencing revealed significant upregulation of Htr2b expression in DEX-stimulated hyperactive osteoclasts. In vitro results demonstrated that Htr2b inhibition impeded osteoclast hyperactivation under DEX stimulation by suppressing nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (Nfatc1) expression and nuclear translocation. At the mechanistic level, Htr2b inhibition interfered with calcium oscillation and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, thereby ceasing osteoclastogenesis. In vivo, integrated micro-CT and histomorphometry analyses revealed that RS-127445 (10 mg/kg) rescued methylprednisolone (MPS)-induced bone destruction and vascular damage in the femoral head by inhibiting osteoclast activity and promoting vascular formation. Our findings highlight the positive role of Htr2b in osteoclastogenesis exposed to glucocorticoids, suggesting that Htr2b is a novel therapeutic target for early pathological changes of GIONFH.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The melanocortin system plays a central role in regulating hunger and satiety, making it an attractive target for treating metabolic disease. However, the limited clinical success of selective melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) agonists has prompted investigation into whether concurrent melanocortin-3 receptor (MC3R) and MC4R activation may more effectively engage this pathway for the treatment of general obesity. Here we show that selective MC3R agonism modulates food intake in a state-dependent manner, and that co-agonism of MC3R and MC4R produces greater metabolic effects than selective MC4R agonism alone, consistent with non-redundant and cooperative roles. Using novel peptides in male nonhuman primates and rodents, we develop 710GO, an orally available MC3R/MC4R dual agonist that induces significant weight loss in primates with diet-induced obesity. Oral 710GO demonstrates limited weight rebound, compatibility with GLP-1-based therapies, and a favorable preclinical safety profile. These findings support combined MC3R/MC4R agonism as a promising approach for next-generation obesity therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aim: This study investigates the anticancer activity of naphthalene- and ferrocene-based 2-pyrazolines against colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines and assesses their potential to overcome chemotherapy resistance. Methods: Several 2-pyrazoline derivatives were synthesized and tested for anticancer activity across various cell lines, including p53 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) colon cancer cells and vinblastine-resistant KB-V1 cervix carcinoma cells. Compounds Clac10 (5c) and Clac12 (5e) were studied for their effects on colony and spheroid formation, cell cycle, and apoptosis. Molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assays explored their binding to histamine receptor H1 (HRH1). In vivo antitumor efficacy was tested on HCT116 xenografts in NSG mice. Results: Compounds Clac10 and Clac12 significantly inhibited the proliferation of both p53 WT and KO colon cancer cells, as well as drug-resistant KB-V1 cells. When combined with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), they showed synergistic antiproliferative effects in HCT and DLD1 cells. These compounds reduced colony and spheroid formation, induced cell cycle arrest, and promoted apoptosis by downregulating cyclin D1 and antiapoptotic proteins [B-cell lymphoma-extra large (Bcl-XL), B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), myeloid cell leukemia 1 (Mcl-1)]. Molecular docking and thermal shift assays confirmed binding to HRH1, affecting histamine-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3B) signaling. In vivo, Clac10 significantly reduced HCT116 xenograft growth, decreased Ki-67 and phosphorylated-glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (p-GSK3B) levels, and increased cleaved caspase-3. Conclusion: Naphthalene-based 2-pyrazoline compounds Clac10 and Clac12 showed a potent anticancer activity against colon cancer lines. They inhibit tumor growth by targeting HRH1 signaling, indicating potential as CRC therapies and resistance-overcoming agents. Further studies are needed to explore their clinical potential.© The Author(s) 2026.
Melatonin use quintupled in recent decades. The common melatonin receptor 1B gene (MTNR1B) variant increases risk of type 2 diabetes, raising concerns about melatonin's adverse metabolic effects and highlighting the need for a genotype-based personalized approach. We aimed to comprehensively characterize the actions of melatonin on glucose homeostasis, including first- and second-phase β-cell responsivity to glucose, β-cell negative feedback by exogeneous insulin, insulin sensitivity, and whether such effects are stronger in MTNR1B G-allele risk carriers compared with noncarriers.Twenty-one healthy participants of European ancestry were studied in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial, including 10 MTNR1B risk carriers and 11 noncarriers. Each participant underwent a highly controlled 5-day laboratory protocol, during which they received 5 mg oral melatonin or placebo in randomized order on two nonconsecutive days. Glycemic dynamics were assessed using insulin-modified intravenous glucose tolerance tests with minimal-model analysis.Melatonin worsened glucose tolerance and reduced early C-peptide responses in risk allele carriers (vs. placebo: 11.7% [95% CI 1.0-22.3] and -19.2% [-33.9 to -1.2], respectively; Padj < 0.05) but not in noncarriers. In carriers, impairments stemmed from a 40% (-52.4 to -24.3; Padj = 0.0003) suppression of glucose-stimulated first-phase β-cell responsivity, along with a slower insulin-induced decline in second-phase insulin secretion rate (64.3% [23.1-119.2]; Padj = 0.001). In carriers, melatonin also prevented exogenous insulin-induced hypoglycemia compared with placebo (zero vs. seven events, P = 0.001), but not in noncarriers.These findings identify blunted β-cell responsivity to glucose and dysregulated insulin negative feedback as key mechanisms linking melatonin signaling to diabetes risk.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic autoimmune disease primarily characterized by symmetrical synovial inflammation, leading to joint swelling, pain, and progressive cartilage and bone destruction. Unfortunately, the clinical treatment of RA still faces numerous challenges. Although melatonin (MT), the circadian rhythm hormone, is known to relieve the pathological process of RA, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Herein, we assess the impacts of MT on collagen or K/BxN serum-induced arthritis (two well-established models of RA) and confirm its excellent therapeutic effect. Mechanistically, MT activates MTNR1A (melatonin receptor 1A) to promote mitophagy for the elimination of reactive oxygen (ROS) and leaked mitochondrial DNA triggered by damaged mitochondria, which in turn limits NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Mice with deletion of the autophagy-related gene Atg5 in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2/LysM-cre) barely display any benefits of MT in K/BxN serum-induced arthritis. Our results indicate that mitophagy promoted by MT is essential to deactivate NLRP3 inflammasome and alleviate the development of arthritis, which provides a candidate for the treatment of RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG5: autophagy releated 5; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow derived macrophages; BV:TV: bone volume to tissue volume; CASP1: caspase 1; CYCS: cytochrome c; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GSDMD: gasdermin D; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL18: interleukin 18; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MT: melatonin; MTNR1A: melatonin receptor 1A; MTNR1B: melatonin receptor type 1B; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mt-DNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NT-GSDMD: N-terminal gasdermin D; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; Ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKAA/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen; SD: standard deviation; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a complex pregnancy disorder associated with early placental hypoxia, oxidative stress, and impaired angiogenic signaling. Melatonin and soluble tumor necrosis factor like weak inducer of apoptosis (sTWEAK) contribute to antioxidant and vascular pathways, whereas their receptors, melatonin receptor 1A (MTNR1A), melatonin receptor 1B (MTNR1B), and fibroblast growth factor-inducible 14 (Fn14), may be subject to epigenetic regulation. This study assessed serum melatonin and sTWEAK levels in parallel with promoter methylation of MTNR1A, MTNR1B, and Fn14 in early gestation.A mixed design cohort was recruited between 13 and 20 weeks of gestation. A total of 198 pregnant women were categorized as pregnant control, high risk, or preeclamptic at enrollment time. Serum melatonin and sTWEAK were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Promoter methylation of MTNR1A, MTNR1B, and Fn14 was assessed using methylation-specific PCR with semi quantitative densitometry.Serum sTWEAK levels were significantly lower in high-risk and preeclamptic women, whereas melatonin levels showed a downward trend without reaching statistical significance. Promoter methylation of MTNR1A and Fn14 was elevated in both high-risk and preeclamptic groups, whereas MTNR1B showed no notable differences. Multivariate analysis revealed that lower sTWEAK (OR 0.837; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.782-0.896; p < 0.001) and higher Fn14 methylation (OR 0.935; 95% CI 0.882-0.992; p = 0.027) were independently associated with hypertensive outcomes.  Additionally, higher Fn14 methylation in early pregnancy was observed in high-risk women who later developed hypertensive disorders.Early pregnancy hypermethylation of MTNR1A and Fn14, but not MTNR1B, was observed in high-risk and PE women and co-occurred with a significantly reduced sTWEAK level and non-significantly reduced serum melatonin, suggesting epigenetic modulation of antioxidant and angiogenic pathways in women at risk for PE. These findings establish associations rather than causation and require validation using quantitative assays in multicenter cohorts before clinical translation.© 2026 University College London (UCL) and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype with high metastatic potential and limited treatment options. Natural killer (NK) cells represent a promising immunotherapy strategy due to their innate tumor-killing capacity, but their efficacy against TNBC remains limited. We found that TNBC cells, particularly the mesenchymal-like subtype, exhibited greater resistance to NK cells compared to non-TNBC cells. Mechanistic studies indicate that TNBC cells' survival in response to NK cells occurs in three phases. First, within 1 h of NK cell co-culture, TNBC cells accumulate reactive oxygen species (ROS), which upregulate C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) and interleukin 8 (IL8) expression in an NF-κB- and ERK/JNK-AP-1-dependent manner. Second, secreted CXCL1/IL8 binds to C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1/2 (CXCR1/2), activating the AKT-BCL-2 pathway to enhance cancer cell survival and suppress NK cell function by downregulating NKG2D, TRAIL, and IFN-γ expression. Third, CXCL1/IL8-CXCR1/2 autocrine loop further amplifies their own synthesis and induces programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression via NF-κB and ERK/JNK-AP-1 pathways. High CXCL1/IL8 expression correlates with reduced NK cell infiltration and shorter distant-metastasis-free survival in breast cancer patients. Combinatorial application of CXCR1/2 inhibitor with anti-PD-L1 antibody can overcome NK cell dysfunction and reduce TNBC metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Circadian rhythms not only coordinate the timing of wake and sleep but also regulate homeostasis within the body, including glucose metabolism. The genetic variants that contribute to the temporal control of glucose levels have not been previously examined. Using genome-wide data from ~420,000 individuals from the UK Biobank and replication in ~100,000 individuals from the Estonian Biobank, ~500,000 from FinnGen, ~160,000 from the VA Million Veteran Program, and ~52,000 from the MGB Biobank, we show that glucose levels are under diurnal genetic control. We discover a robust temporal association of glucose levels at the Melatonin receptor 1B (MTNR1B, rs10830963, P = 1×10-22) and a canonical circadian pacemaker gene Cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) loci (rs12419690, P = 1×10-16). Furthermore, we show that sleep modulates glucose levels, and the genetic variants have an independent role in diurnal glucose control. Finally, we show that these variants independently modulate risk of type 2 diabetes and that sleep medications including melatonin associate with type 2 diabetes. Our findings, together with earlier genetic and epidemiological evidence, show a clear connection between sleep and metabolism and highlight genetic variation at MTNR1B and CRY2 in the control of diurnal glucose levels.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gastric cancer (GC) tumor microenvironment (TME) constitutes a complex and dynamic ecosystem in which immune, stromal, and malignant cells (MCs) collectively shape therapeutic responses. The dynamics of GC TME remodeling in different treatment contexts remain unclear. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of GC biopsy specimens from treatment-naïve patients (TN) and patients treated with chemotherapy (C), chemotherapy plus nivolumab (CN), or chemotherapy plus trastuzumab (CT), and found that CN treatment enhanced natural killer (NK)/T cell-associated immunogenicity in GC TMEs. In CN TMEs, MCs upregulate MHC-I- and inflammation-related genes. Conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1), one subcluster of dendritic cells (DCs), concurrently exhibited activation of antigen-presentation and T cell-stimulatory programs, indicating intensified communication between NK/CD8+ T cells and cDC1 in the CN TMEs. The cell-cell interaction analyses uncovered an intensified X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 1 (XCL1) - X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (XCR1) chemotactic axis linking NK/CD8+ T cells and cDC1, highlighting the formation of "the MCs-cDC1-NK/CD8+ T cells circuit" to reinforce antitumor immunity in the CN TMEs. Furthermore, a reduced cytotoxic NK sub-cluster, which showed high XCL1 expression, was enriched among CN responders, and its transcriptional signature was significantly correlated with favorable survival in the Cancer Genome Atlas GC cohort. Our findings delineate an immunostimulatory circuit driven by NK/CD8+ T-DCs-MCs interactions to orchestrate the immune cycle under CN therapy in GC TMEs.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Transdifferentiation of alveolar type 2 (AT2) epithelial cells into alveolar type 1 (AT1) cells is essential for maintaining lung homeostasis and facilitating repair following injury. However, the molecular mechanisms governing AT2-to-AT1 transdifferentiation remain unclear.To investigate the role of the prostaglandin I2 receptor (IP) in regulating AT2-to-AT1 transdifferentiation and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.Alveolar organoid cultures and bleomycin- or lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced murine lung injury models were used to assess the role of IP in AT2-to-AT1 transdifferentiation and lung repair. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), ATAC-seq, and biochemical assays were performed to explore the regulatory signaling pathways downstream of IP in AT2 cells.Among all prostaglandin receptors, IP exhibited the strongest association with AT1 gene enrichment in transitional AT2 cells from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Pharmacological inhibition or genetic deletion of IP significantly impaired the AT2-to-AT1 transition in organoid cultures. Conditional knockout of IP in AT2 cells exacerbated bleomycin- and LPS-induced lung injury by reducing epithelial regeneration and increasing fibrosis. Mechanistically, IP deficiency led to aberrant JUN activation, which suppressed p53-dependent AT1 gene expression. IP activation promoted PKA-mediated inhibition of MAP3K5, thereby suppressing the JNK/JUN axis and enhancing p53-driven AT2-to-AT1 transdifferentiation. Pharmacological activation of IP with selexipag promoted alveolar epithelial regeneration and reduced lung fibrosis in mice. IP agonist also enhanced AT2-to-AT1 transdifferentiation in primary AT2 cells from patients with IPF.IP is a key regulator of alveolar epithelial regeneration. Therapeutic activation of IP may be a promising strategy for promoting lung repair.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Sleep is regulated by a homeostatic process that increases sleep propensity with time spent awake and a circadian process that determines when most sleep occurs during the 24-h circadian cycle. While several factors mediate homeostatic regulation of sleep in a partially redundant manner, circadian regulation of sleep is abolished in zebrafish that lack melatonin, indicating that melatonin is indispensable for circadian regulation of sleep in this diurnal species. However, the mechanisms through which melatonin promotes sleep are unclear. Here, we show that melatonin is both necessary and sufficient for sleep in zebrafish due to signaling via melatonin receptor 1a paralogs. We found that these receptors are highly expressed in neurons that receive and process visual information and that melatonin suppresses behavioral responses to visual stimuli. These results indicate that circadian regulation of sleep is implemented, at least in part, by the suppression of responses to environmental stimuli, which is an essential feature of sleep.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
First-episode psychosis during pregnancy (FEP-PW) is a rare but serious condition that intersects maternal mental health and placental-fetal biology. While psychosis is characterized by disruptions in perception and cognition, its impact on placental neuroendocrine signaling and fetal development remains poorly understood. The placenta, as a key mediator of intrauterine environment, expresses receptors involved in neurotransmission and stress response, potentially linking maternal psychopathology to fetal neurodevelopmental risk.This study investigates the expression of five critical neuroendocrine and stress-related molecules-dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2), serotonin receptor 1B (HTR1B), glucocorticoid receptor (NR3C1), 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (HSD11B2), and melatonin receptor 1B (MTNR1B)-in placental tissue from women with FEP-PW compared to healthy pregnant controls (HC-PW).Using a prospective case-control design, placental samples from 22 FEP-PW and 20 HC-PW women were analyzed. Gene expression was quantified by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and protein localization and abundance assessed via immunohistochemistry (IHC).Significant alterations in placental gene and protein expression were observed in FEP-PW placentas: DRD2, NR3C1, and HSD11B2 were markedly upregulated (all p < 0.001 at gene and protein levels), whereas HTR1B and MTNR1B were significantly downregulated compared to controls (p < 0.05, p < 0.01 respectively at gene level and p < 0.01, p < 0.001 at protein level). These findings indicate dysregulated dopaminergic, serotonergic, glucocorticoid, and melatonin signaling pathways in the placenta associated with maternal psychosis.Our results provide novel evidence of distinct placental molecular adaptations in FEP-PW, reflecting heightened maternal stress and disrupted neurohormonal environments. These alterations may contribute to adverse placental function and influence fetal neurodevelopmental trajectories, underscoring the placenta's role as a critical mediator in the maternal-placental-fetal axis in psychiatric disorders. Further research is needed to clarify the functional consequences and explore these molecules as potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets in perinatal psychiatry.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The biodistributions of radiometalated peptides and small molecules are greatly influenced by the charge conferred by the metal-chelator complex. Careful fine-tuning of this charge thus represents an attractive method to optimise pharmacokinetic properties. For this to be an effective strategy, numerous suitable chelators must be available for a given radiometal; each possessing a different net charge. Herein we report the synthesis of 2-(4,7,10-tris(2-amino-2-oxoethyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecan-1-yl)pentanedioic acid (DOTAMGA), a bifunctional chelator for the 203/212Pb theranostic pair containing a single negative charge, previously unattainable with reported radiolead chelators. DOTAMGA was incorporated into a radiopharmaceutical targeting the melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R), a receptor highly expressed by melanomas, and evaluated in vivo against the commonly used radiolead chelator 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic amide (TCMC).DOTAMGA was synthesised and conjugated to the MC1R targeting peptide MC1RL for subsequent investigation alongside TCMC-MC1RL. DOTAMGA-MC1RL and TCMC-MC1RL exhibited comparable affinity for MC1R in a series of competition binding assays with MC1R expressing cells. DOTAMGA-MC1RL was effectively labelled with 212Pb and 203Pb under standard radiolabelling conditions, and UV-Vis experiments demonstrated more rapid Pb2+ complexation than TCMC-MC1RL. Both 212Pb-labelled compounds remained > 90% intact after 24 h incubation in human serum. In B16F0 melanoma bearing C57BL/6 mice, DOTAMGA-MC1RL exhibited reduced hepatic uptake compared to TCMC-MC1RL, though a reduction in tumour uptake and resulting tumour to organ uptake ratios were also observed.DOTAMGA represents a promising tool to optimise the pharmacokinetic properties of 203/212Pb radiopharmaceuticals, and is a useful addition to existing radiolead chelators on account of its unique charge.© 2026. The Author(s).
Melanocyte-preferential drug delivery remains challenging due to limited targeting strategies for pigmentary disorders. Here, melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R)-targeted liposomes (MELA-lipos) functionalized with melanotropic peptides are developed for melanocyte-directed delivery. Peptide-lipid conjugation is confirmed through multidimensional NMR spectroscopy and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. γ-MSH-conjugated MELA-lipo (MELA-lipoγ-MSH) shows threefold enhanced cellular uptake in B16F10 melanoma cells compared to bare liposomes, with internalization occurring through lipid raft-dependent endocytosis and macropinocytosis. Tri-culture experiments demonstrate melanocyte-preferential uptake over keratinocytes and fibroblasts. α-Arbutin-loaded MELA-lipoγ-MSH achieves 52.3% melanin inhibition and sustained tyrosinase suppression (25.4% at 72 h) in cell culture. In reconstructed human skin models, MELA-lipoγ-MSH results in melanin reduction and decreased tyrosinase expression. These findings indicate that MC1R-targeted liposomal delivery achieves melanocyte-preferential internalization and anti-melanogenic efficacy, suggesting translational potential in the topical management of pigmentary disorders and cosmetic depigmentation applications.
Understanding the architecture of biological adaptations is a major endeavor of evolutionary biology. Using Natural History collections, we study the genetic basis and evolution of white/brown winter coat color variation in the long-tailed weasel (Neogale frenata), a crucial phenological adaptation for camouflage in habitats with seasonal snow. We produced whole-genome sequencing data for museum specimens, along two winter color morph transition areas in North America, at the West and East coasts. Genome-wide association scans identified a single genomic region linked to color variation polymorphism with approximately 300 kb and 200 kb in the West and East regions, respectively, which included the pigmentation gene MC1R. We identified three MC1R alleles, two of which with deletions of nine or eight amino acids, alternatively associated with the winter brown morphs in the West and East, respectively. These deletions affect the second transmembrane domain, and in one case also the first extracellular loop, which in silico analyses predicted to impact the protein's function. Our findings show alternative intraspecific evolutionary solutions for environmental adaptation in long-tailed weasels, building on the evidence that major genes of the melanin production pathway are hotspots for recurrent and independent evolution of winter camouflage adaptation. This adaptive variation may be crucial to anchor adaptive responses facing future environmental change.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE). All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Stage IIB-IIC cutaneous melanomas carry a substantial risk of recurrence and disease-related mortality despite complete surgical excision, highlighting the need for reliable prognostic biomarkers. We retrospectively analyzed 153 patients with stage IIB-IIC cutaneous melanoma who underwent surgery at the Instituto Valenciano de Oncología between May 2000 and August 2024. Recurrence-free survival (RFS), disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival (OS) were estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. Associations between clinicopathologic and molecular characteristics and survival outcomes were assessed by log-rank test and Cox proportional hazards models. At a median follow-up of 81.6 months, median RFS, DFS, and OS were 43, 31, and 50 months, respectively. In univariate analyses, both telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) promoter mutations [hazard ratio = 0.38, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.18-0.8, P = 0.008] and the absence of melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) variants (hazard ratio = 0.38, 95% CI = 0.16-0.91, P = 0.024) were significantly associated with RFS. In multivariate analyses, only TERT promoter mutations remained an independent predictor of both RFS (hazard ratio = 0.44, 95% CI = 0.20-0.96, P = 0.038) and DFS (hazard ratio = 0.47, 95% CI = 0.24-0.93, P = 0.030). Patients harboring TERT promoter mutations exhibited significantly poorer survival outcomes compared with those with wild-type TERT promoter status. Combined analysis supported the contrasting prognostic roles of TERT and MC1R. Our findings identify TERT promoter mutations as an independent prognostic factor and suggest a potential protective role of MC1R variants in stage IIB-IIC cutaneous melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
The melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) is a pro-resolving anti-inflammatory target under clinical development for scleroderma, arthritis, light intolerance or melanoma prevention. Genetic diversity at MC1R is high in certain populations, with some variants associated with loss-of function (LoF) resulting in red hair and poor tanning response. However, how these variants influence the anti-inflammatory efficacy of drug candidates targeting MC1R is unknown. We analysed the impact of 30 variants on receptor signalling (cAMP and phospho-ERK) and the anti-inflammatory response to nine agonists on the whole-blood assay on healthy volunteers. LoF presents as a continuum rather than as a binary characteristic (benign/pathogenic) and differentially affects each signalling pathway, undermining the usefulness of in silico tools to predict variants pathogenicity. Moreover, variants affected compounds differently, even causing LoF, no effect or gain-of-function depending on the compound tested. We identified responders and non-responders to melanocortin compounds, and the efficacy of most compounds (determined as reduction of cytokine release) was diminished by the presence of variants at MC1R. Carrying red-hair variants (RHC) also associated with reduced efficacy but not having light skin phototype. These data encourage the incorporation of pharmacogenetics strategies during melanocortin drug development programs to ensure targeted interventions for maximal efficacy and safety.© 2026. The Author(s).
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is an aggressive hematologic malignancy characterized by rapid proliferation of immature lymphoid cells. Despite treatment advancements, relapse remains a significant challenge. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that drive B-ALL progression is essential for developing more effective treatments. Here, we show that extracellular cyclophilin A (eCypA) is elevated in patients with B-ALL via both autocrine and paracrine mechanisms. Moreover, eCypA administration exacerbated B-ALL progression in a mouse model. Mechanistically, eCypA binds to the melanocortin 2 receptor and activates the downstream cAMP-PKA-CREB signaling pathway. This activation upregulates CD44, FN1, and MMP9 to promote trans-endothelial migration of B-ALL cells and increases the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins, thereby inhibiting cell apoptosis. Antibodies against CypA modestly reduced leukemia burden and delayed disease progression in both NALM6 xenograft and patient-derived xenograft mouse models. Furthermore, single-cell transcriptomics suggests that anti-CypA treatment reduces the proportion of cells with multipotent progenitor features and is accompanied by decreased CREB pathway activation. Collectively, these findings indicate that eCypA contributes to the progression of B-ALL and may represent a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
The domestic chicken exhibits extraordinarily high plumage diversity in sharp contrast to the uniform plumage phenotype in its wild ancestor, the red junglefowl. The melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) locus is the most variable pigmentation locus in domestic chicken. Here we have analyzed whole-genome sequence data from 10,026 birds, including red junglefowls and 393 populations of domestic chicken. We document ultrarapid evolution of 18 MC1R alleles, due to the accumulation of 9 missense mutations combined with reshuffling of sequence variants within the single MC1R exon. The lack of linkage disequilibrium at the MC1R locus strongly suggests that this combinatorial allele diversity is generated by interallelic gene conversion, possibly promoted by its high guanine-cytosine content. Functional analyses of MC1R variants expressed in transfected cells, using second-messenger and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assays together with homology modeling, demonstrate that most missense mutations have significant effects on MC1R signaling and include both activating and inhibitory changes. One common MC1R allele differs by as many as three functionally relevant missense mutations from the most closely related wild-type allele, and its phenotype reflects their combined effects. Genome-wide analyses further show that MC1R acts as a modifier of dominant white and recessive white phenotypes caused by mutations in premelanosome protein and tyrosinase, respectively. In both cases, MC1R alleles promote a pure white phenotype, either by enhancing eumelanin pigmentation (dominant white) or inhibiting eumelanin pigmentation (recessive white).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42260055 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42234636 is a review article
Alveolar bone regions with low innate thickness are prone to dehiscence, potentially causing harmful gingival recession. In situ alveolar bone thickening via local bioagent administration has recently emerged as a promising research area. Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP), encoded by the Pthlh gene, plays a pivotal role in skeletal development and bone remodeling. In this study, we developed a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector overexpressing Pthlh (rAAV9-Pthlh). Using a split-mouth design, we administered rAAV9-Pthlh via a single submucosal injection into the right maxillary buccal gingiva of rats. Micro-computed tomography scans, both in vivo and ex vivo, revealed a significant increase in alveolar bone thickness on the PTHLH sides 6 wk post-transfection. This enhanced alveolar bone formation was accompanied by marked periosteal thickening, with elevated expression of PTHrP, parathyroid hormone 1 receptor (PTH1R), OCN, and COL1A1. RNA sequencing of the buccal bone tissue showed upregulation of osteogenesis-related pathways along with increased mitophagy activity. Immunofluorescence confirmed enhanced colocalization of mitochondrial and lysosomal markers in the PTHLH group, primarily in the periosteum. Overexpressing Pthlh in primary rat periosteal stem cells via lentiviral transduction promoted cell proliferation and migration and elevated expression of COL1A1, as well as mitophagy markers BNIP3 and LC3-II. These effects were mitigated by Mdivi-1, an inhibitor of mitochondrial fission, suggesting potential involvement of mitophagy-dependent mitochondrial homeostasis maintenance. Finally, we established a rat model of repeated maxillary expansion and validated the effects of prophylactic rAAV9-Pthlh injection to protect against alveolar crest loss in this scenario. In conclusion, local rAAV9-Pthlh injection enhances in situ alveolar bone formation, holding potential for preventing dehiscence in aging or following orthodontic interventions. Additionally, overexpression of PTHrP in the alveolar periosteum has reiterated its well-documented role in expanding the pool of chondroskeletal progenitors, a process vital for the development of long bones and the mandibular condyle.
Cinnamon oil exhibits therapeutic potential against constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C). This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and mechanisms of its main components-cinnamaldehyde (CAL), cinnamyl alcohol (COL), and trans-cinnamic acid (TCA)-in IBS-C. This study established an IBS-C mouse model using loperamide hydrochloride and restraint stress, and evaluated indicators such as body weight, the number of fecal pellets, fecal water content, visceral hypersensitivity, and small intestinal propulsion rate. The analysis was performed via HE staining, ELISA, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing. All three components ameliorated low-grade immune cell infiltration in colonic tissue and reduced serum levels of IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α. They also increased motilin (MTL) and acetylcholine (Ach) levels; all except trans-cinnamic acid low-dose (TCA-L) increased gastrin (Gas) levels, and all except TCA-L and trans-cinnamic acid high-dose (TCA-H) increased 5-HT levels. Cinnamaldehyde high-dose (CAL-H), cinnamyl alcohol high-dose (COL-H), and TCA-H upregulated the expression of tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1), serotonin transporter (SERT), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (5-HT4R) and partially modulated gut microbiota composition. CAL showed favorable effects under the present experimental conditions. The three components alleviated IBS-C symptoms partially through modulating the 5-HT signaling pathway and gut microbiota, with CAL showing the most pronounced effects under the present experimental conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Taste cell regeneration and taste signaling are regulated by myriad growth factors and signaling molecules secreted by neurons and taste papillae-resident cells. The calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha (Calca) gene is a source of 4 biologically active peptides with varied physiological roles. Alternative splicing of the Calca messenger RNA generates either preprocalcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or preprocalcitonin-encoding transcripts. Proteolytic processing of preprocalcitonin generates procalcitonin, calcitonin and katacalcin. Calcitonin is a ligand for the G protein coupled receptor calcitonin receptor (CALCR) while CGRP is a ligand for the CGRP receptor (CGRP1R) formed by the calcitonin receptor like receptor (CALCRL)-receptor activity modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) complex. Interestingly, procalcitonin too is a ligand for the CGRP1R where it can antagonize CGRP. CGRP expression in taste and trigeminal neurons has been documented and is posited to regulate taste signaling. Single cell and bulk RNASeq of taste papillae revealed that the preprocalcitonin but not the Cgrp transcript is expressed in Tas1r3-expressing type II taste cells, while CGRP1R subunits are expressed in taste stem/progenitor cells and by subsets of fibroblasts and immune cells in the lingual mesenchyme. We confirmed this expression pattern using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and histological techniques. qPCR of geniculate and nodose-petrosal-jugular ganglia revealed that both express Cgrp and CGRP1R subunit mRNAs, but not preprocalcitonin and Calcr. This interesting expression patterns suggests that procalcitonin and CGRP might reciprocally regulate the CGRP1R in the taste papillae and potentially influence taste signaling, taste cell regeneration, and the taste microbiome.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Trichosanthes kirilowii Maxim, known as "Gualou" in traditional Chinese medicine, has been extensively utilized to cure various diseases. Nevertheless, the precise mechanism through which TKPW, a neutral polysaccharide isolated from the pulp of Trichosanthes kirilowii Maxim by water elution, alleviates constipation remains to be fully elucidated.To investigate the efficacy of TKPW in alleviating constipation in mice and to clarify the mechanisms.TKPW was isolated, structurally characterized, and evaluated for its anti-constipation effect in diphenoxylate-induced mice. Fecal parameters, biochemical markers, gut microbiota were analyzed, and the microbiota's role was substantiated using a fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) trial.TKPW was characterized as a heteropolysaccharide with average molecular weight of 12.431 kDa, featuring a backbone of α-D-Glcp-(1 → 5)-Araf-(1 → 6)-α-D-Galp-(1 → 6)-α-D-Glcp-(1 → . High-dose TKPW (TKPW-H) treatment significantly improved fecal output, gastrointestinal transit rate, and colonic morphology in constipated mice. Concurrently, pro-inflammatory cytokine levels were markedly diminished by TKPW-H, alongside a significant increase in tight-junction protein expression. Additionally, TKPW-H selectively promoted excitatory enteric neurotransmitters and suppressed inhibitory ones. TKPW-H resulted in a significant suppression of colonic vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor 1 (VIPR1) expression, accompanied by a concurrent upregulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (HTR4). Importantly, TKPW-H enhanced the relative abundance of beneficial bacteria, elevated the fecal concentrations of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and activated the cerebral receptors (GPR41, GPR43 and GPR109a). FMT from TKPW-treated donors reproduced the anti-constipation effects.TKPW supplementation alleviates constipation through modulation of the microbiota-brain-gut axis, underscoring its potential as a prebiotic therapeutic agent.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Delayed healing of extraction sockets under inflammatory conditions, such as periodontitis, remains a common clinical challenge. Persistent inflammation and dysregulated immune responses are increasingly recognized as key factors impairing alveolar bone regeneration; however, the underlying immunoregulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood.An inflammatory tooth extraction model was established in mice. Macrophage polarization in healing sockets was analyzed by immunofluorescence and flow cytometry, and LPAR3/Lpar3 expression was examined in mouse extraction socket tissues and human alveolar bone debris collected from healing sites using qRT-PCR. In vitro, RAW264.7 macrophages were treated with lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) or the LPAR3 agonist OMPT to assess M1/M2 polarization, and macrophage-conditioned media were applied to evaluate osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). In vivo, OMPT was locally administered into inflammatory tooth extraction sockets, and alveolar bone regeneration was evaluated by micro-computed tomography and histological analyses.M2 macrophage polarization was significantly impaired in inflammatory tooth extraction sockets, accompanied by marked downregulation of LPAR3/Lpar3 expression. In vitro, LPA promoted macrophage M2 polarization in a Lpar3-dependent manner, and activation of Lpar3 enhanced the pro-osteogenic effects of macrophages on BMSCs. In vivo, local activation of Lpar3 restored the M1/M2 balance and significantly improved alveolar bone regeneration in inflammatory sockets.These findings demonstrate that Lpar3-mediated macrophage polarization plays a critical role in inflammatory tooth extraction socket healing. Targeting the LPA-Lpar3 axis may represent a promising immunoregulatory strategy to enhance alveolar bone regeneration following tooth extraction under inflammatory conditions.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42012762 is a review article
To better understand the mechanisms of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (HTR4)-mediated vasorelaxation, lateral saphenous veins from cattle (n = 4 to 7) were collected and assessed for vasoactivity in response to increasing concentrations of a selective HTR4 agonist (BIMU 8) in the absence and presence of inhibitors selective for downstream proteins involved with cyclic nucleotide-mediated signaling. Vessels were pre-contracted with 1 × 10-4 M phenylephrine and exposed to increasing HTR4 agonist concentrations. Vasoactive response data were normalized as a percentage of the maximum contractile response induced by the phenylephrine pre-contraction. Antagonism of HTR4 attenuated the vasorelaxation induced by BIMU 8. Removal of the endothelium did not influence HTR4 mRNA expression, HTR4 protein expression, or HTR4-mediated vasorelaxation. In the presence of inhibitors selective for adenylate cyclase or guanylate cyclase, 66% and 87% of the maximal HTR4-mediated vasorelaxation response was attenuated. In the presence of inhibitors selective for protein kinase A or protein kinase G, 66% and 98% of the maximal HTR4-mediated vasorelaxation response was attenuated. In the presence of non-selective blockers of Ca2+ and K+ channels, 65% and 64% of the maximal HTR4-mediated vasorelaxation response was attenuated. In the presence of inhibitors selective for myosin light chain phosphatase and small heat shock protein phosphorylation, 72% and 57% of the maximal HTR4-mediated vasorelaxation response was attenuated. HTR4-mediated vasorelaxation occurs through an endothelium-independent, cyclic nucleotide-dependent mechanism. Downstream proteins involved in the signaling cascade leading to vasorelaxation include protein kinase A and G, Ca2+ channels, K+ channels, myosin light chain phosphatase, and small heat shock proteins.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Peptides are desirable therapeutics due to their inherent potency, safety, and ability to engage complex protein surfaces. Slower kinetics of protein-peptide (un)binding can directly influence their drug efficacy and duration of action, in part by improving plasma stability of the peptide. A better understanding of peptide binding mechanisms would benefit for the development of next-generation peptide-based drugs with optimized kinetic properties. The calcitonin receptor-like receptor:receptor activity-modifying proteins 1 (CLR:RAMP1) complex and its endogenous agonist peptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are of particular interest due to their central role in migraine pathophysiology. In this study, we comparatively analyze C-terminal constructs of native CGRP and "ssCGRP," an engineered variant with 430-fold longer residence time in the CLR:RAMP1 complex. Using our high-dimensional weighted-ensemble algorithm, we thoroughly sampled unbinding pathway ensembles for the two peptides. This elucidates the basis of the engineered residence time enhancement for ssCGRP and provides a detailed view of the intra- and intermolecular stabilizing interactions for both peptides in the bound ensemble and along the unbinding transition pathway. The natural dynamics used in weighted ensemble, combined with Markov state modeling, allows for the first comparative analysis of protein-peptide unbinding transition state ensembles between a native and mutant peptide. We find that ssCGRP(27-37) demonstrates enhanced ligand recapture of intermediate unbinding conformations and samples a more heterogeneous bound-state ensemble that entropically stabilizes the bound basin. This study shows the molecular determinants of the residence time of peptides in CLR:RAMP1 and provides valuable insight for the design of long-acting peptide therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurogenesis is a crucial form of neuroplasticity in the adult mammalian brain. Hilar mossy cells (MCs) in the dentate gyrus show a uniquely high expression of oxytocin receptors (OXTRs) and are implicated in the regulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis (AHN). However, it remains unclear whether MCs regulate AHN through OXTR signaling. Here, we sought to investigate whether loss of MC OXTR signaling affects AHN and its associated cognitive function.We used a calcitonin receptor-like receptor (Crlr)-Cre mouse line to selectively remove Oxtr in MCs. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine labeling, immunofluorescence staining, and retrovirus-mediated strategies were used to trace newborn cells. The contextual fear discrimination task was employed to evaluate learning and memory functions mediated by AHN.We found that conditional deletion of MC Oxtr impairs AHN by reducing the number, but not the rate, of proliferation, differentiation, survival, and maturation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs). MC Oxtr deletion reduces cell cycle re-entry and promotes cell cycle exit and NSPC death. Furthermore, MC Oxtr deletion reduces the populations of type 1, type 2b, and type 3 NSPCs. Using a retrovirus-mediated birthdating and cell-labeling approach, we demonstrate that deletion of MC Oxtr retards dendritic development without affecting the migration or positioning of newly generated dentate granule cells. Functionally, MC OXTR-deficient mice exhibited impaired performance in the contextual fear discrimination task, indicating a deficit in fear memory specificity.These results uncover a previously unknown role for MC OXTR signaling in regulating the dynamic processes of AHN and context discrimination.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gut microbiota is critical for host defense against influenza. Polysaccharides are known for their microbiota-modulating and immunomodulatory activities; however, the anti-influenza efficacy of homogeneous Abrus cantoniensis polysaccharides (ACP) remains unexplored.The present study seeks to clarify the protective role of ACP in influenza and explore its underlying molecular mechanisms.Initially, crude polysaccharides were extracted via ethanol precipitation and subsequently purified by gel chromatography. Systematic structural characterization of ACP was then performed using carbohydrate chemistry techniques, including scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), ultraviolet (UV) spectroscopy, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The therapeutic efficacy of ACP was assessed by monitoring various indicators such as body weight, survival rate, viral load, and pulmonary pathological changes in mouse models. Furthermore, to elucidate the biological mechanism underlying ACP's anti-influenza activity via regulation of pulmonary interferon-beta (IFN-β) immune networks by intestinal acetate-producing microbiota, multi-omics analyses integrating metagenomics, metabolomics, gene knockout, immunofluorescence, and Western blot were conducted. Finally, the potential anti-influenza effects of ACP via the gut-lung axis were evaluated based on in vivo and in vitro detection of protein expression of IFN-β, free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), and mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), as well as antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs).In this study, we purified a novel polysaccharide, ACP-A1, with a backbone of→4)-α-D-Glcp-(1→,→4)-β-D-Galp-(1→, and →4,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1→ linkages and α-D-Glcp-(1→ branches at O-6. In H1N1-infected mice, oral ACP-A1 alleviated weight loss, increased survival, and reduced lung inflammation and viral load. Metagenomic and targeted metabolomic analyses showed that ACP-A1 enriched Limosilactobacillus reuteri and elevated acetate levels. Fecal microbiota transplantation, FFAR2 inhibition, and MAVS knockout experiments demonstrated that ACP-A1 enhances the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral pathway via microbial-derived acetate.Collectively, our findings elucidate that ACP mitigates influenza virus-induced lung dysfunction by promoting the proliferation of acetate-producing gut microbiota, particularly Limosilactobacillus reuteri, and activating the FFAR2/MAVS/IFN-β antiviral axis in pulmonary immune cells. These findings establish ACP-A1 as a natural polysaccharide regulating IFN-β homeostasis, highlighting its potential for influenza prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Myopia is one of the most common eye diseases affecting children and adolescents, with its etiology often attributed to a combination of genetic and environmental factors. This study utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology to investigate gene expression differences between guinea pigs with spontaneous high myopia (SHM) and those with normal vision.Lens-induced myopia (LIM) and SHM guinea pigs exhibit significant retinal structural abnormalities and functional impairments, characterized by reduced retinal thickness and abnormal electroretinogram (ERG) responses, indicating progressive retinal dysfunction during myopia development. scRNA-seq and molecular experiments revealed that the ceramide synthase 5 (CERS5) / ceramide synthase 6 (CERS6) / alkaline ceramidase 3 (ACER3) / phospholipid phosphatase 1 (PLPP1) / prosaposin (PSAP) / UDP-glucose ceramide glucosyltransferase (UGCG) signaling axis is significantly activated in the retinas of myopic guinea pigs, suggesting dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism. These changes were associated with an increased expression of SPHK1 and a shift in receptor expression from S1PR1 to S1PR2, indicating a transition in lipid signaling from a physiological state to a stress-related pathological state. Additionally, the activation of the P62/NRF2/KEAP1 pathway confirmed enhanced oxidative stress in the myopic retina. This study demonstrates that the CERS5/CERS6/ACER3/PLPP1/PSAP/UGCG signaling axis mediates disruption of sphingolipid metabolism and oxidative stress in the myopic guinea pig retina.The present study demonstrates that the CERS5/CERS6/ACER3/PLPP1/PSAP/UGCG signaling axis mediates sphingolipid metabolic dysregulation and oxidative stress in the retinas of myopic guinea pigs. Mechanistically, the abnormal activation of the SPHK1-S1P signaling pathway, the shift in receptors from S1PR1 to S1PR2, and the subsequent activation of the P62/KEAP1/NRF2 pathway collectively led to changes in retinal morphology (such as reduced thickness) and functional impairment. These findings establish a mechanistic link between lipid metabolic imbalance and retinal pathology in myopia offering potential therapeutic targets for preventing retinal damage associated with myopia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Individual G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are present on many cell types and regulate multiple physiological responses, making it necessary to design ligands that are selective for the targeted GPCR in a tissue-selective manner. Here, we found ligand-selective effects of the GPCR free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) mediated through differential activation of Gq and Gi family proteins in various tissues. These effects were elucidated with ago-allosteric regulators of FFAR2 that bind to overlapping sites (compound 187 and AZ1729) and to a distinct site (4-CMTB) in tissues from mice expressing a hemagglutinin-tagged human FFAR2 DREADD (designer receptor exclusively activated by designer drugs). The Gq-activating ligand compound 187 stimulated the release of the gut hormones GLP-1 and PYY from colonic crypts and the secretion of insulin from pancreatic islets, effects that were prevented by the Gi-biased ligand AZ1729. Both compound 187 and AZ1729 promoted Gi-mediated neutrophil migration in bone marrow and antilipolytic effects in adipose tissue synergistically with an orthosteric DREADD agonist, whereas 4-CMTB was ineffective in both of these tissues. In contrast, 4-CMTB, alone or with the orthosteric agonist, produced Gq signaling-dependent effects in colonic crypts and pancreatic islets. These insights into the functional selectivity of allosteric ligands acting on the same GPCR may enable the development of physiologically specific therapeutics.
G-protein coupled receptor 40 (GPR40), also termed free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFAR1) is a promising molecular target for treating chronic metabolic and inflammatory diseases. Despite the antiasthmatic benefit of GPR40 agonists such as omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, it remains unclear whether GPR40 activation improves allergic asthmatic outcomes. The present study investigated the ameliorative effect of GPR40 activation on IL-13-induced allergic inflammation in human bronchial epithelial 16HBE14o-cells and in the ovalbumin-induced asthmatic murine model. The increasing concentration of GPR40 agonists GW9508 and TAK875, markedly mitigated IL-13-induced STAT6 phosphorylation and MUC5AC hypersecretion, suggesting mitigated type 2 inflammation in 16HBE14o-cells. The selective GPR40 antagonists DC260126 and GW1100 both strikingly abolished the anti-inflammatory effect of GW9508. In the asthmatic mouse model, intraperitoneal administration of GW9508 (10 mg/kg) alleviated ovalbumin-induced mucus hypersecretion and airway inflammation, with a reduction in STAT6 phosphorylation in lung tissue. Our findings suggest that GPR40 activation represents a novel therapeutic strategy for STAT6-mediated or type-2-inflammation mediated diseases such as allergic asthma.© 2026 The Authors.
Prenatal stress (PS) is a major risk factor for depression later in life, yet the cellular mechanisms linking early-life adversity to long-term affective vulnerability remain incompletely understood. Neuropeptide receptors have emerged as important modulators of stress-related psychopathology, but their roles in mitochondrial regulation within limbic circuits remain largely unexplored.A rat model of PS was established to assess depression-like behaviors in adulthood. Mitochondrial ultrastructure, ATP production, and the expression of Galanin receptor 2 (GalR2) and key components of the PINK1/Parkin mitochondrial quality control machinery were examined in the ventral hippocampus (vHPC). The effects of intranasal administration of the GalR2 agonist AR-M1896 on behavioral and mitochondrial alterations were evaluated in vivo. To directly test whether the vHPC mediates these effects, we performed unilateral intra-vHPC infusion of AR-M1896. In vitro, glucocorticoid exposure and pharmacological manipulation of GalR2 were used to assess their impact on mitochondrial function and PINK1/Parkin signaling.PS induced persistent anhedonia-like behavior and behavioral despair phenotypes in adult offspring, accompanied by marked mitochondrial structural abnormalities, reduced ATP production, and downregulation of GalR2 and PINK1/Parkin-associated mitochondrial quality control signaling in the vHPC. Intranasal AR-M1896 partially normalized reward-related behavioral deficits and ameliorated mitochondrial dysfunction. Importantly, direct intra-vHPC infusion of AR-M1896 elevated ATP, PINK1 and Parkin levels in the ipsilateral vHPC, providing causal evidence that the vHPC is a critical site for GalR2-mediated PINK1/Parkin-related mitophagy-restoring effects. In cell-based assays, glucocorticoid exposure suppressed, whereas GalR2 activation enhanced, mitochondrial membrane potential and PINK1/Parkin-related signaling.These findings identify a GalR2-mitochondrial axis in the ventral hippocampus that is disrupted by PS and associated with vulnerability to depression-like phenotypes. The complementary intra-vHPC infusion experiments establish a causal role for vHPC GalR2 signaling in rescuing mitochondrial deficits, directly demonstrating that intranasal AR-M1896 acts at least in part via the vHPC. This receptor-organelle pathway may represent a neurobiological mechanism linking early-life adversity to long-term affective dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Yue, Zhang, Yu, Li, Wang, Zhao, Bai, Li, Li, Yang and Xu.
Nickel nanoparticles (Nano-Ni) are widely utilized in industrial and biomedical applications due to their unique physicochemical properties. However, their expanded usage increases risks of occupational and environmental exposure. In this study, we established a mouse exposure model via single intratracheal instillation of Nano-Ni and analyzed the perturbation characteristics of lung tissue metabolic profiles using untargeted metabolomics. Subsequently, the biological function of the key metabolite 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) was explored in Nano-Ni-exposed lung epithelial cells to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of metabolic alterations in Nano-Ni-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Our results showed that exposure to Nano-Ni induced marked alveolar architecture destruction, interstitial thickening, and upregulated expression of fibrotic markers in mouse lung tissues. Metabolomics identified arachidonic acid metabolism as the most disrupted pathway, with 20-HETE exhibiting the most pronounced downregulation. In both BEAS-2B and A549 cell lines, exogenous 20-HETE supplementation significantly attenuated Nano-Ni-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Furthermore, Nano-Ni exposure reduced mRNA and protein levels of free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFAR1) both in vivo and in vitro. Pretreatment with the FFAR1 agonist GW9508 mitigated Nano-Ni-induced EMT and the activation of NF-κB signaling pathway in both cell lines. Critically, FFAR1 inhibition largely abolished the suppressive effects of 20-HETE on EMT and NF-κB signaling. Altogether, our study suggests that 20-HETE may affect the EMT process in lung epithelial cells at least in part through regulating the FFAR1/NF-κB pathway, thereby potentially contributing to the process of Nano-Ni-induced lung fibrosis. These findings point to a possible role of specific metabolites in Nano-Ni-induced pulmonary fibrosis and may provide novel mechanistic insights into the inhalation toxicity of nanomaterials.
Hypocretins (also known as orexins) are neuropeptides that regulate the sleep-wake cycle and modulate a variety of behaviors, including maternal behavior. They act through two receptor subtypes: hypocretin receptor 1 (HcrtR1) and hypocretin receptor 2 (HcrtR2). Hypocretin signaling is dynamically modulated across reproductive states, including the postpartum period, a stage characterized by increased wakefulness and fragmented sleep, likely reflecting the physiological demands of offspring care. Dual orexin receptor antagonists (DORAs), such as suvorexant, are clinically used as hypnotics, suggesting their potential relevance for restoring sleep during the postpartum period. However, their effects during lactation remain largely unexplored.To examine the impact of the DORA Suvorexant on sleep and maternal behavior in lactating rats.Lactating and virgin female rats were implanted with electrodes for polysomnographic recording. Using a counterbalanced within-subject design, Suvorexant was administered orally on separate recording sessions at 0, 10 (SUV10), and 30 mg/kg (SUV30) to virgin rats in diestrus and to lactating rats between postpartum days 4 and 8. Sleep recordings and maternal behaviors were assessed during the light phase for six hours following the administration of the drug.Suvorexant reduced wakefulness and increased slow wave sleep, intermediate state, and REM sleep in both groups, with a stronger effect in virgin females. In lactating rats, Suvorexant increased nursing time and milk ejections, while reducing active maternal behavior such as pup-licking.These findings demonstrate that dual hypocretin receptor antagonism produces hypnotic effects and selectively modulates maternal behavior, increasing nursing while reducing active maternal behavior.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Relapse to cocaine use after periods of abstinence remains a significant challenge for treating cocaine use disorder. While the neurobiological mechanisms underlying relapse are still under investigation, adaptations in mesolimbic dopamine systems may contribute to cocaine craving and propensity for relapse. Therefore, reversing or preventing these dopamine adaptations may reduce motivation for cocaine and decrease the likelihood of relapse. The hypocretin/orexin system has been shown repeatedly to regulate cocaine-associated behavior and dopamine transmission. For example, our previous studies indicated that the hypocretin receptor 1 antagonist-RTIOX-276-reduced behavioral and dopamine responses to cocaine. Importantly, the effects of RTIOX-276 on dopamine transmission persisted for at least 24 hr, suggesting lasting effects of hypocretin receptor antagonism. Here, we hypothesized that a single RTIOX-276 treatment early in abstinence would reduce motivation for cocaine and prevent alterations in dopamine transmission later in abstinence. Female and male rats were pre-assessed for cocaine consumption and motivation using a within-session threshold schedule before undergoing 7 days of intermittent access to cocaine. After intermittent access self-administration, rats were treated with RTIOX-276 on the first day of a 7-day abstinence period, after which they were reassessed for cocaine consumption and motivation or examined for dopamine transmission using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in nucleus accumbens core slices. We found that a single treatment with RTIOX-276 on the first day of abstinence reduced motivation for cocaine and prevented aberrant dopamine uptake observed following intermittent access to cocaine. These findings suggest that hypocretin receptor 1 may be a viable target for reducing motivation for cocaine through alterations in dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Abstinence from cocaine use has been shown to elicit a progressive intensification or incubation of cocaine craving/seeking that is posited to increase the likelihood of relapse. While the mechanisms underlying incubation of cocaine seeking remain elusive, considerable evidence suggests that abstinence from cocaine promotes mesolimbic dopamine adaptations that contribute to exaggerated cocaine seeking. Consequently, preventing these dopamine adaptations may reduce incubation of cocaine seeking and thereby decrease the likelihood of relapse. In the present studies, we first examined the relationship between incubation of cocaine seeking and dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens following abstinence from intermittent access to cocaine. Given the extensive evidence that hypocretins/orexins regulate motivation for cocaine, we then examined to what extent an intraperitoneal injection of a hypocretin receptor 1 antagonist on the first day of abstinence would prevent incubation of cocaine seeking and dopamine adaptations later in abstinence. Results indicated that abstinence from intermittent access to cocaine engendered robust incubation of cocaine seeking in both female and male rats. We also observed aberrant dopamine transmission, but only in rats that displayed incubation of cocaine seeking. Further, we showed that a single injection of the hypocretin receptor 1 antagonist, RTIOX-276, on the first day of abstinence prevented incubation of cocaine seeking and aberrant dopamine transmission. These findings suggest that hypocretin receptor 1 antagonism may serve as a viable therapeutic for reducing cocaine craving/seeking early in abstinence, thus reducing the likelihood of relapse.© 2026. The Author(s).
Focal cortical dysplasia IIb (FCDIIb) and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) show persistent neuroinflammation that promotes epileptogenesis and epilepsy progression, suggesting that endogenous resolution of inflammation is inadequate to relieve neuronal network hyperexcitability. G-protein-coupled receptor 32 (GPR32) is a key regulator of inflammation resolution and we aimed to explore the roles of GPR32 in cortical lesions of patients with FCDIIb and TSC.We examined the expression and distribution of GPR32 in patients with FCDIIb and TSC and its effects on human microglial cell activation, inflammation and the electrophysiological properties of neurons.GPR32 and Resolvin D1 expression was significantly lower in cortical lesions of patients with FCDIIb and TSC than in controls and were negatively correlated with seizure frequency. GPR32 was widely distributed in neurons and microglia and was nearly absent in astrocytes. Furthermore, the Src homology region 2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP2) pathway was downregulated in patients with FCDIIb and TSC. The GPR32/SHP2/nuclear factor-kappa B pathway inhibited the M1 transformation of microglia to produce numerous pro-inflammatory mediators and promoted M2 polarisation. GPR32 also regulated neuronal excitability by reducing the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents.Our results suggest that GPR32 may help control epilepsy in patients with FCDIIb and TSC.© 2026 British Neuropathological Society.
The relationship between Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) and Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is not fully understood, but both conditions may share critical molecular biomarkers. This study integrated datasets to identify genes associated with GDM and ROP. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was employed to construct networks and identify gene modules related to GDM and ROP. Three machine learning models were utilized to filter for core co-morbid genes. Immune infiltration analysis was performed to investigate the correlations of these genes with immune cells. Finally, a diagnostic nomogram model was constructed based on the expression levels of the three core co-morbid genes, and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was conducted to assess its diagnostic capabilities. We identified 16 co-morbid genes associated with GDM and ROP. Through machine learning model filtering, chorionic gonadotropin beta subunit 7 (CGB7), MYCN upstream transcript (MYCNUTR), and G protein-coupled receptor 32 (GPR32) were confirmed as core genes. These genes exhibited significantly elevated expression levels in patients with GDM and ROP, positively correlating with activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CD8 T) cells and negatively correlating with central memory CD8 T cells. The diagnostic nomogram model achieved an Area Under the Curve (AUC) value of 0.913 in the GDM training set and 0.875 in the ROP training set. This study reveals a potential shared critical role for CGB7, MYCNUT, and GPR32 in the interplay between GDM and ROP. The constructed diagnostic nomogram model shows promising predictive capability.
Propofol-remifentanil-dexmedetomidine-based total intravenous anesthesia is widely utilized in clinical practice. However, maintaining safety during the sleep-wake transition and ensuring hemodynamic stability continues to pose significant challenges. This study aimed to investigate the impact of genes that are expressed specifically in orexinergic neurons on interindividual variability in the time to loss of consciousness (LOC), time to wake, and cardiovascular fluctuations.A total of 250 patients were included in the study. Gene polymorphisms were detected using the Agena Bioscience MassARRAY system. Anesthesia induction began with propofol and was maintained with propofol and remifentanil. Dexmedetomidine was administered before anesthesia induction. The time to LOC, time to wake, heart rate (HR), and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were documented.HCRTR2 (Hypocretin receptor 2) rs2292040 and rs76380807 were significantly associated with the time to LOC, and HCRTR2 rs7774031 was correlated with the time to wake. HCRTR2 rs3122162, rs3122169, and rs74296544 were correlated with HR fluctuations, and HCRTR1 (Hypocretin receptor 1) rs2176807, rs2271933, rs871634, and HCRTR2 rs74296544 were associated with MAP fluctuations. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that the Target-controlled infusion (TCI) plasma concentration (Cp) of propofol > 4 µg ml- 1 at the time of LOC and dexmedetomidine were influencing factors for the time to LOC, whereas HCRTR2 rs7774031 influenced the time to wake. Baseline HR, baseline MAP, dexmedetomidine, HCRTR2 rs3122162, and HCRTR1 rs2176807 were predictive factors for cardiovascular susceptibility. The predictive models for the time to LOC, time to wake, mean HR, and mean MAP fluctuations accounted for 41.89%, 3.36%, 35.56%, and 47.41% of variations, respectively.Genetic variants of HCRTR1 and HCRTR2 may affect sleep-wake transition and hemodynamic stability during propofol, dexmedetomidine, and remifentanil anesthesia.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Maj Institute of Pharmacology Polish Academy of Sciences.
Long-reported dual comorbidity between migraine and sleep disorders suggests that some gene variations may play a role in this relationship. Our previous study found an association between poor sleep quality and the G allele of the hypocretin receptor 1 (HCRTR1) rs2271933 gene in patients with chronic migraine (CM). This study aimed to examine the relationship of this gene with some sleep parameters.The present study was designed cross-sectional in the Mersin University Neurology Clinic between January 2000 and February 2018. Patients aged 18-75 years with CM according to the International Classification of Headache Disorders-3 (ICHD-3) criteria were included. The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was used to evaluate the sleep quality of the patients. Patients were divided into two groups according to PSQI scores <6 or ≥6. Genotyping was performed for the HCRTR1 rs2271933 gene.Among the 100 patients with CM, only the data of those (n=67) with poor sleep quality were included in this study. The mean age of patients was 40.9±11.8%, and the female rate was 89.6%. We detected that increasing the time to fall asleep (p=0.369) and the rate of poor sleep quality (p=0.461) and also shortening sleep duration (p=0.016) with the increase of G allele carrier of HCRTR1 rs2271933 gene.As the G allele carrier of the HCRTR1 rs2271933 gene increased, a shorter sleep duration was observed. This finding may contribute to studies on the physiological roles of orexins.Copyright: © 2025 Turkish Neuropsychiatric Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39720728 is a review article
During the periparturient period, dairy cows experience negative energy balance due to reduced feed intake, leading to adipose tissue breakdown, liver damage, and fat accumulation. This study examined the gut-liver-brain axis to explore the link between fatty liver disease, changes in hypothalamic appetite-related neurons, and microbiome shifts in dairy cows. Thirty cows were monitored, with daily DMI recordings and blood sampling. Postpartum brain, liver, and ileal contents were collected from 10 selected cows, divided into two groups: H-DMI (slight DMI decrease) and L-DMI (severe DMI decrease). The L-DMI group of cows exhibited higher plasma NEFA, BHBA, ALT, and AST levels, along with severe hepatic steatosis and lipid accumulation. Transcriptome sequencing of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) revealed decreased expression of Hypocretin Neuropeptide Precursor (HCRT), orexin-A (OX-A), Orexin Receptor Type 1 (OX1R), and Cannabinoid Receptor 1 (CB1) in the L-DMI group, while Pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and Melanocortin 4 Receptor (MC4R) expression increased. Metagenomic analysis of ileal contents showed reduced abundance of Ruminococcus spp. in the L-DMI group, which may be associated with fatty liver disease (FL). Integrated omics analysis showed that increased MC4R expression was correlated with the elevated abundance of bacteria such as Akkermansia glycaniphila, and reduced abundance of species such as Methanobrevubacter thaueri and Ruminococcus spp. Decreased HCRT expression was also linked to Akkermansia glycaniphila. In conclusion, these changes may affect DMI through the OX-A/POMC pathway, with neurological and gut microbiome alterations potentially leading to appetite suppression, negative energy balance, and the development of fatty liver disease.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Abstinence from cocaine use has been shown to elicit a progressive intensification or incubation of cocaine craving/seeking that is posited to contribute to propensity for relapse. While the mechanisms underlying incubation of cocaine seeking remain elusive, considerable evidence suggests that abstinence from cocaine promotes mesolimbic dopamine adaptations that contribute to exaggerated cocaine seeking. Consequently, preventing these dopamine adaptations may reduce incubation of cocaine seeking and thereby reduce the likelihood of relapse. In the present studies, we first examined if incubation of cocaine seeking was associated with aberrant dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens after seven days of abstinence from intermittent access to cocaine. Given the extensive evidence that hypocretins/orexins regulate motivation for cocaine, we then examined to what extent hypocretin receptor 1 antagonism on the first day of abstinence prevented incubation of cocaine seeking and dopamine adaptations later in abstinence. Results indicated that abstinence from intermittent access to cocaine engendered robust incubation of cocaine seeking in both female and male rats. We also observed aberrant dopamine transmission, but only in rats that displayed incubation of cocaine seeking. Further, we showed that a single injection of the hypocretin receptor 1 antagonist, RTIOX-276, on the first day of abstinence prevented incubation of cocaine seeking and aberrant dopamine transmission. These findings suggest that hypocretin receptor 1 antagonism may serve as a viable therapeutic for reducing cocaine craving/seeking, thus reducing the likelihood of relapse.
It has been hypothesized that age‑related declines in skeletal muscle and vascular function in females may be partly estrogen‑dependent. This study investigated skeletal muscle protein expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα), estrogen receptor β (ERβ), and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), and their association with proteins involved in redox regulation and vascular function, in relation to age, menopausal status, and lifelong physical activity. Skeletal muscle biopsies were obtained from 107 healthy females aged 19-70 years, including 26 postmenopausal females who were lifelong exercise trained. Protein expression of ERα, ERβ, GPER1, and downstream redox‑ and vascular‑related proteins was quantified. Age‑ and menopause‑related differences, associations between protein targets, and effects of lifelong exercise were examined. ERα protein expression was lower in older females with a 48% lower expression in the ≥ 55 years age group compared with the < 30-year group. GPER1 protein expression was 22% lower across all older age groups compared with the < 30-year group. ERβ expression was reduced in mid‑life (45-59 years) but not in the oldest age group. Both ERα and ERβ were positively correlated with endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression, whereas GPER1 showed no association with eNOS. ERβ expression was associated with pro‑oxidative NOX2 expression. Aging in females is associated with a lower ERα and GPER1 protein expression in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, lower ER expression by aging is associated with a lower eNOS expression, indicating associations with proteins involved in nitric oxide-related redox regulation in skeletal muscle in aged females.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cathepsins (CTS) family of lysosomal proteases is characterized by high expression and proteolytic activity across various species. Notably, cathepsin B (CTSB) and cathepsin L (CTSL) have been implicated in uterine remodeling, follicle atrophy, and granulosa cell apoptosis in various vertebrates. This study investigated the role of the CTS members in post-parturitional ovarian remodeling in ovoviviparous black rockfish (Sebastes schlegelii). We cloned the ctsb (993 bp, encoding 330 amino acids) and ctsl (1011 bp, encoding 336 amino acids) genes from black rockfish. Quantitative Real-time PCR (qPCR) analysis revealed widespread tissue distribution for both genes, with ctsb expression being significantly highest in the ovary and markedly upregulated during the parturition process. In contrast, ctsl exhibited low ovarian expression with no increasing trend. In situ hybridization (ISH) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) localized CTSB to the ovarian stromal periphery and specific oocytes. Functional studies using recombinant mature CTSB demonstrated its proteolytic activity on ovarian tissue, leading to a significant increase in arginine (Arg) content. Post-parturition supplementation with Arg notably restored serum nutritional levels. Furthermore, dual- luciferase assays identified functional binding sites for Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1) and Specificity Protein 1 (SP1) within the ctsb promoter, regulating its transcription. Collectively, our findings indicate that CTSB, a member of the CTS family, is likely involved in ovarian remodeling in black rockfish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early childhood exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) is closely associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), though the precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear. To investigate this, we employed an integrated computational approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation. Potential targets of BPA and ASD-related genes were collected from multiple databases, identifying 57 overlapping targets. Protein-protein interaction network analysis highlighted 16 core targets among them. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses indicated these targets are primarily involved in synaptic transmission, GABAergic signaling, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions. Molecular docking demonstrated potential binding between BPA and several core targets, including estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1), gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit beta-2 (GABRB2), and amyloid precursor protein (APP), with binding energies below -5 kcal/mol. The stability of the BPA-ESR1 complex was further supported through 100 ns molecular dynamics simulation. These results suggest that BPA may contribute to ASD by disrupting neuroendocrine pathways and synaptic function via interactions with key targets such as ESR1.
Estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) is an established oncogenic transcription factor in breast and endometrial cancer; however, more is known about the mechanisms controlling ESR1 behavior in breast cancer, and therapies targeting ESR1 have been much more successful in breast cancer. To address this disparity, we characterize the genomic features that control ESR1 in endometrial cancer and determine to what extent these factors differ from those in breast cancer. We focus on the locations of estrogen response elements (EREs), ESR1's preferred DNA binding motif, throughout the human genome. To identify factors that predict ER genomic binding and effects on target gene expression, we apply machine learning to genomic data for each ERE in Ishikawa cells (ESR1-positive endometrial cancer) and T-47D cells (ESR1-positive breast cancer). Many of these factors, such as chromatin accessibility and histone modifications, are predictive of ESR1 activity in both cell lines. However, the transcription factors that predict ESR1 activity are cell type-specific, including FOXA1 and GATA3 in T-47D cells, and ETV4 and SOX17 in Ishikawa cells. In addition, the features that predict ESR1 binding and effects on gene expression differ, with transcription at EREs in the absence of estrogen being predictive of ESR1 regulatory activity. A CRISPR knockout screen in Ishikawa cells, and follow-up experiments, confirm the discovery that SOX17 controls ESR1 activity in endometrial cancer cells. These results identify important genomic features of ESR1 binding and regulatory activity and how these features differ between endometrial cancer and breast cancer cells.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Cryptorchidism, among the most frequent congenital urogenital anomalies in male infants, has a global prevalence ranging from 1% to 9%. Characterized by failure of testicular descent into the scrotum, such a condition exposes the testes to elevated temperature, oxidative stress, and impaired spermatogenesis, significantly increasing risks of infertility and testicular cancer. Although orchiopexy is the standard treatment, long-term spermatogenic defects often persist, highlighting the need to elucidate underlying molecular mechanisms. Although the main mechanistic experiments were performed in GC-1 spg cells through genetic manipulation of cPKCγ, an additional heat-stress experiment was included to simulate the high-temperature condition associated with cryptorchidism. In the present study, the role of conventional protein kinase C gamma (cPKCγ) in regulating mitophagy and apoptosis was investigated using mouse spermatogonial GC-1 cells. Through siRNA-mediated knockdown and adenovirus-induced overexpression, cPKCγ upregulation was demonstrated to significantly induce cellular apoptosis and disrupt mitochondrial function, indicated by elevated malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, decreased ATP production, increased 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) accumulation, increased mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Mechanistically, cPKCγ was found to inhibit the UCHL1/HIF-1α signaling pathway, suppressing mitophagy, as evidenced by a reduced LC3-II/LC3-I ratio and decreased PINK1 and Parkin expression. Importantly, adverse effects induced by cPKCγ overexpression were substantially rescued through UCHL1 or HIF-1α overexpression, or rapamycin treatment. Conversely, knockdown of UCHL1 or HIF-1α partially counteracted the protective effects of cPKCγ silencing on cell viability, oxidative stress, and mitophagy activation. Furthermore, heat stress upregulated endogenous cPKCγ and suppressed UCHL1/HIF-1α signaling and mitophagy-related proteins in GC-1 spg cells. Collectively, cPKCγ exacerbates spermatogonial apoptosis by repressing UCHL1/HIF-1α-dependent mitophagy, suggesting a potential molecular mechanism for spermatogonial vulnerability under cryptorchidism-related heat stress.
Postmenopausal women are at elevated risk for carotid atherosclerosis due to estrogen decline, yet existing prediction models do not incorporate genetic markers. This study aimed to develop and validate a risk prediction model combining clinical variables and estrogen receptor 1 rs9340799 genotype for postmenopausal Han women in northern China using logistic regression and machine learning approaches.A total of 276 postmenopausal Han women in northern China were recruited from 1 December 2024 to 30 April 2025. They were divided into a case group (n = 162) and a control group (n = 114) based on the presence of carotid atherosclerosis (CAS). ESR1 rs9340799, a polymorphism in the estrogen receptor alpha gene, was selected for genotyping (MAF > 0.05 in Chinese population) using high-resolution melting PCR. Univariate and multivariable logistic regression identified risk factors, and a nomogram was constructed based on age, systolic blood pressure (SBP), glucose (GLU), and rs9340799 genotype. Six machine learning algorithms were compared; logistic regression was selected given its ease of interpretation and resistance to overfitting. The model was externally validated in 47 subjects in the same institution from 1 May 2025 to 30 June 2025.In the case group, age, menopause duration, SBP, and GLU were significantly higher than in controls (all P < 0.01), and rs9340799 GG genotype showed a protective effect in univariate analysis (P = 0.045). Age, SBP, GLU, and rs9340799 were selected as predictors after excluding menopause duration due to collinearity with age. Among six ML algorithms, logistic regression achieved the highest AUC (0.709, 95% CI: 0.596-0.821) with acceptable calibration (Brier score = 0.227, HL P = 0.263) and the broadest DCA threshold range (0.30-0.75), and was selected as the final model. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis identified age as the most influential predictor. External validation in 47 subjects yielded an AUC of 0.65 (95% CI: 0.48-0.82), sensitivity of 0.82, and specificity of 0.55; the wide CI crossing 0.50 reflects the limited sample size, and further validation is warranted.This study developed a logistic regression model that included age, systolic blood pressure, GLU and ESR1 rs9340799 genotypes. The model demonstrated moderate discrimination in predicting the risk of carotid atherosclerosis in postmenopausal Han women in northern China. This model should be considered preliminary and needs further validation in larger, independent, multicenter cohorts for identifying high-risk populations for early intervention.© 2026 Liu et al.
The causal association between endoplasmic reticulum stress and renal cell carcinoma remains poorly defined. The present study aimed to identify potential causal relationships between endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related genes and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) by integrating multi-omics datasets using summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR). Data on the methylation, expression and protein levels of ER stress-related genes were obtained from quantitative trait loci studies. Genetic associations with RCC were derived from 11 studies comprising 5,219 RCC cases of European descent. SMR and colocalization analyses were performed to assess correlations and identify shared causal genetic variants. Molecular experiments were conducted for validation. In total, 1,193 ER stress-related genes were identified. SMR analysis revealed 3 DNA methylation probes (cg07431106, cg12446953 and cg08884395), 1 gene (polycystin 1) and 3 protein probes (SeqId_4125_52, SeqId_3448_13 and SeqId_17161_1) as key causal variants for RCC (SMR, P<0.01; Heterogeneity In Dependent Instruments, P>0.01). Bayesian colocalization analysis corroborated a strong causal relationship for all 7 variables (posterior probability for H4 >0.7). Multi-omics data integration identified PTEN induced kinase 1 as a protective factor and estrogen receptor 1 as a progression factor in RCC. Molecular experiments demonstrated that ER stress may be a mechanism for RCC progression and sunitinib resistance. The 7 key variables showed significant differences in an RCC cell line model, supporting the SMR results. In conclusion, the results of the present study suggested a potential association between ER stress and RCC. SMR analysis identified 3 cytosine-phosphate-guanine sites, 1 gene and 3 protein sites as causal variants associated with RCC.Copyright: © 2026 Gao et al.
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Macropinocytosis is an actin-driven endocytic process mediating nonspecific uptake of extracellular fluid through membrane ruffling. Neutrophil macropinocytosis has been reported only in limited descriptive studies, and its signaling mechanisms have not been defined. Here, we provide a characterization of macropinocytosis in primary human neutrophils and investigate signaling pathways that contribute to the regulation of this process. Quantitative flow cytometry using a high-molecular-weight fluid-phase tracer showed that the diacylglycerol (DAG) mimetic 4β-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (4β-PMA) induces macropinocytic activity in primary human neutrophils. Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) also promoted fluid-phase uptake. Inhibition of actin polymerization or macropinocytosis reduced tracer uptake, confirming dependence on actin-driven machinery. Scanning electron microscopy revealed dorsal membrane ruffling and cup-like structures after stimulation. Mechanistically, DAG-dependent activation of protein kinase C beta (PKCβ) acted upstream of NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2)-derived superoxide anion production, driving membrane remodeling. Collectively, these findings define a DAG-PKCβ-NOX2-superoxide signaling axis, as a key regulator of macropinocytosis in primary human neutrophils and provide the first mechanistic framework for its redox-dependent regulation.
Emerging evidence highlights the oncogenic role of the Dishevelled, Egl-10, and Pleckstrin domains containing 1 (DEPDC1) gene in lung cancer progression, making it an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we investigated the anti-cancer potential of Delafloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, in DEPDC1-overexpressing non-small cell lung cancer, NCI-H1299 cells. In silico docking of 1399 FDA-approved compounds using AutoDock Vina confirmed the strong binding affinity of Delafloxacin to the DEPDC1 active site (binding energy -7.1 kcal/mol). Delafloxacin treatment resulted in dose-dependent suppression of cell proliferation, with an IC50 of approximately 30 μg/mL. RT-qPCR revealed significant downregulation of DEPDC1 and several key regulators of proliferation (RAS, EGFR), mitotic progression (Cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), CCNB2, KIF2C), and survival (BIRC5). Cell cycle analysis demonstrated G2/M phase accumulation upon Delafloxacin treatment, consistent with transcriptional repression of CDK1 and CCNB2. In vivo, Delafloxacin administration (15 mg/kg) significantly reduced tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model without overt toxicity. While these findings identify Delafloxacin as a candidate for repurposing in lung cancer, the observed downregulation of DEPDC1 represents a correlative finding rather than validated direct targeting. This study provides a rationale for further investigation of Delafloxacin in DEPDC1-associated malignancies.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a complex condition characterized by oxidative stress, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, plays a critical role in cardiomyocyte damage during I/R. Inhibiting ferroptosis has been shown to reduce myocardial injury and improve cardiac function, making it a promising therapeutic target for enhancing clinical outcomes. An in vivo I/R model was established, and infarct size was assessed using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Histological changes were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, Masson, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assays. Cellular experiments included analyses of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and iron content using specific fluorescent probes, as well as enzymatic markers measured with commercial assay kits. Cell viability and senescence were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, respectively. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), while molecular mechanisms, including DNA methylation, were investigated using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). Interactions among pleckstrin homology-like domain family A member 3 (PHLDA3), DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3 A (DNMT3a), and polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) were evaluated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA pull-down assays. Silencing of PHLDA3 demonstrated protective effects against I/R injury by attenuating cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs) senescence under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) conditions in vitro and I/R injury in vivo. Mechanistically, downregulated DNMT3a was responsible for PHLDA3 hypomethylation. Furthermore, PTBP1 was identified as an upstream RNA-binding protein that destabilized DNMT3a mRNA during H/R injury, indirectly enhancing PHLDA3 expression. Our findings suggest that PTBP1-mediated DNMT3a downregulation contributes to PHLDA3 hypomethylation, which may promote cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and subsequent microvascular endothelial cell senescence during I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) signaling is critically involved in arousal, sleep-wake regulation, fear and anxiety, and related forms of learning and memory, yet comparatively little is known about whether intrinsic properties of identified NPS neurons differ between sexes or fluctuate across the female estrous cycle. Here, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from genetically identified NPS-eGFP neurons in acute horizontal brainstem slices containing the peri-locus coeruleus (periLC) region. We show that periLC NPS neurons can be subdivided into two electrophysiologically distinct classes based on their discharge patterns from hyperpolarized membrane potentials: a delayed-onset firing phenotype (type I) and a regular-spiking phenotype (type II). Pharmacological and voltage-clamp analyses indicate that differential contribution of a transient A-type potassium current (IA), consistent with Kv4 channel function, is a key determinant of these firing phenotypes and provides a mechanism for gain control in type I neurons. Across male and female mice, we did not detect robust sex differences in the relative abundance of these neuronal classes or in overall excitability measures, suggesting that baseline intrinsic properties of periLC NPS neurons are broadly comparable between sexes. In contrast, estrous staging revealed a selective modulation of intrinsic discharge in females: during non-receptive stages (metestrus/diestrus), type I neurons exhibited higher spike output and increased instantaneous firing frequencies compared with receptive stages (proestrus/estrus), whereas type II neurons were comparatively stable across the cycle. These findings provide a cellular mechanism by which ovarian state may tune NPS neuron output and, consequently, the impact of NPS signaling on downstream circuits controlling arousal and stress-related behaviors.© 2026. The Author(s).
NLRP3 inflammasome plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IDD). This study aimed to identify NLRP3 inflammasome-related biomarkers in IDD and analyze their functions.First, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (IDD vs. control) in GSE124272 were detected. The NLRP3 inflammasome-related genes (NIRGs) scores for all samples were calculated using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Subsequently, the key module with the strongest correlation with NIRGs scores was selected using weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). Biomarkers were defined as the DEGs and genes showing consistent expression trends across both the GSE124272 and GSE150408 datasets. Function enrichment and immune infiltration were analyzed. The abundance of the key biomarkers was validated by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). To explore the effect of core targets on IDD by constructing IDD in vitro model.About 1608 intersection genes were derived from overlapping the above 2123 DEGs and 10695 key module genes. Subsequently, the top 10 genes were identified. Based on gene expression analysis, disheveled, EGL-10, and pleckstrin domain-containing 1 (DEPDC1), and Opa interacting protein 5 (OIP5) were selected as biomarkers. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these biomarkers were primarily enriched in cytosolic ribosomes and DNA replication. Immune infiltration analysis identified 13 differential immune cells. Endothelial cells were inversely correlated with DEPDC1, whereas conventional dendritic cells (CDC) demonstrated a pronounced positive relationship with OIP5. RT-qPCR results confirmed that the expression of OIP5 and DEPDC1 in IDD patients was downregulated by more than 50% (p < 0.05). Cell experiments showed that up-regulation of OIP5 led to a 2-fold reduction in cell proliferation (p < 0.001) and a three-fold increase in apoptosis in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells derived from IDD patients (p < 0.001).Taken together, OIP5 has been identified as a peripheral blood biomarker linked to the NLRP3 inflammasome and may be involved in the pathogenesis of IDD.Copyright © 2026 Yongliang Fu et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The emphysematous phenotype is an important phenotype in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with substantial morbidity and mortality. The mechanisms underpinning the role of alveolar type II (AT2) cells in alveolar repair within this phenotype remain poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the role of PHLDA1, a potential stemness regulator in AT2 cells, on emphysema development. Utilizing mice model, we performed a targeted knockdown of PHLDA1 in AT2 cells and subsequently exposed these mice to tobacco smoke to assess the resultant severity of emphysema and related alveolar damage. We manipulated PHLDA1 expression in AT2 cells line or primary mouse AT2 cells to examine its influence on AT2 stemness-related processes- differentiation, proliferation, and wound closure ability. The specific pathway of PHLDA1 mediated in AT2 cells, as well as its interaction with the GLI1 protein, was further investigated. Mice with reduced PHLDA1 expression developed the emphysema independent of smoking exposure. PHLDA1 knockdown in AT2 cells attenuated their proliferation via the Hedgehog pathway, impairing wound closure ability in the emphysematous phenotype. We also discovered a binding relationship between PHLDA1 and GLI1, where PHLDA1 modulates the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thus regulating the Hedgehog pathway and influencing the stemness and proliferation of AT2 cells. Our study suggests that PHLDA1 is a critical factor in the proliferation process of AT2 cells via modulation of GLI1 nuclear translocation. This regulation is essential to the pathogenesis of the emphysematous phenotype in COPD, signifying potential therapeutic targets for intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Environmental exposures prior to conception are increasingly recognized as modulators of offspring neurodevelopment; however, their functional impact on specific neural circuits remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated whether paternal preconception exposure to the neuroteratogen chlorpyrifos induces protein-level and functional alterations in learning-related brain regions of the offspring. Using a chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) model, we examined the intermediate medial mesopallium (IMM), hippocampal subregions, and lateral striatum, focusing on protein expression of markers associated with neuroplasticity and cholinergic-mediated activation/translocation of protein kinase C beta (PKCβ), a key regulator of synaptic plasticity. Structural endpoints, including neuronal cell counts and dendritic morphology, were also assessed. A pre-hatch exposure paradigm was included for comparison. Paternal exposure resulted in region- and sex-specific alterations in protein expression, including changes in GDNF, DCX, FOS, and MAP2, predominantly in the lateral striatum and IMM, without corresponding transcriptional changes. Notably, no significant alterations were observed in neuronal cell counts or dendritic structure. In contrast, a robust functional deficit was identified, as paternal exposure completely abolished cholinergic-mediated PKCβ activation/translocation, an effect also observed following pre-hatch exposure. These findings demonstrate that paternal preconception exposure is associated with selective alterations in protein expression and impaired cholinergic-mediated PKCβ signaling within learning-related neural circuits, in the absence of overt structural damage. The dissociation between transcriptional and translational outcomes indicates that regulatory processes acting beyond transcription may contribute to the observed phenotype. Further studies are required to determine the underlying mechanisms and functional consequences of these changes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Trypanosoma cruzi , the etiologic agent of Chagas disease, alternates between replicative epimastigotes and amastigotes and non-dividing, mammal-infective metacyclic and bloodstream trypomastigotes. Protein phosphorylation is a major regulatory mechanism in trypanosomatids, whose kinomes reveal an expanded family of NIMA-related kinases (NEKs). Here, we investigated the role of T. cruzi RDK2 (Repressor of Differentiation Kinase 2), a conserved NEK that carries a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Endogenous gene tagging showed that TcRDK2 is expressed in all major life-cycle stages and displays a cytoplasmic distribution. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of TcRDK2 did not markedly alter epimastigote growth in rich medium but caused a significant accumulation of cells with abnormal nuclear/kinetoplast configurations, consistent with defects in kinetoplast segregation and cytokinesis; TcRDK2 -null parasites also showed reduced in vitro metacyclogenesis and failed to establish efficient infections in human fibroblasts. To probe gain-of-function effects, we generated tetracycline-inducible overexpression lines for full-length TcRDK2 (RDK2 WT ), a PH-deleted variant (RDK2 ΔPH ), and a catalytic-dead mutant (RDK2 K70A ). Overexpression of RDK2 WT or RDK2 ΔPH decreased epimastigote growth, enhanced metacyclogenesis, and strongly impaired host-cell invasion and intracellular amastigote proliferation, with more pronounced phenotypes for RDK2 ΔPH , suggesting that the PH domain normally restrains TcRDK2 activity in vivo. Phosphoproteomic profiling of RDK2 WT -overexpressing epimastigotes identified candidate TcRDK2 substrates and pathways, including translation initiation and cytoskeletal regulation. Together, these data identify TcRDK2 as a NEK kinase that coordinates kinetoplast replication/segregation, metacyclogenesis, and host-cell infection in T. cruzi and support TcRDK2 as a promising, kinetoplastid-specific therapeutic target for Chagas disease.Chagas disease, caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , remains a major health problem with limited treatment options. To persist in both insect vectors and mammalian hosts, the parasite must precisely coordinate cell division, differentiation into infectious forms, and survival inside host cells. Protein kinases are central regulators of these processes and attractive drug targets, yet many remain poorly understood in T. cruzi . In this study, we investigate RDK2, a member of the NIMA-related kinase family. Using gene knockout, inducible overexpression, and global analysis of phosphorylated proteins, we show that RDK2 is required for accurate segregation of mitochondrial DNA, efficient formation of infective insect-stage forms, and successful infection and replication in human cells. These findings identify RDK2 as a key regulator that links parasite cell division to infectivity and highlight it as a promising, parasite-specific candidate for future drug development against Chagas disease.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
This study was designed to evaluate the genetic association of three specific intronic Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) gene-rs2005313, rs4274224, and rs4938019-with schizophrenia susceptibility in a Pakistani population. The primary objective was to identify population-specific biomarkers that could inform early intervention and personalized treatment strategies.Genotyping was conducted on a matched case-control cohort of 208 participants (104 cases; 104 controls) using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) PCR. Genetic associations were quantified using Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI), representing the standard coefficient and its margin of error to ensure statistical precision. Functional annotation of the investigated polymorphisms was performed using GTEx, FORGEdb and RegulomeDB to assess regulatory potential and tissue-specific expression effects.The research identified highly significant associations across multiple inheritance models, validating the technical robustness of the findings. The rs4938019 polymorphism emerged as the most potent genetic risk factor, particularly under the recessive model (OR: 9.60; 95% CI: 3.92-23.52; p < 0.0001), where the rare GG genotype was found in 44% of cases compared to only 7.2% of controls. Conversely, rs4274224 demonstrated a significant protective effect, with a co-dominant OR of 0.23 (95% CI: 0.09-0.59; p = 0.0022), suggesting that the T allele confers genetic resilience. Furthermore, among the investigated DRD2 variants, rs2005313 demonstrated significance primarily under the over-dominant inheritance model, whereas rs4938019 exhibited the strongest association under the recessive model (OR: 2.13; 95% CI: 1.15-3.94; p = 0.014). All variants in the control group maintained Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (p > 0.05), confirming the absence of population bias. Functional annotation revealed that rs4274224 showed the strongest direct regulatory evidence for DRD2 (FORGEdb score: 6; RegulomeDB Rank 1f), while rs4938019 demonstrated the highest overall regulatory potential (FORGEdb score: 9), with rs2005313 exhibiting substantial regulatory evidence (FORGEdb score: 7) supported by extensive GTEx cis-eQTLs across multiple tissues including brain regions.These findings establish DRD2 intronic polymorphisms as critical determinants of schizophrenia risk. The high-risk rs4938019 GG genotype provides a clear translational biomarker for rapid genetic screening, potentially improving clinical outcomes through genotype-guided therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Effective treatments for post-stroke spasticity (PSS) remain limited, and the mechanism by which scalp acupuncture combined with exercise (SAE) alleviates PSS is not fully understood. This study investigated the effects of SAE in rats with PSS and explored whether SAE regulates synaptic plasticity through the PI3K/Akt pathway. A middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat model was established, and rats were randomly assigned to five groups: Blank, Sham, MCAO, SAE, and Baclofen. All interventions were administered for 7 consecutive days. Neurological function, cerebral infarct volume, histopathology, synaptic ultrastructure, and related protein expression were then evaluated. Compared with the MCAO group, SAE improved neurological deficits, reduced muscle hypertonia, decreased infarct volume, alleviated neuronal injury, increased synapse number, and improved synaptic morphology. SAE also upregulated glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), phosphorylated PI3K (p-PI3K), phosphorylated Akt (p-AKT), and synaptic proteins, including synaptophysin (SYN), postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43). Immunofluorescence staining further suggested enhanced expression of SYN and p-Akt in the motor cortex after SAE treatment. These findings suggest that SAE may be correlated with the activation of PI3K/Akt signaling via upregulation of GDNF, thereby improving synaptic plasticity and alleviating PSS symptoms. This study investigated the effects of SAE in rats with PSS and explored the potential association between SAE intervention, PI3K/Akt pathway activity, and synaptic plasticity.
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is one of the intractable chronic inflammatory diseases and is often accompanied by mental disorders, such as depression. On the other hand, depression has been pointed out to be strongly associated with the onset of anosmia. However, no clinical or basic research report has been conducted on whether olfactory dysfunction develops in patients suffering from AD. Since NC/Tnd mice, a spontaneous AD model, exhibit depressive symptoms, NC/Tnd mice were used to clarify this point. We found that mice with AD completely lost their ability to sniff around after exposed to two different kinds of odors and showed reduced expression of both growth-associated protein-43-positive immature olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and olfactory marker protein-positive mature OSNs in the olfactory epithelium. Since elevated levels of IL-4, IL-13, and IL-6 in the peripheral blood were detected in NC/Tnd mice with AD, injection of neutralizing mAb against IL-4Rα or IL-6 improved olfactory function and expression of OSNs. Furthermore, administration with signal inhibitors targeting IL-4Rα and IL-6Rβ resulted in the recovery of olfactory function. The present findings suggest that the activation of the IL-4Rα and IL-6Rβ signal pathways by AD suppresses the expression of OSNs in the olfactory epithelium, leading to the loss of smell.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss characterized by pathological choroidal neovascularization (CNV). While anti-VEGF therapies are the standard of care, limitations such as treatment resistance and side effects necessitate novel therapeutic agents. This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of EV30, a novel pterostilbene derivative, in suppressing CNV. EV30 was synthesized based on the pterostilbene template. In vitro, the effects of EV30 on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) proliferation, migration, and tube formation were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), scratch wound, and tube formation assays, respectively. Mechanistic pathways were investigated via Western blotting and RT-qPCR. In vivo, a laser-induced CNV mouse model was treated with intravitreal EV30. Efficacy was evaluated utilizing fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FFA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and choroidal flat mounts (IB4 staining). Finally, biosafety was assessed through histology (H&E), electroretinography (ERG), and blood analysis. EV30 demonstrated potent anti-angiogenic properties in vitro, significantly inhibiting HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. EV30 reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression and modulated the phosphorylation status of proteins associated with the mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling pathway. In the laser-induced CNV model, EV30 effectively reduced lesion area and vascular leakage comparable to bevacizumab. Furthermore, ERG analysis revealed that EV30 partially preserved retinal electrophysiological function, as indicated by improved scotopic a-wave amplitudes, suggesting functional protection of the retina in the CNV model. EV30 exerted anti-angiogenic effects and was associated with modulation of mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling activity. Together, these findings suggest that EV30 represents a potential therapeutic candidate for CNV by suppressing pathological angiogenesis and modulating inflammation-associated signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder increasingly associated with gut microbiota alterations, yet the mechanisms by which microbial metabolites influence PD remain unclear. Here, we applied an integrative computational and experimental strategy to identify key gut microbial metabolites and host genes potentially involved in PD. Differentially abundant gut microbes were obtained from the gutMDisorder database and their corresponding metabolites from gutMGene, with predicted protein targets generated using the Similarity Ensemble Approach. Transcriptomic data from PD brain tissues were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, which were intersected with metabolite targets, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were applied for gene prioritization, while molecular docking evaluated metabolite-gene binding affinities and ProTox3.0 predicted toxicity and blood-brain barrier permeability. In vitro assays further assessed the functional effects of 3-indolepropionic acid in a rotenone-induced SH-SY5Y cell model. Our analyses identified 44 PD-associated microbial taxa linked to 77 metabolites and 905 predicted target genes, with 29 overlapping differentially expressed genes enriched in synaptic signaling and dopaminergic pathways. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) emerged as a central hub gene, with strong docking interactions predicted for two indole metabolites, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoate and 3-indolepropionic acid. Functional validation showed that 3-indolepropionic acid improved cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and preserved DRD2 expression under neurotoxic stress. Together, these findings suggest that specific gut microbial metabolites may modulate host dopaminergic signaling via DRD2, offering new insights into the microbiota-brain axis and potential targets for further PD research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ponesimod demonstrated efficacy and safety in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) in 24-week phase-2 core study, further confirmed by an interim combined analysis of the core and open-label long-term extension (LTE) studies (NCT01093326; up to 8 years). Current study evaluated safety and efficacy of ponesimod using combined core and LTE studies data for up to 13 years.Of 393 participants completing the core study, 353 (90%) entered LTE, having 3 treatment periods (TP). In TP1 (∼1.85 years), participants continued core treatment (ponesimod: 10, 20, or 40 mg QD) whereas placebo-treated participants were re-randomized (1:1:1) to respective ponesimod doses. In TP2 (TP2 and TP3 combined duration: ∼10.4 years), participants on 40 mg were re-randomized (1:1) to 10/20 mg, while others continued same dose; in TP3 all participants received 20 mg. Study outcomes included safety and efficacy (ARR, time-to 24-week confirmed-disability-accumulation [24-week CDA], total T1-weighted Gadolinium-enhanced (T1 Gd+) lesions, new/enlarging T2 lesions and Combined Unique Active Lesions [CUALs]).For 20 mg dose, total 92.4% participants experienced ≥1 TEAEs (73.1% mild/moderate severity) and 19 (13%) participants discontinued study. Mean (95% CI) ARR=0.14 (0.10-0.20); Kaplan-Meier estimate (95% CI) of confirmed relapse and 24-week CDA=52.5% (42.3-63.5) and 31.3% (22.6-42.3). Mean [SD] T1 Gd+ lesions decreased from ponesimod baseline (2.62 [7.06]) to 12.4 years (0.26 [1.48]), mean (95% CI) CUALs per participant/year=3.97 (2.75-5.73).Ponesimod treatment for up to 13 years was not associated with new safety concerns. Participants continued to experience low levels of disease activity consistently across clinical and MRI outcomes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chronic neuropathic pain is sustained by nerve injury-induced central sensitization and is characterized by both sensory and affective manifestations. However, its underlying neural circuit mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we revealed that CaMKII-expressing neurons in the parasubthalamic nucleus (PSTN) were recruited and exhibited hyperactivity in a neuropathic pain mouse model, established via spared nerve injury of the sciatic nerve (SNI). Optogenetic and chemogenetic inhibition of PSTN CaMKII neurons alleviated hyperalgesia and induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in SNI mice, without altering pain thresholds in sham mice. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that PSTN neurons received monosynaptic glutamatergic inputs from tachykinin precursor 1 (Tac1)-expressing neurons in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPB), and were excited by glutamate and substance P (SP) co-released from this projection. Inhibition of the LPB-PSTN projection recapitulated the analgesic and CPP-inducing effects of direct inhibition of PSTN neurons in SNI mice. Notably, these therapeutic effects were mimicked by local administration of a neurokinin receptor 1 (NK1R) antagonist, but were reversed by intra-PSTN injection of SP. Together, this study not only establishes the involvement of the LPB-PSTN circuit and local NK1R in the pathophysiology of neuropathic pain but also demonstrates their promise as therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Pulmonary edema due to vascular endothelial injury in donor lungs reduces organ utilization and exacerbates ischemia/reperfusion injury, resulting in poor posttransplant outcomes. Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) improves vascular integrity through S1P receptor 1 (S1PR1) signaling. This study assessed whether S1PR1 agonism during ex vivo lung perfusion (EVLP) reduces vascular permeability and edema formation in human donor lungs.S1PR1 agonist CYM5442 was administered to human donor lungs declined for transplant, during 6 h of EVLP, using a paired split-lung model with one lung treated and the other acting as an internal control. Lung physiology, organ weight, vascular endothelial permeability to Evan's blue dye, and direCt Lung Ultrasound Evaluation score for lung water were assessed. Sequential perfusate and tissue samples were collected to evaluate gene and protein expression.During EVLP (n = 7 paired sets), CYM5442 reduced Evan's blue accumulation in bronchoalveolar lavage (P = 0.0260) and tissue (P = 0.0476). Increases in lung weight were ameliorated and direCt Lung Ultrasound Evaluation scores reduced in the CYM5442-treated group post-EVLP (P = 0.0135 and P = 0.0482, respectively), leading to reduced pulmonary artery and peak airway pressures (interaction P = 0.0038 and P < 0.0001). CYM5442 maintained vascular endothelial cadherin expression and reduced interleukin-6 (P = 0.0130, 360 min), interleukin-1 beta (P = 0.0214, 240 min), and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (P = 0.0067, 360 min) release compared with untreated during EVLP.Agonism of S1PR1 during EVLP ameliorates pulmonary vascular leak and may be used to reduce the risk of edema formation in donor lungs.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
The development of human-relevant in vitro cardiac models is essential for evaluating cardiotoxicity and drug efficacy. Although wingless-related integration site signaling-based protocols have enabled cardiomyocyte (CM) differentiation from pluripotent stem cells, issues such as low efficiency, immature phenotype, and variability across cell lines remain to be resolved. Here, we present an improved differentiation strategy that robustly enhances both the efficiency and functional maturity of CMs, comparable to the functional characteristics of human adult myocardial tissue. Although fetal bovine serum enhanced differentiation, we disclosed that the interaction between sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) and its receptor S1PR1 is a major contributor. Gene-based and protein-based analyses and electrophysiological analysis via multielectrode array confirmed that activation of S1PR1 using S1P or its agonist SEW2871 increased the generation of spontaneously beating CMs, whereas S1PR1-deficient pluripotent stem cells exhibited impaired differentiation and functional maturity of S1P-S1PR1-derived CMs. Furthermore, we observed improved cardiac function and reduced fibrosis in a myocardial infarction mouse model induced by left descending artery ligation following transplantation of CMs differentiated more robustly by treatment with S1P or SEW2871. Collectively, S1PR1 activator-treated CMs offer a cost-effective platform for drug discovery and regenerative medicine.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42393136
Despite effective cholesterol-lowering medications, significant residual cardiovascular risk related to atherosclerosis remains. Here, we explore whether the cytokine-like protein FAM3D contributes to atherosclerosis. Clinical cohort data reveal that elevated circulating FAM3D levels are strongly associated with human atherosclerosis. Both global and intestinal epithelial cell-specific Fam3d deficiencies significantly inhibit intestinal cholesterol and triglyceride absorption and mitigate atherosclerosis in mice. Mechanistically, FAM3D upregulates microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) expression and activity, promoting chylomicron assembly in intestinal epithelial cells. Meanwhile, endothelial FAM3D induces vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dedifferentiation via a lipid-independent mechanism. Both effects are mediated by the formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1)-Gαi/Gαq signaling cascade. Importantly, two monoclonal antibodies targeting FAM3D effectively suppress intestinal MTTP-mediated chylomicron assembly and VSMC dedifferentiation, thereby mitigating atherosclerosis in mice. In conclusion, FAM3D exacerbates atherosclerosis through both lipid-dependent and lipid-independent mechanisms, representing a promising therapeutic target for combating residual cardiovascular risk unresolved by current cholesterol-lowering therapies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition driven by dysregulated immune responses to infection, characterized by excessive inflammatory cytokine release that frequently culminates in cytokine storm and multi-organ failure, yet the molecular mechanisms governing cytokine regulation of monocytes in sepsis remain poorly understood. In this study, we retrieved RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) datasets regarding cytokine storm-related diseases from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and performed comparative analysis of gene expression profiles among patients with sepsis, severe COVID-19, macrophage activation syndrome, and healthy controls to identify critical cytokine regulatory genes. We identified 109 shared differentially expressed genes across these cytokine storm-related diseases and pinpointed Formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR-1) as a key gene significantly upregulated in sepsis monocytes via LPS/TLR4 pathway. Furthermore, we found that FPR-1 activation enhances LPS-induced IL-6 and TNF-α production through AKT and p38-MAPK signaling. Furthermore, FPR-1 modulates mitochondrial ROS levels, thereby amplifying pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in a mitochondrial ROS-dependent manner. These findings demonstrate that FPR-1 is a crucial modulator of monocyte-driven cytokine dysregulation in sepsis via key inflammatory signaling pathways and mtROS homeostasis, providing novel mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic targets for sepsis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Transglutaminases are enzymes with pleiotropic functions in the human body, among them are the A-subunit of coagulation factor XIII (FXIII; FXIII-A) and tissue transglutaminase (TG2). FXIII has a crucial function in clot formation and stabilization. FXIII also contributes to extracellular matrix formation, wound healing and tissue regeneration, a function it shares with TG2. Whether TG2 may also have a role in hemostasis has never been studied in detail. The aim of our project was to study the role of TG2 in clot formation, stabilization and hemostasis. Here, with the use of a microfluidic endothelialized whole blood bleeding model, we detected TG2 and its crosslinking activity at the site of vessel injury, and the addition of exogenous TG2 resulted in its co-localization with the fibrin clot. In turbidimetric clot formation and lysis tests, TG2 delayed clot lysis. Finally, mass-spectrometry and proteomic analyses revealed differences in fibrin chain crosslinking patterns and protein composition of purified and plasma fibrin clots generated in the presence of either FXIII or TG2. Our data suggest that TG2 is present at the site of clot formation upon vessel injury and contributes to fibrin crosslinking and clot stabilization. Hence, TG2 may be able support hemostasis.Copyright: © 2026 Stoklosa et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
Background: Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness characterized by progressive degeneration of the optic nerve. Elevated intraocular pressure, typically associated with glaucoma, exerts biomechanical strain on the optic nerve head, where mechanosensitive astrocytes contribute to profibrotic extracellular matrix remodeling. Cross-linking enzymes such as transglutaminase 2 play a role in this process. A unique function of transglutaminase 2 is its ability to catalyze the post-translational modification of proteins through the transamidation of serotonin onto glutamine residues ("serotonylation"). The serotonylation of extracellular matrix proteins, such as fibronectin, could plausibly be involved in extracellular matrix remodeling. Here, we investigated whether optic nerve head astrocytes could serotonylate extracellular proteins in response to a biomechanical insult. Results: Primary human optic nerve head astrocytes subjected to 0-12% cyclic stretch for 24 h exhibited increased extracellular levels of transglutaminase 2 and serotonin. Correspondingly, serotonylation of immunoprecipitated fibronectin samples, detected by immunoblotting, was 2.5-fold higher in stretched cells. Serotonylation of specific glutaminyl residues of fibronectin due to the catalytic effect of transglutaminase 2 was also proven though an in vitro experiment using nanoflow liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that fibronectin can be serotonylated by optic nerve head astrocytes and that this modification is enhanced by biomechanical stress. While transglutaminase 2 is classically associated with extracellular matrix cross-linking, these results suggest that serotonylation may represent an additional and unexplored mechanism by which transglutaminase 2 contributes to extracellular matrix remodeling in the glaucomatous optic nerve head.© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is the most common form of central nervous system (CNS) injury and is often characterized by persistent neuroinflammation, metabolic dysregulation, and oxidative stress. Repetitive injuries compound these pathologies and lead to multifocal axonal injuries and long-term functional deficits. Despite the prevalence of mTBIs, the cellular mechanisms that facilitate or prevent recovery following injury remain poorly defined. Here, we extend our previous work on the role of the protein transglutaminase 2 (TG2) in CNS injury and we hypothesize that transcriptional regulation by TG2 restricts metabolic versatility in astrocytes following TBI, thereby impairing neuronal energetic support and worsening pathological outcomes. We utilized an established weight-drop model of repetitive mTBI followed by multi-parametric analysis of TBI pathology in complete TG2 knockout (TG2-/-) and wild type mice. At 28 days post-injury, TG2-/- mice showed marked attenuation of TBI pathology, compared to wild type mice, in vulnerable white matter and default mode network (DMN) regions, as assessed by diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), resting-state functional MRI, and immunohistochemistry. Integrated epigenomic, proteomic, and metabolomic profiling of cortical astrocytes isolated 28 days after injury revealed a pronounced metabolic restriction in wild type astrocytes which was remarkably attenuated in the TG2-/- mice. This rescue was associated with a de-repression of gene networks involved in glutamate recycling, lipid metabolism, and metabolic homeostasis. Together, these studies provide novel mechanistic insights into the metabolic dysregulation that characterizes persistent TBI pathology, and establish a foundation for evaluating TG2 as a therapeutic target for TBI.
As a short-chain fatty acid and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, butyrate possesses extensive immunomodulatory properties. Here, we uncover a novel mechanism wherein butyrate markedly upregulates the expression of the immune checkpoint PD-L1 across diverse tumor cell types. Mechanistically, epigenetic analyses revealed that butyrate drives PD-L1 transcriptional activation through dual synergistic pathways: increasing histone H3 acetylation (H3Ac) at the PD-L1 promoter via HDAC inhibition, and enhancing histone H3K4me3 modification by upregulating transglutaminase 2 (TGM2). Combining butyrate or high-fiber diets with anti-PD-L1 antibodies profoundly suppressed tumor growth and bolstered anti-tumor immunity in both subcutaneous and AOM-DSS-induced colorectal cancer (CRC) murine models. Ultimately, our results highlight butyrate and dietary fiber supplementation as promising sensitizing strategies to augment the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in patients with low baseline PD-L1 expression.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522035 is a review article
Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) serves as a modifiable transamidating acyltransferase that precipitates calcium-induced protein alterations. The enzyme plays a crucial role in the cell and disease states, such as tissue repair, calcium signal transduction, celiac disease, and cancer. It is implicated in protein crosslinking and has been found in high concentrations in the small intestines of those with celiac disease. The function of TG2 hinges upon calcium ions binding to particular sites on the enzyme. In this study, we delve into the contribution of calcium-responsive transglutaminase 2 (TG2) in celiac disease, utilizing both molecular dynamics simulations and coarse-grained models, and investigate the impact of non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) on TG2. Molecular dynamics reveal prominent conformational differences between the open and closed conformations. In the coarse-grained model, key residues are found adjacent to the active site in the open conformation, while in the closed conformation, key residues are distant from the active site. We further explore the functional impact of nsSNPs in TG2 using both sequence-based and structure-based computational tools. Through a consensus approach, we identify ten nsSNPs that are predicted to destabilize TG2 or alter its structural flexibility, with mutations such as R48H, E186Q, C277S, and E549G likely to influence active site accessibility and calcium coordination. The findings from this research enhance our understanding of the molecular processes underpinning celiac disease and helps facilitate innovative treatment approaches that target calcium-responsive TG2.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurological manifestations of gluten sensitivity (GS) with gluten ataxia (GA) are well-recognised in adults. We present our experience in children and adolescents (C/A) seen with suspected GS, mainly GA, over a 5-year period. Retrospective case note analysis was performed on clinical, serological andneuroimaging data of 20 C/A seen in our specialist ataxia referral centre withsuspected NGS. 14 female and 6 male C/A (range: 6-15 years, median: 12.5 years) were referred to our specialist ataxia clinic with suspected GS. All 20 patients had motor coordination/balance difficulties with ataxia. Headaches were present in 12/20 C/A (60%), sensory neuropathic symptoms in 6/20 C/a (30%), postural dizziness in 6/20 (30%). 8/20 C/A (40%) had pre-existing autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Family history of GS/GA/Coeliac disease was present in 10/20 C/A (50%). Serological abnormalities were present in all 20 CYP, with raised antibodies: antigliadin in 15/20 (75%), transglutaminase-6 in 12/20 (60%), transglutaminase-2 in 7/20 (35%), and endomysial in 4/20 (20%). MR Spectroscopy of the cerebellum showed a reduced N-acetylaspartate: Creatine (NAA/Cr) ratio in 14/20 (70%). 18/20 (90%) received a gluten-free diet (GFD). 13/18 (72%) of C/A reported improvement of symptoms on GFD. We suggest considering GS as a differential diagnosis in the presence of motor coordination difficulties with abnormal MRS of the cerebellum and raised antigliadin and/or transglutaminase-6 antibodies. Early diagnosis of GS is important, as it is a treatable cause of childhood ataxia.Further follow-up will help in defining the natural history and GS in C/A.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508529 is a review article
Correction for 'Cyanidin and delphinidin inhibit transglutaminase 2 and mitigate inflammatory effects of IFN-γ and TNF-α by molecular interaction' by Andrea Diers et al., Food Funct., 2026, 17, 4865-4879, https://doi.org/10.1039/d6fo00704j.
Depression is one of the most prevalent psychiatric disorders worldwide, yet its pathogenesis remains unclear. Here, we aimed to investigate the effects of formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), a key regulator of innate immunity and inflammation, on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depression-related behaviors in mice after intraperitoneal administration, and to elucidate its regulatory mechanisms in microglia. FPR2 knockout (Fpr2-/-) significantly attenuated LPS-induced depressive and anxiety-like behaviors in mice. LPS markedly increased FPR2 expression in microglia of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus, while only a minimal increase was observed in neurons. FPR2 deficiency alleviated LPS-induced microglial activation and reduced neuronal synaptic alterations. RNA sequencing and validation experiments confirmed that FPR2 deletion substantially decreased LPS-induced microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation and IL-1β levels in the brain. Mechanistically, FPR2 regulated downstream NLRP3 activation by modulating CSF1, and FPR2/CSF1 activation was governed by its upstream ligand, serum amyloid A (SAA). Analysis of public clinical datasets revealed that SAA1 levels were significantly upregulated in the orbital ventral PFC of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and in the plasma of patients with late-life depression. These findings demonstrate that the SAA/FPR2/CSF1/NLRP3 pathway mediates LPS-induced depressive-like behaviors by regulating microglial activation and neuroinflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic unresolved inflammation is a common feature of several Central Nervous System (CNS) disorders, including autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We previously demonstrated that Formyl Peptide Receptor 2 (FPR2) activation by our agonist MR-39 reduced several inflammatory markers and improved social behavior in two validated animal models of ASD. Therefore, we decided to delve deeper into the potential of MR-39 as a drug for treating ASD. We first investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of MR-39 in BTBR mice. MR-39 significantly normalized pro-inflammatory cytokine release and NF-κB expression in the hippocampus and cortex, resulting in upregulation of synaptophysin protein levels, which, in turn, promote plasticity and correct abnormalities in dendritic spine morphology. Next, we characterized the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of MR-39 with respect to potential advancement for further pre- and clinical studies. We found that MR-39 was not genotoxic and safe to use since it had limited interaction with the majority of the targets associated with the adverse drug reaction. Consistently, a repeated-dose administration study evidenced no clinical signs attributable to treatment-related toxicity. On the other hand, MR-39 exhibited rapid hepatocyte clearance and interaction with efflux systems in vitro, suggesting possible limitations due to its pharmacokinetic properties. Finally, we explored multiple strategies to overcome MR-39's low aqueous solubility, finding that the cosolvent approach can greatly enhance solubility and wettability. Overall, our study confirmed that promoting inflammation resolution with MR-39 can open new therapeutic options for ASD and that this compound has potential as a drug.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Circadian rhythms are intrinsic time-keeping mechanisms that play a critical role in tuning immunity. Here, we investigated the impact of circadian rhythms on the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model for multiple sclerosis (MS). We demonstrate that circulating neutrophils in blood significantly increase early in EAE, prior to symptoms onset. Importantly, we found that these cells infiltrate the central nervous system (CNS) in a time-of-day (ToD)-dependent manner, with increased infiltration at the onset of the behavioral active phase of the mice (evening). Transcriptomic analysis of CNS-infiltrating neutrophils revealed distinct ToD-dependent gene expression profiles, which identified Formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2) as a potential therapeutic candidate, since pharmacological inhibition of FPR2 led to reduced EAE disease severity. Furthermore, combinatorial treatment with a drug that targets VLA-4 (used in clinical practice under the trade name Natalizumab to treat MS) led to additive effects, substantially reducing EAE symptoms. Together, these findings highlight the importance of circadian immune cell dynamics during EAE development and provide a characterization of the circadian immune landscape in an animal model of MS, identifying potential targets for MS therapies.
Peptide-based drug candidates are often susceptible to enzymatic degradation in the gastrointestinal environment and biological matrices, while exhibiting limited intestinal permeability. In developing strategies to overcome these limitations, it is important to quantitatively evaluate the factors contributing to low systemic exposure and to understand the metabolic fate of peptides. This study utilized an integrated analytical approach combining quantitative analysis via liquid chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and metabolite profiling via LC-quadrupole time-of-flight MS (LC-QTOF-MS) to characterize the metabolic fate and evaluate the oral dosing feasibility of WKYMVm (Wm), a formyl peptide receptor 2 agonist. A validated LC-MS/MS assay enabled quantification of Wm in mouse plasma with acceptable accuracy (95.2-115.7%) and precision (<8.6%). LC-QTOF-MS analysis identified eight metabolites (M1-M8) in mouse plasma, predominantly formed via sequential N-terminal cleavage with oxidative modifications. Plasma stability data were then simultaneously fitted to a structural parent-metabolite kinetic model, which identified the formation of M4 as the predominant pathway (fraction metabolized (fm) = 0.501), followed by M2 (fm = 0.262), indicating preferential cleavage at the Lys-Tyr bond. To predict oral dosing feasibility, Caco-2 bi-directional transport data were analyzed using a catenary model, while luminal degradation and hepatic metabolism were estimated using simulated gastric and intestinal fluids and mouse liver S9 fraction. When the experimentally obtained parameters were incorporated into simplified models, the results revealed limited intestinal and hepatic availability under the tested conditions. This integrated analytical and modeling approach identified the metabolic liabilities of Wm, informing the design of Wm analogs to enhance metabolic stability.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42199097
Although the extracellular matrix (ECM) is a highly dynamic partner of the immune system, its immunoregulatory role during the early phase of sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) remains poorly defined. Using a murine cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model, we observed dynamic ECM remodeling characterized by rapid collagen loss within 24 h, followed by a pathological fibroproliferation phase. Proteomic profiling of the degraded ECM demonstrated its immunoregulatory potential. In vitro studies revealed that annexin A1 (ANXA1), an upregulated ECM component, promoted anti-inflammatory macrophage polarization via the formyl-peptide receptor 2/lipoxin A4 (FPR2/ALX)-dependent 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. However, under pathological conditions, collagen loss markedly reduces the number of key binding sites for integrin β1 (Itgb1), thereby disrupting macrophage-ECM adhesion and resulting in macrophage detachment; upon entering the inflammatory microenvironment, these cells acquire a proinflammatory phenotype, exacerbating pulmonary inflammation. Capitalizing on the collagen biosynthetic function of ascorbic acid (AA), we investigated its capacity to restore macrophage-ECM adhesion therapeutically. In vitro, treatment of fibroblasts with AA on decellularized CLP-ECM increased collagen deposition and improved macrophage adhesion. In vivo, intratracheal instillation of AA (20 mg/kg) enhanced collagen biosynthesis, which promoted ECM restoration, sustained interstitial macrophage retention, suppressed proinflammatory cytokine production, and ultimately resolved lung injury. Our study reveals that ECM degradation is an early immunoregulatory event and suggests a therapeutic approach for ECM repair via airway-targeted AA delivery in ALI.© 2026. Science China Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42162635 is a review article
Oxidative stress and inflammation are two closely related pathogenesis processes during ischemic injury. The current study investigated the neuroprotective effects of resolvin D1 (RvD1, a pro-resolving mediator) and its corresponding receptor formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2) in a rat model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Dynamic expressions of endogenous RvD1 and FPR2 in ischemic hemisphere were firstly examined by ELISA and western blot respectively. To explore the therapeutic effects of RvD1/FPR2 on ischemic injury, exogenous RvD1 were given at 0.4 µg/kg after MCAO (i.p.). Boc-2 (specific FPR2 antagonist to inhibit effects of RvD1/FPR2) were administered at 0.4 mg/kg (i.p.) 30 min before MCAO to inhibit the binding of RvD1 to FPR2. For evaluating ischemic injury, neurological performances were determined by deficit score and grip strength, and infarction volume were assayed by TTC. Neuronal damage was further observed by stainings of H&E, Fluoro-Jade C (FJC), and TUNEL. Inflammation markers were assayed by MPO immunostaining and mRNA dectection. Oxidative stress was determined by related kits (MDA, NO, GSH and SOD) and MitoSOX staining. Our results showed that endogenous cerebral levels of RvD1 were decreased after focal ischemia, but expression of FPR2 was increased. Exogenous RvD1 treatment alleviated neurological deficits, reduced infarct volume and attenuated neuronal apoptosis, however, inhibition of FPR2 by Boc-2 inhibited these effects. Furthermore, RvD1 reduced MPO positive cells and mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-1β, and iNOS), but increased mRNA levels of anti-inflammatory mediators (TGF-β1 and IL-10). Concurrently, RvD1 inhibited oxidative stress, evidenced by down-regulated pro-oxidative mediators (such as MDA and NO) and up-regulated anti-oxidative mediators (SOD and GSH). Boc-2 alleviated the anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects of RvD1. Mechanistically, RvD1 decreased expression of NOX2 in microglia and astrocytes, while co-administration of Boc-2 reversed these effects. These finding demonstrate that RvD1/FPR2 alleviated cerebral ischemic injury by attenuating inflammation and oxidative stress, which is beneficial to break the vicious cycle between inflammation and oxidative stress, thus highlighting its potential role in treatment for ischemic stroke.© 2026. The Author(s).
Brain injury after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in term and near-term neonates worldwide. The ferret is a promising translational model to study HI due to its gyrified brain and white-to-gray matter ratio that more closely resembles humans compared to rodents. Caffeine, an adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) antagonist, shows neuroprotective potential after HI, but its effects have not been fully characterized. We sought to evaluate caffeine's effect on neuronal cell death, cytotoxicity, and inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in a term-equivalent ferret organotypic brain slice model of HI. Slices were cultured for 72 h, exposed to two hours of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), and randomized to OGD alone, OGD with caffeine (20 or 50 mg/L), or OGD with caffeine and an A2AR agonist. Healthy slices served as controls. Outcomes included global cell death, regional cell death, microglial morphology, and expression of inflammatory and oxidative stress genes (46-48 slices/group for cell death assays and 18 slices/group for imaging, balanced by sex). Caffeine 50 mg/L significantly reduced global cell death compared to OGD (p = 0.02), and this effect persisted despite co-administration of an A2AR agonist (p = 0.01), suggesting that protection was not primarily mediated through A2AR signaling. Caffeine also did not change regional pyknotic nuclei counts (p > 0.05). Caffeine altered microglial morphology, increasing the proportion of microglia with features characteristic of control conditions. OGD significantly increased expression of inflammatory and oxidative stress-related genes (p < 0.05) compared with control slices, whereas caffeine did not significantly alter gene expression. In summary, caffeine partially reversed global cell death after OGD and altered microglial morphology. Larger, higher-powered studies are needed to further investigate caffeine's effects on neonatal HI.
G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) heteromerization represents a key organizational mechanism in cell signaling, but it remains difficult to determine, in native cells, how receptor-associated signals are distributed between non-interacting and heteromer-associated states. Here, we address this limitation by combining proximity ligation assay (PLA) with the newly applied MolBoolean methodology, enabling in situ quantification of the partitioning of adenosine A2A and cannabinoid CB2 receptor-associated signals between non-interacting fractions and A2A-CB2 heteromeric complexes in primary microglia. We show that resting microglia contain detectable A2A-CB2 heteromers together with a substantial non-interacting A2A-associated signal fraction. Selective activation of either receptor promotes redistribution of the detectable receptor-associated signal toward the heteromer-associated fraction. Ligand-induced redistribution also occurred in HEK-293T cells expressing the two receptors. In contrast, pro-inflammatory activation of primary microglia with LPS/IFN-γ markedly changes the basal organization of the receptor system, increasing the proportion of MolBoolean-detectable signal associated with A2A-CB2 complexes, with approximately 70% of the detectable receptor-associated signal corresponding to heteromeric complexes. In this inflammatory context, further agonist-induced repartitioning is strongly limited compared with that observed in resting microglia. These findings identify inflammation-dependent receptor partitioning as a quantitatively measurable feature of microglial A2A and CB2 receptor organization and provide a framework for interpreting how receptor context may influence future studies of A2A-CB2 pharmacology under neuroinflammatory conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Understanding the immunological mechanisms underlying chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection-induced immune tolerance is critical for developing effective therapeutic strategies, yet the mechanisms by which natural killer (NK)-cell subsets regulate dendritic cell (DC)-mediated antiviral immunity during chronic HBV infection remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that chronic HBV infection disrupted intrahepatic DCs accumulation and activation by suppressing CC chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) production from hepatic NK cells. Importantly, chronic HBV infection reduced the number of hepatic conventional NK (cNK) cells, the main source of hepatic CCL5, whereas liver-resident NK (LrNK) cells increased and exhibited lower CCL5 expression and immunosuppressive features. Adoptive transfer of CCL5-competent hepatic cNK cells promoted DCs accumulation and activation, enhanced HBV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses, and facilitated viral clearance. Mechanistically, chronic HBV infection promoted the activation of adenosine A2a receptor (ADORA2A)/nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway in hepatic NK cells, thereby antagonizing NF-κB activation, reducing the proportion of cNK cells, suppressing CCL5 production, and ultimately impairing hepatic aggregation and activation of DCs, leading to defective anti-HBV immune responses. This study revealed a novel mechanism involved in chronic HBV infection-induced immune tolerance and indicated that targeting the ADORA2A/NFκB/CCL5 axis in cNK cells may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for chronic HBV infection.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Persistent pruritus (itch) affects the quality of life, and many itch syndromes remain untreatable. Previously, we identified the gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) playing a critical role in mediating histamine-independent itch signaling. In this study, we aimed to identify small-molecule GRPR antagonists to treat histamine-independent itch. Starting with the known small-molecule GRPR antagonist PD 176,252, we conducted systematical structure-activity relationship studies. This effort led to the discovery of antagonists that exhibit up to an 11-fold increase in binding affinity compared to PD 176,252. Compound 45 (MP-4222), a GRPR antagonist with a four-fold increased binding affinity and equal selectivity over the neuromedin B receptor (NMBR), significantly inhibited itch behavior in the chloroquine (CQ)-induced acute itch mouse model. Additionally, we attempted to reconcile the discrepancy between our in vitro experimental data and the computational docking outcome using the recently reported GRPR-PD176252 cryo-EM structure. Our studies also suggested several potential modifications to improve potency, as well as identified functional groups that have the potential in radiolabeling for targeted GRPR imaging.© 2026. The Author(s).
ADCY5-related dyskinesia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder with limited treatment options because many standard medications are ineffective. Caffeine has shown efficacy in ADCY5-related dyskinesia as an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, but optimal dosing remains uncertain.We report a 24-year-old woman with paroxysmal dyskinesia since early childhood, consisting of chorea, dystonia, and myoclonus upon waking. More than 15 medications failed. Whole-exome sequencing identified a mosaic ADCY5 variant (p.R418Q, 7% variant allele frequency). Caffeine escalation from 100 to 600 mg worsened symptoms. Four months later, she found that unsweetened canned coffee containing approximately 100 mg of caffeine per can, taken 1-3 times daily, reduced her symptoms and helped her maintain daily employment. In a self-controlled analysis of 39 coffee-intake events, dyskinesia episodes during the 6 h after coffee intake were significantly fewer than during the preceding 6 h (p = 0.002).This case demonstrates successful symptom control in ADCY5-related dyskinesia using patient-directed, low-dose caffeine therapy. The striking response suggests a narrow therapeutic window for caffeine in this condition and that patient self-titration may be valuable in optimizing treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Adenosine rapidly suppresses antitumor immunity through the adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR). Immunogenic cell death (ICD) releases extracellular ATP, which can be rapidly converted into immunosuppressive adenosine. We therefore designed BSCS@PHY to synchronize ICD induction with local A2AR blockade in the same spatiotemporal window, aiming to protect antigen priming from adenosine-mediated suppression. BSCS@PHY integrates a bismuth-copper diselenide core for photothermal heating, glutathione depletion, and chemodynamic hydroxyl-radical generation; hyaluronic-acid-modified phase-change materials for on-site activation; the A2AR antagonist SCH442416 for local A2AR blockade; and yeast cell wall (YCW) components for innate adjuvanticity. Thermography-guided irradiation confines activation within a controlled window, melts the phase-change shell to expose the catalytic surface, and coordinates ICD amplification with co-localized A2AR blockade and dendritic-cell activation. In 4T1 tumors, BSCS@PHY enables image-guided activation, enhances ICD hallmarks, lowers adenosine signaling, promotes dendritic-cell maturation and T-cell priming, and improves tumor control, with additional benefit when combined with anti-PD-L1. Loss-of-function comparisons support nonredundant contributions of A2AR blockade and YCW-mediated adjuvanticity. This material-encoded strategy aligns danger-signal generation with local A2AR blockade in the same tumor niche and offers a framework for pairing ICD induction with metabolic-checkpoint control in cold tumors.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Background/Objectives: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a type of inflammatory bowel disease characterized by abdominal pain, diarrhea, and bleeding. Polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN), an adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) agonist, exhibits anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, we evaluated the therapeutic effects of PDRN in a dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced murine model of UC. Methods: UC was induced by administering 2% DSS in drinking water for 7 days. One day after DSS administration, mice received intraperitoneal injections of PDRN (8 mg/kg) for 7 days. To investigate the involvement of A2AR, the selective antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX, 8 mg/kg) was co-administered with PDRN. Results: DSS administration induced colonic tissue damage and increased disease activity index (DAI) and histological scores. DSS also elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines while reducing anti-inflammatory cytokine levels. PDRN treatment reduced histological damage, restored body weight, colon weight, and colon length, and decreased DAI scores. Furthermore, PDRN treatment inhibited nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) activation through suppression of NF-κB inhibitor-α phosphorylation and was associated with activation of the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway. PDRN treatment attenuated inflammation and was associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in colonic tissues. Given the context-dependent role of VEGF in inflammatory bowel disease, this increase is interpreted as contributing to mucosal repair rather than exacerbating inflammation. Co-administration of DMPX abolished these effects, suggesting the involvement of A2AR-dependent signaling pathways. Conclusions: PDRN attenuated colonic inflammation and improved disease outcomes in DSS-induced UC, potentially through modulation of the PKA/CREB/NF-κB signaling pathway and VEGF-mediated tissue repair mechanisms.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, driven by invasive behavior and frequent resistance to systemic therapies. Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) benefit patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC, but their efficacy is often limited by tumor-intrinsic and environmental resistance mechanisms. Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a ubiquitous polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon from tobacco smoke, combustion, and dietary sources, is a known carcinogen; however, its role in modulating therapeutic responses is poorly understood. Studies, including ours, implicate the platelet-activating factor-receptor (PAFR) pathway in mediating environmental pollutant and therapy-induced effects on tumor growth and microvesicle particle (MVP) release. We hypothesized that PAFR activation mediates BaP-induced NSCLC progression and influences EGFR-TKI responses.We assessed the effects of BaP, PAFR agonist CPAF, EGFR-TKIs, and their combinations on cell viability, proliferation, migration, anchorage-independent growth, and MVP secretion.BaP did not alter cell survival but significantly increased migration, growth, colony formation, and MVP release, similar to CPAF, and these effects were blocked by a PAFR antagonist or acid sphingomyelinase inhibitor. Notably, BaP did not significantly reduce EGFR-TKI efficacy at tested concentrations.These results show that environmental carcinogens modulate NSCLC behavior through PAFR signaling without compromising EGFR-TKI responsiveness, highlighting PAFR as a potential therapeutic target.
While genetic factors strongly influence brain aging trajectories, variants conferring cognitive resilience remain poorly characterized. The neurokinin-3 receptor (NK3-R), encoded by Tachykinin Receptor 3 ( TACR3) , modulates cholinergic signaling in memory circuits vulnerable to aging. Previous studies linked the non-WT expression of the TACR3 variant rs2765 with cognitive decline and reduced volume of the hippocampus and basal forebrain, but systematic replication and mechanistic validation were lacking.We investigated rs2765 in the preregistered AgeGain cohort of cognitively healthy older adults (n=188) with independent validation in the ADNI cohort (n=809) which includes persons with and without Alzheimer's Disease (AD) that show healthy cognition, mild cognitive impairment or dementia. Analyses integrated structural neuroimaging, longitudinal cognitive assessments, epigenetic aging (PhenoAge), genome-wide methylation profiling, and mechanistic validation through luciferase assays and cross-species protein expression studies.The infrequent protective rs2765 WT variant, found in 12.8% of Europeans, conferred 49% slower cognitive decline ( p = 0.002) for amyloid-positive individuals of the ADNI cohort and 3.7 years younger epigenetic age ( p = 0.013, 95% CI: 0.79-6.67 years) in the cognitively healthy AgeGain cohort. WT carriers showed larger hippocampal and basal forebrain volumes across cohorts, with Allen Brain Atlas integration revealing these outcomes to occur exclusively in regions where TACR3 expression positively correlated with gray matter volume. Mechanistically, the non-WT variant ameliorated RBMX-mediated post-transcriptional regulation, reducing NK3-R protein expression by 25-40% in vitro and ex vivo murine brain slice models. Senescence-accelerated mice exhibited reduced endogenous NK3-R expression, phenocopying the predicted functional consequences of the variant. In AgeGain participants, genome-wide methylation profiling identified 2,313 differentially methylated CpGs affecting 228 pathways spanning glutamatergic signaling, acetylcholine receptor pathways, chromatin remodeling, and angiogenesis, suggesting coordinated molecular reprogramming from synaptic function to systemic aging.rs2765 WT confers resilience to age- and AD-related cognitive decline through RBMX-dependent regulation of NK3-R expression, with effects of remarkable size cascading from memory to systemic aging. rs2765 genotyping could stratify individuals for NK3-R modulator therapy (e.g., fezolinetant or senktides) and identify those maintaining function despite pathological burden, complementing APOE-based risk assessment in precision geromedicine.
Biomacromolecular therapeutics face critical size-dependent transdermal delivery limitations that restrict their clinical effectiveness. To overcome this constraint, a conformation-altering strategy using controlled mechanical stress is reported to achieve substantial structural compaction of polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) without chemical intervention. By applying mild vacuum conditions that force PDRN molecules to pass through a silica particle media, a 1.8-fold size reduction of the radius of gyration was achieved, from 52.92 nm to 29.36 nm. The characterization of these molecules through SAXS and gel electrophoresis confirms the spatial conformational alteration without damage to the molecule structure or biofunctionality. Clinical trials validated the therapeutic superiority of conformationally modified PDRN, supported by enhanced cellular uptake, superior procollagen synthesis, accelerated wound healing kinetics, and upregulated extracellular matrix remodeling while preserving native adenosine A2A receptor-mediated signaling pathways. This conformational control methodology transcends traditional structure-function paradigms, establishing a platform for enhancing biomacromolecule bioavailability in dermatological therapeutics and regenerative medicine, allowing deepened tissue penetration without compromising biological activity.
Maternal care plays a pivotal role in the brain and behavioral development of offspring. However, the neural substrates underlying the effects of oxytocin (OT) on maternal-like behavior remain incompletely understood. Using OTR-Cre female mice, fiber photometry was utilized to monitor the calcium signals in oxytocin receptor (OTR) neurons. We observed elevated activity of adBNST (anterodorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis) OTR neurons during pup-caring behavior, as indicated by increased calcium signals. Chemogenetic activation of adBNST OTR neurons prolonged duration of licking pups, whereas inhibiting these neurons reduced the time of licking pups and prolonged the latency to retrieve pups. Additionally, microinjection of OT into the adBNST increased the time of licking pups, while administration of an oxytocin receptor antagonist (OTA) suppressed pup-caring behavior. Collectively, these findings not only deepen our understanding of the neural basis underlying maternal-like behavior but also provide a potential target for treating or mitigating aberrant maternal care associated with postpartum depression, anxiety or related disorders.
The gut mycobiome plays an essential role in human health, yet its influence on the progression of arterial stiffness, a key feature of vascular aging, remains obscure. In this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of intestinal fungi in the exacerbation of arterial stiffness. In total, 763 participants were invited for the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity test to determine their status of arterial stiffness. The gut mycobiome was identified through internal transcribed spacer sequencing, host genetics were determined by genotyping arrays, and plasma metabolites were quantified using untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A less clustered but more communicative fungal community was found in individuals with elevated stiffness. Five driving fungal genera contributing to the shift of fungal interaction networks from normal to elevated stiffness, including Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, Flavocillium, Hyaloscypha, and Microscypha, were associated with arterial stiffness. Integrative analysis with metabolomics further demonstrated that organic acids, fatty acyls, and alkaloids mediated the effect of Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, and Microscypha on arterial stiffness. Moreover, alpha-1A adrenergic receptor, alpha-2B adrenergic receptor, cytochrome P450 Family 11 subfamily B member 2, angiotensin I converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor type 1, matrix metallopeptidase 2, tumor necrosis factor, and rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 were identified as the key molecular transducers associated with increased Apiotrichum in arterial stiffness. Our study uncovers a strong association between disruption in gut fungi and the progression of elevated arterial stiffness, and highlights the potential of targeting the gut mycobiome for improving vascular health.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482635 is a review article
The gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) is an attractive target for breast cancer (BC) imaging, but the in vivo performance of GRPR-targeted radioligands, such as RM2 and NeoB, is limited by metabolic instability, which may compromise tumor retention. Here, we designed two dimeric RM2-based radioligands, hdPP-01 and hdPP-02, to investigate whether homodimerization could improve the preclinical profile of GRPR-targeted radiotracers. hdPP-01 was synthesized using a 1,3,5-triazine core, whereas hdPP-02 was obtained via a 2-cyanobenzothiazole/1,2-aminothiol click reaction. Both compounds were radiolabeled with indium-111 and evaluated in T47-D cells. The resulting radiotracers retained nanomolar GRPR-binding properties, showed higher GRPR-specific cellular uptake, and displayed improved stability in murine serum compared to [111In]In-RM2. In vivo, [111In]In-hdPP-01 demonstrated higher tumor uptake and prolonged retention time relative to [111In]In-RM2. These findings indicate that homodimerization can modulate stability, cellular uptake and tumor accumulation, supporting further optimization of dimeric RM2-based radioligands for GRPR-targeted BC imaging and therapy.
Background/Objectives: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a devastating disease with limited therapeutic options, a high mortality rate, and poor overall survival, necessitating the development of new therapeutic and diagnostic strategies. This study investigated the potential of plasma-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) as a source of molecular biomarkers associated with the treatment response. Methods: Plasma samples were obtained from patients with locally advanced and borderline resectable PDAC at baseline and following neoadjuvant chemotherapy, either FOLFIRINOX (5-FU [fluorouracil], leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan) or GEM-ABRAX ( gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel), followed by stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). sEVs were isolated from plasma at baseline, after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and following SBRT, and were characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), nano-flow cytometry, and real-time PCR (RT-PCR). Results: The isolated sEVs exhibited an average size of <200 nm, expressed canonical exosome markers (CD63 and CD9), and exhibited pancreatic cancer (PanC)-associated markers, including cholecystokinin A receptor (CCK-AR) and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9). The sEV cargo included several PanC-associated microRNAs (miRNAs). Notably, the expression profiles of these miRNAs demonstrated interpatient variability, though a subset of miRNAs showed statistically significant changes following treatment. Conclusions: These findings support the feasibility of sEV isolation and molecular profiling from patient plasma and warrant further investigation as a potential source of biomarkers in pancreatic cancer.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide that directs the thyroid axis function. Beyond this classical role, TRH is also synthesized in extrahypothalamic brain regions, where it is implicated with anorectic, anxiolytic and antiepileptic effects. Its anorectic role is supported by the reduced food intake of fasted rats when refed, after TRH is injected into their nucleus accumbens (NAc). The central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) contains TRHergic cells, and its electrical stimulation (ES) induces a hypophagic effect on rats and transsynaptic changes in TRH content in the NAc and other brain regions. Since the G-protein-coupled type-1-TRH receptor is expressed in the NAc, we evaluated its participation in ES-amygdala-induced feeding regulation by using the electrical amygdaloid kindling model and by injecting antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) against type-1 TRH receptor (TRH-R1) in the NAc of rats. Male Wistar rats with an implanted electrode in CeA received daily ES (1 s, 60 Hz, 1 ms pulses) for seven days; then, fasted 48-h and on day 10, receiving a last ES, and refed for 2 h. Amygdala TRH mRNA expression was analyzed by in situ hybridization, while accumbal pro-TRH content by Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Amygdalar stimulation increased TRH mRNA in CeA, cortical amygdala and medial amygdalar nucleus; pro-TRH content increased in shell of NAc. Importantly, intra-NAc shell administration of ASO targeting TRH-R1, reversed the reduced food intake induced by CeA stimulation. These findings support the functional role of TRH-R1 in the NAc for the CeA electrical stimulation-induced hypophagia observed in re-fed fasted rats.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intramuscular fat (IMF) is a key determinant of beef sensory quality. In this study, 60 24-month-old Yanbian yellow cattle (n = 30 per group), reared under standardized environmental and dietary conditions, were categorized into high-IMF (HM) and low-IMF (LM) groups. HM beef exhibited significantly higher IMF (P < 0.05), increased monounsaturated fatty acids, and reduced saturated fatty acids compared to LM. Integrated transcriptomics and non-targeted metabolomics (n = 8 per group) revealed that IMF deposition is associated with a dual-layered regulatory framework: an upstream signaling layer (comprising PPAR, PI3K-Akt, and mTOR pathways) and a downstream metabolic execution layer (lysine degradation and cholesterol metabolism). Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) identified Acadm and Elovl6 as candidate hub genes within these networks. Furthermore, 9-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid (9-HODE) was identified as a differentially abundant metabolite; 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations suggested its high-affinity binding to the Thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor (TRHR) receptor as a potential mechanism for lipid accumulation. These findings provide important biological insights and a mechanistic basis for understanding the molecular regulation of marbling in Yanbian yellow cattle.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Cholecystokinin A receptor (CCKAR) has been linked to poor prognosis in colon cancer patients, but the role of CCKAR in colon cancer cell invasiveness and the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to explore the effect of CCKAR on the invasive potential of colon cancer cells.Different human colon cancer cell lines were used. Gene expression was evaluated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qPCR), while protein expression and phosphorylation were assessed by Western blotting. Cell motility and invasiveness were examined through wound healing and invasion assays, respectively.Our results showed that CCKAR expression levels varied across colon cancer cell lines, with DLD-1 and LoVo cells showing high expression. Knockdown of CCKAR significantly impaired the cell motility and invasiveness of DLD-1 and LoVo cells, downregulated integrin β3 expression, and diminished the phosphorylation levels of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), Src, and paxillin. In addition, CCKAR knockdown modulated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers ZO-1, E-cadherin, and vimentin and reduced urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), uPA receptor (uPAR), Rho GTPase cell division control protein 42 (CDC42) and RhoA, and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2).These findings indicate that CCKAR knockdown impairs the invasiveness of colon cancer cells, which may be attributed to modulating integrin/FAK/Rho GTPases, EMT markers, and the uPA/uPAR axis. It suggests that targeting CCKAR may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for colon cancer treatment.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Glucose is the primary substrate for cellular energy production, and its blood concentration is tightly regulated. This study investigated the effect of glucose supplementation during the first three days post-hatching on growth performance and diencephalic melanocortin-related gene expression in Red Cornish (RC) and Yamanashi Oh-Shamo (OSH-Y) chicks. We observed that body weight and weight gain were significantly higher in RC than in OSH-Y chicks. Glucose administration reduced body weight and feed intake at three days of age although no differences persisted thereafter. Significant differences in the expression of agouti-related peptide, AMP-activated protein kinase α2, cholecystokinin A receptor, and insulin receptor genes were detected between the two breeds. Conversely, neuropeptide Y was significantly downregulated by glucose supplementation in both breeds. Melanocortin receptor subtypes 3, 4, and melanocortin receptor accessory protein 2 exhibited significant breed and treatment interactions, with higher expression detected in glucose-fed OSH-Y chicks. These findings indicate that newly hatched chicks possess a centrally mediated glucose-sensing system that transiently suppresses feed intake. The more pronounced response observed in OSH-Y chicks suggests heightened hypothalamic glucose sensitivity, possibly mediated by the activation of melanocortin receptor signaling.2026 Japan Poultry Science Association.
Hypothyroidism is a condition marked by inadequate thyroid hormone production. It is typically treated with Levothyroxine, which, despite its effectiveness, can cause adverse effects on metabolism and the cardiovascular system. In this study, an in silico approach was used to screen phytochemicals from Curcuma longa, Moringa oleifera, and Nigella sativa for their potential to activate the thyroid receptor. A total of 439 compounds were docked against Thyroid Receptor Beta 1 (TRβ1) and Thyrotropin-Releasing Hormone Receptor (TRHR) using AutoDock Vina. Among them, valoneic acid dilactone, curcumin III, taxifolin, luteolin, lophenol, and stigmastanol were identified from the three plants as performing better than others. These compounds were further evaluated with ADMET predictions and molecular dynamics simulations to assess their drug-like properties and stability. Lophenol from Nigella sativa showed the highest binding affinity to TRβ1 (-13.62 kcal/mol) with an inhibition constant of 0.1037 nM, surpassing levothyroxine (-11.60 kcal/mol and 6.63 nM). Also, stigmastanol from Nigella sativa showed the highest binding affinity to TRHR (-8.71 kcal/mol) with an inhibition constant of 415 nM, surpassing levothyroxine (-7.64 kcal/mol and 2530 nM). However, the two compounds exhibited some unfavourable ADMET properties that could be improved through formulation science. Curcumin III and taxifolin demonstrated favourable ADMET properties, including optimal solubility, lipophilicity, and polar surface area, suggesting good oral bioavailability. Molecular dynamics simulations were carried out using Desmond. The results revealed that curcumin III, lophenol, and taxifolin maintained strong stability, with RMSD values of 1.70 ± 0.005 Å, 2.17 ± 0.012 Å, and 2.50 ± 0.014 Å, respectively, for TRβ1, and RMSD values of 3.82 ± 0.014 Å, 4.29 ± 0.019 Å, and 3.31 ± 0.017 Å, respectively, for TRHR. This study identified Curcumin III from Curcuma longa and taxifolin from Moringa oleifera as promising natural compounds for the treatment of hypothyroidism. Further validation through in vitro, in vivo, and ex vivo studies is recommended.Copyright © 2026 Oyinloye, Adewale, Adeyemi, Fajana, Olusola, Oyinloye, Ayeni, Akawa, Idowu, Ibikunle, Olojo and Ajiboye.
Understanding the molecular basis of ligand recognition at α1A-adrenoceptor (α1A-AR) is essential for developing highly selective therapeutic agents. In this study, we applied a quantum biochemistry approach combining density functional theory (DFT) with the molecular fractionation with conjugate caps (MFCC) method to perform a detailed energetic characterization of the interactions between α1A-AR and three ligands with distinct pharmacological profiles: the endogenous nonselective agonist noradrenaline, the partial and selective α1A-AR agonist oxymetazoline, and the selective α1A-AR antagonist tamsulosin. Our calculations of total binding energy accurately reproduced the experimental relative affinity ranking (tamsulosin > oxymetazoline > noradrenaline), supporting the reliability of the MFCC-DFT protocol in modeling receptor-ligand interactions at quantum resolution. A total of 81, 88, and 93 amino acid residues of α1A-AR interacted with noradrenaline, oxymetazoline, and tamsulosin, respectively. The most energetically relevant residues were located within 4 Å. A comprehensive residue-level analysis revealed that ASP106, VAL107, PHE288, and PHE312 are key contributors to the total binding energy of all ligands, corroborating evidence from structural and mutagenesis studies. Specifically for oxymetazoline, this ligand contains a tert-butyl group that establishes nonpolar interactions with residues such as VAL185 and ALA189, which are not observed in the noradrenaline-α1A-AR complex. Additionally, unlike noradrenaline, oxymetazoline exhibits an attractive interaction with MET292 and does not engage in polar interactions with SER188. These differential interaction patterns may contribute to the distinct pharmacological profile of oxymetazoline relative to noradrenaline. Tamsulosin also exhibited a distinct interaction profile compared to agonists noradrenaline and oxymetazoline, interacting with residues located in the extracellular vestibule, including SER83, PHE86, GLU87, TRP102, CYS176, and LYS309. These additional interactions play a pivotal role in stabilizing tamsulosin within the binding pocket, contributing to its high selectivity and antagonistic behavior at the α1A-AR. Altogether, these findings provide a robust theoretical framework for understanding the molecular determinants of functional selectivity and subtype specificity at α1A-AR, offering valuable insights for the rational design of new ligands with improved selectivity, efficacy, and safety profiles.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Polypropylene (PP) and poly-(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) plastic products are widely used in diet packaging and may generate microplastics (MPs) and nanoplastics (NPs) during use. However, their effects and mechanisms on causing endocrine system diseases remain unclear. Here, we established a dietary exposure mouse model using micro and nanoplastics (MNPs) and found that MNPs caused a decrease in thyroid function in adolescent mice. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) was used to reconstruct the intestinal microbiota of mice to reveal the mechanisms of thyroid dysfunction. The abundance of Bacteroides in the intestinal tract significantly changed after FMT. PP-MPs and NPs affected the levels of lysophosphatidylethanolamine and fatty acid esters of hydroxy fatty acids, respectively, which competitively bound to thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) on the thyroid gland, thus affecting the thyroid function. PET-MNPs affected the level of 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylglycol sulfate, which regulated the activity of sympathetic nervous system by acting on the thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor and TSHR in mice, thereby interfering with the regulatory function of the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis on the synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormones. This study emphasizes the key role of intestinal microbiota-mediated HPT axis in thyroid dysfunction caused by MNP exposure and provides theoretical basis for the prevention of endocrine-related diseases during adolescence caused by MNPs.© 2025 The Authors. Co-published by Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and American Chemical Society.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly chemoresistant and immunoresistant tumor with an overall five-year survival rate of less than 10 %. Current treatments for PDAC are rather limited, highlighting the importance of finding novel strategies. In this study, we investigated a strategy for the tumor-specific targeting of PAPTP, a small molecule that reduces PDAC growth by inhibiting the mitochondrial potassium channel mtKv1.3, thereby inducing mitochondrial dysfunction and killing cancer cells. PAPTP was reversibly conjugated to three tumor-penetrating peptides: iRGD, VH434, and a short version of minigastrin (CCK2p). These recognize neuropilin-1 and integrin (iRGD), the low-density lipoprotein receptor (VH434), and the gastrin/cholecystokinin B receptor (CCK2p). In vivo pharmacokinetic studies revealed that the PAPTP-bound iRGD peptide underwent rapid metabolic cleavage, which prevented optimal uptake of the construct into PDAC. The VH434 conjugate was highly hemolytic. However, CCK2p-PAPTP exhibited preferential distribution to the pancreas in animals bearing orthotopic PDAC. Efficacy studies revealed a reduction in mean tumor volume of up to 65 % in two independent orthotopic mouse models, with no tumor evident in some of the animals treated with the CCK2p-bound PAPTP construct. Our data suggest that tumor-specific targeting of small molecules may be a promising strategy for precision medicine against PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Several protocols have been reported for inducing parathyroid differentiation from human pluripotent stem cells in vitro. However, the efficiency of terminal differentiation into mature parathyroid cells remains limited. In this study, we performed comparative transcriptomic analyses of parathyroid lineage-induced human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to clarify their developmental stage identity. Comparative analyses with adult parathyroid adenoma, used as a surrogate reference for mature parathyroid cells, and thymuses revealed that the differentiated cells exhibited gene expression patterns consistent with early-stage parathyroid and thymus development, including TBX1, which is required for fate determination of the parathyroid-thymic primordium. On the other hand, the expression of mature parathyroid marker genes, such as PTH, GCM2, and the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR), remained markedly lower than that in parathyroid adenoma. Under the differentiation conditions and durations examined, application of modified differentiation protocols did not significantly enhance the expression of mature parathyroid markers, although pharyngeal pouch developmental gene expression was maintained. Our findings indicate that current in vitro differentiation systems effectively induce the parathyroid-thymic primordium stage, while a developmental bottleneck at the transition from the primordium toward parathyroid lineage commitment remains.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42495460 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483646 is a review article
Autosomal dominant hypocalcemia with hypercalciuria (ADHH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by gain-of-function mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) gene. It is characterized by hypocalcemia, inappropriately low parathyroid hormone (PTH), and renal hypercalciuria. We describe a 13-year-old boy who was diagnosed with congenital hypoparathyroidism, persistent hypercalciuria, and mild medullary nephrocalcinosis. Despite calcium and vitamin D supplementation, hypercalciuria was aggravated. Genetic testing revealed a heterozygous c.2518G>A (p.Gly840Ser) mutation in the CaSR gene, classified as likely pathogenic (American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) Class 4). Supplementation was discontinued, and hydrochlorothiazide and potassium citrate were initiated to reduce urinary calcium and alkalinize urine. At the one-year follow-up, renal function remained preserved with no progression of nephrocalcinosis. This case underscores the importance of considering ADHH in children with hypocalcemia, suppressed PTH, and renal hypercalciuria. Early genetic testing prevents misdiagnosis and enables targeted therapy to mitigate long-term renal complications.Copyright © 2026, Makki et al.
Spirulina platensis chelating peptide has broad application prospects as a new calcium supplement, yet its structural information remains unclear. A novel calcium-binding peptide was successfully separated and characterized via multispectral techniques and mass spectrometry. The calcium-binding capacity (CBC) of Spirulina platensis peptide purified using hydroxyapatite affinity chromatography (SPH) reached 14.32 ± 1.41 μg/mg, which was associated with the predominance of peptide exhibiting a molecular weight of less than 1 kDa. Moreover, Ca2+ have been demonstrated to promote folding and aggregation of peptide chains by creating coordination bonds with the carboxyl groups of aspartic acid (Asp) and glutamic acid (Glu), thus improving orderliness and structural stability of the peptide backbone. Two potential calcium-binding peptides (SGEDAAE and GEDAAEA) were predicted, and further confirmed that hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions exerted effects in the binding process with the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR). These results offer substantial support for further developing microalgae peptide-based calcium supplements.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42463253 is a review article
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR), a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), plays a critical role in kidney injury by promoting inflammation and apoptosis when activated. Whether Wulingsan (WLS), a traditional Chinese herbal formula used for kidney disorders, exerts its protective effects against acute kidney injury (AKI) via modulation of the CaSR pathway remains unclear.WLS's chemical profile was characterized by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with Q-Exactive mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QE-MS). C57BL/6J mice were divided into Control, cisplatin (CP)-induced AKI, WLS (2.34/4.68/9.36 g/kg), and CaSR inhibitor NPS2143 (4.5 mg/kg) groups. Mice were pretreated with WLS/NPS2143 before CP injection (20 mg/kg, i. p.). Renal function, histopathology, inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis were evaluated. Cisplatin-induced mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (mRTECs) were treated with WLS-containing serum (5%-10%) for in vitro validation. Molecular docking predicted the binding affinity of WLS components to CaSR.UHPLC-QE-MS identified 15 major WLS components, with 13 binding to CaSR (Polyporusterone E: binding energy of -10.4 kcal/mol). WLS pretreatment significantly improved renal function (reduced serum creatinine (SCr)/blood urea nitrogen (BUN)), attenuated tubular injury, suppressed inflammation (downregulated monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1)/tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)/interleukin-1β (IL-1β)), alleviated oxidative stress (restored glutathione (GSH)/superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced malondialdehyde (MDA)), and inhibited apoptosis (decreased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells, modulated Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax)/B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) ratio, downregulated cleaved Caspase 3). Mechanistically, WLS inhibited renal CaSR/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase β (CaMKKβ)/adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway activation (reduced CaSR/CaMKKβ/p-AMPK expression). In vitro, WLS-containing serum reduced cisplatin-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, intracellular Ca2+ overload, and apoptosis in mRTECs, effects reversed by the CaSR agonist cinacalcet.This study demonstrates that WLS protects against CP-induced kidney injury and inhibits apoptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells in association with the CaSR/CaMKKβ/AMPK pathway.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Li, Liao, Lin, Zhao, Li, Yuan and Zhou.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42433183 is a review article
The expression of the Wingless-related integration site (WNT) signaling pathway molecules has been reported to be aberrant in periodontitis.This case-control study aimed to determine the salivary concentrations of sclerostin (SOST), Dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1) and WNT family member 5a (WNT5a) and their ability to distinguish systemically healthy patients with periodontitis - across different progression rates - from periodontally healthy controls.A total of 90 individuals participated in this study (30 healthy controls, 30 Grade B periodontitis patients, and 30 Grade C periodontitis patients). Salivary samples were collected using the unstimulated saliva collection method. Subsequently, clinical periodontal parameters were recorded. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was utilized to determine the salivary levels of SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a.The salivary levels of SOST and DKK1 were significantly higher in Grade B periodontitis patients (14.85 ±3.28 ng/mL and 3.65 ±1.11 ng/mL, respectively) and Grade C periodontitis patients (7.45 ±3.84 ng/mL and 1.68 ±0.46 ng/mL, respectively) than in healthy controls (4.37 ±0.97 ng/mL and 0.88 ±0.15 ng/mL, respectively). Notably, their levels were significantly higher in periodontitis Grade B than in Grade C (p < 0.0001). The WNT5a salivary levels were also considerably higher in Grade B periodontitis patients (6.58 ±3.28 ng/mL) and Grade C periodontitis patients (13.41 ±1.73 ng/mL) than in healthy controls (2.03 ±0.31 ng/ml). Unlike SOST and DKK1, WNT5a showed significantly higher levels in periodontitis Grade C as compared to Grade B (p < 0.0001). Additionally, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated that SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a showed significant diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing periodontitis from periodontal health with the area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.96, 0.97 and 0.99, respectively, and also in distinguishing periodontitis Grade B from periodontitis Grade C with AUC of 0.94, 0.97 and 0.92, respectively.The salivary levels of SOST, DKK1 and WNT5a demonstrated high diagnostic value in distinguishing generalized periodontitis from periodontal health. The WNT5a levels increased with disease progression, effectively differentiating Grades B and C. Similarly, SOST and DKK1 also distinguished these grades, with higher levels in Grade B than in Grade C.
Robinow syndrome has characteristic craniofacial and dental features and can be caused by gain- or loss-of-function variants in Wnt family member 5A (WNT5A) non-canonical signaling. The craniofacial and dental manifestation of Robinow syndrome is heterogenous, as is the effect of altered Wnt5a in animal models. The relationship between Wnt5a and craniofacial and dental phenotypes is not fully understood. To investigate the role of Wnt5a in bone during craniofacial and dental development, we utilized a Wnt5a conditional loss-of-function (LOF: Wnt5afl/fl;Ctskcre ) and a Wnt5a conditional gain-of-function (GOF: Rosa26-LSL-Wnt5a;Ctskcre ) model to determine the effect of both LOF and GOF of Wnt5a in bone cells during craniofacial and dental development. Postnatal day 10 conditional LOF Wnt5a, GOF Wnt5a, and control skulls were scanned by micro-CT and assessed using traditional and geometric morphometrics. Mandibular bone apoptosis was further assessed by TUNEL staining. Conditional Wnt5a LOF resulted in midface hypoplasia, increased maxillary intermolar width, increased rostral basisphenoid width, and delayed molar eruption. Wnt5a LOF mandibles did not have altered BMD or bone microarchitecture unlike our previous study examining Wnt5a LOF femurs. In contrast, conditional Wnt5a GOF results in macrocephaly, shortened hard palate, increased zygomatic length, micrognathia, and mandibular process dysmorphology. The micrognathia and mandibular process dysmorphology in the Wnt5a GOF mice were not due to increased apoptosis. A partially penetrant snout deviation was present in both the Wnt5a LOF and GOF mice. Craniofacial and dental phenotype differed between mice with conditional GOF and LOF of Wnt5a, consistent with the craniofacial phenotype heterogeneity in WNT5A-associated Robinow syndrome. We detected tooth eruption delay, mandibular condyle dysmorphology, and facial asymmetry in mice with altered Wnt5a that have not been previously reported in patients with WNT5A-associated Robinow syndrome. Our data suggest precise regulation of Wnt5a is essential for proper craniofacial and dental development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by early-onset joint contractures, progressive muscle atrophy, and cardiac abnormalities. Patients with EDMD carrying LMNA sequence variations often exhibit severe cardiac manifestations, including frequent atrioventricular block and ventricular tachycardia. Approximately 20% of those patients may ultimately require heart transplantation. The molecular mechanisms by which LMNA sequence variations lead to EDMD remain unknown.Five clinically diagnosed patients with EDMD carrying LMNA sequence variations were recruited. Patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) were generated using a nonintegrating Sendai virus. Previously generated iPSCs, derived from 2 healthy donors, were used as controls. The LMNA L204P sequence variation was corrected by genome editing in EDMD iPSC lines to generate isogenic controls. All iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) were generated using a monolayer-based differentiation protocol. Three-dimensional, strip-format, and force-generating human engineered heart tissues were generated from iPSC-CMs. A knock-in mouse model carrying the Lmna L204P sequence variation was also generated.EDMD-specific iPSC-CMs exhibited a variety of deleterious phenotypes, including disorganized sarcomeres, abnormal nuclear envelope structure, arrhythmias, and contractile dysfunction, when compared with control and gene-corrected iPSC-CMs. Multi-omics analysis further revealed that LMNA directly binds the WNT5A promoter and the Leu204Pro sequence variation reduces chromatin accessibility and WNT5A transcription in EDMD iPSC-CMs. WNT5a (Wnt family member 5a)/RhoA (Ras homolog family member A) signaling inactivation was shown to lead to actin depolymerization and inhibition of actin polymerization in EDMD iPSC-CMs. This results in a deformed nuclear envelope, contractile dysfunction, and impaired trafficking of Cx43 (connexin 43). The impairment of Cx43 trafficking causes reduced distribution of Cx43 at cell-cell borders, contributing to the arrhythmic phenotype in EDMD iPSC-CMs. Pharmacological interventions of exogenous WNT5a supplementation, RhoA activator, or an actin polymerization stabilizer effectively rescued the pathogenic phenotypes of EDMD iPSC-CMs. EDMD engineered heart tissues displayed dysfunctional contractile force generation, which was significantly alleviated by RhoA activator. Lmna L204P heterozygous knock-in mice exhibited impaired cardiac function and developed cardiac arrhythmias in response to sympathetic stress.We present WNT5a-mediated aberrant actin filament dynamics as a novel mechanism underlying cardiac pathogenic phenotypes in LMNA-related EDMD. Our findings indicate that activating WNT5a/RhoA and stabilizing actin assembly may serve as novel therapeutic strategies for this condition.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a fatal condition that affects individuals with systemic sclerosis (SSc), a multiorgan fibrotic disease with limited treatment options. A central feature of PH is vascular remodeling, defined by the narrowing of the arteriole lumen due to cell proliferation and extracellular matrix deposition. Herein, we identify a central mechanism that can regulate multiple transcripts important for vascular remodeling. The highlight of our study is the demonstration that reduced pulmonary artery smooth muscle (PASMC) Nudt21, which codes for the RNA binding protein Cleavage and Polyadenylation Specificity Factor Subunit 5 (CPSF5) The, known to regulate alternative polyadenylation, results in heightened right ventricle systolic pressures in mice exposed to hypoxia-sugen. We also report that increased PASMC proliferation is present in mice with reduced PASMC Nudt21 under normoxic conditions, recapitulating features of hypoxia-sugen exposure. Our studies reveal that reduced CPSF5 leads to 3' untranslated region shortening of PTGER3 and CBFB, the latter contributing to increased levels of proliferative transcription factor RUNX1. We also identify miR-3163 as novel negative regulator of NUDT21 expression in PH. These observations are validated in remodeled vessels from patients with SSc associated with PH and in and point to common mechanisms of RNA processing deficits that contribute to vascular remodeling in PH.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
T cell recovery is critical following damage, such as hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), with increased reconstitution associated with improved clinical outcomes. Endogenous thymic regeneration, a crucial process for restoring immune competence following cytoreductive therapies such as HCT conditioning, is often delayed, limiting T cell reconstitution. Fully understanding the molecular mechanisms driving regeneration is therefore crucial for uncovering therapeutic targets that can be exploited to enhance thymic function. Here, we identified that CD4+ CD8+ thymocytes rapidly and acutely undergo lytic cell death, specifically pyroptosis, following acute damage caused by ionizing radiation, and release damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPS) into the thymic microenvironment, including ATP. Extracellular ATP stimulates the P2Y2 purinergic receptor on thymic epithelial cells (TECs)-a stromal cell crucial for supporting T cell development-resulting in the upregulation FOXN1, the master TEC transcription factor. Targeting the P2Y2 receptor with a P2Y2 agonist, UTPγS, promotes rapid regeneration of the TEC compartment in vivo following acute damage. These findings reveal a novel damage-sensing mechanism employed by the thymus where thymocytes adopt an alternative cell death mechanism which promotes thymic repair via P2Y2 signaling in TECs. This work identifies P2Y2 as a promising therapeutic target for enhancing thymus regeneration and improving immune recovery after HCT.© 2026. The Author(s).
To explore the effects of acupuncture on osteogenic signaling and gut microbiota in ankylosing spondylitis (AS).AS mice were treated with drug (oral sulfasalazine) or acupuncture (Du Mai meridian and Jia Ji acupoints). After one month of treatment, pathological alterations in the Achilles tendon tissue were observed. Serum levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), bone gla protein (BGP) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), expressions of microRNA-21 (miR-21), bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and SMAD Family Member 1 (Smad1) in the Achilles tendon tissue, as well as ALP, BGP, Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) and Wnt Family Member 5a (Wnt5a) levels, were measured. Further, 16S Ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) gene sequencing technology was used to analyze changes in the gut microbiota.After drug and acupuncture treatments, pathological scores were reduced. Both drug and acupuncture treatments downregulated ALP, although only the drug treatment led to a reduction in BGP. Moreover, the mRNA levels of miR-21, BMP-2, and Smad1, along with the protein levels of ALP, BGP, and Wnt5a in the drug and acupuncture groups, showed varying degrees of reduction, while DKK1 level was increased. The results of the analysis using 16S rRNA gene sequencing technology revealed that bacterial richness was significantly increased in both treatment groups compared to AS model mice (P < 0.05), with a more pronounced elevation observed in the acupuncture group than in the drug group (P < 0.05).Acupuncture may alleviate AS by modulating osteogenic pathways and gut microbiota, thus reducing inflammation and pathological ossification.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (BPIV-3) is a major pathogen associated with the bovine respiratory disease complex. However, the limited understanding of host factors crucial for BPIV-3 replication has hindered the development of effective preventive and therapeutic strategies. To tackle this critical issue, we constructed a bovine genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 knockout library in Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells, which was then used to systematically identify and characterize the host genes essential for BPIV-3a replication. Subsequently, 10 genes were validated using both RT-qPCR and viral titration assays. Furthermore, through gene knockout or knockdown and rescue experiments, we identified three key genes required for BPIV-3a replication: Wnt family member 5A (WNT5A), solute carrier family 16 member 13 (SLC16A13), and selenoprotein N (SELENON). However, their effects on viral adhesion and internalization varied. WNT5A was involved in both processes, SLC16A13 participated solely in internalization, while SELENON had no significant impact on either. Beyond BPIV-3a, these three genes were also found to be essential for the infection of BPIV-3c and Bovine enterovirus. In conclusion, this study offers novel insights into the molecular mechanisms governing the replication and pathogenesis of BPIV-3a, BPIV-3c, and bovine enterovirus within host cells, thereby providing a foundation for identifying potential targets in the development of novel antiviral strategies.
Propofol is a short-acting intravenous anesthetic commonly used for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia and sedation during medical procedures. This study aimed to explore the mechanism of propofol on microglial pyroptosis in spinal cord in neuropathic pain (NP). A chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of NP was established in rats. The paw withdrawal mechanical threshold (PWMT) and paw withdrawal thermal latency (PWTL) were measured in rats. The tissue pathology was observed. The expression of NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) and Iba1 was measured. Microglial cells (BV2) were cultured and treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The cell model was treated with propofol. The levels of lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A)/H3 dimethylation at lysine 9 (H3K9me2)/Wnt family member 5A (WNT5A) in the tissue and cells were measured. The enrichment of KDM3A and H3K9me2 in the WNT5A promoter region was analyzed. KDM3A and WNT5A were upregulated in CCI. Propofol treatment reduced KDM3A and WNT5A expression, increased PWMT and PWTL, alleviated inflammation, and inhibited microglial pyroptosis in spinal cord. KDM3A promoted WNT5A expression by inhibiting H3K9me2. Overexpression of KDM3A or WNT5A partially reversed the inhibitory effect of propofol on pyroptosis. In conclusion, propofol inhibits microglial pyroptosis in spinal cord and alleviates NP through the KDM3A/WNT5A pathway.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
miR-487a-3p shows the potential of modulating adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) differentiation. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of miR-487a-3p on the osteogenic differentiation of ADSCs. In this work, ADSCs were induced to differentiate into osteoblasts. miR-487a-3p were regulated by miRNA mimics or inhibitors in ADSCs. Wnt family member 5A (WNT5A) siRNA was used to reverse miR-487a-3p inhibitor-induced effects on WNT5A expression in ADSCs. Fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) in ADSCs were altered by shRNAs or overexpression vectors. Calcium nodule, ALP activity, and biomarkers of osteogenic differentiation (OD) were investigated. Rats received ovariectomy (OVX) to construct osteoporosis (OP) model, followed by ADSCs transplantation. Histopathological changes, bone histomorphometry, and detection of OD biomarkers were performed. We found that osteogenesis induced a decrease in miR-487a-3p expression and an increase in FTO expression. miR-487a-3p upregulation inhibited the OD of ADSCs, including decreases in calcium nodule formation, ALP activity, and OD biomarkers. miR-487a-3p downregulation showed the opposite role in OD. miR-487a-3p negatively regulated WNT5A in ADSCs. WNT5A silence reversed the effect of miR-487a-3p downregulation on OD. FTO silence caused the increase in m6A of pri-miR-487a. FTO overexpression inhibited DGCR8 recruitment in pri-miR-487a, and reversed the effect of miR-487a-3p upregulation in OD. ADSCs transplantation improved OP symptom in rats, including improvement of femur tissue, increase in percent bone volume and trabecular number, and upregulation in OD biomarkers. miR-487a-3p downregulation enhanced the therapeutic role of ADSC in rats with OP. Collectively, FTO regulated pri-miR-487a maturation via m6A-dependent pathway, which altered the WNT5A-mediated osteogenesis of ADSCs.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Extracellular signals regulate epithelial homeostasis, cell fate and the patterning of cell behaviors during embryogenesis, wound healing, regeneration and disease progression. Previous studies in our group found that cell lysate from intentionally wounded Xenopus laevis embryos triggers a strong but transient contraction in neighboring epithelia, whether contiguous to the wound site or in non-wounded embryos. We previously identified extracellular ATP (eATP) as a possible candidate signal. Here we test additional candidates and find that several nucleotides, including ADP, UTP and UDP, also trigger contractility. Through a temporal and spatial screen of lysate activity, an inhibitor screen and morpholino knockdown of candidate receptors, we find that contractility is mediated by a G-protein-coupled purinergic receptor, P2Y2 (P2RY2). Activated P2RY2 triggers F-actin assembly and myosin II contractility. Knockdown of P2RY2 or overexpression of mutant G protein effectors abrogate epithelial contractility when epithelia are exposed to eATP or lysate. We demonstrate that the major contributors to epithelial contractility in lysate are the extracellular nucleotide triphosphates ATP and UTP, which are sensed by P2RY2 and transduced through G proteins to contract the epithelium.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Enhancers are abundant and critical gene-distal cis-regulatory elements with distinct architectural features; however, a mechanistic understanding of their interactions within endogenous chromatin contexts remains challenging. Here, we developed a recombinase-mediated genome-rewriting platform to explore how a long-range human enhancer, eNMU, confers a remarkable 10,000-fold activation of its target gene, Neuromedin U (NMU), at its native locus. Our systematic dissection reveals two functionally distinct sub-elements of eNMU: the canonical autonomous enhancer e1 and the intrinsically inactive facilitator e2, which dramatically augments e1's activity. The autonomous enhancer e1 is functionally hierarchical to e2, additional facilitators, and the NMU promoter across the ∼100-kb NMU-eNMU region, and it orchestrates the formation of a 3D regulatory hub. e1 also harbors a bipartite structure: a divergently transcribed retroviral long terminal repeat (LTR) enhancer and an adjacent LTR promoter that dampens NMU expression. We explore and discuss the broader implications of our focused study for understanding enhancer regulatory mechanisms genome-wide.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuromedin U (NMU) is a neuropeptide broadly expressed in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and central nervous system (CNS), implicated in energy balance and glucose homeostasis. Recent studies have suggested that NMU may act as a "decretin" hormone by inhibiting glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS); however, in vivo findings remain inconclusive. This study evaluated plasma NMU responses during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and regional intestinal NMU expression in a monosodium glutamate (MSG)‑induced hypothalamic obesity (MHO) model in rats.Thirty male Wistar rats were divided into control and MHO groups. MHO was induced by subcutaneous MSG injections during the neonatal period. After five months, metabolic parameters, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), plasma NMU levels, and NMU mRNA expression in the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum were analyzed using ELISA and RT-qPCR.The MHO group exhibited elevated fasting glucose, decreased basal insulin levels, and increased abdominal adiposity compared to controls, indicating a metabolically obese phenotype in this model. Basal plasma NMU levels were similar between groups. At 60 minutes post-glucose load, plasma NMU decreased significantly relative to baseline in both groups, with no difference between MHO and control rats. Intestinal NMU expression followed a proximal-to-distal declining pattern, consistent with previous reports, and did not differ between MHO and control rats.These findings suggest that NMU expression within the gastrointestinal tract remains regionally regulated and unaltered in experimental obesity. Furthermore, the significant decline in plasma NMU at 60 minutes is compatible with modulation during hyperglycemia but does not establish a causal role in glucose regulation. This pattern appears to be preserved in the MHO model despite metabolic dysfunction. Future studies employing receptor inhibition or NMU administration are warranted to elucidate its physiological role in insulin regulation.
Monocyte-derived macrophages play a significant role in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis by transforming into lipid-laden foam cells and regulating vascular inflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate macrophage lipid accumulation, phenotype, efferocytic capacity, and atherosclerosis are incompletely understood. Our preliminary studies revealed increased expression of LGR4 (leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4) in human atherosclerotic arteries. Additional experiments demonstrated increased LGR4 levels in atherogenic oxidized low-density lipoprotein-treated macrophages. However, the macrophage-specific role of LGR4 in atherogenesis has never been investigated.To investigate the role of myeloid cell Lgr4 in atherosclerosis development, myeloid cell-specific Lgr4 knockout (Lgr4f/fLysM Cre+/-, Lgr4ΔM) and littermate control Lgr4f/f (Lgr4WT) mice were injected intraperitoneally with adeno-associated viral vector (serotype 8) for hPCSK9 and fed a Western diet for 16 weeks. Various in vitro cell-based assays, molecular biology techniques, and immunohistological approaches were used to evaluate the functional roles of macrophage Lgr4 and underlying signaling mechanisms.Oil red O staining of whole aortas and aortic root sections demonstrated reduced atherosclerosis in Lgr4ΔM mice compared with sex-matched Lgr4WT mice. However, no changes in circulating monocyte frequencies were detected. Histochemical staining performed on aortic root sections revealed smaller necrotic cores and higher collagen content in Lgr4ΔM mice. Additionally, Lgr4ΔM mice exhibited lower fat mass and blood glucose levels, while plasma total cholesterol was comparable to that of control mice. Further in vitro and ex vivo studies demonstrated reduced lipid accumulation, enhanced efferocytic capacity, a suppressed proinflammatory phenotype, and attenuated expression of different low-density lipoprotein uptake genes in Lgr4-deficient macrophages. Moreover, Lgr4 knockout macrophages displayed increased cholesterol efflux capacity and reduced activation of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced Wnt (Wingless-related integration site)/β-catenin signaling.These findings suggest that myeloid cell Lgr4 contributes to atherosclerotic lesion formation via stimulating macrophage lipid accumulation, impairing efferocytic capacity, and promoting a proinflammatory phenotype. Collectively, these results identify macrophage LGR4 as a novel therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
Bone metastasis is a severe complication of advanced cancers, disrupting bone remodeling by hijacking the RANK/RANKL/OPG axis, which leads to excessive osteoclast activation and bone resorption. Current therapies, such as bisphosphonates and denosumab, offer limited survival benefits and carry significant safety risks, highlighting the need for novel agents that effectively inhibit osteolytic progression.This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of a recombinant extracellular domain of leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 4 (rLGR4-ECD), produced in CHO cells, to inhibit RANKL signaling, suppress osteoclastogenesis, and prevent bone metastasis in preclinical models.The human LGR4-ECD (residues 25-540) was cloned into the pcDNA4/TO vector and expressed in CHO-K1 cells. Stable monoclonal lines were established, and recombinant protein was purified via Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. Binding affinity to RANKL and RSPO4 was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP). In vitro, bone marrow-derived monocytes were treated with RANKL and varying concentrations of rLGR4-ECD (0-80 ng/mL), and osteoclast formation was evaluated by TRAP staining, qPCR, and Western blotting for osteoclast markers. For in vivo evaluation, a breast cancer bone metastasis model was established by intracardiac injection of 4 T1-Luc cells into BALB/c mice. Mice were treated daily with 1 mg/kg rLGR4-ECD or PBS via tail vein injection. Metastatic burden was monitored by bioluminescence imaging, osteoclast activity by TRAP staining of calvaria, and gene expression in bone tissue by qPCR. Survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves.rLGR4-ECD was successfully expressed and purified with over 95% purity and a yield of 2.38 mg/L. It bound specifically to RANKL and RSPO4 in co-IP assays. In vitro, rLGR4-ECD dose-dependently inhibited osteoclast formation, with near-complete suppression at 80 ng/mL (IC50 = 42.38 ng/mL). Expression of osteoclast genes Acp5, Ctsk, and Nfatc1 was reduced by 91.4% (***p < 0.001), 87.1% (***p < 0.001), and 81.2% (***p < 0.001), respectively, at 80 ng/mL. Protein levels of TRAP, Cathepsin K, and NFATc1 were also significantly suppressed. In vivo, rLGR4-ECD treatment reduced metastatic burden by 67.3% (***p < 0.001) and decreased osteoclast surface per bone surface by 56.2% (***p < 0.001). Gene expression in bone tissue showed reductions of 71.3% for Acp5 (***p < 0.001), 40.1% for Ctsk (***p < 0.001), and 86.5% for Nfatc1 (***p < 0.001). rLGR4-ECD median survival by 41.7% (12 vs. 17 days) without affecting lung metastasis.rLGR4-ECD effectively inhibits RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and reduces bone metastasis burden through specific suppression of osteoclast activity, leading to improved survival in a preclinical model. Its excellent efficacy and manufacturability support its potential as a novel therapeutic agent for bone metastatic disease.© 2026 The Author(s).
Distinct microbial environments exert diverse effects on the physiology and survival of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we show that C. elegans grown on two Escherichia coli strains exhibit different survival dynamics. Wild-type C. elegans on the B type OP50 exhibit more early deaths compared to C. elegans on K-12 type CS180. These early deaths on OP50 are characterized by swollen pharynges (P-deaths) due to bacterial accumulation within the tissue. In contrast, animals on CS180 are more resistant to P-deaths. These bacteria-dependent differences in P-deaths depend on bacterial lipopolysaccharide structures and the activities of the C. elegans neuropeptide neuromedin U receptor NMUR-1, which reduces P-deaths on OP50, but not on CS180. Surprisingly, however, NMUR-1 promotes the opposite response when the insulin receptor DAF-2 has reduced function-where NMUR-1 now stimulates P-deaths on OP50, but again with no effect on CS180. We also find that NMUR-1 acts in sensory neurons to promote its bi-directional effects on longevity, which depend on the FOXO transcription factor DAF-16. In addition, NMUR-1 downregulates the expression of the insulin-like peptide daf-28, but only when DAF-2 function is not reduced. This suggests a regulatory mechanism through which NMUR-1 maintains insulin receptor DAF-2 signaling at a suitable level. Thus, our studies reveal that NMUR-1 serves to buffer the dynamic range of DAF-2 receptor signaling, thereby optimizing pharyngeal health and survival in response to specific bacteria.Copyright: © 2026 Sifoglu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42247765 is a review article
The "metabolism-inflammation" vicious cycle is an important driving factor for lymphatic dysfunction in secondary lymphedema (SL). Among them, lymph endothelial cells (LECs) act as a key regulatory hub. Liubao tea (LBT), a traditional post-fermented black tea, has anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic and lipid-lowering effects. However, whether the effects of LBT can extend to the lymphatic system, especially whether it functions by regulating the metabolism and immune function of LECs, still needs further clarification.This study combined single-cell transcriptomics, bulk transcriptomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to systematically identify potential genes related to LBT in LECs. Subsequently, the effects of the LBT extract on the functions of human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs) and the expression of target genes were verified using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing experiments, and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).The single-cell analysis revealed that the proportion of endothelial cells (ECs) in SL was significantly reduced (from 1.09% to 0.54%), but the expression of protein kinase Cβ (PRKCB) in the ECs showed a significant increase [fold change (FC) = 24.30, log2FC = 4.60, p = 1.44 × 10-7], and the positive rate increased from <1% to 12%. Multigene integration analysis revealed that PRKCB was the only gene that overlapped among all the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in large-scale transcriptomes, the DEGs specific to ECs, and the predicted targets of LBT. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed that PRKCB interacts with the nuclear factor κB kinase inhibitor β subunit (IKBKB), the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit γ (PIK3CG), and glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3B). Molecular docking results indicated that multiple LBT components (especially tirilose) have a strong affinity for PRKCB (minimum binding energy: -9.3 kcal/mole). In vitro experiments demonstrated that the extract of LBT (50 μg/ml) significantly reversed the decline in the survival rate and migration ability of HLECs caused by lipopolysaccharide (LPS; p < 0.01 and p < 0.001), and downregulated the mRNA expression of PRKCB (p < 0.05), and upregulated the mRNA expression of PROX1 (p < 0.05).This study reveals that LBT may ameliorate LEC dysfunction in lymphedema by targeting PRKCB to disrupt the bidirectional "inflammation-metabolism" vicious cycle. These findings provide a scientific basis for the use of LBT as a functional fermented food in lymphedema intervention and open new avenues for targeting PRKCB with natural products in the treatment of inflammation-related lymphatic diseases.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Tan, Lu and Xu.
Despite advances in therapy, lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. R-spondin (RSPO) 3 and its receptor, leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4), drive tumor progression in a subset of lung adenocarcinomas by potentiating Wnt signaling. In addition to RSPO3, LGR4 is also a receptor for receptor activator of nuclear factor-кB ligand (RANKL). Here, we investigated whether MHP1-AcN, our previously developed RANKL-derived peptide, acts on LGR4 and examined its effects on RSPO3-LGR4 signaling in A549 lung cancer cells.An A549 xenograft model was established by subcutaneous inoculation in BALB/c nude mice, followed by daily intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN. Tumor growth was assessed by volume and weight. In vitro, the effect of MHP1-AcN on A549 cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, migration, and invasion were evaluated. Molecular interactions and signaling pathways were analyzed using immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting.Intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN significantly reduced tumor volume and weight in the subcutaneous A549 xenograft model. Mechanistically, MHP1-AcN directly interacted with LGR4 and disrupted RSPO3-induced LGR4-IQ motif-containing GTPase activating protein 1 complex formation. MHP1-AcN inhibited A549 cell proliferation without inducing cytotoxicity and suppressed RSPO3-enhaced phosphorylation of LRP6 and accumulation of β-catenin. Furthermore, MHP1-AcN dose-dependently inhibited A549 cell migration and invasion by reducing focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and disrupting F-actin organization.These findings demonstrate MHP1-AcN as a novel LGR4 antagonist that inhibits RSPO3-LGR4-Wnt signaling, tumor growth, and metastatic potential in lung adenocarcinoma, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent targeting this pathway.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Neuromedin U (NMU) is a neuropeptide that was first identified in porcine spinal cord and exhibits diverse biological activities. It serves as an endogenous ligand for the human Neuromedin U receptor 2 (NMUR2), which is expressed exclusively in the hypothalamus. Because NMUR2 is involved in the regulation of appetite suppression and energy metabolism, it is considered a promising target for obesity treatment. CPN is a medium-sized peptide with selective agonistic activity against NMUR2. In this study, we evaluated the effect of peptide stability on brain delivery and the pharmacological effects after intranasal administration of two CPNs (CPN-116 and CPN-219) with different in vitro stabilities. The results of in vitro stability studies showed that both CPNs were more stable in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) than in the plasma and that the stability of CPN-219 in the serum, CSF, brain, and nasal cavity was better than that of CPN-116. For both CPNs, brain concentrations were higher in the nasal administration group than in the intraperitoneal administration group, and weight gain was also suppressed in the nasal administration group compared to the control group. Furthermore, both brain delivery and suppression of weight gain after nasal administration of CPN-219, which has good in vitro stability, were superior to those of CPN-116. It is evident that the stability of the peptide is an important factor for the direct delivery of peptides into the brain by intranasal administration.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42174273 is a review article
Dermatomyositis (DM) and antisynthetase syndrome (ASS) are heterogeneous subsets of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies with persistent unmet needs in disease activity assessment and stratification. Although CD4+ T cells are recognized as important contributors to disease pathogenesis, the role of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) remains insufficiently defined.Peripheral blood samples were collected from patients with DM (n = 50), patients with ASS (n = 14), and healthy donors (HDs, n = 20). The frequency of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes with expression of cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GZMB+CD4+ CTLs) was analyzed by flow cytometry to quantify GZMB+CD4+ CTLs and characterize their phenotype. Disease activity and severity were evaluated using standard clinical indices. Multiplex immunohistochemistry was performed on skin biopsy specimens from patients with DM (n = 4) to assess tissue infiltration and endothelial injury.The proportion of circulating GZMB+CD4+ CTLs was significantly increased in both DM and ASS compared with HDs. In patients, this population showed phenotypic features consistent with enhanced cytotoxicity and tissue trafficking, including increased fibroblast growth factor binding protein 2 (FGFBP2) expression and reduced circulating fractions of cells positive for C-X3-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3). GZMB+CD4+ CTL frequency was positively associated with global disease activity and cutaneous activity, and decreased after treatment independently of specific drug regimens. Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that circulating GZMB+CD4+ CTLs effectively distinguished active from remitting disease in both DM and ASS. In DM skin lesions, GZMB+CD4+ CTLs were abundant and were accompanied by increased endothelial apoptosis and enhanced HLA-DR expression.Peripheral GZMB+CD4+ CTLs are expanded in DM and ASS and are closely associated with disease activity. Their accumulation in lesional tissue and association with endothelial injury support a potential pathogenic role, while their diagnostic performance suggests that they may serve as a biomarker and potential therapeutic target in these diseases.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chi, Shi, Wan, Chang, Jiang, Wang, Han, Chen and Gong.
Phospholipase c-delta 1 (PLCD1), a key effector in the phospholipid signaling pathway, is indispensable for the growth and development of hair follicles (HF), but its regulatory mechanism in dermal papilla cells (DPCs), the core functional cells of HF, remains unclear. In this study, a PLCD1 knockout rabbit DPC in vitro model (PLCD1-/-) was successfully constructed using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. PLCD1 knockout led to notable impairment of DPC physiological functions. Moreover, through transcriptome and metabolomics analyses, we examined differences in gene and metabolite profiles of DPCs between PLCD1-/- and wild-type (WT) groups, and performed an integrated association analysis of all differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differential metabolites (DMs). The results showed widespread and significant positive and negative correlations between the screened DEGs and DMs, revealing a closely coordinated regulatory network between the transcriptome and metabolome at the global level after PLCD1 knockout. The functional status of the Hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) and Mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways was further analyzed by Western blotting. The results showed that PLCD1 deficiency significantly affected the expression levels and phosphorylation status of key proteins in these two pathways. In summary, this study confirmed that PLCD1 deficiency impairs DPC function by inhibiting the HIF-1/MAPK signaling pathway, and the mechanism depends on the PLCD1-regulated gene-metabolite interaction network. This study provides an important theoretical basis for analyzing the regulatory mechanisms of HF growth and development and clarifies that PLCD1 and its downstream gene-metabolic network may serve as potential therapeutic targets for hair-related diseases.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Despite excitotoxicity being a pivotal pathological mechanism in various retinal diseases, effective clinical interventions remain limited. Previous study has shown that adipose stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (ADSC-EVs) can alleviate glutamate-induced retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) death by suppressing protein kinase C alpha (PKCA) pathway and increasing the expression of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid receptors (AMPARs) subunit 2 (GluA2) on the cell membrane, but the mechanisms remain unexplored.To clarify the molecular processes involved in ADSC-EVs-mediated intracellular calcium balance, we isolated ADSC-EVs using ultrafiltration and ultracentrifugation, and characterized these vesicles by transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and flow cytometry. Small RNA sequencing was performed on glutamate-injured rat retinal precursor (R28) cells pre-treated with ADSC-EVs or PBS. Through bioinformatic analysis, we identified candidate microRNAs and predicted their potential target genes. The regulatory effects of microRNA were confirmed using propidium iodide staining, Fluo-4AM staining, western blotting, and immunofluorescence. Additionally, the RGCs counting and visual function tests were employed to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of the microRNA in the glutamate-induced SD rat - animal model.Our results demonstrated that pre-treatment with ADSC-EVs led to a significant increase in the expression levels of miR-127-3p, miR-181b-1-3p, miR-199a-3p/5p, miR-23a-5p, miR-23b-5p, and miR-486 in R28 cells. Bioinformatic analyses suggest that miR-23a-5p may contribute to regulating the calcium overload by inhibiting the expression of phospholipase C delta 1 (PLCD1). Overexpression of miR-23a-5p or pre-treatment with ADSC-EVs modulated the expression of GluA2 on the cell membrane through inhibiting the PLCD1/PKCA/GluA2 axis, thereby reducing intracellular calcium levels and diminishing R28 cell death. In contrast, inhibition of miR-23a-5p expression partially reversed the regulatory effects of ADSC-EVs on calcium concentration and cell viability. Furthermore, our findings suggest that overexpression of miR-23a-5p in retina alleviated glutamate-induced RGCs death and visual function impairment, whereas suppression of miR-23a-5p exacerbated glutamate-induced RGCs death.ADSC-EVs delived miR-23a-5p mitigate glutamate-induced RGCs damage by inhibiting the PLCD1/PKCA/GluA2 axis. Targeting this miR-23a-5p-mediated axis may therefore represent a promising therapeutic approach for excitotoxic RGCs injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA) is widely recognized as the most prevalent degenerative disorder affecting the joints, representing a major contributor to chronic pain and disability. Despite its high burden, the molecular mechanisms underlying OA pathogenesis remain poorly understood, particularly in the context of immune microenvironment modulation. This study explores the immune-related OA progression mechanisms and investigates potential biomarkers to aid diagnosis and therapeutic intervention.Gene expression data from the GEO database were analyzed, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and OA-associated gene modules were identified using the LIMMA package in combination with weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were conducted on intersecting genes, which were analyzed using the protein-protein interaction network, XGBoost, and Random Forest, identifying core genes. Subsequently, immune cell infiltration was determined through immune cell infiltration analysis and single-cell sequencing analysis. Next, core genes were validated using Mendelian randomization (MR) and Western blotting (WB). Finally, in vitro validation confirmed key findings.A total of 1,171 upregulated DEGs were identified. WGCNA analysis delineated 25 co-expression modules, and the turquoise module emerged as the most strongly related to OA. The PPI network, XGBoost, and Random Forest analysis pinpointed three hub genes: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (PTPRC), C-X3-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and Integrin Subunit Beta 2 (ITGB2). Immune cell infiltration analysis indicates that these key genes exhibit significant associations with immune cells, while single-cell sequencing and GSEA enrichment analysis further suggested their involvement in inflammatory pathways and immune activation. In vitro experiments demonstrate that one of the hub genes-PTPRC-alleviates the deterioration of OA through three levels. Virtual knockout in Natural Killer (NK) cells further confirms that PTPRC influences OA by regulating the immune microenvironment.This study identified three promising biomarkers in OA and certificated that PTPRC plays a pivotal role in alleviating OA progression through immunomodulation, offering a novel intervention pathway for tissue engineering combined with immunomodulatory therapy in OA.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Wang, Tan, Yu and Liu.
Cisplatin (DDP) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent with ototoxicity. It elicits oxidative stress (OS) and cell apoptosis in cochlear hair cells (HCs), leading to irreversible hearing loss. Taraxasterol (TAR) is a pentacyclic triterpene compound with anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic properties. Here we identified that TAR inhibited DDP-induced cell apoptosis and OS in a mouse cochlear hair cell line (HEI-OC1). Besides, the beneficial effect of TAR on cochlear HC loss was validated in DDP-induced mice. Proteomics analysis identified the upregulation of G protein subunit alpha q (GNAQ) in TAR-treated HEI-OC1 cells, and it is predicted to bind with TAR via molecular docking. GNAQ inhibited cell apoptosis and OS injury in DDP-induced HEI-OC1 cells, accounting for TAR-mediated protection against DDP-induced cochlear HC injury. Collectively, this study validates the protective effect of TAR on DDP-induced cochlear HC loss, and highlights the potential role of TAR in preventing against DDP-induced hearing loss.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41669249 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41613812 is a review article
Diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) is an enzyme catalyzing ATP-dependent conversion of diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid. Among DGK subtypes, DGKγ is localized in the brain and plays important roles in the central nervous system, although its detailed functions remain unknown. Recently, [11C]T-278 was developed as a selective positron emission tomography (PET) imaging agent for DGKγ. This study aimed to conduct the first quantitative analysis using PET with [11C]T-278 in nonhuman primate brains. In rhesus monkeys, compartmental analyses showed superior goodness-of-fit in two-tissue compartment model than one-tissue compartment model. Full kinetic analysis of [11C]T-278 yielded reliable estimates of the total distribution volume (VT) values across various brain regions, showing a strong correlation (slope = 1.07, r > 0.995) with VT value derived from Logan GA. Furthermore, time-stability analysis for VT estimations showed small variations (< 5 %) between 70 and 90 min of scan durations across most regions of interest. This study provides the first in vivo visualization of DGKγ in monkey brain using quantitative PET analysis with [11C]T-278.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Microglia are the resident immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and display diverse functions under both physiological and pathological conditions. The past decade has seen burgeoning interest in microglia function, with a variety of transgenic tools developed for specific genetic manipulation of microglia in various injury, disease, and developmental models. Although many of these models have been developed in mice, the ability to manipulate microglia in rats provides additional advantages to studying microglial function in the brain especially related to complex behavior. Using BAC transgenesis, our lab created a transgenic rat (Cx3cr1-CreERT2) that expresses a tamoxifen inducible Cre recombinase (CreERT2) under control of the microglial/macrophage specific fractalkine C-X3-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 1 (Cx3cr1) promoter. In mice, CreERT2 and other transgenes have been expressed in microglia using the Cx3cr1 promoter, however, this is the first demonstration in rats. Importantly, these rats exhibit similar cognitive behaviors compared to their wildtype (WT) controls. Microglial specificity of inducible Cre expression was confirmed by breeding the novel Cx3cr1-CreERT2+/- rat with a previously reported double floxed inverse open reading frame (DIO)-mCherry+/- reporter rat to show tamoxifen inducible mCherry expression that colocalizes with the microglial marker Iba1. In addition, we utilized flow cytometry to demonstrate time- and Cre-dependent differences in recombination of Cx3cr1+ cells in the spleen, peripheral blood, and brain at two- and eight-weeks post-tamoxifen treatment. Overall, we have created a novel transgenic rat model for researchers to employ in understanding microglial and peripheral immune cell function in rats.© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Aberrant proteostasis in alveolar type 2 epithelial cells (AEC2s) contributes to idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), but the role of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is unclear. Here, we show that UPS disruption in AEC2s amplifies profibrotic signaling to macrophages through macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) family proteins in several models. Modeling UPS disruption with an AEC2-specific cullin 3 (Cul3) deletion produced spontaneous fibrosis in a physiological aging mouse model and exacerbated fibrosis in the bleomycin-induced lung injury model. This was accompanied by expansion of transitional epithelial states and increased MIF and MIF-2 in lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) in the model. Global or conditional AEC2-specific deletions of Mif or Mif-2 attenuated fibrosis in the bleomycin-treated mouse model, as did conditional deletions of Cd74, the cognate receptor for MIF and MIF-2, in C-X3-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (Cx3cr1)-expressing and platelet factor 4 (Pf4)-expressing cells. Pharmacological inhibition of MIF attenuated fibrosis in bleomycin-treated and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGFB1) transgenic mouse models and in ex vivo human precision-cut lung slices treated with fibrotic cocktail. In study participants with IPF, BALF MIF was elevated compared with that in study participants without IPF. In participants with IPF, BALF MIF greater than 4000 picograms per milliliter was associated with increased mortality compared with participants with IPF with lower MIF. Together, these findings define a UPS-sensitive epithelial-macrophage signaling connection and identify MIF-CD74 cross-talk as a potential therapeutic target in fibrotic lung disease.
Adoptive tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy is an established personalized cellular immunotherapy with demonstrated activity in selected solid tumors, particularly metastatic melanoma. However, clinical outcomes, safety, and manufacturing feasibility vary across tumor types and treatment strategies. This systematic review evaluates the efficacy, safety, and operational characteristics of TIL therapy across solid malignancies.This systematic review was conducted in accordance with PRISMA guidelines. PubMed, Scopus, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform were searched from inception to 31 December 2025. Eligible studies included clinical trials and observational studies evaluating autologous TIL therapy in solid tumors. Due to substantial clinical and methodological heterogeneity, quantitative synthesis was restricted to clinically comparable cohorts, predominantly melanoma studies reporting objective response rates (ORR). A single-arm random-effects meta-analysis using the Freeman-Tukey transformation was performed. All other outcomes, including survival, safety, manufacturing success, and resection-to-infusion time, were synthesized narratively.Thirty-eight studies were included: 5 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), 22 prospective non-randomized studies, and 11 retrospective analyses, spanning melanoma and 8 other solid tumour types. Meta-analysis of 18 melanoma single-arm cohorts demonstrated a pooled objective response rate (ORR) of 42% (95% CI 37%-47%; I² = 33.1%; prediction interval 29%-56%) under a random-effects model. In the phase III RCT (Rohaan et al.), TIL therapy produced superior ORR (49% vs. 21%) and progression-free survival (median 7.2 vs. 3.1 months; HR 0.50, 95% CI 0.35-0.72) compared with ipilimumab. Subgroup analysis by TIL product type revealed a statistically significant difference (χ² = 7.25, p = 0.0266): tumor-reactive TIL products pre-screened ex vivo for antigen-specific reactivity showed the highest pooled ORR at 50% (95% CI 35%-64%), followed by young TIL at 43% (95% CI 29%-58%) and bulk TIL at 36% (95% CI 31%-42%); this observation is based on only 4 cohorts with a limited aggregate patient number and should be regarded as hypothesis-generating. No significant difference in ORR was observed by lymphodepletion status (p = 0.9544). Evidence in non-melanoma solid tumours was limited and heterogeneous, with generally lower response rates. Safety profiles were consistent across studies and primarily attributable to lymphodepleting chemotherapy and interleukin-2 administration, including haematologic and cytokine-related toxicities; treatment-related mortality was uncommon. Manufacturing success rates were high across contemporary cohorts, with a resection-to-infusion time typically spanning 4-6 weeks.TIL therapy demonstrates consistent and clinically meaningful antitumor activity in melanoma, while evidence in non-melanoma tumors remains limited and heterogeneous. Future studies should prioritize biomarker-driven patient selection, optimization of manufacturing and conditioning strategies, and rational combination approaches to expand its applicability.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/, identifier CRD420261291389.Copyright © 2026 Surendran, Gopisetty, Rajappa, Rao and Unnikrishnan.
Therapeutic options remain limited for advanced intracranial malignancies, including brain metastases and glioblastomas, particularly in patients ineligible for surgery, radiotherapy, or systemic therapies. This phase 1 study evaluates the safety and feasibility of intracranial administration of low-dose pemetrexed followed by RetroNectin-activated killer cells (RAKs) and interleukin 2 via an Ommaya reservoir (collectively referred to as SCOPE-T) in 25 patients with refractory intracranial malignancies. Nineteen patients completed at least one treatment cycle, and 17 received the maximum tested RAK dose (5 × 108 cells). Treatment is well tolerated, with no treatment-related adverse events greater than grade 2; transient fever and headache are the most common toxicities. Exploratory radiographic and clinical assessments suggest disease stabilization in evaluable patients. These findings support the feasibility and safety of intracranial SCOPE-T and indicate preliminary signals of therapeutic activity. Given the small sample size and non-randomized design, the results should be interpreted as exploratory (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT05459441).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The following letter to the editor was received in response to "What's Old Is New Again, Unfortunately," the editorial in the April 2026 Clinical Journal of Oncology Nursing. Selection of letters to be publishe.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health issue. Cardiovascular events and infections drive mortality in end-stage renal disease via immune dysregulation. The role of T-cell purinergic signaling and its modulation by indoxyl sulfate (IS) in CKD remains unclear.Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 5/6 nephrectomy. The CKD + IS group received daily IS (100 μg/kg, intraperitoneally) for 24 weeks; control group received saline. Samples were collected 2-6 h post-injection. Sepsis was induced via cecal ligation and puncture. Splenic T-cell mRNA cluster of differentiation (CD) 73, CD39, A2A receptor (A2AR), P2X purinergic receptor (P2RX7), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Plasma cytokines, vascular injury markers (asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1)), and myocardial markers (cardiac troponin T (cTnT), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Peripheral purine metabolites (adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, adenosine (ADO)) were analyzed via ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Survival was monitored for 72 h.IS exacerbated baseline microinflammation, elevating plasma cytokines (interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)) and T-cell NF-κB. This coincided with disrupted anti-inflammatory purinergic signaling, characterized by downregulated CD73/A2AR and reduced ADO. Post-infection, the CKD + IS group showed profound CD73 suppression and ADO depletion. Despite blunted cytokine surges, this group exhibited aggravated vascular and myocardial injury (elevated ADMA, ICAM-1, cTnT, BNP) and significantly higher 72-hour mortality.Indoxyl sulfate disrupts the T-cell CD73/ADO axis, promoting basal microinflammation while impairing anti-infective immunity and exacerbating organ damage during sepsis. Targeting the IS-CD73-ADO pathway offers a therapeutic strategy for restoring immune homeostasis in uremia.
We report a 50-year-old man who was referred for evaluation of suspected hepatic sarcoidosis after non-caseating granulomas were incidentally identified on the liver surface during surgery. Laboratory tests showed a cholestatic pattern with elevated alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, mild thrombocytopenia, and increased angiotensin-converting enzyme and soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography demonstrated marked surface irregularity and reticular hypoattenuated linear structures within the liver. Gadoxetic acid-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging and contrast-enhanced ultrasonography revealed non-enhancing septum-like structures, whereas the intervening hepatic parenchyma showed preserved contrast uptake in the hepatobiliary phase of magnetic resonance imaging and in the post-vascular phase of contrast-enhanced ultrasonography. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy identified esophagogastric varices. Liver biopsy showed preserved hepatic architecture without diffuse parenchymal inflammation. Azan staining demonstrated spatially heterogeneous portal fibrosis, with marked fibrous expansion in two portal tracts and mild fibrous expansion in several other portal tracts. Neither portal-portal nor portal-central bridging fibrosis was identified, and regenerative nodules surrounded by fibrous septa were not evident. Non-caseating epithelioid granulomas containing multinucleated giant cells were observed within fibrotic portal tracts. The patient was diagnosed with hepatic and splenic sarcoidosis complicated by portal hypertension without histologically established cirrhosis. This case highlights that portal tract-predominant, spatially heterogeneous fibrosis in hepatic sarcoidosis may contribute to portal hypertension and distinctive reticular hepatic imaging findings, even in the absence of histologically established cirrhosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Gastroenterology.
Oncolytic viruses (OVs) represent an emerging class of cancer immunotherapeutics. Arming OVs with immunomodulatory transgenes is a promising strategy to reshape the tumor microenvironment (TME) and enhance therapeutic efficacy. We developed the oncolytic Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) strain PD-H, which has previously shown antitumor activity in colorectal and pancreatic cancer models. Here, we evaluated the capacity of PD-H to express transgenes and investigated whether its antitumor efficacy in colorectal cancer can be enhanced by insertion of the interleukin-2 (IL-2) mimetic Neoleukin-2/15 (Neo-2/15). Transgene insertion was best tolerated at the VP1-2A junction of the PD-H polyprotein, with viral replication and cytotoxicity inversely correlating with insert size. Genetic stability depended on the host cell line, transgene sequence and transgene length, with inserts up to 350 bp remaining stable for at least 10 viral passages. PD-H-derived Neo-2/15 was biologically active and induced proliferation of human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in vitro. In vivo, intratumoral administration of PD-Neo-2/15 reduced the growth of subcutaneous Colon-26 tumors more effectively than PD-H and was associated with modulation of the TME, including an increased proportion of CD8+ T cells. Taken together, we demonstrate that arming PD-H with Neo-2/15 is a promising strategy to further enhance its anticancer efficacy.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42428479 is a review article
Memory persistence, the ability to retain information over time, is a fundamental feature of long-term memory. Although astrocytes contribute to synaptic plasticity, the molecular mechanisms by which they support memory persistence remain unclear. Here we show that astrocytic ankyrin-2 (Ank2) is required for memory persistence in adult mice. Astrocyte-specific deletion of Ank2 impaired remote memory without affecting recent memory and disrupted the maintenance of long-term potentiation. Loss of Ank2 reduced astrocyte contacts with engram neurons and impaired astrocyte morphogenesis driven by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling through the truncated tropomyosin receptor kinase B receptor (TrkB.T1) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2). Consistent with this mechanism, astrocytic Ank2 was required for the enhancement of memory persistence by hippocampal BDNF infusion. Furthermore, selective optogenetic activation of astrocytic TrkB.T1 signaling enhanced remote memory, demonstrating that astrocytic BDNF signaling is sufficient to promote memory persistence. These findings identify astrocytic Ank2 as a key regulator of long-term memory persistence.© 2026. The Author(s).
Learning-related synaptic plasticity is regulated by metaplasticity, which adjusts plasticity thresholds in an activity-dependent manner. We have previously described a heterodendritic form of metaplasticity whereby priming stimulation in stratum oriens (SO) inhibits subsequent long-term potentiation (LTP) in the neighboring stratum radiatum of the hippocampal CA1 region. Here, we report that this metaplasticity is transregional, in that the SO priming stimulation also inhibits later LTP induction at dentate gyrus (DG) middle molecular layer (MML) synapses, both in vitro and in vivo. This effect operates across the hippocampal fissure and occurs in the absence of CA3, highlighting a previously unappreciated reverse-direction and long-distance hippocampal crosstalk. Our findings demonstrate an essential role of astrocytes as SO priming elicited an increase in the frequency of calcium (Ca2+) events in astrocytes in the DG MML, while the metaplasticity effect was blocked by calcium-buffering in MML astrocytes. It could be triggered by either activation of M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors or group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, and was critically dependent on inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 signaling. The transregional inhibition of LTP was mediated by astrocytic release of tumor necrosis factor (TNF), which likely acts in an autocrine fashion on astrocytic TNF type 1 receptors (TNFR1s). Downstream of TNF-TNFR1 signaling, the inhibition of MML LTP was mediated by the activation of GluN2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Thus, a complex, bidirectional neuron-glia signaling cascade orchestrates long-distance metaplasticity across hippocampal subregions, providing a framework for understanding how hippocampal neuronal networks dynamically regulate plasticity thresholds across space and time.
To mount a robust T cell-dependent immune response, antigen-specific B lymphocytes require the stimulation of the transmembrane receptor CD40 through immune synapse formation with CD4+ T follicular helper cells. CD40 stimulates the activation of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) and remodels mitochondria to meet the increased bioenergetic and anabolic demands of activated B cells. Here, we found that diacylglycerol kinase ζ (DGKζ) supported mTORC1 activation downstream of CD40 stimulation in mouse B cells. We showed that DGKζ was required for organellar translocation to the CD40-mediated immune synapse and for the recruitment of mTORC1 to lysosomes, the latter of which was necessary for mTORC1 activation and function. The production of phosphatidic acid by DGKζ was crucial for these processes. DGKζ-/- B cells exhibited defects in protein biosynthesis, metabolite transporter expression, and cell cycle progression, together with dysregulation of the transcriptional network that determines B cell fate. To sustain their bioenergetic and metabolic demands, DGKζ-/- B cells enhanced their mitochondrial function. Together, these effects of DGKζ loss led to decreases in germinal center responses and in the generation of long-lived plasma cells and memory B cells in mice. Thus, our data identify DGKζ as an essential mediator of CD40 functions in the B cell immune response.
BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis is a chronic immune-metabolic inflammatory disease characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism. Despite its recognized metabolic basis, biomarkers that reflect coordinated metabolic and immune features remain limited. This study aimed to identify diagnostic biomarkers that capture immune-metabolic features of atherosclerosis. METHODS: Transcriptomic data were obtained from the GEO database. GO and KEGG analyses were performed. WGCNA identified hub genes. ssGSEA was used to evaluate immune cell infiltration. Unsupervised clustering identified atherosclerosis subtypes. Feature genes were selected using machine learning algorithms. Their diagnostic performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. RESULTS: Integrated transcriptomic and metabolic analyses identified 17 metabolism-related hub genes associated with atherosclerosis. Based on their expression profiles, patients in the training set GSE100927 were stratified into two subtypes. Cluster 2 showed higher immune cell infiltration than Cluster 1. DGKZ and UAP1 were prioritized as feature genes and demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance in GSE100927 (DGKZ: AUC = 0.983, 95% CI: 0.961–1.000; UAP1: AUC = 0.949, 95% CI: 0.906–0.993), with validation in GSE57691 (DGKZ: AUC = 0.900, 95% CI: 0.780–1.000; UAP1: AUC = 0.822, 95% CI: 0.598–1.000) and moderate stage discrimination in GSE28829. Immune correlation analysis showed that DGKZ broadly positively correlated with immune infiltration (max r = 0.83 for MDSCs), whereas UAP1 exhibited predominantly negative correlations (max r = − 0.65 for immature B cells). DGKZ and UAP1 were also strongly negatively correlated in the training set (r = − 0.769), supporting their association with distinct immune-metabolic states. CONCLUSION: DGKZ and UAP1 are potential diagnostic biomarkers for atherosclerosis and reflect immune-metabolic heterogeneity across molecular subtypes.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a hematological malignancy of the myeloid lineage with poor clinical outcomes due to limited targeted therapies. This study elucidates the role of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (ITPR2) in regulating cell apoptosis by modulating mitochondrial calcium (Ca2+) levels and underscores the clinical significance of ITPR2.ITPR2 expression in patients with AML compared with that of healthy controls using the quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) method. The role of ITPR2 in AML and its association with immune infiltration levels were investigated through bioinformatics analyses. ITPR2 knockdown in Tohoku Hospital Pediatrics-1 (THP-1) cells were achieved using small interfering RNA (siRNA) and 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate (2-APB), followed by comprehensive molecular characterization employing RT-qPCR, western blotting (WB), cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assays, and flow cytometry.ITPR2 was validated as being highly expressed in patients with AML, and this expression correlated with risk stratification and poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that ITPR2 is involved in Ca2+ signaling pathways and mitochondrial-related biological processes, and its expression level was negatively correlated with immune infiltration levels. Knockdown of ITPR2 or inhibition of its activity with 2-APB reduced Ca2+ ion concentrations in both the cytoplasm and mitochondria, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction (characterized by elevated intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) levels, and reduced mitochondrial DNA copy number) and eventually AML cell apoptosis.ITPR2 facilitates AML progression via the Ca2+-mitochondrial axis and may serve as a prognostic factor and potential therapeutic target.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41760307 is a review article
Autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia-13 is a rare multifactorial disorder characterized by physical disability, cerebellar ataxia, adaptive behavior, intellectual disability, response to sudden noise and light, sensation, skeletal, and oculomotor abnormalities. It affects both males and females equally. So far, only seven variants have been identified in the glutamate metabotropic receptor 1 ( GRM1 ) gene in 18 familial cases of Roma, Iranian, Pakistani, and Tunisian origins.In the present study, we have investigated a large consanguineous family of Pakistani origin presenting severe phenotypes like intellectual disability, delayed developmental milestones, severe ataxia, and nonprogressive neuropathy. Whole exome sequencing was done, followed by Sanger sequencing.Sequence analysis revealed a novel homozygous deletion mutation (c.1715del) in the GRM1 gene (NM_001278064.2) that led to the substitution of Asn with Met at the 572 amino acid position, leading to frame shift and premature termination (p. Asn572MetfsTer4).This study raised the total number of GRM1 variants to eight and would be helpful in prenatal screening, genetic counseling, and carrier testing of other members in the Pakistani community.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the molecular regulation of uterine calcium ion (Ca²⁺) transport during the oviposition cycle in Guizhou Sansui ducks. Uterine tissues were collected at 0, 2, 5, and 16 h after oviposition to determine Ca²⁺ concentrations and quantify the mRNA levels of ten Ca²⁺ transport-related genes, including transient receptor potential vanilloid 6 (TRPV6), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (IP3R3), solute carrier family 4 member 4 (SLC4A4), solute carrier family 4 member 9 (SLC4A9), potassium inwardly-rectifying channel subfamily J member 15 (KCNJ15), sodium channel epithelial subunit gamma (SCNN1G), adenosyl homocysteinase-like 1 (AHCYL1), and protein kinase C alpha (PRKCA). In addition, the expression profiles of these ten genes were assessed across 12 tissues (heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, large intestine, small intestine, duodenum, pancreas, proventriculus, gizzard, and pectoral muscle) at the four oviposition time points. The results showed that the Ca²⁺ concentration in the uterine tissue was relatively low at 0 h, increased at 2 h and 5 h (P < 0.01), and reached its peak at 16 h (P < 0.01). The expression of the ten genes showed an overall upward trend, with TRPV6 slightly decreasing initially and then continuously increasing. Correlation analysis revealed that at 0 h, uterine Ca²⁺ concentration was negatively correlated with IP3R2 and KCNJ15 (P < 0.05), while IP3R2 was positively correlated with KCNJ15 (P < 0.05). At 2 h, TRPV6 expression was negatively correlated with both Ca²⁺ concentration and KCNJ15 (P < 0.05). At 16 h, Ca²⁺ concentration was negatively correlated with SCNN1G but positively correlated with SLC4A9 (P < 0.05). All ten genes were expressed across 12 tissues, showing distinct temporal and spatial patterns. These results suggest that TRPV6, IP3Rs (IP3R1, IP3R2, and IP3R3), SLC4A4/9, KCNJ15, SCNN1G, AHCYL1, and PRKCA may cooperatively regulate uterine Ca²⁺ absorption, intracellular release, and local homeostasis, while their tissue-specific expression reflects systemic regulation of calcium metabolism.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study employed primary uterine epithelial cells from Sansui ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) at the peak of lay as an in vitro model. Using shRNA-mediated interference, we generated single knockdowns of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2), and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (IP3R3), as well as dual knockdowns of IP3R1+IP3R2, IP3R1+IP3R3, and IP3R2+IP3R3, and a triple knockdown targeting all three IP3R isoforms. These treatments were designed to elucidate the regulatory effects of IP3R expression on intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) concentrations and the expression of genes related to ion transport. After 48 h of transfection, fluorescence labeling with the Fluo-3/AM probe showed that intracellular Ca²⁺ concentrations were significantly higher in all treatment groups compared with the control group (P < 0.01). The real-time qPCR (RT-qPCR) analysis of ten ion transport-related genes revealed that the expression of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6), ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1 (ORAI1), epithelial sodium channel gamma subunit (SCNN1G), solute carrier family 8 member A1 (SLC8A1), ATPase plasma membrane Ca²⁺-transporting 1 (ATP2B1), and ATPase sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca²⁺-transporting 2 (ATP2A2) was significantly downregulated in multiple IP3R knockdown groups compared with the NC group (P < 0.05). The expression levels of these genes also showed significant correlations with intracellular Ca²⁺ levels (P < 0.05), including both positive and negative correlations. In the IP3R1 knockdown group, TRPV6, ORAI1, and SCNN1G were negatively correlated with Ca²⁺ concentration (P < 0.05). In contrast, ATP2B1 exhibited a positive correlation with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R2 knockdown group (P < 0.01), whereas SLC8A1 expression was positively correlated with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R1 + IP3R3 dual knockdowns group (P < 0.05). Collectively, the knockdown of IP3Rs not only reduced intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) release but also altered the expression of ion channel-related genes, thereby affecting Ca²⁺ homeostasis. These findings provide new molecular evidence for the regulatory role of IP₃Rs in ion transport networks and Ca²⁺ balance in uterine epithelial cells of laying ducks.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Heat stroke causes life-threatening systemic inflammation and multiorgan injury, but the intracellular mechanisms that sustain inflammatory amplification after heat exposure remain unclear. Here, using heat stroke mouse models, genetic NLRP3 deletion, pharmacological inhibition, myeloid-specific NLRP3 deficiency, macrophage depletion, and heat-stressed macrophage systems, we show that tissue macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome activation is a central driver of interleukin-1β/interleukin-18 release, organ injury, and mortality. Mechanistically, heat stroke enhances phospholipase C delta 4 signaling, promotes diacylglycerol accumulation at trans-Golgi network/Golgi-associated membranes, recruits protein kinase D1, and increases phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase β-dependent phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate production. This lipid remodeling supports NLRP3 recruitment, ASC speck formation, caspase-1 activation, and inflammatory cytokine release. Phospholipase C delta 4 knockdown preferentially suppresses NLRP3 activation induced by heat stroke, but not by canonical stimuli. These findings link heat stroke to membrane lipid remodeling and spatial inflammasome assembly, identifying a potential organ-protective pathway in heat stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by edema resulting from increased vascular permeability. Transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) interacts with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R-1) through calmodulin-binding domains and regulates vascular permeability. However, the specific mechanisms underlying the roles of TRPV4 and IP3R-1 in endothelial pyroptosis and vascular permeability remain unclear.EMPs were measured in septic patients and controls, and co-cultured with human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (HPMECs). LPS-induced ALI was assessed in wild-type or Gsdmd-/- mice with pharmacological modulation of TRPV4, as well as in Trpv4-/- mice. Pyroptosis was detected in IP3R-1-silenced HPMECs treated with LPS and TRPV4 agonist. IP3R-1/GSDMD interaction was confirmed by structural prediction, Co-IP, and immunofluorescence. Intracellular Ca2+ was detected by flow cytometry, and tissue Ca2+ was visualized by in vivo imaging.Elevated EMPs in septic patients enhanced endothelial permeability, upregulated TRPV4 and GSDMD-NT generation in HPMECs. TRPV4 promotes HPMECs permeability and pyroptosis in an IP3R-1-dependent manner. TRPV4 inhibition attenuated lung injury and ameliorated pulmonary dysfunction, while Trpv4 knockdown improved survival. Knockdown of IP3R-1 reduced intracellular Ca2+ and mtDNA levels in HPMECs. In vivo imaging revealed attenuated Ca2+ accumulation in Trpv4-/- mice. The interaction between TRPV4/IP3R-1 and GSDMD was Ca2+-dependent.TRPV4 disrupts HPMEC integrity via IP3R-1 and triggers GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis through a Ca2+-dependent mechanism, exacerbating LPS-induced ALI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Backgrounds: Early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1), originally identified as a critical transcription factor modulating the development and differentiation of B lymphocytes, has recently attracted significant interest owing to its diverse functional characteristics and regulatory mechanisms in solid tumors. Although current evidence suggests a potential connection between EBF1 and oncogenic developments, its exact role in the progression of prostate cancer (PCa) is unclear. This study sought to investigate its biological roles and regulatory mechanisms in human PCa. Methods: Bioinformatic analyses were performed utilizing Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) 2.0, Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, along with quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays and immunostaining on clinically available PCa and normal prostate tissues, to investigate the expression profile and clinical significance of EBF1. The manipulation of EBF1 expression through lentivirus was conducted to explore the impact of both knockdown and overexpression of EBF1 on the malignant behaviors of PCa cells in vitro, as well as in a xenograft mouse model. Ultimately, various molecular biomedical techniques were employed to clarify the possible transcriptional regulation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (ITPR1) by EBF1. Results: Bioinformatic analyses revealed that reduced EBF1 expression exhibited a robust prognostic association with PCa progression. From a functional standpoint, knockdown of EBF1 promoted cell proliferation (n = 3, *p < 0.05, ***p < 0.001 for LNCaP-48 h and LNCaP-72 h; *p < 0.05, ****p < 0.0001 for 22RV1-48 h and 22RV1-72 h respectively), colony formation (n = 3, ***p < 0.001 for LNCaP and **p < 0.01 for 22RV1), migration (n = 3, ***p < 0.001 for LNCaP and ***p < 0.001 for 22RV1) and invasion (n = 5, ****p < 0.0001 for LNCaP and ****p < 0.0001 for 22RV1) capabilities in LNCaP and 22RV1 cells, while ectopic overexpression of EBF1 in PC-3 cells significantly inhibited tumor growth (n = 5, *p < 0.05 at d 36 after cell inoculation) and invasiveness (n = 5, **p < 0.01 for E-cadherin and Vimentin H-scores, respectively) in vivo. Mechanistically, EBF1 depletion was associated with a reduced expression of ITPR1, a key player in intracellular calcium release and a fundamental tumor suppressor in multiple cancers. Furthermore, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) and luciferase reporter assays, we demonstrated that EBF1 could directly bind to the distal region of the ITPR1 promoter (n = 3, **p < 0.01 for ChIP-qPCR), thereafter facilitating its transcriptional expression (n = 3, ****p < 0.0001 for reporter assays). Importantly, overexpression of exogenous ITPR1 effectively ameliorated EBF1 deficiency-induced tumorigenicity in both LNCaP and 22RV1 cells. Conclusions: These findings together indicate a new function of EBF1 loss in enhancing PCa progression, highlight ITPR1 as a key downstream effector in facilitating the tumor-suppressing function of EBF1, and provide significant insights into improving our understanding of the transcriptional regulation of malignant behaviors in PCa cells.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer among women worldwide and is often diagnosed at advanced stages, highlighting the need for effective systemic therapies, including those targeting key cancer-related pathways. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling plays a critical role in cell biology, activating FGF receptors (FGFRs) to regulate proliferation, migration and apoptosis. Aberrant activation of the pathway contributes to tumour progression in many cancers, including cervical cancer. FGFR inhibitors (FGFRi) have shown clinical promise but are limited by emergence of therapeutic resistance. Here, we describe mechanisms underpinning FGFRi resistance in three human cervical cancer cell lines (CaSki, HeLa, and SiHa). Transcriptomic analysis identified several genes differentially expressed between parental and resistant lines, including downregulation of Pleckstrin Homology Like Domain Family A Member 1 (PHLDA1) and upregulation of Phospholipase C beta 4 (PLCB4), changes that associate with a metastatic phenotype. Protein interaction network analysis revealed integrin α2 (ITGA2) as a putative central node. Increased cytoplasmic localisation of ITGA2 and concomitant loss at cell-cell contacts, alongside focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activation was observed in PD173074 resistant cells. Moreover, resistant cell lines exhibited elevated S6 ribosomal protein (p-S6) phosphorylation, which persisted despite inhibition of FGFR, FAK or mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Collectively, these findings suggest that FGFR inhibitor resistance in cervical cancer is associated with ITGA2-FAK signalling and AKT-independent mTOR activation, offering potential for overcoming therapeutic resistance via combinatorial treatment strategies.Copyright © 2026 Bou Antoun, Grose, Walker, Modjtahedi and Chioni.
White adipose browning is a promising route to restore energy balance; however, how inorganic anion signals engage intracellular organelle networks to drive this process remains unclear. Here, we identify Sialin2 as a nitrate sensor that converts dietary nitrate into a spatially confined thermogenic program by coupling ER-mitochondria Ca2+ transfer with lipid routing into mitochondrial oxidation. Sialin2 localizes to mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where it strengthens ER-mitochondria contacts and engages the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1)-voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1)-mitochondrial calcium uniporter 1 (MCU1) conduit to enhance inducible mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake. In parallel, Sialin2 associates with lysosomal acid lipase (LIPA), acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 3 (ACSL3), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 A (CPT1A) to channel lipid-droplet-derived fatty acids into β-oxidation, thereby fueling the tricarboxylic acid cycle and uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1)-dependent respiration. Loss of Slc17a5 abolishes nitrate-evoked browning and metabolic benefits, whereas nitrate supplementation improves adipose thermogenesis and systemic metabolic indices in male mice with diet-induced obesity without adrenergic stimulation. Together, these findings identify an organelle-specific nitrate-sensing mechanism that couples inorganic anion signalling to substrate routing in adipocytes and establish a non-hormonal pathway for restoring metabolic homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42268453 is a review article
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by social communication deficits, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. Emerging evidence links several autism susceptibility genes to the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway, which maintains the homeostasis of gene transcription and protein translation in the nervous system. However, the role of Suppressor with morphogenetic effect on genitalia 7 (Smg7), an essential NMD factor, in brain function and ASD remains largely unknown. Here, we generated an Emx1-Cre-mediated conditional Smg7 knockout (Smg7cko) mouse model to investigate its neurological consequences. We found that both male and female Smg7cko mice exhibited autism-like behaviors, including impaired social interaction and communication, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-like traits, and learning and memory deficits. These phenotypes were accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased dendritic spine density in layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Notably, Smg7 deletion led to pronounced upregulation of Protein Kinase D1 (PKD1) transcripts, an NMD target, in these brain regions. Strikingly, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated PKD1 knockdown (AAVsh-PKD1) in the hippocampus and mPFC significantly rescued social deficits in Smg7-deficient mice. Together, these findings identify Smg7 as a key regulator of neuronal function and behavior, and reveal PKD1 upregulation as a pathogenic mechanism underlying ASD-like phenotypes, providing new insight into NMD deficiency in ASD pathophysiology and a potential therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cardiac inflammation contributes to the development and progression of heart failure (HF). Although cytokines are key mediators of cardiac inflammation, lipid-derived metabolites also play essential roles; however, their underlying mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Among these metabolites, 12 S-hydroxy-5Z,8Z,10E, 14Z-eicosatetraenoic acid (12(S)-HETE), an arachidonic acid-derived metabolite produced primarily by 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), has not been fully characterized in the heart. In neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, 12(S)-HETE significantly upregulated the expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10). The 12(S)-HETE-induced upregulation of IL-6 was suppressed by a thromboxane A2 receptor (TXA2R) antagonist, whereas treatment with a TXA2R agonist alone increased IL-6 expression, suggesting the involvement of TXA2R signaling. Conversely, pharmacological activation of leukotriene B4 receptor 2 (BLT2) attenuated the 12(S)-HETE-induced upregulation of IL-6. Treatment with a BLT2 agonist alone did not affect IL-6 expression but significantly increased IL-10 expression. In addition, both 12(S)-HETE and the BLT2 agonist activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK); this activation was inhibited by a BLT2 antagonist but not by a TXA2R antagonist. In a mouse model of myocardial infarction (MI), serum levels of 12-HETE (the combined amount of 12(S)-HETE and 12(R)-HETE) and cardiac expression of ALOX15 were increased. Collectively, these findings identify 12(S)-HETE as an inducible lipid mediator following MI that modulates pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine expression in cardiomyocytes through coordinated activation of TXA2R and BLT2 signaling pathways. Targeting 12(S)-HETE signaling may therefore represent a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing inflammation-associated cardiac remodeling and HF.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The arachidonic acid (AA) metabolic cascade plays important roles across multiple pathological conditions; however, the contribution of AA-derived lipid metabolism to myocardial infarction (MI) remains incompletely understood. Here, we combined targeted oxylipidomics, experimental and clinical MI analyses, transcriptomic integration, and mechanistic studies to investigate cytochrome P450-2E1 (CYP2E1)-associated metabolic remodeling during MI. Oxylipidomic profiling identified 19-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (19-HETE) as a prominently elevated AA-derived metabolite in experimental MI and linked to impaired cardiac function in clinical MI. Mechanistically, we found that exogenous 19-HETE aggravated oxidative stress and apoptosis in cardiomyocytes, whereas pharmacological inhibition of leukotriene B4 receptor 2 (BLT2) partially attenuated these effects, supporting BLT2-related signaling involvement. CYP2E1 inhibition reduced circulating 19-HETE levels and alleviated myocardial injury. Integrative transcriptomic and experimental analyses further identified fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) as an upstream regulator associated with CYP2E1-related oxidative metabolism. FGF21 deficiency aggravated CYP2E1-associated metabolic remodeling after MI, whereas FGF21 restoration suppressed CYP2E1 expression and 19-HETE accumulation through activation of sirtuin 1 (Sirt1). Moreover, we found that Sacubitril/Valsartan attenuated CYP2E1-associated metabolic remodeling in an FGF21-dependent manner. These findings support CYP2E1-associated lipid metabolic remodeling as a contributor to oxidative injury during MI and suggest a potential therapeutic relevance of targeting this pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the role of leukotriene B4 receptor 1 (LTB4R1) in high glucose-induced renal tubular epithelial cell injury and its regulatory association with macrophage polarization, and to validate the protective effect of LTB4R1 silencing in diabetic renal injury in vivo.THP-1 cells were differentiated and polarized into M0, M1 (LPS + IFN-γ-induced) and M2 (IL-4 + IL-13-induced) macrophages, with phenotypic validation by immunofluorescence. HK-2 renal tubular epithelial cells were treated with gradient glucose concentrations (5.5, 15, 30, 45 mM) to assess dose-dependent effects on LTB4R1 expression and apoptosis. Indirect co-culture of HK-2 cells with polarized macrophages under high glucose (HG) conditions was performed using a Transwell system, with an osmotic control group to exclude osmotic artifacts. For in vivo studies, STZ-induced diabetic C57BL/6 mice were treated with AAV-mediated LTB4R1 shRNA. qPCR, Western blot, ELISA and flow cytometry were used to detect molecular expression, inflammatory cytokines and apoptosis.THP-1 cells were successfully differentiated into M0, M1 and M2 macrophages with distinct phenotypic marker expression. High glucose dose-dependently upregulated LTB4R1 mRNA and protein levels (all P < 0.01) and promoted HK-2 cell apoptosis (P < 0.01). HG specifically induced HK-2 cell injury, which was exacerbated by M1 macrophages and alleviated by M2 macrophages; concurrent changes included HG-induced upregulation of LTB4R1/CD68 and downregulation of CD163/CD206, which were reversed by M2 co-culture (all P < 0.01). In diabetic mice, LTB4R1 silencing significantly reduced renal Ltb4r1, cleaved caspase-3 and NF-κB p65 transcripts, suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β) and elevated anti-inflammatory IL-10, restored CD163/CD206 expression, and inhibited renal apoptosis (all P < 0.01).LTB4R1 mediates high glucose-induced renal tubular epithelial cell injury and diabetic renal injury by regulating macrophage polarization and NF-κB signaling. Silencing LTB4R1 mitigates diabetic renal inflammation and apoptosis, suggesting LTB4R1 as a potential therapeutic target for diabetic nephropathy that warrants further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the therapeutic effects of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) Phellodendrine and Atractylenolide-I (PHE/ATL-1) on RA and their mechanisms.In this study, first clinical experiments were conducted to investigate whether the delayed neutrophil apoptosis in the course of RA was related to the Leukotriene B4 (LTB4)/ Leukotriene B4 receptor 1(BLT1) pathway, and then the effects of PHE/ATL-1 inhibition of the LTB4/BLT1 pathway to promote neutrophil apoptosis to inhibit inflammation were evaluated in vitro, as well as the in vivo effects of PHE/ATL-1 on the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model.Clinical studies revealed elevated BLT1 expression in RA neutrophils, impairing apoptosis and exacerbating inflammation. In vitro, PHE/ATL-1 restored neutrophil apoptosis and reduced inflammation by inhibiting the LTB4/BLT1 pathway. The CIA mouse model further confirmed PHE/ATL-1's therapeutic potential in alleviating arthritis symptoms.PHE/ATL-1 ameliorates RA through LTB4/BLT1 pathway inhibition, reversing neutrophil apoptosis delay and attenuating inflammation. Clinical evidence of upregulated BLT1 in RA neutrophils and therapeutic efficacy in both in vitro and CIA models establishes PHE/ATL-1 as a compelling RA treatment candidate requiring clinical validation.These findings suggest that PHE/ATL-1 may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for RA treatment.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Acute lung injury (ALI) currently lacks targeted pharmacological therapies. Baeckein E, a natural compound from Baeckea frutescens l., has demonstrated anti-inflammatory and anti-lipid peroxidation properties. While the anti-inflammatory role of the leukotriene B4 receptor 1 (BLT1) is recognized, our preliminary data reveal a novel function in inhibiting ferroptosis. This study aims to investigate the hypothesis that baeckein E confers protection against ALI by targeting BLT1, thereby attenuating both inflammation and ferroptosis.To evaluate the bioactivity of baeckein E, we established a RAW264.7 inflammation model to assess its anti-inflammatory effects, alongside MLE-12 models of inflammation-induced ferroptosis and direct ferroptosis to analyze its anti-ferroptosis properties. Furthermore, the therapeutic efficacy of baeckein E was investigated in an in vivo ALI mouse model induced by intratracheal LPS instillation. Photoaffinity labeling assay was performed to identify the direct binding target of baeckein E. Immunofluorescence and Co-immunoprecipitation analyses were conducted to examine the downstream signaling of BLT1. A BLT1-knockdown cell model was utilized to verify the target specificity of baeckein E.In the RAW264.7 inflammation model, baeckein E significantly suppressed inflammatory cytokine production. Parallelly, in MLE-12 models of ferroptosis, baeckein E potently inhibited lipid peroxidation and promoted Nrf2 nuclear accumulation alongside GPX4 transcription. In the murine ALI model, baeckein E treatment attenuated pulmonary macrophage infiltration, enhanced the GSH/GSSG ratio, and upregulated GPX4 protein expression. Mechanistic investigations identified BLT1 as the direct target of baeckein E, through which it concurrently suppresses the macrophage MyD88/NF-κB pathway and activates the epithelial cAMP/Nrf2 axis, ultimately blocking ferroptosis. The essential role of BLT1 was confirmed by RNA knockdown experiments.Our study demonstrates that baeckein E alleviates ALI by targeting BLT1 to suppresses inflammation-driven ferroptosis both directly and indirectly. These findings not only elucidate a dual-mechanism of action for baeckein E but also substantiate BLT1 as a new promising therapeutic target for treating ferroptosis-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a prevalent malignant tumour, with its incidence and mortality rates consistently ranking among the highest and exhibiting an upward trend. Extensive screening and early diagnosis are crucial for managing CRC progression and improving patient prognosis. This study aims to construct a novel analytical framework for integrating the sequencing data from tumour tissue and peripheral blood. By integrating and analysing the multi-omics data and clinical data from tumour tissues and peripheral blood, we confirmed that the LTB4R gene is significantly upregulated not only in tumour tissues but also in the peripheral blood of CRC patients. Further single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and immune cell correlation analyses revealed that Leukotriene B4 receptor 1 (LTB4R) is primarily expressed in macrophages, T cells, and other immune cells, with a significant negative correlation observed with M1-type macrophages, suggesting its potential pro-tumourigenic role in CRC by suppressing M1 macrophage. Additionally, simulated gene knockout analysis (scTenifoldKnk) demonstrated that LTB4R knockout significantly impacts immune-related pathways, including immune response and immune receptor activity. These findings not only highlight the potential of LTB4R as a peripheral blood diagnostic marker for CRC but also elucidate its involvement in tumour progression, offering novel insights for early clinical diagnosis and tumour screening systems.
The pro-inflammatory molecule leukotriene B4 binds to the leukotriene B4 receptors 1 and 2 (BLT1 and BLT2). Although BLT1 has potential as a target for treating inflammatory diseases, no selective BLT1 antagonist has been marketed to date. Most of the developed compounds bind to both BLT receptors, which are now considered to have some opposite functions. Our goal was to identify potential selective antagonists of BLT1 that could be advanced in future studies for the treatment of inflammatory conditions. We performed a robust virtual screening process using a library of bioactive compounds. The library was screened against BLT1 first, and the top hits were then screened against BLT2. The top eight candidates were selected based on several criteria for further studies, starting with predictions of various physicochemical, pharmacokinetic, and toxicity properties. Next, each selected compound underwent a 500 ns molecular dynamics simulation to evaluate ligand-protein complex stability and the interaction profile. Finally, the compounds were ranked based on predicted binding affinities by calculating their binding free energies. Three hits showed ligand-protein stability in MD simulations, maintained essential interactions, and showed lower binding free energies than the reference compound, indicating they may be more potent BLT1 antagonists. The three identified candidates have unique scaffolds and show potential as potent and selective BLT1 antagonists. These findings pave the way for future experimental evaluation to advance these compounds as anti-inflammatory agents.© 2025. The Author(s).
The role of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in the immune response during cardiac arrest, as well as the role of the innate immune system-particularly neutrophils-in the pathophysiology of post-cardiac arrest syndrome, remains underexplored. This study aimed to comprehensively analyze the immune response in the pathology of post-cardiac arrest syndrome. This study included eight patients who experienced cardiogenic cardiopulmonary arrest and were treated for at least 1 week. Blood samples were collected immediately after the return of spontaneous circulation (day 0), as well as on days 1, 3, and 7. These patients formed the post-cardiac arrest syndrome group, and blood samples from five healthy volunteers served as controls. Neutrophil function over time was analyzed using CyTOF® mass cytometry. Furthermore, patients in the post-cardiac arrest syndrome group were divided into extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and non-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation groups according to whether they received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during resuscitation. Cytokine levels were compared between the two groups using LUMINEX®. Three patients with post-cardiac arrest syndrome underwent extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Compared with the control group, the post-cardiac arrest syndrome group showed fewer CD177-negative neutrophils and fewer strongly leukotriene B4 receptor 1-positive neutrophils. The extracorporeal membrane oxygenation group had more CD177-negative neutrophils and fewer CD16-seropositive neutrophils than the non-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation group. Differences in serum cytokine levels between the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and non-extracorporeal membrane oxygenation groups were noted, with certain cytokines, including interleukin-6 and interleukin-8, decreasing over time only in the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation group. As the first in-depth immunological investigation of post-cardiac arrest syndrome, including neutrophil phenotyping, this study may inform clinical practices related to patient management and treatment strategies following cardiac arrest.Copyright: © 2025 Chiba et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
As a widely encountered foodborne mycotoxin, Zearalenone (ZEN) has the potential to accumulate along the food chain, posing threats to public health and safety. However, the precise mechanisms by which ZEN causes tissue damage remain incompletely understood. Here, we established in vivo (40 μg/kg) and in vitro (30 μM) models to elucidate the underlying processes of ZEN-induced damage to the ovary and intestine. Our results demonstrated that, following ZEN exposure, pro-inflammatory signaling factors, including NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) and Interleukin 6 (IL6), were significantly elevated in both ovarian and intestines. Metagenomic analysis revealed dysbiosis of the gut microbiota, which was closely associated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α signaling pathway. Transcriptomic results further indicated that inflammatory response are intricately linked to TNF signaling pathway. Additionally, the Tnf-α knockout mouse model showed a marked resistance to ZEN-induced ovarian and intestinal injuries. In vitro, RNA interference targeting TNF-α attenuated the inflammatory response in IPEC-J2 cells. Moreover, dysregulated expression of the hormone synthesis genes, including KISS-1 metastasis suppressor (Kiss1) and gonadotropin releasing hormone 1 (Gnrh1), was observed, suggesting that ZEN-induced microbial dysbiosis and ovary damage may be interconnected through hormonal disruption. In summary, our results emphasize the role of TNF-α in causing ovarian and intestinal damage after ZEN exposure.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is among the most common endocrine and metabolic disorders. Kisspeptin, a neuropeptide, which has been implicated in enhancing hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian (HPO) axis activity, might play a role in the pathogenesis of PCOS. However, previous studies have had inconsistent results.In this study, we conducted meta-analyses to assess the possible association between kisspeptin hormone and its genetic aspect with PCOS. Additionally, we performed a Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to clarify the cause-effect relationship of kisspeptin level and the risk of developing PCOS.We obtained summary data from published clinical studies and genome-wide association study (GWAS) consortia studies to perform meta-analyses and an MR study. A literature search for eligible studies published until December 2023 was performed. Exposure SNPs for kisspeptin level were derived from a GWAS dataset from the deCODE database, while the genetic associations for PCOS were obtained from the FinnGen study and the largest GWAS dataset.Studies that evaluated the association between the kisspeptin level and/or KiSS-1 metastasis suppressor (KISS1) polymorphisms and PCOS were included for meta-analyses.Data extraction was performed, and the quality of the studies was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale independently by two reviewers. A random-effect model was used to estimate outcomes, and effects were reported as standardized mean difference (SMD) and their 95% confidence interval (CI). The I2 was used to assess heterogeneity. The causal associations between kisspeptin level and PCOS were assessed using MR methods. The reliability, potential biases, and heterogeneity of the results were assessed through inverse variance weighting, MR-Egger regression, Mendelian randomization pleiotropy residual sum and outlier, as well as leave-one-out analysis.The meta-analyses incorporated 30 studies that met the criteria. A total of 1932 PCOS patients and 1641 controls were included to analyze the relationship between kisspeptin levels and PCOS. Compared with controls, patients with PCOS showed significantly increased kisspeptin levels (SMD = 0.67, 95% CI [0.36, 0.97], P < 0.001). The cumulative meta-analysis suggested the result was robust. A total of 872 PCOS and 934 controls were included to assess the association between KISS1 polymorphism and the risk of PCOS. The polymorphisms of rs4889, rs12998, and rs372790354 were significantly associated with PCOS susceptibility. Concretely, rs4889 KISS1 gene polymorphism was related to PCOS for the comparisons of allele, homozygote, heterozygote, dominant, and recessive models. The rs12998 KISS1 gene polymorphism was associated with the risk of PCOS for the comparisons of homozygote and recessive models. Furthermore, the rs372790354 KISS1 gene polymorphism was associated with the risk of PCOS for the comparisons of allele, homozygote, and recessive models. The inverse variance weighted (IVW) method results showed that a higher kisspeptin level was causally related to the risk of PCOS (Finngen) (ORIVW = 1.12, 95% CI [1.03, 1.22], P = 0.0065). Finally, the leave-one-out sensitivity analysis corroborated the robustness of the MR findings.There is a causal relationship between higher kisspeptin levels and an increased risk of PCOS. rs4889, rs12998, and rs372790354 KISS1 gene polymorphisms are associated with the risk of PCOS to varying degrees.© 2025 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics.
Ischemic stroke damages the blood-brain barrier (BBB), worsening neuronal injury. Treatments to protect the BBB are limited. We evaluated the neurovascular protective capacity of Kisspeptin-54 in ischemic stroke using in vivo and in vitro models. In vivo, mice underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), and cerebral infarct volume, neurological function, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability were evaluated. In vitro, human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMVECs) were exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) to assess the effects of Kisspeptin-54 on paracellular flux and transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER). Additionally, GATA-4 was silenced to investigate its role in mediating protection. Our results showed that cortical ischemia downregulated KISS-1 metastasis-suppressor (KISS1, 59% mRNA; 55% protein) and G protein-coupled receptor 54 (GPR54, 54% mRNA; 48% protein), with a 32% decline in circulating Kisspeptin-54. Prophylactic Kisspeptin-54 reduced cerebral infarct volume by 42%, enhanced neurological performance by 49%, and decreased BBB leakage by 26%, with near-complete occludin recovery. In vitro: Kisspeptin-54 treatment reduced paracellular flux by 48% and increased transendothelial resistance by 60%. GATA-4 silencing abolished Kisspeptin-54-induced occludin restoration, increasing permeability by 65% and diminishing barrier resistance by 28%. This study reveals Kisspeptin-54 modulates BBB stability via GATA-4-driven occludin expression, highlighting the KISS1/GPR54 pathway as a potential therapeutic target for ischemic stroke.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The KISS1 gene, also known as the KiSS-1 metastasis suppressor gene, is recognized in humans for its ability to suppress metastasis of various carcinomas. It encodes a protein that has emerged as a promising molecular target for the management of metastatic disease and has shown potential for clinical utility. However, studies investigating the association between this gene and growth traits in sheep are lacking. This study aimed to assess the possible biomarker capacity of KISS1 by evaluating its association with growth traits in two economically important sheep in the Middle East, the Iranian Karakul and the Iraqi Awassi. Genotyping was conducted using PCR-single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP), and the variation of the KISS1 gene was linked with several growth traits at three-month intervals starting from birth until one year of age. In a total of 180 Karakul sheep and 200 Awassi sheep, only one SNP (72G > C) was detected, which had not been previously reported in sheep. The identified novel SNP showed significant associations with the majority of growth traits measured at the ages of three, six, nine, and twelve months. At the age of three months onward, lambs with GG genotypes showed higher growth trait values compared with those with the GC and CC genotypes, respectively. Due to these remarkable associations, the 72G > C SNP is suggested as a promising marker for growth traits in both breeds. This is the first study that demonstrated the importance of KISS1 as a possible tool for evaluating growth traits in Awassi and Karakul breeds with the possibility of being applied to other breeds via large-scale investigations.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Recent studies show obesity correlated with reduced sperm quality in males, but the mechanism is unclear. In this study, diet-induced obese (DIO) male mice exhibited disrupted luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse release due to altered function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis. This alteration was caused by activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling in the hypothalamus, which led to decreased sperm quality. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) revealed a signaling network involving protein phosphatase 2 catalytic subunit alpha (Ppp2ca). This network disrupted LH pulse secretion by inhibiting Akt kinase (AKT) and cAMP responsive element-binding protein 1 (CREB1) activities, thereby reducing KiSS-1 metastasis-suppressor (Kiss1) expression. Furthermore, overexpression of the Ppp2ca gene in the ARC led to disrupted LH patterns and reduced sperm quality. These findings offer new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying sperm quality decline in DIO male mice.© 2025 The Author(s).
The Fuyou (Fy) formula is an in-hospital preparation consisting of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) that has been used for treating precocious puberty (PP) for more than 20 years. In this study, we aimed to clarify the effect of the Fy formula and its major components on PP. To confirm the effect of the Fy formula on the release of hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), GT1-7 cells were treated with estrogen to build the model group and subsequently treated with the Fy formula and its major components to explore their effects on the secretion of GnRH. The level of GnRH in GT1-7 cells was determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results illustrated that, compared to the model group, the Fy formula inhibited the release of GnRH. In addition, the expression levels of proteins related to GnRH secretion, including GnRH, gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR), Kiss-1 metastasis-suppressor (Kiss1), G-protein coupled receptor 54 (GPR54), estrogen receptor α (ERα), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R), were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). The results demonstrated that the Fy formula significantly reduced the level of GnRH secretion in the GT1-7 cell lines compared with the model group. Moreover, it significantly downregulated the expression of GnRH, GnRHR, Kiss1, GPR54, ERα, IGF-1, and IGF-1R. In summary, our results indicate that the Fy formula and its major components may inhibit the effects of estrogen, which alleviates PP through transcriptional regulation of target genes.Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Sun, Zhang, Ding, Wang, Liang, He, Yang and Guo.
Puberty is the gateway to adult reproductive competence, encompassing a suite of complex, integrative, and coordinated changes in neuroendocrine functions. However, the regulatory mechanisms of transcriptional reprogramming in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) during onset of puberty are still not fully understood. To understand the role of epigenetics in regulating gene expression, mouse hypothalamic ARCs were isolated at 4 and 8 weeks, and the transcriptome, DNA hydroxymethylation, DNA methylation, and chromatin accessibility were assessed via RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS-seq), reduced representation hydroxymethylation profiling (RRHP)-seq, and assay for transposase-accessible chromatin (ATAC-seq), respectively. The overall DNA hydroxymethylation and DNA methylation changes in retroelements (REs) were associated with gene expression modeling for puberty in the ARC. We focused on analyzing DNA hydroxymethylation and DNA methylation at two short interspersed nuclear elements (SINEs) located on the promoter of the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 6 (Htr6) gene and the enhancer of the KISS-1 metastasis suppressor (Kiss1) gene and investigated their regulatory roles in gene expression. Our data uncovered a novel epigenetic mechanism by which SINEs regulate gene expression during puberty.© 2021 The Author(s).
In male patients with diabetes, reduced sperm motility and fertility are observed. KiSS‑1 metastasis suppressor (KISS1)/KISS1 receptor (KISS1R) serves an important role in regulating adolescent sexual maturity and reproductive system development in mammals; however, the mechanism underlying KISS1/KISS1R in reproductive dysfunction in male patients with diabetes is not completely understood. The aim of the present study was to examine the role of KISS1/KISS1R in Sertoli cells. High glucose (HG)‑induced mouse Sertoli cells were used to model diabetes in vitro. KISS1/KISS1R overexpression and knockdown were established in mouse Sertoli cells. Reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR and western blotting were performed to measure the expression levels of KISS1/KISS1R and apoptosis‑related proteins. Cell viability and apoptosis was assessed by performing Cell Counting Kit‑8, TUNEL staining and flow cytometry assays, respectively. Western blotting was performed to assess the expression levels of PI3K/AKT signalling‑related proteins. KISS1/KISS1R expression levels were downregulated in HG‑induced mouse Sertoli cells compared with control cells. KISS1/KISS1R overexpression significantly suppressed HG‑induced apoptosis and decrease of viability in mouse Sertoli cells. Moreover, the western blotting results indicated that KISS1/KISS1R activated PI3K/AKT signalling. Treatment with PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitor significantly reversed KISS1/KISS1R‑mediated protective effects. Collectively, the results of the present study suggested that KISS1/KISS1R mediated Sertoli cell apoptosis via the PI3K/AKT signalling pathway under HG conditions, which provided reliable targets for the treatment of reproductive dysfunction in male patients with diabetes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42074080 is a review article
The G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68) detects variations in extracellular pH, and has potential roles in homeostasis and responses to ischaemia and inflammation within different organs, including the gastrointestinal tract. However, in the human colon the distribution of GPR68 remains unclear. We examined the localization and density of GPR68 within the ascending (AC) and descending (DC) human colon from younger and older adults.Macroscopically normal AC and DC were obtained from patients undergoing lower bowel cancer resection (aged 22-91 years; grouped into younger (≤60 years) and older (≥67 years) populations). Immunolabelling was performed using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections and antibodies against GPR68, protein gene product 9.5 (PGP9.5) and calretinin to identify the presence and density of GPR68-immunoreactive (IR) expressing cells.Ageing did not change the density of total PGP9.5-IR enteric neuronal fibres in the AC or DC. For the myenteric plexus (MP) of both age groups, the densities of calretinin-IR neurons were similar in both the AC (younger: 1.2 ± 0.3 × 10-3; older: 0.9 ± 0.2 × 10-3 per mm2 plexus) and DC (1.4 ± 0.2 × 10-3; 1.3 ± 0.3 × 10-3 per mm2 plexus), but reduced in the mucosa of older adults for both AC (respectively, 9.8 ± 0.5 vs. 3.2 ± 0.1/pixel) and DC (11.5 ± 0.9 vs. 7.4 ± 0.3/pixel). Similar reduction of calretinin-IR enteric neurons was found in the SMP of AC but not clearly in the DC in the older adults. GPR68 was widely expressed in the mucosa, circular muscle and myenteric plexus of both the AC and DC. The density of GPR68-IR in the muscle and myenteric plexus was similar in both age groups, but smaller in the mucosa of older adults for both AC and DC.GPR68 is widely distributed within the enteric nervous system of the human colon, with potential roles for GPR68 suggested in the muscle and MP, and in the functions of calretinin-IR neurons within the mucosa. Further, the concomitant loss of GPR68 and calretinin-IR neurons in the mucosa of older adults suggests selective vulnerability of mucosal sensory and homeostatic mechanisms of the ageing colon.Copyright © 2026 Baidoo, De Rasis, Paine, Bulmer and Sanger.
G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68), a proton-sensing GPCR, has emerged as a key player in inflammatory diseases. Its expression is substantially upregulated in the inflamed intestinal mucosa of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients, and pharmacological inhibition of GPR68 has been shown to ameliorate colitis in preclinical models, highlighting GPR68 as a promising therapeutic target. Herein, we report the discovery of diphenylethane derivatives as a novel class of potent GPR68 antagonists. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) of these compounds was analyzed, which led to the identification of a potent GPR68 antagonist (18l) with an IC50 value of 0.081 ± 0.006 μM. The lead compound demonstrated significant inhibition of GPR68-mediated signaling and reduced the production of key pro-inflammatory cytokines. In a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced mouse model of IBD, 18l effectively alleviated disease symptoms. It also showed good pharmacokinetic properties and a commendable safety profile. Overall, compound 18l could be a promising lead compound for the treatment of IBD and deserves further in-depth studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Localised acidification from immune cell infiltration and heightened glycolysis contributes to colitis pathology by activating acid-sensing receptors such as G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68), a proton-sensing G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) expressed on immune and stromal cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis revealed GPR68 is also expressed in colonic sensory neurons, prompting us to investigate its role in acid-induced colonic nociception.Expression of GPR68 in colonic nociceptors and tissue from people with colitis was confirmed by in silico analysis of our RNA-seq databases. Its contribution to disease activity was assessed using the acute dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) model of colitis. Acid-evoked sensory signalling was evaluated via colonic afferent recordings and Ca2+ imaging in DRG neurons from wild-type and GPR68-/- mice, supported by pharmacological studies using Ogerin (a GPR68 positive allosteric modulator) and Ogremorphin (a GPR68 antagonist).RNA-seq analysis showed GPR68 is robustly expressed in Trpv1+ colonic nociceptors and upregulated in tissue from people with inflammatory bowel disease, consistent with reduced disease activity in DSS-treated GPR68-/- mice. Genetic deletion of GPR68 abolished colonic afferent responses to acid, which were also attenuated by Ogremorphin and enhanced by Ogerin. In Ca2+-free buffer, dorsal root ganglion neurons from GPR68-/- mice or those pretreated with Ogremorphin showed significantly reduced acid-evoked intracellular Ca2+ responses. By contrast, the colonic afferent and dorsal root ganglion Ca2+ response (in Ca2+-containing buffer) to capsaicin was comparable between tissue from wild-type and GPR68-/- mice highlighting the involvement of divergent proton-dependent cellular signaling cascades.These findings identify GPR68 as a key mediator of acid-induced colonic nociception and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for the treatment of pain in colitis.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
G-protein coupled receptor 68 (Gpr68) was enriched in long-term hematopoietic stem cells, indicating a potential role of Gpr68 in the HSC function. However, there is no significant phenotype in the HSC biology of Gpr68 whole-body KO mice, which may be counteracted by compensation. To study an intrinsic function of Gpr68 in hematopoiesis, Gpr68flox/flox;Vav-cre+ mouse model where the Gpr68 gene was specifically deleted in hematopoietic cells was generated and monitored here (C57BL/6 J genetic background).We used complete blood counting and flow cytometry to determine the number and frequency of mature cells in normal hematopoiesis. We evaluated the number and function of stem cells after competitive bone marrow transplantation using cell surface immune markers. Biological functional experiments were used to explore the related cellular mechanisms.Apart from a slightly increased megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor subpopulation, the number of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells was unaltered in young and mid-aged Gpr68flox/flox;Vav-cre+ mice compared with age-matched Vav-cre+ mice. However, the stem cell function was enhanced in mid-aged Gpr68flox/flox;Vav-cre+ mice, represented by increased donor-derived chimerism compared with age-matched Vav-cre+ mice. As enhanced chimerism was traced to LT-HSC, it revealed an increased LT-HSC activation due to loss of Gpr68 in hematopoietic cells upon aging. Consistently, reduced Gpr68 expression was observed in LT-HSC of old C57BL/6 WT mice compared with young WT mice, validating the specific role of Gpr68 in responding to aging. Besides, the Annexin V staining and active caspases in Gpr68 down-expression mice, i.e., Gpr68flox/flox;Vav-cre+ mice and old C57BL/6 WT mice, were decreased when compared with their control mice, respectively.Loss of Gpr68 in hematopoietic tissues enhances LT-HSC function upon aging by inhibiting a cell apoptosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Spinal cord ischemia-reperfusion injury (SCIRI) is a devastating condition with limited therapeutic options. This study unveils a novel role of G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68), a pH-sensing G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), in mitigating ferroptosis-a lipid peroxidation-driven cell death-through the Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase/ Protein Kinase B/ Nuclear Factor Erythroid 2-Related Factor 2 (PI3K/Akt/Nrf2) antioxidant axis. Using in vitro (Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation/Reperfusion (OGD/R)-treated Pheochromocytoma Cell Line 12 (PC12) cells ) and in vivo (rat spinal cord ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) ) models, we demonstrate that GPR68 downregulation exacerbates ferroptosis, evidenced by elevated Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 4 (ACSL4), Malondialdehyde (MDA), and Oxidized Glutathione/ Total Glutathione (GSSG/T-GSH) levels, alongside reduced Solute Carrier Family 7 Member 11 (SLC7A11) and Glutathione Peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Pharmacological activation of GPR68 with MS48107 or the clinically approved benzodiazepine Lorazepam robustly reversed ferroptosis by enhancing Akt phosphorylation and Nrf2 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, GPR68 siRNA or PI3K/Akt inhibition abolished these protective effects. Crucially, Lorazepam rescued neuronal viability and suppressed ferroptosis in spinal I/R rats, effects fully negated by the GPR68 antagonist Ogremorphin (OGM). Our findings establish GPR68 as a key ferroptosis regulator and propose repurposing Lorazepam as a therapeutic strategy for SCIRI.© 2025. The Author(s).
Defects in Aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like 1 (ARNTL), a central component of the circadian clock mechanism, may promote or inhibit the induction of inflammation by monocytes/macrophages, with varying effects on different diseases. However, ARNTL's role in monocytes/macrophages under chronic kidney disease (CKD), which presents with systemic inflammation, is unclear. Here, we report that the expression of Arntl in monocytes promoted CKD-induced cardiac damage. The expression of G-protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68), which exacerbates CKD-induced cardiac disease, was regulated by ARNTL. Under CKD conditions, GPR68 expression was elevated via ARNTL, particularly in the presence of PU.1, a transcription factor specific to monocytes and macrophages. In CKD mouse models lacking monocyte-specific ARNTL, GPR68 expression in monocytes was reduced, leading to decreased cardiac damage and fibrosis despite no improvement in renal excretory capacity or renal fibrosis and increased angiotensin II production. The loss of ARNTL did not affect the expression of marker molecules, indicating the origin or differentiation of cardiac macrophages, but affected GPR68 expression only in cardiac macrophages derived from mature monocytes, highlighting the significance of the interplay between GPR68 and ARNTL in monocytes/macrophages and its influence on cardiac pathology. Understanding this complex relationship between circadian clock mechanisms and disease could help uncover novel therapeutic strategies.
Accumulating evidence demonstrates that the "Warburg effect" that glycolysis is enhanced even in the presence of oxygen existed in hematopoietic malignancies, contributing to extracellular acidosis. G-protein coupled receptor 68 (GPR68), as a proton sensing GPCR responding to extracellular acidosis, is expected to play a critical role in hematopoietic malignancies. In the present study, we found that GPR68 was overexpressed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, and GPR68 deficiency impaired AML cell survival in vitro and cell engraftment in vivo. Mechanistic studies revealed that unlike GPR68 regulates Calpain1 in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) cells, GPR68 deficiency reduced cytosolic Ca2+ levels and calcineurin (CaN) activity in AML cells through an NFAT-independent mechanism. Moreover, the decreased Ca2+ levels disturbed cellular respiration (i.e., oxidative phosphorylation, OxPhos) by inhibiting isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) activity; this was more pronounced when BCL2 was inhibited simultaneously. Interestingly, GPR68 inhibition also decreased aerobic glycolysis in AML cells in a Ca2+-independent manner, suggesting that GPR68 mediated glucose metabolic symbiosis. As glucose metabolic symbiosis and the heterogeneous dependencies on aerobic glycolysis and cellular respiration tremendously impact chemosensitivity, the inhibition of GPR68 potentiated the tumoricidal effect of first-line chemotherapeutic agents, including BCL-2 inhibitors targeting OxPhos and cytarabine (Ara-C) targeting glycolysis. Consistent with these in vitro observations, higher levels of GPR68 were associated with inferior clinical outcomes in AML patients who received chemotherapies. In short, GPR68 drives the Ca2+/CaN pro-survival pathway and mediates glucose metabolic pathways in AML cells. Targeting GPR68 eradicates AML cells and alleviates chemoresistance, which could be exploited as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In ischemia, acidosis occurs in/around injured tissue and parallels disease progression. Therefore, targeting an acid-sensitive receptor offers unique advantages in achieving the spatial and temporal specificity required for therapeutic interventions. We previously demonstrated that increased expression of GPR68 (G protein-coupled receptor 68), a proton-sensitive G protein-coupled receptor, mitigates ischemic brain injury. Here, we investigated the mechanism underlying GPR68-dependent protection.We performed biochemical and molecular analyses to examine poststroke signaling. We used in vitro brain slice cultures and in vivo mouse transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) models to investigate ischemia-induced injuries.GPR68 deletion reduced PERK (protein kinase R-like ER kinase) expression in mouse brain. Compared with the wild-type mice, the GPR68-/- (knockout) mice exhibited a faster decline in eIF2α (eukaryotic initiation factor-2α) phosphorylation after tMCAO. Ogerin, a positive modulator of GPR68, stimulated eIF2α phosphorylation at 3 to 6 hours after tMCAO, primarily in the ipsilateral brain tissue. Consistent with the changes in eIF2α phosphorylation, Ogerin enhanced tMCAO-induced reduction in protein synthesis in ipsilateral brain tissue. In organotypic cortical slices, Ogerin reduced pH 6 and oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neurotoxicity. Following tMCAO, intravenous delivery of Ogerin reduced brain infarction in wild-type but not knockout mice. Coapplication of a PERK inhibitor abolished Ogerin-induced protection. Delayed Ogerin delivery at 5 hours after tMCAO remained protective, and Ogerin has a similar protective effect in females. Correlated with these findings, tMCAO induced GPR68 expression at 6 hours, and Ogerin alters post-tMCAO proinflammatory/anti-inflammatory cytokine/chemokine expression profile.These data demonstrate that GPR68 potentiation leads to neuroprotection, at least in part, through enhancing PERK-eIF2α activation in ischemic tissue but has little impact on healthy tissue.
G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68), an orphan receptor, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for mitigating neuronal inflammation and oxidative damage. This study explores the protective mechanisms of GPR68 in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI).An in vivo middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAO/R) mouse model was established. Mice received intraperitoneal injections of Ogerin, a selective GPR68 agonist. In vitro, GPR68 was overexpressed in SH-SY5Y and HMC3 cells, and the effects of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) on cell viability were assessed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and flow cytometry.The expression of GPR68 was suppressed in cells subjected to OGD/R treatment, whereas its upregulation conferred protection to SH-SY5Y and HMC3 cells. In vivo, levels of GPR68 were reduced in brain tissues affected by MCAO/R, correlating with oxidative stress, inflammation, and neurological damage. Treatment with a GPR68 agonist decreased brain infarction, apoptosis, and dysregulated gene expression induced by MCAO/R. Mechanistically, GPR68 agonist treatment may inhibit the activation of the NF-κB/Hif-1α pathway, thereby reducing oxidative and inflammatory responses and enhancing protection against CIRI.This study confirms that the GPR68/NF-κB/Hif-1α axis modulates apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress in CIRI, indicating that GPR68 is a potential therapeutic target for CIRI.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) is the leading cause of liver-related mortality worldwide. ALD progresses through chronic, nonresolving inflammation and immune dysfunction, yet the mechanisms driving this dysfunction remain unclear. Here, we characterized the intracellular complement system, the complosome, using explanted liver tissue from patients with ALD, chronic-plus-binge feeding to anaphylatoxin receptor-deficient mice, and in vitro models of macrophage activation. Anaphylatoxin receptor expression was increased in CD68+ macrophages from ALD explants compared with healthy donor liver. In ethanol-fed mice, chronic-plus-binge exposure increased surface expression of complement C3a receptor 1 (C3aR1) and complement C5a receptor 1 (C5aR1), as well as the intracellular C5aR1 pool on CD11bintF4/80hi Kupffer cells. C5aR1-/-, but not C3aR1-/- mice, were protected from binge ethanol-induced liver injury, whereas deficiency of either receptor protected from ethanol-induced expression of proinflammatory cytokines and hepatic immune cell recruitment. In bone marrow-derived macrophages, ethanol and lipopolysaccharide treatment increased expression of intracellular complement components C3, C5, C3aR1, and C5aR1; anaphylatoxin receptors were co-expressed with lysosomal and mitochondrial membrane markers, supporting a functional intracellular signaling compartment. Lipopolysaccharide-induced NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) expression and IL-1β production were attenuated in C3aR1- and C5aR1-deficient bone marrow-derived macrophages. Notably, C3aR1/C5aR1-/- double-knockout mice were protected from ethanol-induced liver injury and inflammation. In conclusion, ethanol enhances intracellular complosome components in macrophages and anaphylatoxin receptors promote nonresolving inflammation in ALD.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury (SIMI) is a leading cause of mortality in critically ill patients, driven by dysregulated immune-inflammation responses. Although macrophages and neutrophils are key players in this process, the mechanisms governing their crosstalk in SIMI remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the complement C3a receptor 1 (C3aR1) critically mediates this interaction. Using a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced SIMI rat model and an in vitro co-culture system with THP-1-derived macrophages, HL-60 cells and AC16 cardiomyocytes, we show that C3aR1 promotes macrophage M1 polarisation via the TLR4/NF-κB pathway. The activated M1 macrophages subsequently trigger neutrophil necroptosis, leading to the release of chemokines and establishing a self-amplifying inflammatory loop from M1 polarisation to neutrophil necroptosis and cardiomyocyte injury, ultimately resulting in cardiac dysfunction. Cardiac-specific knockdown of C3aR1 in vivo attenuated myocardial damage, reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and improved cardiac function. Our findings identify C3aR1 as a key molecular hub orchestrating macrophage-neutrophil crosstalk in SIMI and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for mitigating sepsis-induced cardiac complications.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Severe burns are characterized by high mortality and morbidity rates. Immune dysfunction during the acute phase of severe burns exacerbates tissue damage. Complement C3a receptor 1 (C3AR1) is a key receptor associated with severe burn shock. This study aimed to investigate the effects of C3AR1 on T-cell immunity in the intestine following burns. We established a mouse model of severe burns and performed in vitro stimulation of CD3+ T cells with C3AR1 agonist. Quantitative real-time PCR, Western blot, ELISA, and flow cytometry were used to analyze the expression of C3AR1, IL-2, IL-10 and factors related to the NF-κB signaling pathway, changes in the proportions of Th1 and Th2 subsets, and the apoptosis rate of CD3+ T cells after C3AR1 stimulation. The results showed that C3AR1 expression in the intestinal mucosa of severely burned mice was significantly elevated, while IL-2 expression was decreased, exhibiting a negative correlation. After C3AR1 overexpression, the proportion of Th1 cells decreased, the apoptosis rates of Th2 cells and CD3+ T cells increased, IL-2 expression was reduced, and the NF-κB signaling pathway was activated. In conclusion, C3AR1 participates in intestinal T-cell immune responses after burns through activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway, indicating that C3AR1 is a crucial regulator in the recovery of intestinal mucosal injury and immune function balance, and may serve as a potential molecular target for burn treatment.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Aging is a major, yet unmodifiable, cardiovascular risk factor and is associated with vascular alterations, increased cardiac fibrosis, and inflammation, all of which contribute to impaired cardiac function. However, the microenvironment inciting age-related alterations within the multicellular architecture of the cardiac tissue is unknown.We investigated local microenvironments in aged mice hearts by applying an integrative approach combining single-nucleus RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics of 3- and 18-month-old mice. We defined distinct cardiac niches and studied changes in their cellular composition and functional characteristics. We treated mice with broad-spectrum senolytics dasatinib and quercetin, and endothelial-specific senolytic fisetin and studied their effects on senescence and macrophage populations.Integration of spatial transcriptomics data across 3- and 18-month-old hearts allowed the identification of 11 cardiac niches, which were characterized by distinct cellular composition and functional signatures. Aging did not alter the overall proportions of cardiac niches but led to distinct regional changes, particularly in the left ventricle. While cardiomyocyte-enriched niches showed disrupted circadian clock gene expression, vascular niches showed major changes in proinflammatory and profibrotic signatures and altered cellular composition. We particularly identified larger vessel-associated cellular niches as key hotspots for activated fibroblasts and bone marrow-derived Lyve1- (lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1) and resident Lyve1+ macrophages in aged hearts, with interactions of both cell types through the C3:C3ar1 (complement C3 and Complement C3a receptor 1) axis. These niches were also enriched in senescent cells exhibiting high expression of immune evasion mechanisms that may impair senescent cell clearance. Removal of senescent cells by senolytics reduced the presence of Lyve1- macrophages.Our findings indicate that the perivascular microenvironment is particularly susceptible to age-related changes and serves as a primary site for inflammation-driven aging, so-called inflammaging. This study provides new insights into how aging reshapes cardiac cellular architecture, highlighting vessel-associated niches as potential therapeutic targets for age-related cardiac dysfunction.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is the most prevalent neuropsychiatric disorder globally. Promising therapies for MDD are urgently needed due to the limited effectiveness, delayed efficacy, and non-negligible side effects of current treatments. Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation have been recognized as key contributors to MDD. Here, we developed an antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC)-capped Au nanocage (TNNC) that entrapped VGF-derived peptide TLQP21 with neuro-immunomodulatory effects. Once internalized by cells suffering from oxidative stress, NAC was consumed, and TLQP21 was released from TNNC. TNNC administration alleviated MDD-like behaviors of the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-exposed mice and effectively relieved oxidative stress in the brains. Moreover, TLQP21 in TNNC inhibits the activation, excessive synaptic pruning, and inflammatory responses of microglia through targeting the complement C1q receptor (C1qR) and complement C3a receptor 1 (C3aR1). This work provides a bioinspired strategy to target multiple pathogenic factors in one nanoparticle for the intervention of MDD and other diseases.
New therapeutic targets, especially those that stimulate bone formation in cortical bone, are needed to overcome the limitations of current antiosteoporotic drugs. We previously demonstrated that factors secreted from megakaryocytes (MKs) promote bone formation. Here we conducted a proteomic analysis to identify a novel bone-forming factor from MK secretions. We revealed that Vgf, a nerve growth factor-responsive gene, and its derived active peptide AQEE30 in MK-conditioned medium play important roles in osteoblast proliferation and in vitro bone formation. In both Vgf-deficient male and female mice, the cortical bone mass was significantly decreased due to reductions in osteoblast number and bone formation activity. AQEE30 stimulated intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels and protein kinase A (PKA) activity in osteoblasts, whereas an adenylyl cyclase inhibitor blocked AQEE30-stimulated osteoblast proliferation and in vitro bone formation. Complement C3a receptor-1 (C3AR1) was expressed and interacted with AQEE30 in osteoblasts, and C3AR1 inhibition blocked all AQEE30-induced changes, including stimulated proliferation, bone formation and cAMP production, in osteoblasts. Injecting mini-PEGylated AQEE30 into calvaria increased the number of osteocalcin-positive cells and new bone formation. In conclusion, this study reveals a novel role of VGF in bone formation, particularly in cortical bone, and shows that AQEE30, a VGF-derived peptide, mediates this role by activating cAMP-PKA signaling via the C3AR1 receptor in osteoblasts.© 2025. The Author(s).
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are leading druggable targets for several medicines, but many GPCRs are still untapped for their therapeutic potential due to poor understanding of specific signaling properties. The complement C3a receptor 1 (C3aR1) has been extensively studied for its physiological role in C3a-mediated anaphylaxis/inflammation, and in TLQP-21-mediated lipolysis, but direct evidence for the functional relevance of the C3a and TLQP-21 ligands and signal transduction mechanisms are still limited. In addition, C3aR1 G protein coupling specificity is still unclear, and whether endogenous ligands, or drug-like compounds, show ligand-mediated biased agonism is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that C3aR1 couples preferentially to Gi/o/z proteins and can recruit β-arrestins to cause internalization. Furthermore, we showed that in comparison to C3a63-77, TLQP-21 exhibits a preference toward Gi/o-mediated signaling compared to β-arrestin recruitment and internalization. We also show that the purported antagonist SB290157 is a very potent C3aR1 agonist, where antagonism of ligand-stimulated C3aR1 calcium flux is caused by potent β-arrestin-mediated internalization. Finally, ligand-mediated signaling bias impacted cell function as demonstrated by the regulation of calcium influx, lipolysis in adipocytes, phagocytosis in microglia, and degranulation in mast cells. Overall, we characterize C3aR1 as a Gi/o/z-coupled receptor and demonstrate the functional relevance of ligand-mediated signaling bias in key cellular models. Due to C3aR1 and its endogenous ligands being implicated in inflammatory and metabolic diseases, these results are of relevance toward future C3aR1 drug discovery.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Disruption of global ribosome biogenesis selectively affects craniofacial tissues with unclear mechanisms. Craniosynostosis is a congenital craniofacial disorder characterized by premature fusion of cranial suture(s) with loss of suture mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Here we focused on ribosomopathy disease gene Snord118, which encodes a small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA), to genetically disturb ribosome biogenesis in suture MSCs using mouse and human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) models. Snord118 depletion exhibited p53 activation, increased cell death, reduced proliferation, and premature osteogenic differentiation of MSCs, leading to suture growth and craniosynostosis defects. Mechanistically, Snord118 deficiency causes translational dysregulation of ribosomal proteins and downregulation of complement pathway genes. Further complement pathway disruption by knockout of complement C3a receptor 1 (C3ar1) exacerbated MSC and suture defects in mutant mice, whereas activating the complement pathway rescued MSC cell fate and suture growth defects. Thus, ribosome biogenesis controls MSC fate via the complement pathway to prevent craniosynostosis.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is one of the leading causes of mortality for patients with severe infections who had been admitted to intensive care units (ICUs). Early diagnosis, accurate treatment, and management of sepsis remain extremely difficult in clinical settings, due to a lack of early biomarkers and diverse clinical manifestations.The study intended to identify the key genes and pathways associated with inflammation in sepsis-using microarray technology combined with bioinformatics and key inflammation-related genes (IRGs)-to perform an enrichment analysis and evaluate the value of those genes for the diagnosis and evaluation of prognosis for patients with sepsis.The research team performed a genetic analysis.The study took place at the Center for Emergency and Critical Medicine at Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University in Jinshan District, Shanghai, China.The research team created two groups, the sepsis group, individuals with sepsis, and the control group, individuals without sepsis, using data for those groups from five microarray datasets obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database.The research team: (1) downloaded the GSE57065, GSE28750, GSE9692, GSE13904, and GSE54514 datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database for analysis; (2) analyzed the GSE57065, GSE28750, and GSE9692 datasets to detect the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the sepsis and control groups; (3) used Venn diagrams to obtain the intersection of DEGs and inflammation-related genes (IRGs); (4) mapped the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network using the Search Tool for Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING) database; (5) detected the hub genes using Cytoscape and cytoHubba; (6) performed an enrichment analysis of hub IRGs using Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG); (7) validated the expression of hub IRGs in sepsis using the GSE13904 dataset; and (8) performed a survival analysis in sepsis using the GSE54514 dataset to explore the prognostic value of the hub IRGs.The research team: (1) identified 104 upregulated DEGs and 4 downregulated DEGs; (2) after defining the intersection of DEGs and IRGs, detected nine differentially expressed IRGs (DEIRGs); and (3) identified five IRGs- haptoglobin (HP), high affinity immunoglobulin gamma Fc receptor I (FCGR1A), cluster of differentiation 163 (CD163), complement C3a receptor 1 human (C3AR1), C-type lectin domain containing 5A (CLEC5A)-that overlapped DEIRGs. The GO and KEGG pathway analyses showed that the hub IRGs became enriched during acute-phase response, acute inflammatory response, specific granule, specific granule membrane, endocytic vesicle membrane, tertiary granule, immunoglobulin G (IgG) binding, complement receptor activity, Ig binding, scavenger receptor activity, and scaffold protein binding. The DEGs also played a significant role in Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infection. The ROC curves showed that HP (AUC: 0.956, 95% CI: 0.924-0.988); FCGR1A (AUC: 0.895,95% CI: 0.827-0.963); CD163 (AUC: 0.838, 95% CI: 0.774-0.901); C3AR1 (AUC: 0.953, 95% CI: 0.913-0.993); and CLEC5A (AUC: 0.951, 95% CI: 0 920-0 981) had meaningful diagnostic value for sepsis. Survival analysis showed that the sepsis and control groups had significant differences in HP (P = .043) and CLEC5A (P < .001).HP, FCGR1A, CD163, C3AR1, and CLEC5A have value for clinical application. Clinicians can use them as diagnostic biomarkers, and they provide research direction for treatment targets for sepsis.
Endothelial dysfunction and inflammation contribute to the vascular pathology of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). However, emerging evidence does not support direct infection of endothelial or other vascular wall cells, and thus inflammation may be better explained as a secondary response to epithelial cell infection. In this study, we sought to determine whether lung endothelial or other resident vascular cells are susceptible to productive severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and how local complement activation contributes to endothelial dysfunction and inflammation in response to hypoxia and SARS-CoV-2-infected lung alveolar epithelial cells. We found that ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) and TMPRSS2 (transmembrane serine protease 2) mRNA expression in lung vascular cells, including primary human lung microvascular endothelial cells (HLMVECs), pericytes, smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts, was 20- to 90-fold lower compared with primary human alveolar epithelial type II cells. Consistently, we found that HLMVECs and other resident vascular cells were not susceptible to productive SARS-CoV-2 infection under either normoxic or hypoxic conditions. However, viral uptake without replication (abortive infection) was observed in HLMVECs when exposed to conditioned medium from SARS-CoV-2-infected human ACE2 stably transfected A549 epithelial cells. Furthermore, we demonstrated that exposure of HLMVECs to conditioned medium from SARS-CoV-2-infected human ACE2 stably transfected A549 epithelial cells and hypoxia resulted in upregulation of inflammatory factors such as ICAM-1 (intercellular adhesion molecule 1), VCAM-1 (vascular cell adhesion molecule 1), and IL-6 (interleukin 6) as well as complement components such as C3 (complement C3), C3AR1 (complement C3a receptor 1), C1QA (complement C1q A chain), and CFB (complement factor B). Taken together, our data support a model in which lung endothelial and vascular dysfunction during COVID-19 involves the activation of complement and inflammatory signaling and does not involve productive viral infection of endothelial cells.
BACKGROUNDKidney stone disease (KSD) affects approximately 10% of adults, is heritable, and is associated with mineral metabolic abnormalities.METHODSGenetic variants and pathways increasing KSD risk via calcium and phosphate homeostasis were ascertained using GWAS, region-specific Mendelian randomization (MR), and genetic colocalization. The utility of pathway modulation was estimated via drug target MR, and the effects of variants on calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) signaling were characterized.RESULTSSeventy-nine independent KSD-associated genetic signals at 71 loci were identified. MR identified 3 loci affecting KSD risk via increased serum calcium or decreased serum phosphate concentrations (ORs for genomic regions = 4.30, 11.42, and 13.83 per 1 SD alteration; P < 5.6 × 10-10). Colocalization analyses defined putative, noncoding KSD-causing variants estimated to account for 11%-19% of KSD cases in proximity to diacylglycerol kinase δ (DGKD), a CaSR signaling partner; solute carrier family 34 member 1 (SLC34A1), a renal sodium-phosphate transporter; and cytochrome P450 family 24 subfamily A member 1 (CYP24A1), which degrades 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Drug target MR indicated that reducing serum calcium by 0.08 mmol/L via CASR, DGKD, or CYP24A1, or increasing serum phosphate by 0.16 mmol/L via SLC34A1 may reduce KSD relative risk by up to 90%. Furthermore, reduced DGKδ expression and KSD-associated DGKD missense variants impaired CaSR signal transduction in vitro, which was ameliorated by cinacalcet, a positive CaSR allosteric modulator.CONCLUSIONDGKD-, SLC34A1-, and CYP24A1-associated variants linked to reduced CaSR signal transduction, increased urinary phosphate excretion, and impaired 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D inactivation, respectively, are common causes of KSD. Genotyping patients with KSD may facilitate personalized KSD risk stratification and targeted pharmacomodulation of associated pathways to prevent KSD.FUNDINGOxfordshire Health Services Research Committee (OHSRC, part of Oxford Hospitals Charity); Kidney Research UK (RP_030_20180306); The Urology Foundation; National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (NF-SI-0514-10091); Wellcome Trust (204826/z/16/z and 106995/z/15/z); Medical Research Council (MRC) Clinical Research Training Fellowships (MR/W03168X/1 and MR/S021329/1); Wellcome Trust Clinical Career Development Fellowship; Sir Henry Dale Fellowship, with joint funding by the Wellcome Trust and the Royal Society (224155/Z/21/Z); St. Peter's Trust for Kidney Bladder and Prostate Research.
Phosphatidylcholine- and phosphatidylethanolamine-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC and PE-PLC) activities, which generate diacylglycerol (DG) and are tricyclodecan-9-yl-xanthogenate (D609)-sensitive, have been detected in both the membrane and cytosolic fractions. We have previously demonstrated that sphingomyelin synthase isozymes, which are transmembrane proteins, exhibit PC-/PE-PLC activities. However, mammalian cytosolic PC-PLC and PE-PLC remain unidentified. Here, we demonstrated that phosphatase orphan 1 (PHOSPHO1), a cytosolic protein, exhibits D609-sensitive PC-PLC and PE-PLC activities. Moreover, the overexpression of PHOSPHO1 in HEK293 cells significantly increased the levels of cellular saturated and/or monounsaturated fatty acid-containing DG. Furthermore, DGKδ cosedimented and colocalized with PHOSPHO1. Collectively, these in vitro findings provide, for the first time, a promising candidate for the long-sought cytosolic PC-/PE-PLC, which may act as DG supply enzyme upstream of DGKδ.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Diacylglycerol kinase δ (DGKδ) phosphorylates diacylglycerol to produce phosphatidic acid. Previously, we demonstrated that down-regulation of DGKδ suppresses the myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts. However, the myogenic roles of DGKδ in vivo remain unclear. In the present study, we generated DGKδ-conditional knockout mice under the control of the myogenic factor 5 (Myf5) gene promoter, which regulates myogenesis and brown adipogenesis. The knockout mice showed a significant body weight reduction and apparent mass decrease in skeletal muscle, including the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle. Moreover, the thickness of a portion of the myofibers was reduced in DGKδ-deficient TA muscles. However, DGKδ deficiency did not substantially affect brown adipogenesis, suggesting that Myf5-driven DGKδ deficiency mainly affects muscle development. Notably, skeletal muscle injury induced by a cardiotoxin highly up-regulated DGKδ protein expression, and the DGKδ deficiency significantly reduced the thickness of myofibers, the expression levels of myogenic differentiation markers such as embryonic myosin heavy chain and myogenin, and the number of newly formed myofibers containing multiple central nuclei during muscle regeneration. DGKδ was strongly expressed in myogenin-positive satellite cells around the injured myofibers and centronucleated myofibers. These results indicate that DGKδ has important roles in muscle regeneration in activated satellite cells. Moreover, the conditional knockout mice fed with a high-fat diet showed increased fat mass and glucose intolerance. Taken together, these results demonstrate that DGKδ plays crucial roles in skeletal muscle development, regeneration, and function.© 2024 The Author(s). FASEB BioAdvances published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Diacylglycerol kinase δ (DGKδ) phosphorylates diacylglycerol and converts it into phosphatidic acid. DGKδ contributes to glucose uptake as one of its cellular functions. However, detail mechanisms underlying the regulation of DGKδ protein stability remain unelucidated. Herein, we identified ubiquitin-specific peptidase 11 (USP11) in the DGKδ protein complex by DGKδ-interactome analysis. By mapping analysis, we clarified that a wider region of USP11, including the catalytic domain 1 region, and both the C1 domains and catalytic subdomain-a of DGKδ mainly contributed to their association. Cellular dysfunction of USP11 by mitoxiantrone (a USP11-specific inhibitor) or siRNA knockdown markedly decreased DGKδ protein levels. Additionally, we found that DGKδ ubiquitination was increased by USP11 dysfunction, and cumulative ubiquitination was reduced by rescue manipulation. Functionally, USP11 dysfunction reduced cellular glucose uptake. Altogether, our findings provide the first evidence that USP11 deubiquitination-dependently stabilizes DGKδ to maintain cellular glucose uptake.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Black Sigatoka is the most widespread banana disease worldwide. It is caused by Pseudocercospora fijiensis, a fungal pathogen known for developing resistance to fungicides such as thiabendazole. Despite the increasing costs associated with the use of chemicals to control this disease, the pathogen's mechanisms for fungicide resistance are not fully understood. The metabolite profiles of P. fijiensis isolates with different levels of resistance to thiabendazole were characterized by GC-MS. A total of 33 isolates were obtained from symptomatic banana plants and the sensitivity of each isolate to thiabendazole was assessed at 0, 1, 10, 100, 1000, and 10000 μg.mL-1. Then, the metabolite profile of each isolate was assessed using GC-MS. Metabolites such as hexadecanoic acid, tetradecanoic acid, octadecadienoic acid and octadecanoic acid were significantly over-accumulated in the presence of thiabendazole at 10 μg.mL-1. Phosphoric acid, L-proline, and D-allose increased in concentration with time in the presence of 100 μg.mL-1 of thiabendazole, and mannonic acid, 1-hexadecanol, D-sorbitol and tetracosanoic acid were only detected in the presence of the fungicide. Metabolic pathways including that of fructose, mannose metabolism, the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, and ABC transporters were upregulated in resistant isolates. Our findings show an increment of tetracosanoic (myristic) acid suggesting a possible β-tubulin-compensation mechanism in resistant isolates. The presence of myristic acid promoted the generation of diacylglycerol kinase δ which facilitated the production of β-tubulin in other studies. Additionally, important changes in the metabolite profiles were observed as soon as six hours after exposure to the fungicide showing an early response of the pathogen. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report that describes the changes in the metabolite profile of P. fijiensis resistant to thiabendazole when exposed to the fungicide.Copyright: © 2024 Maridueña-Zavala et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) isoforms catalyze an enzymatic reaction that removes diacylglycerol (DAG) and thereby terminates protein kinase C signaling by converting DAG to phosphatidic acid. DGKδ (type II isozyme) downregulation causes insulin resistance, metabolic inflexibility, and obesity. Here we determined whether DGKδ overexpression prevents these metabolic impairments.We generated a transgenic mouse model overexpressing human DGKδ2 under the myosin light chain promoter (DGKδ TG). We performed deep metabolic phenotyping of DGKδ TG mice and wild-type littermates fed chow or high-fat diet (HFD). Mice were also provided free access to running wheels to examine the effects of DGKδ overexpression on exercise-induced metabolic outcomes.DGKδ TG mice were leaner than wild-type littermates, with improved glucose tolerance and increased skeletal muscle glycogen content. DGKδ TG mice were protected against HFD-induced glucose intolerance and obesity. DGKδ TG mice had reduced epididymal fat and enhanced lipolysis. Strikingly, DGKδ overexpression recapitulated the beneficial effects of exercise on metabolic outcomes. DGKδ overexpression and exercise had a synergistic effect on body weight reduction. Microarray analysis of skeletal muscle revealed common gene ontology signatures of exercise and DGKδ overexpression that were related to lipid storage, extracellular matrix, and glycerophospholipids biosynthesis pathways.Overexpression of DGKδ induces adaptive changes in both skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, resulting in protection against HFD-induced obesity. DGKδ overexpression recapitulates exercise-induced adaptations on energy homeostasis and skeletal muscle gene expression profiles.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aquatic animals are subject to varying degrees of starvation stress in their natural habitats due to food limitations. Consequently, starvation is a crucial environmental factor for sex determination in many species; however, limited research has been conducted on the effects of starvation on sex determination in shellfish. Here, four full sibling families of Pacific oysters were established and subjected to starvation stress. The results demonstrated that starvation caused the sex ratio (female to male) to change from 1:0.78 to 1:1.44 and resulted in a delay in gonadal development. Further studies revealed that the expression levels of DNA methylation-related genes Dnmt1 (DNA methyltransferase 1), Dnmt3a/b (DNA methyltransferase 3a/b) and Tet3 (tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 3) decreased under starvation stress. Conversely, the upregulation of Dmrt1 (doublesex and mab-3 related transcription factor 1), a gene typically associated with males, in females suggests that the increased proportion of males may be linked to starvation-induced high expression of this particular gene. In addition, the gene Dgkd (diacylglycerol kinase delta), which is involved in the regulation of second messenger protein kinase C, was differentially methylated between males and females, with the methylation level of this gene gradually increasing with male development, while the methylation level of this gene decreased under starvation stress. Correlation analysis of Dgkd methylation levels with expression levels showed a negative correlation between DNA methylation and gene expression. Finally dual fluorescence reporter experiments confirmed that DNA methylation suppressed Dgkd expression in vitro. In summary, the results suggest that starvation may regulate Dgkd gene expression through DNA methylation and thus affect Dmrt1 expression, thereby causing sex reversal in the Pacific oyster. The outcomes resolved how environmental factors are involved in sex reversal from an epigenetic perspective and provided a theoretical basis for sex control breeding in the Pacific oyster.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
1-Stearoyl-2-docosahexaenoyl (18:0/22:6)-phosphatidic acid (PA) interacts with and activates Praja-1 E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase (full length: 615 aa) to ubiquitinate and degrade the serotonin transporter (SERT). SERT modulates serotonergic system activity and is a therapeutic target for depression, autism, obsessive-compulsive disorder, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) δ2 (full length: 1214 aa) interacts with Praja-1 in addition to SERT and generates 18:0/22:6-PA, which binds and activates Praja-1. In the present study, we investigated the interaction of Praja-1 with 18:0/22:6-PA and DGKδ2 in more detail. We first found that the N-terminal one-third region (aa 1-224) of Praja-1 bound to 18:0/22:6-PA and that Lys141 in the region was critical for binding to 18:0/22:6-PA. In contrast, the C-terminal catalytic domain of Praja-1 (aa 446-615) interacted with DGKδ2. Additionally, the N-terminal half of the catalytic domain (aa 309-466) of DGKδ2 intensely bound to Praja-1. Moreover, the N-terminal region containing the pleckstrin homology and C1 domains (aa 1-308) and the C-terminal half of the catalytic domain (aa 762-939) of DGKδ2 weakly associated with Praja-1. Taken together, these results reveal new functions of the N-terminal (aa 1-224) and C-terminal (aa 446-615) regions of Praja-1 and the N-terminal half of the catalytic region (aa 309-466) of DGKδ2 as regulatory domains. Moreover, it is likely that the DGKδ2-Praja-1-SERT heterotrimer proximally arranges the 18:0/22:6-PA-producing catalytic domain of DGKδ2, the 18:0/22:6-PA-binding regulatory domain of Praja-1, the ubiquitin-protein ligase catalytic domain of Praja-1 and the ubiquitination acceptor site-containing SERT C-terminal region.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Effective amelioration of type II diabetes requires therapies that increase both glucose uptake activity per cell and skeletal muscle mass. Myristic acid (14:0) increases diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) δ protein levels and enhances glucose uptake in myotubes in a DGKδ-dependent manner. However, it is still unclear whether myristic acid treatment affects skeletal muscle mass. In this study, we found that myristic acid treatment increased the protein level of β-tubulin, which constitutes microtubules and is closely related to muscle mass, in C2C12 myotubes but not in the proliferation stage in C2C12 myoblasts. However, lauric (12:0), palmitic (16:0) and oleic (18:1) acids failed to affect DGKδ and β-tubulin protein levels in C2C12 myotubes. Moreover, knockdown of DGKδ by siRNA significantly inhibited the increased protein level of β-tubulin in the presence of myristic acid, suggesting that the increase in β-tubulin protein by myristic acid depends on DGKδ. These results indicate that myristic acid selectively affects β-tubulin protein levels in C2C12 myotubes via DGKδ, suggesting that this fatty acid improves skeletal muscle mass in addition to increasing glucose uptake activity per cell.© 2022 The Authors. FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
DNA methylation involved in sex determination mechanism by regulating gene expression related to sex determination networks are common in vertebrates. However, the mechanism linking epigenetics in invertebrates and sex determination has remained elusive. Here, methylome of the male and female gonads in the oyster Crassostrea gigas were conducted to explore the role of epigenetics in invertebrate sex determination. Comparative analysis of gonadal DNA methylation of females and males revealed that male gonads displayed a higher level of DNA methylation and a greater number of hypermethylated genes. Luxury genes presented hypomethylation, while housekeeping genes got hypermethylation. Genes in the conserved signaling pathways, rather than the key master genes in the sex determination pathway, were the major targets of substantial DNA methylation modification. The negative correlation of expression and promoter methylation in the diacylglycerol kinase delta gene (Dgkd) - a ubiquitously expressed gene - indicated DNA methylation may fine turn the expression of Dgkd and be involved in the process of sex determination. Dgkd can be used as an epigenetic marker to distinguish male C. gigas based on the different methylation regions in the promoter region. The results suggest that DNA methylation mechanisms played potential functional impacts in the sex determination in oysters, which is helpful to deepen the understanding of sex determination in invertebrate.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42372394 is a review article
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare and progressive disorder characterized by increased pulmonary vascular resistance and vascular remodeling. Genetic polymorphisms, epigenetic modifications, and ion channel dysregulation are increasingly recognized as key contributors to disease pathogenesis. Anoctamin-1 (ANO1/TMEM16A), a calcium-activated chloride channel, plays a critical role in vascular tone regulation.This study aimed to investigate the association between ANO1 gene polymorphisms (rs7127129 and rs2509153), promoter methylation status, and serum chloride levels in patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH), congenital heart disease (CHD), and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH).A total of 106 IPAH patients, 40 CHD patients, and 30 CTEPH patients, together with 125 healthy controls, were included. The control group had a comparable age distribution, with a balanced sex ratio, whereas females predominated in all three PH groups. Genotyping was performed using TaqMan-based real-time PCR. Promoter methylation was analyzed using bisulfite conversion followed by quantitative real-time PCR. Serum chloride levels were measured using an ion-selective electrode method.No significant association was observed between rs7127129 and rs2509153 polymorphisms and IPAH or CTEPH (p > 0.05). However, rs7127129 showed a significant association with CHD (p < 0.05). After excluding hypertensive patients, both polymorphisms remained significantly associated with CHD. Serum chloride levels differed significantly among groups (p < 0.001), with higher levels observed particularly in the CTEPH and CHD groups compared to controls, while IPAH patients exhibited intermediate but still elevated levels relative to controls. In contrast, promoter methylation levels were significantly lower in all patient groups compared to controls. An inverse relationship between chloride levels and methylation status was observed.ANO1 polymorphisms are not major determinants of IPAH or CTEPH but may contribute to CHD susceptibility. Increased serum chloride levels, together with decreased promoter methylation, suggest a potential mechanistic link between ion channel dysregulation and epigenetic alterations in pulmonary hypertension. Further large-scale and functional studies are warranted.
Previous functional data showed the presence of Cl- channels in Müller cells, among them Ca2+-dependent Cl- channels (CaCC). An important step to understanding the role of CaCC in Müller cell function is the clarification of their molecular identity. Here, we found protein expression of the CaCC anoctamin-1 (Ano1, formerly TMEM16A) in Müller cells in retinal sagittal sections of mouse and rat using immunohistochemistry and proteomic analysis, as well as in the Müller cell lines ImM10 (murine) and MIO-M1 (human), accompanied by Western blot. Patch-clamp analysis of both cell lines under K+-free conditions showed the activation of membrane currents through an increase in intracellular free Ca2+ using either ionomycin, ATP, or adenosine. These currents were sensitive to several blockers: the broad anoctamin blocker niflumic acid, the CaCC blocker CaCCinh-A01, and the Ano1 blocker T16Ainh-A01. To further explore the function of Ano1 in Müller cells, we investigated the adenosine-dependent volume regulation in mouse Müller cells in freshly isolated sagittal sections under hypoosmotic challenge by blockage of K+ channels. T16Ainh-A01 partially reversed the beneficial effect of adenosine on Müller cell volume regulation. We conclude that Ano1 is one of the first functionally validated Cl- channels in Müller cells. Ano1 seems to contribute to the adenosine-driven regulation of ion flow across the Müller cell membrane, which is crucial for clearing extracellular fluid from the retina.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) generate spontaneous pacemaker activities responsible for producing slow waves in the gut smooth muscles. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is one of the most important prostanoids in the gut, playing a crucial role in multiple physiological and pathological processes. Because information regarding the effects of PGE2 on colonic ICC is limited, we investigated the effects of PGE2 and its underlying signaling pathways in murine colonic ICC. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses were performed to evaluate the effects of PGE2 on mouse colonic ICC. PGE2 had a dual effect on pacemaker potential in the current-clamp mode. RT-PCR data suggested the expression of EP3 and EP4 receptors in colonic ICC. Low PGE2 concentrations induced membrane depolarization and generation of pacemaker activities. And this effect is mimicked by sulprostone (an EP3 agonist). The low PGE2 concentration-induced effect was inhibited by anoctamin-1 (ANO1) or a T-type Ca2+ channel blocker. Conversely, high PGE2 concentrations induced membrane hyperpolarization and blocked pacemaker potential generation. However, this inhibitory effect was blocked by an ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel blocker but not by other K+ channel blockers. Low concentrations of PGE2 activated EP3 receptors, leading to excitation of pacemaker activity through regulation of ANO1 and T-type Ca2+ channels in colonic ICC. In contrast, higher concentrations of PGE2 activated EP4 receptors and opened ATP-sensitive K+ channels, resulting in inhibition of pacemaker activity in colonic ICC.© Chonnam Medical Journal, 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42198929 is a review article
Aging leads to renal function decline and increases the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are essential fatty acids for humans, exerting their functions via free fatty acid receptor 4 (FFAR4). Clinical studies indicate that omega-3 PUFAs supplementation shows benefits for the elderly population and CKD patients, but these results remain controversial. Herein, we found that omega-3 PUFAs alleviated renal fibrosis and tubular senescence in aged mice, adenine diet-induced CKD mice, and unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) mice. Meanwhile, omega-3 fatty acid receptor FFAR4 expression in tubular epithelial cells (TECs) were down-regulated in the old population and CKD patients, positively correlated with renal dysfunction. Systemic or TEC-specific knockout of FFAR4 aggravated renal aging and CKD in mice. Mechanically, FFAR4 agonism increases the production of endogenous PPARγ activator 15-deoxy-∆12,14-Prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), and improves PPARγ-dependent tubular epithelial cell senescence, which was indicated by anti-aging marker Klotho expression, senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) activity, and profibrotic factor TGF-β1 secretion. The study demonstrated a novel role of FFAR4 from senescent TECs on fibroblast activation via paracrine effects and highlighted the therapeutic effects of omega-3 PUFAs with their receptor FFAR4 as an attractive drug target against renal aging and CKD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Free Fatty Acid Receptor 4 (FFAR4/GPR120) is a lipid-sensing GPCR, yet quantitative evidence linking binding-pocket residues to endogenous fatty-acid selectivity and coupling behavior remains limited. In particular, how Arg99, Trp198 and Trp207 cooperatively shape ligand-class dependence (saturated vs unsaturated; short-vs long-chain) has not been systematically quantified using a unified experimental metric.An AuNP-assisted, HRP/Thionine-amplified electrochemical GPR120 receptor sensor was constructed and stepwise assembly was verified by cyclic voltammetry. Steady-state chronoamperometry was performed for wild-type GPR120 and engineered variants with 14 natural fatty acids, and plateau currents were converted to ΔI(%) (mean ± SD, n = 3 independent electrodes). An operational coupling parameter Ka (ligand concentration producing a half-maximal steady-state response, ΔI%, plateau value) was extracted by double-reciprocal linearization with high linearity (R2 = 0.931-0.997, most ≥0.95). For wild-type GPR120, Ka values ranged from 2.87 × 10-17 to 1.78 × 10-13 M, revealing chain-length dependence and ligand-class differences in steady-state coupling. Mutations induced pronounced ligand-dependent shifts, exemplified by butyric acid (WT 2.73 × 10-15 → mut1 4.05 × 10-13 M), linoleic acid (WT 3.80 × 10-15 → mut2 4.24 × 10-16 M), and palmitic acid (WT 6.87 × 10-15 → mut3 2.10 × 10-13 M). Molecular docking (AutoDock Vina; exhaustiveness = 8; 9 output poses; grid-box settings in Table 1) and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations (GROMACS 2022.1, CHARMM36 m/TIP3P; 2 fs; 300 K; 1 bar; PME; 1.0 nm cutoff) supported the Ka trends by revealing ligand-class-dependent pocket accommodation and mutation-dependent changes in interaction networks and stability signatures. Quantitatively, backbone RMSD mainly fluctuated within 0.5-1.5 nm, protein-ligand hydrogen bonds were typically ∼1-4, and radius of gyration variations were <0.05 nm, indicating overall stable folds with mutation-dependent local pocket rearrangements.This work provides a practical electrochemical-computational framework for residue-resolved profiling of GPR120-fatty acid coupling behavior using Ka as a unified quantitative metric. Experimentally, the workflow yielded 56 quantitative Ka values (14 fatty acids × WT and mut1-3) with robust extraction quality (R2 = 0.931-0.997). Class-stratified analysis using ΔlogKa = log10[Ka(mut)/Ka(WT)] revealed residue-dependent trends in coupling behavior. In particular, mut1 and mut2 showed different shifts between saturated and unsaturated fatty acids (mut1: SFA +0.55 ± 0.75 vs UFA -0.21 ± 0.47; mut2: SFA +0.50 ± 0.54 vs UFA -0.50 ± 0.40), consistent with an important contribution to headgroup recognition. The Trp198/Trp207 variant generally exhibited higher Ka values for many tested fatty acids (e.g., palmitic acid 6.87 × 10-15 to 2.10 × 10-13 M), suggesting altered hydrophobic/aromatic packing associated with ligand-class-dependent differences across saturated/unsaturated and short-/long-chain fatty acids.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Wakefulness produces sleep-promoting substances and the cerebrospinal fluid contains substances that reflect homeostatic sleep pressure. However, identities of such molecules, and the neural mechanisms for producing and sensing them, remain mysterious. Here we show that cerebrospinal fluid levels of tryptamine (TrpA) track homeostatic sleep pressure in nocturnal mice and diurnal pigs, reflecting physical activity history independently of light-dark cycles. We developed a ratiometric fluorescent sensor for TrpA and showed that TrpA is produced by wake-active monoaminergic nuclei in the diencephalon and brainstem and is secreted in an activity-dependent manner. We showed that released TrpA binds to G-protein-coupled receptor 139 (GPR139) and enhances neuronal excitability in the hypothalamic preoptic area to promote sleep. TrpA-GPR139 signaling was necessary for homeostatic sleep rebound and small-molecule GPR139 agonists promoted sleep duration and quality. Together, our study reveals TrpA as a signal related to sleep homeostasis and GPR139 as a druggable target against its disruption.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
G-protein coupled receptor 139 (GPR139) has been detected in the medial septum (MS) cholinergic neuron, but its roles in cholinergic circuits associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) remain unclear. Using a variety of experimental approaches, including the establishment of AD mouse models, viral injection, immunohistochemistry, ELISA, TUNEL apoptosis assay, Golgi staining, electrophysiological recording, fiber photometry, and behavioral tests, we found that knockdown of GPR139 in MS cholinergic neurons exacerbated early-stage cognitive decline, apoptosis, and synaptotoxicity in the basal forebrain of 6-month-old APP/PS1 mice. GPR139 activation by agonist improved memory and increased the firing and excitability of MS cholinergic neurons in ICV-Aβ1-42 mice. Strikingly, the MS provides extensive cholinergic projections to the ventral hippocampal CA3 (vCA3) subregion. Using chemogenetic approaches and 6-/9-month-old APP/PS1 mice, we further showed that inhibiting the MS→vCA3 cholinergic projection disrupted spatial temporal order memory in the early stages of AD, and activation of GPR139 improved memory deficits possibly via the MS→vCA3 cholinergic circuit in the advanced stages. These findings reveal that GPR139 in the MS→vCA3 cholinergic circuit may serve as a critical regulator of cognitive function and offer promising therapeutic strategies for AD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
NRAS mutations occur in 10%-30% of cutaneous melanomas and are associated with high tumor mutational burden. Mutant NRAS signaling drives aberrant cell growth and proliferation, in part, through activation of the RAF-MEK-ERK1/2 kinase pathway; however, targeted therapies to this pathway have limited effectiveness in patients with NRAS mutant melanoma. The role of other targetable signaling pathways in NRAS mutant melanoma is poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrated that one isoform of diacylglycerol kinase, diacylglycerol kinase eta (DGKη), a lipid signaling regulator, was highly expressed in NRAS mutant melanoma patient samples. Knockdown of DGKH in NRAS mutant melanoma cell lines resulted in significant growth inhibition in vitro. Transcriptomic data indicated downregulation of the estrogen response late signature, including decreased CCND1 (cyclin D1) expression following DGKH knockdown. Cell growth inhibition and decreased cyclin D1 expression correlated to an inhibition of cell cycle after DGKH knockdown. These data suggest that DGKη mediates cell cycle progression in NRAS mutant melanoma cells and represents a potential therapeutic target for these patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Pigment Cell & Melanoma Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
In the last two decades, Neuropeptide S (NPS) has been identified as a key bioactive peptide in the mammalian brain, influencing fear, anxiety, wakefulness, reward, and learning. While some reviews have addressed its role in reward-seeking and anxiety, few have addressed its particular role in learning and memory. The neuropeptide S receptor 1 is highly expressed in key areas for learning processing, such as the hippocampus, cortex, thalamus, and amygdala. This review aims to examine evidence from human and animal studies that focused on the NPS system's role in modulating learning and memory. A special focus is given to experiments addressing the impact of NPS on associative learning leading to addiction and in fear conditioning, pointing to its potential therapeutic value in associated pathologies.An advanced search was conducted using the databases PubMed, Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Scopus, focusing on memory and Neuropeptide S. The reviewed data suggest that NPS modulation occurs at all memory phases, including acquisition, consolidation, and retrieval, and in extinction learning, whether motivated by appetitive or aversive stimuli. The summarized evidence shows that the NPS system interferes with working and short-term memory, mitigates learning impairments, enhances spatial and object memory consolidation, supports fear extinction learning and inhibitory avoidance consolidation, and reinstates drug-seeking behaviors. The NPS system closely interacts with key neuromodulators, including orexinergic, dopaminergic, and noradrenergic systems, in influencing memory.The Neuropeptide S system emerges as a critical modulator of memory processes. The NPS signaling may preferentially influence learning that involves emotionally or motivationally relevant stimuli. This highlights the NPS system's potential as a target for therapeutic interventions for particular memory impairments.© 2026. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer with liver metastases remains a clinical challenge. CXCL13 is widely recognized as a biomarker of immunotherapy response. However, the functional heterogeneity (protumor vs. antitumor) of CXCL13+CD4+ T-cell subsets has long been controversial. Through integrated analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data from colorectal cancer clinical samples and pan-cancer datasets, combined with experimental validations, we first identified a prometastatic neuromedin B+ (NMB+)CXCL13+CD4+ T-cell subset and uncovered a mechanism by which this subset regulates tumor cell "senescence-malignant transition," the NMB-NPSR1 axis. These NMB+CXCL13+CD4+ T cells induced senescence in NPSR1+ malignant cells via NMB secretion, leading to enhanced invasiveness and migration despite reduced proliferation. Activation of NPSR1 triggered the Wnt signaling pathway and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, thereby enhancing cellular malignancy. This NPSR1+ senescent subpopulation also recruited endothelial cells and disrupted tight junction integrity, fostering a prometastatic microenvironment. As a proof-of-principle study, the combination of the NPSR1 inhibitor SHA68 and anti-PD-1 demonstrated remarkable antitumor effects using mouse models of colorectal cancer metastasis. Overall, this study uncovered the role of NMB+CXCL13+CD4+ T cells in promoting tumor cell senescence while influencing tumor metastasis, offering potential clinical implications for the diagnosis and treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Homer scaffold protein 1 (HOMER1), a postsynaptic scaffold protein, regulates excitatory synapses and intracellular signaling and has been implicated in tumorigenesis. This study systematically evaluates the oncogenic roles of HOMER1 through pan-cancer bioinformatics analysis and functional validation in hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC).Multi-omics data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx), Tumor Immune Estimation Resource 2.0 (TIMER 2.0), cBioPortal, UALCAN, and other public databases were integrated to analyze HOMER1 expression profiles, prognostic relevance, epigenetic modifications, and immune infiltration. Drug sensitivity was assessed using Gene Set Cancer Analysis Lite (GSCALite) and DrugBank databases. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins (STRING) and functionally annotated via Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses. HOMER1 protein expression was validated by immunohistochemistry in LIHC tissues. Cellular assays, including Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), Transwell migration and invasion assays, wound healing assay, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), were performed to investigate the effects of HOMER1 knockdown on LIHC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.Pan-cancer analysis revealed that HOMER1 exhibits cancer-type-specific dysregulation and is significantly associated with patient prognosis, DNA methylation, RNA modifications, immune cell infiltration, and immune checkpoint gene expression. HOMER1 expression correlated with anticancer drug sensitivity and was enriched in tumor-promoting pathways such as the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway. In LIHC, HOMER1 was highly expressed, and its knockdown markedly suppressed hepatoma cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro.Our findings demonstrate that HOMER1 functions as a potential oncogene across multiple cancers and actively promotes malignant phenotypes in hepatocellular carcinoma. This study highlights HOMER1 as a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target, providing new insights into cancer prognosis and immunotherapy strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Lipid homeostasis is vital for maintaining testicular function and male fertility, but the specific contributions of lipid-regulating enzymes remain unclear. This study shows that DGKη, although highly expressed in the testis, is not essential for spermatogenesis but modulates testicular lipid metabolism in response to dietary conditions.Diacylglycerol kinase eta (DGKη), encoded by the Dgkh gene, catalyzes the phosphorylation of diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid, both of which are key lipid second messengers. While Dgkh is highly expressed in the testis, particularly during spermatogenesis, its functional role in male fertility remains unclear. To investigate the role of DGKη in male fertility, we generated Dgkh -/- mice using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing and conducted comprehensive lipidomic profiling. In addition, under both normal and high-fat diet (HFD) conditions, we evaluated fertility, performed histological assessments, quantified DAG, PA, TG, and FFA levels, and analyzed the expression of other DGK isoforms via RT-qPCR. Our results showed that Dgkh was predominantly expressed in round spermatids. Dgkh -/- mice exhibited normal testis morphology, sperm parameters, and fertility under both standard and HFD conditions. However, lipidomic analysis revealed significant alterations in testicular lipid composition, including increased levels of DAG, triglycerides, phospholipids, and free fatty acids. Under HFD, Dgkh -/- mice showed exacerbated testicular lipid accumulation. Notably, expression of several other DGK isoforms (e.g. Dgka, Dgkd, Dgke, Dgki, and Dgkz) was upregulated, suggesting compensatory mechanisms that preserve spermatogenesis despite DGKη deficiency. These findings demonstrate that, despite its high expression in the testes and its role in regulating lipid metabolism, DGKη is not essential for male fertility or spermatogenesis under either normal or HFD conditions. These findings suggest the existence of compensatory mechanisms - likely involving other DGK isoforms - and offer new insights into the context-dependent functions of DGKη in testicular lipid homeostasis.
Anhedonia is a core symptom of major depressive disorder (MDD) that may result from aberrant lateral habenula hyperactivity. Targeting G-protein coupled receptor 139 (GPR139) may improve anhedonia by modulating lateral habenula activity. NBI-1065846 is an investigational GPR139 agonist that improved anhedonia, anxiety, and depression in rodent models.TERPSIS was a phase 2, proof-of-concept clinical study. Adults with MDD experiencing a major depressive episode with anhedonia were randomized 1:1 to NBI-1065846 or placebo for 8 weeks. The primary endpoint was the change in the Dimensional Anhedonia Rating Scale (DARS) score. Secondary endpoints were change in total Montgomery Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score in participants with a baseline 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D17) score of ≥19 (moderate to severe) and change in Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) score. All changes were from baseline to Day 57.In total, 93 participants received study treatment (NBI-1065846, n = 46; placebo, n = 47). Both groups showed notable improvements in DARS scores from baseline to day 57 (least-squares mean change: NBI-1065846, 13.5; placebo, 17.4), with no statistically significant difference (NBI-1065846 vs. placebo, P = 0.8663). Similarly, MADRS ( P = 0.7008) and CGI-S ( P = 0.9051) scores showed no significant difference between groups. All treatment-emergent adverse events in the NBI-1065846 group were mild or moderate in severity.The TERPSIS study did not meet its primary or secondary endpoints. NBI-1065846 was generally well tolerated. Addressing the lack of treatment options for anhedonia remains an important unmet clinical need.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is one of the most common chronic complications of diabetes. The increased apoptosis of Schwann cells (SCs) induced by high glucose (HG) is significant in the pathogenesis of DPN, but the mechanism remains unclear. Diacylglycerol kinase eta (Dgkh) is a member of the diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) family that participates in glucose uptake, utilization, and energy homeostasis. But its role in DPN has not been reported.Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced SD rats were used as an animal model of DPN and human Schwann cells (HSCs) were used as an in vitro model of simulated HG conditions. Behavioral tests, histopathology, the mRNA and protein expression levels were detected in vivo. Further, Dgkh was knocked down in vitro, and PKC-α agonist PMA and inhibitor Ro 31-8220 were added to HSCs to observe the effect of Dgkh/PKC-α on HSCs apoptosis.The mechanical and thermal pain thresholds were significantly decreased in DPN rats induced by STZ. The increased apoptosis of the sciatic nerve in STZ-induced DPN rats is accompanied by the upregulation of Dgkh expression. HG leads to increased HSCs apoptosis by Dgkh increased expression. Meanwhile, the knockdown of Dgkh significantly improved HSCs apoptosis induced by HG. PMA effectively improved apoptosis in HG-induced HSCs, but did not affect Dgkh expression. And we discovered that the apoptosis of HSCs reversed by Dgkh knockdown vanished when the PKC-α inhibitor Ro 31-8220 was added.Dgkh expression increased under HG conditions and triggered apoptosis of HSCs, boosting DPN via inhibiting PKC-α.© 2025. Associazione Medici Diabetologi / Association of Diabetologists (AMD), Societa Italiana di Diabetologia / Italian Society of Diabetology (SID).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer death worldwide. The hypoxic microenvironment in HCC enhances glycolysis and co-directed lactate accumulation, which leads to increased lactylation. However, the exact biological pattern remains to be elucidated. Therefore, we sought to identify hypoxia-glycolysis-lactylation (HGL) prognosis-related signatures and validate this in vitro.Transcriptomic data of patients with HCC were collected from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC), and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Differentially expressed HGL genes between HCC and normal tissues were obtained by DEseq2. The consensus clustering algorithm was employed to stratify patients into two distinct clusters. Subsequently, the single sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA), Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) and Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE) algorithms were utilized to assess immune infiltration and immune evasion. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) and COX regression analysis were used to identify an HGL prognosis-related signature. Based on spatial transcriptome and histological data, we analyzed the expression of these genes in HCC and explored the function of Homer Scaffold Protein 1 (HOMER1) in HCC cells.We identified 72 differentially expressed HGL genes and two HGL clusters. Cluster2, with better survival (p < 0.001), was significantly enriched in metabolic-related pathways. The HGL prognosis-related signature exhibited great predictive efficacy for patients in TCGA, ICGC, and GSE148355 databases (3-year area under the curve (AUC) = 0.822, 0.738, and 0.707, respectively). The elevated expression of HOMER1 in HCC was revealed by the combination of spatial transcriptome and histological data. Knocking down HOMER1 significantly inhibited the malignant progression of HCC cells.We identified a signature with great predictive efficacy and discovered a gene, HOMER1, that influences the malignant progression of HCC with the potential to become a novel therapeutic target.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive signaling lipid that regulates cellular processes, including growth, survival, differentiation, and metabolic homeostasis. LPA signals through its G-protein-coupled receptor, LPA receptor 1 (LPAR1), to modulate pathways controlling cellular signaling and metabolism. Viruses rely on cellular metabolism for efficient replication, and lipids function at nearly every stage in virus replication. Using Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) as a model, we performed global metabolomic analysis of infected Huh7 cells and identified lipid classes altered upon infection. Using small-molecule inhibitors targeting lipids, we identified LPA signaling as a key factor in CVB3 infection. Inhibiting LPA signaling with AM095 or via siRNA knockdown reduces CVB3 infection by over 100-fold. We find that LPA mediates CVB3 genome replication. Mechanistically, LPA signaling through LPAR1 facilitates cellular lipid synthesis by regulating AMPK and downstream enzymes, including fatty acid synthase (FASN) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1). In AM095-treated cells, lipid droplets are depleted, and cells exhibit a quiescent-like phenotype. Replenishing lipids fully rescues viral replication, indicating that LPA's proviral function is to facilitate lipid synthesis through AMPK signaling. These findings identify LPA-LPAR1 signaling as a regulator of host lipid metabolism that supports CVB3 replication, revealing a metabolic axis for antiviral intervention.IMPORTANCECellular metabolism supports virus infection by providing energy and the building blocks for virus replication. During viral infection, cellular metabolism changes drastically, and we find that lipids are among the most significantly changed metabolites during infection with Coxsackievirus B3, a picornavirus. We used metabolomics to characterize changes in metabolites in infected cells, and we followed up on these data with a drug screen with molecules targeting cellular lipid pathways. We identified lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) signaling as a major regulator of Coxsackievirus infection, supporting viral genome replication via lipid synthesis. This study underscores the importance of lipids in viral infection, uncovers new mechanisms by which LPA signals, and provides new insight into LPA's function in Coxsackievirus infection.
In a phase 2 trial (NCT04308681), treatment with admilparant (BMS-986278), an oral lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPA1) antagonist, reduced lung function decline in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) or progressive pulmonary fibrosis (PPF). In this exploratory analysis, we evaluated post-treatment changes in circulating biomarkers of lung fibrosis to elucidate mechanisms of admilparant action.Patients with IPF or PPF were randomized 1:1:1 to receive twice-daily admilparant (30 or 60 mg) or placebo for 26 weeks; background antifibrotics were allowed. The IPF and PPF cohorts were analyzed separately. Changes from baseline (CfB) in serum proteins associated with epithelial injury, inflammation, and fibrosis were measured by quantitative immunoassays at 4, 12, and 26 weeks, and compared between patients who received admilparant versus placebo. Pharmacodynamic biomarker changes were evaluated by clinical response status at week 26. Plasma samples from patients with IPF were assessed post hoc by SomaScan v4.1 proteomics assay. Statistical evaluations used linear mixed-effects models.In the IPF cohort (n=276), nine serum proteins showed significant CfB (p<0.05) at week 26 in patients treated with 60-mg admilparant versus placebo, including increased adiponectin, MMIF, CD163, CEA, and ENRAGE, and decreased markers of epithelial injury and fibrosis (CA-125/MUC16, MMP-7, TN-C, PRO-FIB). In the PPF cohort (n=116), significant differences at week 26 (p<0.05) were observed for 11 serum proteins, including increased CEA and decreased periostin, IL6Rβ, CD163, KIM-1, multiple inflammatory markers (YKL-40, VCAM-1, PECAM-1, ferritin), and collagen degradation markers (C3M and C4M). Two serum proteins, CA-125 and TN-C, showed significantly greater CfB (p<0.05) in responders compared with non-responders in the IPF cohort. Plasma proteomic analysis identified differential expression (adjusted p<0.1) of adiponectin, CKMT1A, ANGPTL3, PDCD1LG2, and IGFBP6 at week 26 in patients with IPF treated with 60-mg admilparant versus placebo.Treatment with 60-mg admilparant improved circulating biomarkers associated with epithelial injury and fibrosis in IPF, and with inflammation, fibrosis, and collagen degradation in PPF. Proteomic analysis identified additional biomarkers associated with mitochondrial and metabolic pathways in IPF. These findings expand our understanding of potential mechanisms of LPA1 antagonism with admilparant and identify biomarkers that may help evaluate treatment response and disease activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
We describe the discovery and characterization of PIPE-791, a potent and brain-penetrant lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1) antagonist with slow association and dissociation kinetics. SAR studies initiated from a literature lead (13) led to the identification of compound 21 that possessed a unique urea scaffold responsible for slow but tight binding to LPAR1. Further optimizations that improved PK and metabolic profiles led to the discovery of PIPE-791. PIPE-791 efficiently traversed the BBB in multiple preclinical species and was efficacious in preclinical models of neuroinflammatory disorders. PIPE-791 possessed excellent ADME properties and was well-tolerated in 28 day GLP (Good Laboratory Practice) toxicity studies in rats and minipigs at doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day. Based on these results and a comprehensive first-in-human enabling preclinical data package, PIPE-791 was advanced into clinical development, including an ongoing trial in subjects with chronic osteoarthritis pain or chronic lower back pain (NCT6810245).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42132000 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42094953 is a review article
We previously described the discovery of carbamate-derived small molecules as potent and selective lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPA1) antagonists. To further expand the library of LPA1 antagonists and potentially enhance their stability and potency, a urea moiety was introduced in replacement of the carbamate group and a series of LPA1 antagonists based on a urea scaffold were synthesized and evaluated. Within this series, several compounds exhibited potent LPA1 antagonism. Notably, compound 5f emerged as one of the most potent, with an IC50 of 215.2 nM in the cAMP assay and 7.9 nM in the calcium mobilization assay. Compound 5f demonstrated the ability to block LPA-induced cell migration and invasion in the triple-negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231. These findings support further in vivo evaluation of compound 5f as a potential therapeutic agent targeting LPA1. The development of these urea-derived LPA1 antagonists in this study has expanded the repertoire of LPA1 antagonists and holds potential for the development of a novel therapy for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41849980
Aluminum toxicity in rodents is well documented to be used for inducing experimental models that mimic the clinical phenotypes of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Liraglutide is a well-known antidiabetic drug promising for modulating neurodegenerative conditions. Thus, investigating the ameliorative effects of Liraglutide on AD induced by aluminum chloride (AlCl3), highlighting the role of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)/ β-secretase 1 (BACE1), is promising. Male rats are subdivided into four groups. Except for the normal group, animals are subjected to daily administration of AlCl3 (70 mg/kg, i.p.) for 45 days. Along with AlCl3, Liraglutide (0.3 mg/kg twice daily, s.c.) and Donepezil (1 mg/kg daily, i.p.) therapy are administered in AlCl3 + Lira and AlCl3 + Done groups, respectively. Liraglutide significantly ameliorates AlCl3-induced anxiety, depression-like behaviors, and deficits in memory functions. Liraglutide therapy retains the histopathological structure of the brain, with antioxidant and anti-apoptotic abilities. Moreover, Liraglutide successfully decreases hippocampal levels of oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL), LPA, lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1), and β-secretase 1 (BACE1) compared with the AlCl3 group. Thus, liraglutide shows neuroprotective effects mediated by downregulation of the oxLDL/LPA/LPAR1/BACE1 pathway, which is studied for the first time to our knowledge.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1) mediates various biological behaviors in physiological and pathological processes. This study aims to comprehensively evaluate the prognostic value of LPAR1 expression and methylation in LGG, and explore their functional effects on tumor progression and immune regulation.The GEO database was used to analyze LPAR1 expression in tumors and normal tissues. The TCGA-LGG and CGGA datasets were used to analyze the expression, methylation, immunity and prognostic significance of LGG. Immune cells and immune pathways were detected by flow cytometry, ELISA and western blot analysis. The role of LPAR1 in LGG was validated by RT-PCR, TUNEL assay, CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry, wound healing assay and transwell assay.We included 627 patients who contained complete information required for analysis in the TCGA-LGG and CGGA datasets. Methylation of the LPAR1 promoter suppresses its expression. High methylation levels were associated with better overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) (P < 0.05) in LGG. Decreased LPAR1 expression and increased methylation levels were significantly associated with age, histological types and isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutation status (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis showed that LPAR1 was an independent prognostic factor for LGG (P = 0.002). Meta-analysis showed that high LPAR1 expression was indeed a poor prognosis for patients' OS in LGG (HR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.95-1.17). Low LPAR1 expression affected the proportion of tumor immune infiltrating cells (TIICs) in the tumor microenvironment (TME), which was related to the involvement of LPAR1 in pathways such as CSK and Th1/Th2. In the cell experiment, LPAR1 overexpression promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion and inhibited apoptosis, whereas LPAR1 knockdown exhibited the opposite effect.Low LPAR1 expression or high LPAR1 methylation level was a potential prognostic molecular marker for favorable survival in LGG. Moreover, we identified a regulatory pattern in which a high level of LPAR1 methylation resulted in a decrease in LPAR1 expression, which affected the proportion of TIICs in TME. This pattern may work through CSK and Th1/Th2 pathways. Inhibiting LPAR1 can suppress the biological behavior of glioma cells in vitro. These findings open up new avenues for therapeutic and prognostic evaluation of LGG.© 2025. The Author(s).
Demyelination diseases are characterized by injury to large (A-type) myelinated nerve fibers, and by secondary damage to small (C-type) sensory fibers, which leads to chronic pain symptoms, such as allodynia. The mechanisms underlying the interactions between the two fiber types are not clear. This study aims to investigate the role of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) signaling in satellite glial cells (SGCs) within the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) in demyelination-induced chronic pain.A demyelination model was established by injecting cobra venom into the tibial nerve of 8-10-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats to selectively damage A-fiber myelin. Myelin morphology was observed via transmission electron microscopy (TEM) at 1, 3, 7, and 14 days post-injection. Pain behaviors (mechanical hypersensitivity, thermal hyperalgesia, and spontaneous pain) were assessed to evaluate progression. In vivo electrophysiology was performed to analyze sensory conduction and excitability changes in A- and C-type neurons. Immunofluorescence staining assessed SGC activation, LPA1 receptor (LPA1R) expression, and connexin 43 (Cx43) dynamics in the L4 DRG over time. Pharmacological interventions targeting LPA1R and SGC activation were applied to evaluate their effects on pain behaviors, cytokine release, and neuronal excitability using RT-PCR, ELISA, and spinal electrophysiology.Cobra venom induced a selective A-fiber demyelination and persistent pain in rats. It also upregulated the expression of LPA1R on SGCs that surround large DRG neurons, which normally mediate non-noxious input, and increased gap junction-mediated coupling via Cx43, leading to the activation of SGCs surrounding small nociceptive neurons. The activated SGCs released inflammatory mediators that increased nociceptive neuron excitability, driving chronic pain. In support of these results, pharmacological inhibition of LPA1R-mediated SGCs activation reversed this process.Our study demonstrates that LPA-LPA1R signaling in SGCs drives A-fiber demyelination-induced neuropathic pain by promoting Cx43-mediated SGC-neuron crosstalk and cytokine release. Targeting this pathway may represent a promising strategy to alleviate demyelination-associated chronic pain.© 2025. The Author(s).
The opioid epidemic remains a persistent public health challenge in the United States, leaving many people affected by or vulnerable to opioid use disorder (OUD). Although US Food and Drug Administration-approved medications for OUD improve the odds of recovery and reduce mortality, relapse rates remain high and access, adherence, and individual response variabilities limit their overall impact. The ongoing burden of OUD therefore underscores the need to develop additional therapeutics that target complementary biological mechanisms and support long-term recovery. One strategy of interest is to delineate the biological overlap between OUD and other motivated behaviors, particularly the neurobiology underlying appetitive and reward-driven processes. The orexigenic peptide hormone ghrelin, often referred to as the "hunger hormone," regulates energy homeostasis, hedonic feeding, and reward sensitivity by binding to the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1α (GHS1αR), a receptor expressed in mesolimbic circuits implicated in addiction. In the present study, we used the inverse agonist/antagonist PF5190457 to assess the impact of full GHS1αR blockade on fentanyl-mediated behaviors in preclinical models. We found that PF5190457 significantly reduced fentanyl self-administration and attenuated drug-seeking during cue tests while maintaining a favorable pharmacological and safety profile in risk assessment assays, including measures of withdrawal and respiratory depression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate a functional role for ghrelin-GHS1αR signaling in the reinforcing effects of fentanyl and positions GHS1αR inverse agonism as a promising, mechanistically novel therapeutic strategy for OUD treatment. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The present work demonstrates that the growth hormone secretagogue receptor 1α (GHS1αR) inverse agonist/antagonist PF5190457 reduces fentanyl self-administration and drug-seeking while maintaining a favorable safety profile in male rats, supporting ghrelin-GHS1αR modulation as a promising therapeutic strategy for opioid use disorder.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The hormone ghrelin has had limited attention in Equidae, despite connections with appetite and metabolic health in other species. Ghrelin influences hunger and food intake, energy expenditure and storage, glucose metabolism, and thermoregulation, through its receptor-mediated effects on tissues and via interaction with other hormones. There are two circulating forms, acylated and des-acylated ghrelin, considered to have distinct effects on metabolism in other species. The aims of this study were to confirm the presence of ghrelin receptors in equine tissues, to validate an assay for the measurement of total ghrelin (acylated and des-acylated forms) in horses, and to evaluate associations between ghrelin concentrations and prandial state, signalment and morphometry. Gene expression studies were conducted to identify ghrelin receptor isoforms 1a and 1b. A validation of a commercial kit for total ghrelin was undertaken. Finally, associations between active ghrelin concentrations and prandial state, signalment and morphometric traits were determined in a cohort of 35 horses and ponies with no evidence of metabolic disease. Expression of receptor type 1a was confirmed in equine pituitary gland and adrenal medulla, and detected in 6 other peripheral tissues. PCR product consistent with receptor type 1b was expressed in pituitary, adrenal medulla, adrenal cortex and ileum, but low yields prevented confirmation with sequencing. Parallelism and recovery on addition steps of the validation resulted in values outside the acceptable ranges, so total ghrelin concentration could not be measured. Post-prandial active ghrelin concentration was reduced (p = 0.001) by 19% and positively associated with age, but was not associated with bodyweight, height, or body condition. Pre-prandial active ghrelin concentrations were higher (p = 0.0003) in Welsh ponies compared to other horse and pony breeds. Receptor expression in disparate tissues suggests multiple roles for ghrelin in horses. Association of active ghrelin with age and breed warrants further investigation and could indicate physiological diversity in metabolic pathways in this species.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ghrelin is the endogenous agonist of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR), which is a potential novel pharmacotherapeutic target for alcohol use disorder (AUD). PF-5190457 is a GHSR inverse agonist and the first GHSR inhibitor to advance to human trials. Our lab conducted two placebo-controlled human laboratory studies to investigate the effects of PF-5190457 (100 mg/day) on alcohol craving in an alcohol cue-exposure paradigm. Study 1 found reduced craving under drug versus placebo, whereas Study 2 did not replicate these findings, likely due to a floor effect and reflective of the differences in AUD populations (Study 1: active drinkers; Study 2: abstinent, inpatient).The present work is a secondary analysis combining these datasets and using subgroups based on alcohol cue-reactivity ("cue-reactors," CR+ vs. "nonreactors," CR-) or the Penn Alcohol Craving Scale ("PACS high cravers" vs. "PACS low cravers") as an additional independent variable to reanalyze the effects of PF-5190457 on alcohol craving (Alcohol Urge Questionnaire [AUQ]) following a "relaxation" trial (no cues) and an "alcohol cue" trial (mock bar-lab and preferred alcohol-containing drink). Cue-reactivity was calculated as the difference in AUQ between trials (AUQAlc-AUQRel) and analyzed by subgroups as a separate outcome.PF-5190457 reduced AUQ scores relative to placebo following the alcohol cue trial in the CR+ subgroup, but not the CR- subgroup. PF-5190457 also reduced AUQ compared to placebo following both the relaxation and alcohol cue trial in the PACS high craver subgroup, but not in the PACS low craver subgroup. Cue-reactivity was not affected by PF-5190457 in any subgroup analysis.These results are preliminary and based on secondary analyses, but suggest that PF-5190457 could help reduce general, self-reported craving for alcohol in high-craving individuals.© 2026 Research Society on Alcohol.
To investigate the efficacy and mechanistic foundations of the Traditional Chinese Medicine Yueju pill (YJP, ) for treating the complex comorbidity of heart failure and depression.C57BL/6 male mice were used to establish a robust congestive heart failure (CHF) model with concomitant depressive manifestations. Echocardiographic assessments were conducted to evaluate cardiac structure and function in the mice. Depression-related behavioral tests and the detection of monoamine neurotransmitters were performed to assess the antidepressant-like effectiveness of YJP. Western blot analysis was conducted to measure the expression levels of key components in the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)/heme oxygenase 1 (HO1) antioxidant pathway, NRF2/brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) pathway, and ghrelin/growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R)1a pathway in the myocardium and hippocampus. To explore the mechanistic role of the ghrelin/GHS-R1a pathway, the ghrelin receptor antagonist D-Lys3-growth hormone-releasing peptide-6 was introduced to enable the iterative evaluation of the aforementioned parameters.YJP improved cardiac dysfunction and myocardial fibrosis and markedly ameliorated depressive behaviors. It also improved neuron damage, boosted the growth of dendritic spines to enhance synaptic plasticity, and alleviated monoamine neurotransmitter imbalances. Additionally, the NRF2/BDNF, ghrelin/GHS-R1a, and NRF2/HO1 antioxidant pathways were promoted by YJP, with the increased expression of key components of the three pathways. The addition of a GHS-R1a antagonist impaired the antidepressant and cardioprotective effects of YJP.YJP effectively improved cardiac dysfunction and depressive-like behaviors in mice by activating NRF2 viamediation of the ghrelin/GHS-R1a signaling axis within both the myocardial and hippocampal domains.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a severe pregnancy-specific hypertensive disorder characterized by immune microenvironment dysregulation at the maternal-fetal interface, with decidual macrophage phenotypic imbalance being a key pathological feature. The Ghrelin/growth hormone secretagogue receptor-1a (GHSR-1a) axis exerts immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory effects, but its role in regulating decidual macrophage infiltration and phenotypic marker expression in PE remains unclear. In this study, we first detected the expression of the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis in decidual tissues from 10 healthy pregnant women and 12 PE patients via immunohistochemistry (IHC). We then established a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PE-like rat model to investigate the axis's functional role and underlying mechanisms. Intriguingly, clinical analysis revealed a severity-dependent compensatory escalation of the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis in PE decidual tissues, potentially representing an endogenous antagonistic response to pregnancy-associated pathological stress. In the animal model, exogenous Ghrelin supplementation reversed LPS-induced PE-like phenotypes, including hypertension, proteinuria, fetal growth restriction (FGR), and placental dysfunction, and alleviated pathological damage to the maternal liver, kidney, and placenta. Mechanistically, Ghrelin modulated decidual macrophage phenotypic marker expression by downregulating the M1 marker CD86 and upregulating the M2 marker CD163 and promoted trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodeling by restoring laminin, α-cytokeratin 7 (α-CK7), and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression in placental tissue. All protective effects of Ghrelin were abrogated by co-administration of D-lys-3-GHRP-6, a specific GHSR-1a antagonist, confirming the dependence on the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis. Collectively, our findings suggest that the Ghrelin/GHSR-1a axis is compensatorily upregulated in PE and may exert a protective role by regulating decidual macrophage phenotypic marker expression and improving placental function, providing preliminary evidence that this axis merits further investigation as a potential research target for PE.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42277455 is a review article
Sleeve gastrectomy (SG) improves obesity-associated type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) beyond mere weight loss. We investigated whether SG enhances systemic metabolic homeostasis by suppressing the Ghrelin-growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR) axis, remodeling hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neuronal activity, and reprogramming CD4+ T cell immunometabolism.Using a diet-induced T2DM mouse model undergoing SG or Sham surgery, we integrated bulk/single-cell RNA sequencing and metabolomics to evaluate systemic neuro-immune-metabolic alterations. Functional assays validated Ghrelin's effects on CD4+ T cell metabolism and differentiation, alongside assessments of hepatic/pancreatic function and hypothalamic neuronal activity.SG globally remodeled peripheral immunity, expanding Tregs while reducing pro-inflammatory Th17 cells. scRNA-seq and metabolomic profiling revealed that CD4+ T cells shifted metabolically from glycolysis toward oxidative phosphorylation, matching increased tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. Functionally, Ghrelin-GHSR signaling promoted CD4+ T cell glycolysis, mitochondrial damage, and Th17 skewing; GHSR antagonism successfully reversed these detrimental effects. Systemically, SG reduced hyperglycemia and hepatic lipidosis, restored islet α/β-cell balance, activated anorexigenic POMC neurons, and suppressed AgRP neurons.SG alleviates T2DM through coordinated suppression of the Ghrelin-GHSR axis, bridging central appetite regulation with peripheral immunometabolic reprogramming. By shifting CD4+ T cells toward oxidative metabolism and restoring the Treg/Th17 balance, SG drives systemic metabolic recovery, providing critical molecular insights into the neuro-immune mechanisms of metabolic surgery. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 45, 338-358.
Depression is a common mental and mood disorder. Norisoboldine (NIB) has been shown to provide neuroprotective benefits. However, its potential antidepressant effects and underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Our findings indicated that NIB ameliorates depressive behaviors and mitigates hippocampal neuronal damage induced by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). Numerous studies have corroborated the neuroprotective effects of gastrointestinal hormones such as ghrelin and its endogenous receptor, the growth hormone secretagogue receptor type 1a (GHSR-1a). Notably, NIB demonstrated minimal impact on the expression levels of ghrelin and GHSR-1a. We furtherly investigated whether NIB could directly activate GHSR-1a in vitro. Treatment with NIB increased cell viability and inhibited CORT-induced apoptosis in HT-22 cells in a dose-dependent manner. The use of a GHSR-1a antagonist and GHSR-1a knockdown weakened the inhibitory effect of NIB on cell apoptosis. NIB attenuated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress via GHSR-1a in HT-22 cells, thereby protecting against cell apoptosis and loss. Molecular docking results showed an interaction between NIB and GHSR-1a, and CESTA results showed that NIB increased the thermal stability of GHSR-1a. In conclusion, NIB can reduce ER stress-induced injury to hippocampal neurons through GHSR-1a and improve depressive behavior in mice induced by CUMS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Accumulating evidence shows that excess cholesterol and glucose uptake stimulates the expansion of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells and myeloid progenitors, resulting in increased production of inflammatory cells and atherosclerotic progression. However, the role of other metabolites in plaque progression remains unclear. Hereby, we observed elevated α-ketoglutarate levels in granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMPs) of Ldlr-/- mice on a high-fat diet (HFD), determined by targeted metabolomics. On top of HFD, α-ketoglutarate administration further increased GMP proportion, myeloid cell production, and plaque progression in Ldlr-/- mice. The regulation of α-ketoglutarate in atherosclerosis required the expression of its receptor, oxoglutarate receptor 1 (OXGR1), in bone marrow cells (BMCs), as transplantation of OXGR1-/- BMCs attenuated plaque progression compared to transplantation of OXGR1+/+ BMCs in HFD-fed Ldlr-/- recipients. Using targeted metabolomics, single-cell RNA sequencing and validation experiments, we demonstrated that the α-ketoglutarate/OXGR1 axis upregulated the expression of purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) in GMPs, which promoted de novo purine biosynthesis and reduced the levels of nicotinamide mononucleotide and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), thereby disturbing mitochondrial homeostasis and increasing the production of myeloid cells. Furthermore, proteomics data revealed that PNP treatment regulated the redox status by increasing the expression of NAD kinase (NADK), thereby accelerating NAD consumption. Additionally, PNP promoted the transcriptional activation of NF-κB via ubiquitin, enhancing ROS production and inflammation in lineage-/low cells. Spearman's correlation analysis revealed a positive association between isocitrate and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in human plasma. Overall, HFD potentiated α-ketoglutarate, contributing to atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40729001 is a review article
The two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) Goldblatt rodent model elicits a reduction in renal blood flow (RBF) in the clipped kidney (CK). The reduced RBF and oxygen bio-ability causes the accumulation of the tricarboxylic cycle intermediary, α-ketoglutarate, which activates the oxoglutarate receptor-1 (OXGR1). In the kidney, OXGR1 is abundantly expressed in intercalated cells (ICs) of the collecting duct (CD), thus contributing to sodium transport and electrolyte balance. The (pro)renin receptor (PRR), a member of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), is a key regulator of sodium reabsorption and blood pressure (BP) that is expressed in ICs. The PRR is upregulated in 2K1C rats. Here, we tested the hypothesis that chronic reduction in RBF in the CK leads to OXGR1-dependent PRR upregulation in the CD and alters sodium balance and BP in 2K1C mice. To determine the role of OXGR1 in regulating the PRR in the CDs during renovascular hypertension, we performed 2K1C Goldblatt surgery (clip = 0.13 mm internal gap, 14 days) in two groups of male mice: (1) mice treated with Montelukast (OXGR1 antagonist; 5 mg/Kg/day); (2) OXGR1-/- knockout mice. Wild-type and sham-operated mice were used as controls. After 14 days, 2K1C mice showed increased systolic BP (SBP) (108 ± 11 vs. control 82 ± 5 mmHg, p < 0.01) and a lower natriuretic response after the saline challenge test. The CK group showed upregulation of erythropoietin, augmented α-ketoglutarate, and increased PRR expression in the renal medulla. The CK of OXGR1 knockout mice and mice subjected to the OXGR1 antagonist elicited impaired PRR upregulation, attenuated SBP, and better natriuretic responses. In 2K1C mice, the effect of reduced RBF on the OXGR1-dependent PRR upregulation in the CK may contribute to the anti-natriuretic and increased SBP responses.
Allergic asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of airways involving complex mechanisms, including MAS-related GPR family member X2 (MRGPRX2) and its orthologue MRGPRB2 on mast cells (MCs). Although miRNAs have been previously shown to related to allergic asthma, the role of miR-212/132 in this process has not been studied. In this study, the predicted pairing of miRNAs and MRGPRX2 (MRGPRB2) mRNAs was carried out by online databases and the function was verify using in vivo and in vitro experiments. Database prediction showed that miR-212/132 interact with MRGPRX2 and MRGPRB2. miR-212/132 mimics alleviated MRGPRB2 mRNA expression as well as pathology changes in lungs and AHR of mice with airway inflammation in vivo. The expression level of MRGPRB2 in the mice lungs after inhaled OVA was also decreased by miR-212/132 mimics. Meanwhile, miR-212/132 inhibited MCs degranulation and cytokines release triggered by C48/80 in vitro. Further, ASAP1 (ARF GTPase-Activating Protein 1) was selected from the junction related pathways using RNAseq and KEGG enrichment. ASAP1 mRNA level was upregulated in airway inflammation and MCs activation and decreased by miR-212/132 mimics. miR-212/132 attenuated OVA-induced airway inflammation by inhibiting MCs activation through MRGPRX2 and ASAP1.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In response to contraction during exercise, skeletal muscle growth and metabolism are dynamically regulated by nerve action, blood flow, and metabolic feedback. α-Ketoglutarate (AKG), a bioactive intermediate in the tricarboxylic acid cycle released during exercise, has been shown to promote skeletal muscle hypertrophy. However, the underlying mechanism of AKG in regulating skeletal muscle development and metabolism is still less known. 2-Oxoglutarate receptor 1 (OXGR1), the endogenous AKG receptor, is found to be distributed in the vascular smooth muscle (VSM) of skeletal muscles. OXGR1 knockout results in skeletal muscle atrophy, accompanied by decreased expression of myosin heavy chain I (MyHC I), capillary density, and endurance exercise capacity. Furthermore, the study found that dietary AKG supplementation increased mice endurance exercise distance, MyHC I/MyHC IIb ratio, arteriole, and capillary densities in skeletal muscle. Meanwhile, acute AKG administration gradually increased the blood flow in the lower limbs. Further, by using OXGR1 global knockout and OXGR1 VSM-specific (MYH11-Cre × OXGR1-FloxP) knockdown models, we found that OXGR1 in VSM is essential for AKG-induced improvement of skeletal muscle performances. According to the in vitro study, AKG expanded the cell area in VSM with a decreased intracellular pH by OXGR1. Our results demonstrated a novel role of AKG/OXGR1 in VSM of skeletal muscle to regulate blood flow and then enhance slow muscle fiber conversion and capillarization. These findings provide a theoretical basis for the AKG/OXGR1 signaling pathway to maintain human muscle function and improve meat production and livestock and poultry meat quality.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
SLC26A4/Pendrin is the major electroneutral Cl- /HCO3- exchanger of the apical membrane of the Type B intercalated cell (IC) of the connecting segment (CNT) and cortical collecting duct (CCD). Pendrin mediates both base secretion in response to systemic base load and Cl- reabsorption in response to systemic volume depletion, manifested as decreased nephron salt and water delivery to the distal nephron. Pendrin-mediated Cl- /HCO3- exchange in the apical membrane is upregulated through stimulation of the β-IC apical membrane G protein-coupled receptor, 2-oxoglutarate receptor 1 (OXGR1/GPR99), by its ligand α-ketoglutarate (αKG). αKG is both filtered by the glomerulus and lumenally secreted by proximal tubule apical membrane organic anion transporters (OATs). OXGR1-mediated regulation of Pendrin by αKG has been documented in transgenic mice and in isolated perfused CCD. However, aspects of the OXGR1 signaling pathway have remained little investigated since its original discovery in lymphocytes. Moreover, no ex vivo cellular system has been reported in which to study the OXGR1 signaling pathway of Type B-IC, a cell type refractory to survival in culture in its differentiated state. As Xenopus oocytes express robust heterologous Pendrin activity, we investigated OXGR1 regulation of Pendrin in oocytes. Despite functional expression of OXGR1 in oocytes, co-expression of Pendrin and OXGR1 failed to exhibit αKG-sensitive stimulation of Pendrin-mediated Cl- /anion exchange under a wide range of conditions. We conclude that Xenopus oocytes lack one or more essential molecular components or physical conditions required for OXGR1 to regulate Pendrin activity.© 2022 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Infertility is a global concern attributed to genetic defects, lifestyle, nutrition, and any other factors that affect the local metabolism and niche microenvironment of the reproductive system. 2-Oxoglutarate receptor 1 (OXGR1) is abundantly expressed in the testis; however, its cellular distribution and biological function of OXGR1 in the male reproductive system remain unclear. In the current study, we demonstrated that OXGR1 is primarily expressed in epididymal smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Aging and heat stress significantly reduced OXGR1 expression in the epididymis. Using OXGR1 global knockout and epididymal-specific OXGR1 knockdown models, we revealed that OXGR1 is essential for epididymal sperm maturation and fluid acid-base balance. Supplementation of α-ketoglutaric acid (AKG), the endogenous ligand of OXGR1, effectively reversed epididymal sperm maturation disorders caused by aging and heat stress. Furthermore, in vitro studies showed that AKG markedly stimulated the release of instantaneous intracellular calcium from epididymal SMCs and substantially reduced the pHi value in the epididymal SMCs via OXGR1. Mechanistically, we discovered that AKG/OXGR1 considerably increased the expression of Na+/HCO3- cotransporter (NBCe1) mRNA in the epididymal SMCs, mediated by intracellular calcium signaling. The local AKG/OXGR1 system changed the epididymal fluid pH value and HCO3- concentration, thereby regulating sperm maturation via intracellular calcium signaling and NBCe1 mRNA expression. This study for the first time reveals the crucial role of OXGR1 in male fertility and sheds light on the applicability of metabolic intermediates in the nutritional intervention of reproduction.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Previously, we found that α-ketoglutaric acid (AKG) stimulates muscle hypertrophy and fat loss through 2-oxoglutarate receptor 1 (OXGR1). Here, we demonstrated the beneficial effects of AKG on glucose homeostasis in a diet-induced obesity (DIO) mouse model, which are independent of OXGR1. We also showed that AKG effectively decreased blood glucose and hepatic gluconeogenesis in DIO mice. By using transcriptomic and liver-specific serpina1e deletion mouse model, we further demonstrated that liver serpina1e is required for the inhibitory effects of AKG on hepatic gluconeogenesis. Mechanistically, we supported that extracellular AKG binds with a purinergic receptor, P2RX4, to initiate the solute carrier family 25 member 11 (SLC25A11)-dependent nucleus translocation of intracellular AKG and subsequently induces demethylation of lysine 27 on histone 3 (H3K27) in the seprina1e promoter region to decrease hepatic gluconeogenesis. Collectively, these findings reveal an unexpected mechanism for control of hepatic gluconeogenesis using circulating AKG as a signal molecule.
Licochalcone A (Lico A) is a natural flavonoid belonging to the class of substituted chalcone that has various biological effects. Mast cells (MCs) are innate immune cells that mediate hypersensitivity and pseudo-allergic reactions. MAS-related GPR family member X2 (MRGPRX2) on MCs has been recognized as the main receptor for pseudo-allergic reactions. In this study, we investigated the anti-pseudo-allergy effect of Lico A and its underlying mechanism. Substance P (SP), as an MC activator, was used to establish an in vitro and in vivo model of pseudo-allergy. The in vivo effect of Lico A was investigated using passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) and active systemic allergy, along with degranulation, Ca2+ influx in vitro. SP-induced laboratory of allergic disease 2 (LAD2) cell mRNA expression was explored using RNA-seq, and Lico A inhibited LAD2 cell activation by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting, and immunofluorescence staining. Lico A showed an inhibitory effect on SP-induced MC activation and pseudo-allergy both in vitro and in vivo. The nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway is involved in MRGPRX2 induced MC activation, which is inhibited by Lico A. In conclusion, Lico A inhibited the pseudo-allergic reaction mediated by MRGPRX2 by blocking NF-κB nuclear migration.© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The role of T-box transcription factor 6 (TBX6), a developmental transcription factor, in tumor initiation and progression in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. The present study investigated the expression pattern, biological functions, and downstream transcriptional regulatory networks of TBX6 in CRC. Public databases, clinical cohorts, functional assays, xenograft models, and RNA sequencing coupled with Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and protein-protein interaction analyses were used to define TBX6-associated molecular alterations. TBX6 was markedly upregulated in CRC tissues and cell lines, and its high expression was associated with advanced stage, lymph node metastasis, and poor survival. Functionally, TBX6 promoted proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in CRC cells in vitro, whereas TBX6 knockdown suppressed these malignant phenotypes and inhibited tumor growth with reduced proliferation and increased apoptosis in vivo. Transcriptomic analyses showed that TBX6 knockdown induced coordinated gene expression reprogramming and altered multiple tumor-related pathways. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 14 (CXCL14), NOTUM, adrenoceptor α2A (ADRA2A), and melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 (MCHR1) as hub nodes within the TBX6-regulated network. Mechanistically, TBX6 knockdown regulated CXCL14 expression and attenuated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, findings that were further validated in xenograft tissues. These results indicate that TBX6 is aberrantly reactivated in CRC and promotes tumor progression through transcriptional network remodeling, suggesting that TBX6 may represent a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to evaluate whether TAAR1 (trace amine-associated receptor 1)-associated trace amines (β-phenylethylamine, tryptamine, octopamine, tyramine, and N-methyltyramine) produced cutaneous nociceptive blockade compared to lidocaine. Cutaneous nociceptive blockade was assessed by inhibition of the cutaneous trunci muscle reflex in response to local noxious stimuli. After subcutaneous injection in rats, the nociceptive blockade produced by β-phenylethylamine, tryptamine, octopamine, tyramine, and N-methyltyramine was compared. We demonstrated that, at a dose of 255.3 μmol/kg, β-phenylethylamine, tryptamine, octopamine, tyramine, and N-methyltyramine produced cutaneous nociceptive blockade. At the ED50 (50% effective dose), the relative potency of β-phenylethylamine (85.5 [87.5-93.2] μmol/kg) was lower than that of lidocaine (17.7 [14.6-2.15] μmol/kg; p < 0.01). On an equianesthetic basis (ED25, ED50, and ED75), β-phenylethylamine exhibited a duration of action similar to that of lidocaine. The addition of clonidine or epinephrine did not prolong the duration of action of β-phenylethylamine, whereas the addition of clonidine or epinephrine prolonged the duration of action of lidocaine. Among these five TAAR1-associated trace amines, β-phenylethylamine was the most potent for producing cutaneous nociceptive blockade, tryptamine and octopamine were moderately potent, and tyramine and N-methyltyramine were the least potent. Although β-phenylethylamine was less potent than lidocaine, it exhibited a similar duration of action. Clonidine and epinephrine did not prolong the duration of action of β-phenylethylamine.© 2026 Société Française de Pharmacologie et de Thérapeutique. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Objectives: The current study examined whether exercise training alleviates cigarette smoke (CS)-induced diaphragm dysfunction by modulating inflammation through the Wnt and Chemerin signaling pathways. Methods: Mechanical stretching was applied for 3 consecutive days to explore the effects on cell proliferation and chemerin/chemokine-like receptor 1 (CMKLR1) expression in C2C12 cells pretreated with lipopolysaccharide. Male wild-type (WT) and CMKLR1 knockout (KO) mice (6-8 weeks old) were exposed to CS for 6 months (1-2 h a day, 6 days a week) to determine the role of chemerin/CMKLR1 in the progression of diaphragm dysfunction. Given that Wnt/β-catenin is a potential modulator of chemerin/CMKLR1, its expression was detected in CS-exposed mice and mice subjected to treadmill exercise training after CS exposure. Wnt/β-catenin agonist lithium chloride (LiCl) and antagonist XAV939 were then intraperitoneally injected into the CS-exposed mice during exercise training to further investigate their potential synergistic effects with exercise training on improving CS-induced diaphragm dysfunction. Isolated diaphragm contraction strength and fiber cross-sectional area were measured to determine the diaphragm dysfunction. Results: Mechanical stretching improved the proliferation level of myoblasts and decreased inflammation and CMKLR1 protein expression (p < 0.05). The KO mice showed diminished diaphragm dysfunction compared with the WT mice after long-term CS exposure. Combined LiCl and exercise training further enhanced the improvement of diaphragmatic isolated strength in mice exposed to CS (p < 0.01), activated the protein degradation and synthesis pathways, and decreased IL-1β level (p < 0.05). Combined XAV939 and exercise training significantly decreased chemerin protein level (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Exercise training can downregulate inflammation levels and improve diaphragm dysfunction in CS-exposed mice, partially by enhancing Wnt expression and reducing abnormally activated chemerin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42302664 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42203047 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42173424 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42162691 is a review article
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been recognized as one of the three hallmark biological features of autism spectrum disorder. This study is intended to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying prenatal psychological fear stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the calcium signaling pathway, particularly the phospholipase C beta 1(PLCβ1)- inositol 1,4,5‑trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)- voltage‑dependent anion channel 1(VDAC1) pathway, may play a key role in prenatal stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. To validate this, we examined pathway activation in the offspring hippocampus of prenatal fear stressed rats and in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH; also known as CRF in rodents) overexposed SH‑SY5Y cells, along with mitochondrial calcium levels in the cells. Prenatal fear stress induced depressive-like behavior and HPA axis activation in pregnant dams, and reduced survival and growth in offspring. Placental and neonatal brain CRF levels were elevated. At the early socialization stage (Postnatal day 21-30), model offspring showed normal basal but exaggerated stress-induced HPA responses. Their hippocampus exhibited expanded MAM coverage, reduced ER-mitochondria distance, and upregulated PLCβ1, IP3R1, VDAC1 expression, along with increased GRP75‑VDAC1 co‑localization, confirming MAM remodeling at the molecular level. In vitro, CRH (20 µM for 48 h or 5-20 µM for 96 h) inhibited SH-SY5Y cell proliferation, upregulated CRH receptor 1(CRHR1), PLCβ1, VDAC1, and increased mitochondrial calcium; these effects were reversed by the CRHR1 antagonist CP376395 or PLCβ1 knockdown. Furthermore, the MCU inhibitor DS16570511 partially reversed CRH‑induced mitochondrial calcium elevation and proliferation inhibition, suggesting that mitochondrial calcium overload contributes to the proliferation inhibition. Collectively, these results suggest that prenatal fear stress may, via the CRF-CRFR1 axis, influence the PLCβ1-IP3R-VDAC1 pathway, inducing MAM remodeling and mitochondrial calcium overload, thereby contributing to offspring hippocampal neuronal damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuromedin U (NMU), a neuropeptide, activates two types of NMU receptors (NMUR1 and NMUR2). The anti-obesity drug development focused on appetite suppression among physiological actions of NMU have been attempted worldwide; however, several reports have pointed out the possibility of tachyphylaxis induction by the repeated treatment of agonistic molecules, including our NMUR1 agonist CPN-267. Recently, NMUR1-mediated activation of type 2 inflammation has received considerable attention, although its tachyphylaxis induction has not yet been examined. In addition, through the acquisition of CPN-267, we were interested in the molecular functions affecting the in vitro efficacy (Emax) of mouse NMUR1. In this study, CPN-267-inspired derivatives of mouse NMU (mNMU) and palmitoylated analogs were designed and synthesized to reveal the structural factors modulating efficacy and evaluate the tachyphylaxis induction ability in mice. A calcium-mobilization assay using HEK293 cells transiently expressing receptors clarified that amino acid substitutions at positions 17-19 of mNMU to obtain NMUR1 selectivity led to a decrease in efficacy, and position 18 on palmitoylated analogs was the residue involving in the efficacy modulation. Using the most potent palmitoylated NMUR1 agonist 1, we confirmed that repeated subcutaneous injection for 3 consecutive days in mice rapidly induced tachyphylaxis of the appetite-suppressive effect. Moreover, we successfully demonstrated that the marked elevation in serum IL-5 levels by a single injection of peptide 1 was abolished by a similar repeated treatment, proposing that palmitoylated analogs acting on NMUR1 have the potential to develop as a suppressive agent against type 2 inflammation in future.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is characterized by tubular inflammation and impaired metabolism, yet effective treatments remain lacking. Here, we identify the purinergic receptor P2Y12 as a key regulator of these pathological processes in renal proximal tubule cells. P2Y12 expression is markedly upregulated after lipopolysaccharide challenge. Mechanistically, P2Y12 activation promotes Gi signaling, suppresses the cAMP-PKA pathway, increases proinflammatory cytokine production, and disrupts gluconeogenesis. Using single-molecule imaging, we directly visualize the interaction between P2Y12 and Gi proteins in tubular cells. Genetic deletion of P2Y12 or pharmacological inhibition with ticagrelor, a clinically approved P2Y12 antagonist, restores cAMP-PKA signaling, attenuates inflammation, and preserves gluconeogenic function, ultimately mitigating kidney injury. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized role of P2Y12 in SA-AKI and highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting P2Y12 signaling with existing drugs. Our study provides new mechanistic insight and suggests a promising strategy for repurposing ticagrelor in the treatment of SA-AKI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Environmental enrichment (EE) has been widely reported to improve functional recovery after stroke, yet its effects on chronic inflammation and white matter pathology remain less well defined. The aim of this study was to investigate whether poststroke EE modulates chronic neuroinflammation and white matter pathology and how these changes relate to functional recovery.Here, we investigated how EE influences the microglial response and myelin integrity during the recovery phase after photothrombotic stroke in male C57Bl/6J mice. Mice were randomized by using a computer-generated sequence into standard environment (SE) or EE housing conditions 2 days poststroke (SE: n = 6; EE: n = 7 for histological analyses; behavioral data unavailable for 2 SE mice). Sensorimotor performance was assessed at 7, 14, and 21 days poststroke using paw placement, foot fault, and limb symmetry tests, integrated into a composite Neuroscore. Housing in EE improved and sustained behavioral recovery up to 21 days. To explore whether specific microglial subpopulations are involved in tissue reorganization and functional outcome, immunofluorescence was performed for ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1), galectin-3 (Gal3), purinergic receptor P2Y12 (P2RY12), cluster of differentiation 68 (CD68), and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), together with Black Gold myelin staining, in peri-infarct and white matter regions. Statistical analyses included correlation analyses and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA).In SE mice, the inflammatory microglial marker Gal3 and the phagocytic marker CD68 correlated positively with infarct size (r = 0.937, p = 0.006; r = 0.845, p = 0.034, respectively), and the accumulation of myelin debris (r = 0.865, p = 0.026) together with loss of myelin coverage (r = -0.907, p = 0.013) followed lesion-driven trajectories. By contrast, these correlations were absent in EE mice (r = -0.028, p = 0.953; r = 0.671, p= 0.099; r = 0.053, p = 0.910; r = 0.292, p = 0.525) indicating that enrichment attenuated lesion-driven inflammatory responses and myelin damage. Importantly, Gal3 expression correlated specifically with peri-infarct myelin debris (r = 0.82, p = 0.048), reinforcing its role as a pro-inflammatory mediator. Finally, correlation analysis between Neuroscore and both microglial and myelin markers revealed a unique positive association between TREM2 coverage in white matter and improved Neuroscore in EE mice (r = 0.890, p = 0.007; ANCOVA p = 0.039).These results support the idea that EE modulates processes of chronic post-stroke inflammation, peri-infarct myelin debris clearance and demyelination, and highlight white matter TREM2-positive microglia as a potential cellular link to functional recovery.© 2026 The Author(s). Neuroprotection published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Chinese Medical Association.
Bacterial diarrhea is considered a global health crisis, accounting for approximately 20 % of deaths related to colorectal cancer. (-)-Epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG), one of the most abundant plant-derived polyphenols in the human diet, has shown promise in managing gastrointestinal disorders. But, the systemic evidence for EGCG in alleviating the progression of diarrhea and the mechanisms involved remain unclear.This study aims to determine whether EGCG confers diarrhea resistance in piglets under Escherichia coli (E. coli) and what the fundamental mechanisms involved are.Weaned piglets were used to create a E. coli-induced intestinal disorder-diarrhea susceptibility model. Piglets were supplemented with EGCG to identify diarrhea rate and activity of enteric nervous system (ENS). The interaction between the neuromedin U receptor 1 (NMUR1) and typeⅡinnate lymphoid cells (ILC2) was analyzed using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and fluorescence colocalization techniques. Metagenomic and metabolomic analyses were further performed to assess the involvement of NMUR1 and the underlying mechanisms of beneficial microbes enriched by EGCG. The effects of beneficial microbes in treating intestinal morphology were investigated through histopathology, Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and ELISA analysis methods.EGCG reduced diarrhea rate in piglets by inhibiting the NMU-NMUR1-ILC2 pathway, ameliorating gut microbiota structure, and stimulating intestinal barrier. Apparently, the enteric nerve-microbial axis is linked with EGCG conferring diarrhea resistance in piglets. Mechanistically, EGCG suppressed the NMU-NMUR1-ILC2 axis to reduce the secretion of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8), while concurrently increasing the abundance of beneficial gut microbes and altering signature microbial community functions (energy metabolism pathways); accordingly, EGCG maintained the energy supply balance in gut epithelial cells and promoted the activity of goblet cell and Paneth cell by activating the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) signaling pathway.EGCG confers diarrhea resistance in E. coli piglets by maintaining intestinal mucosal barrier via the enteric nerve-microbial axis; thus, this study provides a potential prevention strategy for young mammals at risk of diarrhea.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41917399 is a review article
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110318.].© 2026 The Author(s).
Based on integrated analysis of multi-source heterogeneous biomedical data combined with animal experimental validation, this study systematically explored the advantageous therapeutic pathways and molecular mechanisms of Jianpi Huogu Formula(JPHGF) in treating steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head(SONFH). First, the candidate active components and targets of JPHGF were obtained from the Encyclopedia of Traditional Chinese Medicine(ETCM v 2.0). Meanwhile, the Human Phenotype Ontology(HPO) database was used to identify potential genes associated with the corresponding syndrome pattern. Finally, clinical transcriptomic data were analyzed to obtain relevant targets for the phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral syndrome of SONFH. The intersection of these three types of targets was used to construct a multidimensional &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-syndrome&quot; network. The STRING database was employed for protein-protein interaction(PPI) network analysis, and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis of core targets was performed via the DAVID platform to predict key biological processes and signaling pathways. Pharmacodynamic and mechanistic validation was subsequently conducted using a rat model of SONFH with phlegm-blood stasis obstructing collateral syndrome. Data integration and mining yielded a &quot;disease and syndrome gene-formula and drug target&quot; network containing 146 core targets. Pathway enrichment analysis indicated that JPHGF primarily regulates lipid-coupled intervention in the SONFH phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral phenotype through the purinergic receptor P2Y12(P2RY12)-phosphoinositide 3-kinase(PI3K)-serine/threonine kinase(Akt)-fibrinogen gamma chain(FGG) signaling pathway. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining revealed that rats with SONFH of the phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral type exhibited reduced calcification in femoral head tissues, loosely arranged trabeculae, hypoplastic osteocytes, significantly increased lacunae, and elevated numbers of intramedullary adipocytes. Lipid profile analysis showed elevated triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein(LDL) levels, along with decreased high-density lipoprotein(HDL). Coagulation assays demonstrated shortened activated partial thromboplastin time(APTT) and prothrombin time(PT), as well as prolonged thrombin time(TT) and increased plasma fibrinogen levels. Immunohistochemical staining showed that compared with the normal group, the model group exhibited significantly increased positive expression areas of P2RY12, phosphorylated PI3K(p-PI3K), phosphorylated Akt(p-Akt), and FGG proteins in femoral head tissues(P&lt;0.05). In contrast, all drug-treated groups showed significantly reduced expression of these proteins(P&lt;0.05), with the most pronounced inhibitory effect observed in the high-dose group. These results indicate that JPHGF modulates the P2RY12-PI3K-Akt-FGG signaling axis in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, JPHGF exerts a syndrome-specific therapeutic effect through multi-target and multi-pathway synergistic actions. By particularly suppressing the excessive activation of the P2RY12-PI3K-Akt-FGG signaling axis, it improves lipid and bone metabolism abnormalities in SONFH with phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral syndrome.
As a promising cancer immunotherapeutic agent, oncolytic viruses (OV) can specifically kill tumor cells and elicit systemic antitumor immune responses. However, the intrinsic resistance of tumors to oncolytic virotherapy severely limits its therapeutic efficacy. This study identified phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) as a key negative regulator of OV antitumor effects via CRISPR-Cas9 metabolic gene screening in MC38 colorectal cancer model. PLCE1 inhibitor U-73122 enhanced OV infection efficiency and immunogenic cell death in vitro. In vivo, U-73122 combined with OV synergistically reduced tumor volume and prolonged survival. The combination therapy has been shown to remodel the tumor immune microenvironment, leading to an increase in CD45+ immune cells and CD8+ T cells, including naïve subsets, and a decrease in FOXP3+ Treg cells. This shift promotes T cell activation by modulating relevant genes and signaling pathways. This study provides a novel target for optimizing OV immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of vision loss, with lipid metabolism implicated in its pathogenesis. Our study explores lipid metabolism-derived acylation modifications in POAG using GEO, GWAS, and PubChem databases.Integrated multi-omics approaches were employed: Mendelian randomization assessed causal relationships between lipid traits and POAG risk; transcriptomic analysis (gene set variation analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis) identified key acylation-related genes; machine learning selected feature genes; and single-cell sequencing validated mechanisms in human trabecular meshwork samples.Four lipid metabolism-derived acylations (palmitoylation, myristoylation, succinylation, malonylation) were significantly upregulated in POAG. Core genes 5'-aminolevulinate synthase 2 (ALAS2) and phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) were mechanistically linked: ALAS2 catalyzed acyl-CoA accumulation, while myristoylated PLCE1 promoted trabecular fibrosis via collagen type IV alpha 3 chain interaction. External datasets confirmed these findings.Lipid-derived acylations drive POAG through ALAS2-mediated acyl-CoA production and PLCE1-induced fibrosis, revealing novel targets for intervention. Lipid metabolism-derived acylation modifications, particularly succinylation, propionylation, and myristoylation, may play a crucial role in POAG. These findings highlight the potential role of acylation modifications in POAG and offer new insights into POAG's molecular mechanisms and potential research directions.© The Author(s), 2025.
Filtration slit proteins are important for maintaining the integrity of the glomerular filtration barrier. Genetic mutations and environmental factors can disrupt their structure and functions, leading to proteinuria and kidney diseases. This scoping review aims to synthesize the available information on the genetic and environmental factors that affect the slit proteins to enhance our understanding of the (patho)physiology of glomerular filtration.Online databases such as Wiley and PubMed were used. Relevant studies were selected focusing on genetic variations, environmental influences, and their impact on filtration slit proteins. Data extraction and synthesis were conducted to highlight key themes and knowledge gaps.We summarized at least 20 proteins and their genes, including nephrin, podocin, phospholipase C Epsilon 1 (PLCE1), CD2-Associated Protein (CD2AP), ITGA 3, synaptopodin, myosin 1E (MYO1E), flotillin-2 (Flot2), podocalyxin, FAT1, Apo Hemoglobin-Haptoglobin (Apo Hb-Hp), spermidine, P-Cadherin, ephrin B1, Zo- 1 (Zona Occluden), MAGI 1&2 (MAGUK inverted), Par- complex, IP-10 (interferon-inducible protein), neurexin 1, and liver type fatty acid binding protein. We also reported at least 8 environmental factors, including oxidative stress, inflammation, heavy metals, air-bone pollutants, high-fat diets, vitamins and micronutrient deficiency, mechanical stretch, and nephrotoxic agents.This review highlights various filtration slit proteins and the mechanisms of their alterations by genetic and environmental factors. It contributes to efforts toward personalized therapeutic strategies for disorders of glomerular filtration.Copyright © 2025 Adepoju, Muhammad, Adamson, Adewale, Adekunle, Ojulari and Alagbonsi.
Increased phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) gene expression has been observed in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), but its roles in AD remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the effects of PLCE1 expression in AD models. Rats were divided into 4 groups: sham+AAV-shNC (negative control), sham+AAV-shPLCE1, Aβ+AAV-shNC, and Aβ + AAV-shPLCE1. To investigate the effects of PLCE1 expression following β-amyloid administration, its expression was measured at both the mRNA and protein levels. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze. Immunofluorescence and Nissl staining of cerebral cortical tissues demonstrated that PLCE1 downregulation alleviated β-amyloid-induced brain injury. TUNEL, Western blot, and Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) assays also showed that PLCE1 downregulation inhibited pyroptosis and inflammatory markers in the rats and in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Using MTT, TUNEL, Western blot, and ELISA assays, we found that upregulation of the GTPase RAC1, which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins, reversed the neuroprotective effect of PLCE1 downregulation. Together, this study suggests that PLCE1 may worsen AD by activating the STAT3 pathway through RAC1 upregulation. Overall, PLCE1 may exacerbate β-amyloid-induced cognitive impairments and pyroptosis via the RAC1-STAT3 pathway in AD patients.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
TAK1 is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is a key regulator in a wide variety of cellular processes. However, the functions and mechanisms involved in cancer metastasis are still not well understood. Here, we found that TAK1 knockdown promoted esophageal squamous cancer carcinoma (ESCC) migration and invasion, whereas TAK1 overexpression resulted in the opposite outcome. These in vitro findings were recapitulated in vivo in a xenograft metastatic mouse model. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry demonstrated that TAK1 interacted with phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) and phosphorylated PLCE1 at serine 1060 (S1060). Functional studies revealed that phosphorylation at S1060 in PLCE1 resulted in decreased enzyme activity, leading to the repression of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) hydrolysis. As a result, the degradation products of PIP2 including diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol IP3 were reduced, which thereby suppressed signal transduction in the axis of PKC/GSK-3β/β-Catenin. Consequently, expression of cancer metastasis-related genes was impeded by TAK1. Overall, our data indicate that TAK1 plays a negative role in ESCC metastasis, which depends on the TAK1-induced phosphorylation of PLCE1 at S1060.© 2024, Ju et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39855298 is a review article
The tyrosine protein kinase (TXK) gene, as a member of the non-receptor tyrosine kinase Tec family, plays a vital role in signal transduction mediation. Phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1), a membrane-associated enzyme, is of paramount importance for the differentiation of myoblasts and the normal functioning of muscle tissue. In recent years, both of these genes have been reported to be associated with the economic traits of animals. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TXK and PLCE1 genes and growth traits in Ashidan yaks and to search for potential molecular marker loci that can influence Ashidan yak breeding. A cGPS liquid microarray was utilized to genotype 232 Ashidan yaks and to analyze correlations between two SNP loci in the TXK and PLCE1 genes and yak body weight, body height, body length, and chest circumference at different periods. The results indicated that the g.55,999,531C>T locus of the TXK gene and the g.342,350T>G locus of the PLCE1 gene were significantly correlated with the growth traits of Ashidan yaks. Among these, individuals with the CC genotype at the g.55,999,531C>T locus showed a significantly higher body length at 6 months old compared to TT individuals, and those with the CT genotype at 12 months old had a significantly higher chest circumference than TT individuals. At the g.342,350T>G locus, the body height of GG genotype individuals at 18 months of age was significantly higher than that of TT genotype individuals and TG genotype individuals. The above findings can be used as theoretical support for the subsequent improvement of Ashidan yak breeding.
(-)-Epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate (EGCG), one of the green tea catechins, exhibits significant antioxidant properties that play an essential role in various diseases. However, the functional role and underlying mechanism of EGCG in stimulating of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) remain unexplored in transcriptomics sequencing studies. The present study suggests that oral administration of EGCG at a dosage of 200 mg/kg/day for a duration of four weeks exhibits significant therapeutic potential in a murine model of liver fibrosis induced by CCl4. The activation of HSCs in vitro was dose-dependently inhibited by EGCG. The sequencing analysis data reveled that EGCG exerted a regulatory effect on the calcium signal in mouse HSCs, resulting in a decrease in calcium ion concentration. Further analysis revealed that EGCG inhibited the expression of phospholipase C epsilon-1 (PLCE1) and inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate (IP3) in activated mouse HSCs. Additionally, EGCG contributes to the reduction the concentration of calcium ions by regulating PLCE1. After the knockdown of PLCE1, free calcium ion concentrations decreased, resulting in the inhibition of both cell proliferation and migration. Interestingly, the expression of PLCE1 and cytosolic calcium levels were regulated by reactive oxygen species(ROS). Furthermore, our findings suggest that ROS might inhibit the expression of PLCE1 by inhibiting TFEB, a transcription activator involved in the nuclear translocation process. Our study provided novel evidence regarding the regulatory effects of EGCG on activated HSCs (aHSCs) in mice by the calcium signaling pathway, emphasizing the crucial role of PLCE1 within the calcium signaling network of HSCs. The proposition was also made that PLCE1 holds promise as a novel therapeutic target for murine liver fibrosis.© 2024. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Nephrotic syndrome is one of the most prevalent pediatric kidney illnesses seen in pediatric nephrology clinics. Steroid resistance in children with nephrotic syndrome is a primary cause of renal failure and is characterized by nephrotic range proteinuria that does not respond to conventional steroid therapy. The current work was intended to investigate the possible role of the Phospholipase C epsilon 1 (rs7922612) and collagen4 alpha 3 (rs375290088) single nucleotide polymorphisms as risk factors for developing nephrotic syndrome among Egyptian children. The study was conducted on 100 children with nephrotic syndrome and 100 age- and sex-matched healthy individuals. Geno typing was performed by two methods of polymerase chain reaction for the analysis of PLCE1 (rs7922612) and COL4A3 (rs375290088) variants. We observed a higher percentage of the heterozygous and homozygous variant genotypes of PLCE1 (rs7922612) SNP in NS patients in comparison with the controls (P < 0.001 for both). The frequencies of the PLCE1 (rs7922612) variant showed a statistically significant elevated risk of NS using several genetic models, including the dominant (OR = 9.12), recessive (OR = 2.31), and allelic (OR = 1.62) models (P < 0.001 for each). In addition, the PLCE1 (rs7922612) genotypes and alleles frequencies did not differ significantly between SRNS compared to SSNS cases. Furthermore, there was no significant difference regarding COL4A3 (rs375290088) polymorphism, neither between the NS and control groups nor between SDNS and SRNS. PLCE1 (rs7922612) is considered an independent risk factor for nephrotic syndrome in Egyptian pediatrics.COL4A3 (rs375290088) polymorphism is not correlated to Egyptian NS patients.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The therapeutic value and long-term application of doxorubicin (DOX) were hampered by its severe irreversible cardiotoxicity. Phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE 1) was reported as a new member of the phospholipase C (PLC) family which controls the level of phosphoinositides in cells. Pyroptosis is a newly discovered inflammatory type of regulated cell death. Recent studies have consolidated that chemotherapeutic drugs lead to pyroptosis. Additionally, the phosphoinositide signaling system has remarkable effects on the execution of cell death. We aim to investigate the role of PLCE1 and the mechanism of pyroptosis from the context of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity.In the current study, in vitro and in vivo experiments were performed to dissect the underlying mechanism of cardiomyocyte pyroptosis during DOX-induced cardiac injury. The molecular mechanism of PLCE1 was identified by the human cardiomyocyte AC16 cell line and C57BL/6 mouse model.The results here indicated that PLCE1 high expressed and pyroptotic cell death presented in cardiomyocytes after DOX application, which was negatively correlated to heart function. DOX-induced cell model disclosed pyroptosis mediated by Gasdermin E (GSDME) protein and involved in mitochondrial damage. Conversely, the deletion of PLCE1 ameliorated mitochondrial dysfunction by suppressing ROS accumulation and reversing mitochondrial membrane potential, and then increased cell viability effectively. More importantly, the in vivo experiment demonstrated that inhibition of PLCE1 reduced pyroptotic cell death and improved heart effect.We discovered firstly that PLCE1 inhibition protected cardiomyocytes from DOX-induced pyroptotic injury and promoted cardiac function. This information offers a theoretical basis for promising therapy.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Keloid is a benign fibro-proliferative dermal tumor formed by an abnormal scarring response to injury and characterized by excessive collagen accumulation and invasive growth. The mechanism of keloid formation has not been fully elucidated, especially during abnormal scarring. Here, we investigated the regulatory genes, micro-RNAs (miRNAs) and transcription factors (TFs) that influence keloid development by comparing keloid and normal scar as well as keloid and normal skin.Gene expression profiles (GSE7890, GSE92566, GSE44270 and GSE3189) of 5 normal scar samples, 10 normal skin samples and 18 keloid samples from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were interrogated. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between keloid and normal skin samples as well as keloid and normal scar samples with R Project for Statistical Computing. Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment analysis was also performed with R software. DEG-associated protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed by STRING, followed by module selection from the PPI network based on the MCODE analysis. Regulatory relationships between TF/miRNA and target genes were predicted with miRnet and cytoscape. Core regulatory genes were verified by RT-qPCR.We identified 628 DEGs, of which 626 were up-regulated and 2 were down-regulated. Seven core genes [neuropeptide Y(NPY), 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A(HTR1A), somatostatin (SST), adenylate cyclase 8 (ADCY8), neuromedin U receptor 1 (NMUR1), G protein subunit gamma 3 (GNG3), and G protein subunit gamma 13 (GNG13)] all belong to MCODE1 and were enriched in the "G protein coupled receptor signaling pathway" of the GO biological process category. Furthermore, nine core miRNAs (hsa-mir-124, hsa-let-7, hsa-mir-155, hsa-mir-26a, hsa-mir-941, hsa-mir-10b, hsa-mir-20, hsa-mir-31 and hsa-mir-372), and two core TFs (SP1 and TERT) were identified to play important roles in keloid formation. In the TF/miRNA-target gene network, both hsa-mir-372 and hsa-mir-20 had a regulatory effect on GNG13, ADCY8 was predicted to be target by hsa-mir-10b, and HTR1A and NPY were potentially by SP1. Furthermore, the expression of core regulatory genes (GNG13, ADCY8, HTR1A and NPY) was validated in clinical samples.GNG13, ADCY8, NPY and HTR1A may act as core genes in keloid formation and these core genes establish relationship with SP1 and miRNA (hsa-mir-372, hsa-mir-20, hsa-mir-10b), which may influence multiple signaling pathways in the pathogenesis of keloid.© 2021. The Author(s).
This investigation was aimed to identify gene profiles in human atrial myocardium in response to chronic mechanical stretch. Right atrial appendages from 21 patients were divided into 2 groups based on the size of right atrial volume. The microarray DATA analyses differentially identified 335 genes (> 2.0-fold, corrected P < 0.05) including "functionally unknown genes". This study identified 26 up-regulated genes (natriuretic peptide B, G protein subunit gamma 13, thyroid stimulating hormone beta, etc.) and 23 down-regulated genes (oligodendrocyte transcription factor 1, carbonic anhydrase 12, etc.), which could be responsible for chronic stretch-mediated structural remodeling in the atrium.
The melanopsin (OPN4) gene is crucial in visual and non-visual processes. Certain single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of this gene have been linked to altered light sensitivity, photoentrainment, sleep disorders, and metabolic problems, which suggests a systemic effect of light exposure. The aim of this systematic review is to explore the current literature regarding the OPN4 gene and its SNPs, along with their associations with health-related problems. The literature search was conducted in PubMed and ScienceDirect databases using the following key terms: ("Melanopsin" OR "OPN4" OR "Opsin 4") AND ("Polymorphism" OR "SNP" OR "Variant"). The publications were from January 1998 to February 2025. We identified 763 studies, and after screening titles, abstracts, full texts, and the inclusion and exclusion criteria, nine studies were included in the review. The review was conducted by two independent reviewers following the PRISMA guidelines. Our review revealed that some SNPs of the OPN4 gene, such as P10L, I394T, and R168C, are associated with affective states, changes in chronotype, and sleep disorders: P10L variant has been associated to seasonal affective disorder (SAD), chronotype, and chronic insomnia; I394T variant has been linked to the pupillary light response (PLR) and sleep/wake timing, while R168C variant has been associated with delayed sleep-wake phase disorder (DSWPD). Currently, the remaining SNPs have no reported associations, and the existing literature does not describe any specific molecular mechanisms through which these variants could modulate or alter OPN4 function. Future research should aim to explore these identified SNPs with alternative associations related to OPN4 functions.Copyright © 2025 Lucio-Enríquez, Rubio-Valles, Ramos-Jiménez and Pérez-León.
Many rhodopsin-like G-protein-coupled receptors (Rh-GPCRs) are known to either promote or inhibit angiogenesis. Among these, Opsin 4 and Opsin 5 are specifically involved in vascular development within the eye. Opsin 3 (OPN3), another member of Rh-GPCRs, performs a variety of light-dependent and light-independent functions in extraocular tissue. However, its role in endothelial cells and angiogenesis remains unclear. Here, we found that OPN3 knockdown or knockout in zebrafish impairs embryonic angiogenesis and vascular development. Similarly, silencing OPN3 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) inhibits cellular proliferation, migration, sprouting, and tube formation, while OPN3 overexpression promotes these cellular processes. Moreover, OPN3 regulates angiogenesis in HUVECs through the VEGFR2-AKT pathway, with OPN3 and VEGFR2 co-localizing at the plasma membrane and forming a physical complex. These findings provide new insights into the non-light-dependent functions of OPN3 in angiogenesis, expanding our understanding of its physiological roles and offering potential therapeutic strategies for angiogenesis-related diseases.© 2025. The Author(s).
The non-visual photoreceptor opsin 3 (OPN3) performs various functions by directly accepting light and activating G protein-coupled receptor signalling in non-visual tissues. OPN3, which is expressed in brown adipocytes, induces the expression of uncoupling protein 1 to generate heat upon exposure to blue light. There have been few reports on OPN3 expression in ruminants, and the mRNA sequence registered in a database as bovine OPN3 is the only predicted sequence. Therefore, we examined OPN3 expression in cattle. In the bovine retina, amplified fragments of the visual opsins, rhodopsin and opsin 1 and the non-visual opsins, opsin 4 and opsin 5, were detected using reverse transcription PCR, whereas no amplified PCR products of OPN3 were detected. Eleven tissues were used to analyse OPN3 expression in the entire body of bovines, including the testis and placenta, where OPN3 is highly expressed in humans and mice. No amplified PCR products were detected in any of the tissues. In a comparison among animal species, OPN3 was found to be expressed in mouse and horse testes, whereas no expression was observed in cattle and goat tissues. RNA sequencing revealed no OPN3 transcripts in the bovine placenta. Direct genomic DNA sequencing revealed a stop codon in the middle of the bovine OPN3 sequence. These results suggest that bovine OPN3 is pseudogenic as it does not encode a complete receptor protein. They also indicated that OPN3 is pseudogenic not only in cattle but also in other Cetartiodactyla, including goats.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37294113 is a review article
Synthetic progestins levonorgestrel (LNG) and dydrogesterone (DDG) are frequency detected in surface water. Combined effects of LNG and DDG on gonad differentiation are similar to LNG single exposure in juvenile zebrafish. However, LNG and DDG mixtures have stronger effects on spermatogenesis in testes of adult zebrafish, which show variable at different life stage. Effects of LNG and DDG mixtures on eyes and brain remain unknown. Here we investigated effects of LNG, DDG and their mixtures on eyes and brain. Zebrafish were exposed to LNG, DDG and their mixtures from 2 hpf to 144 dpf. Rhythm and vision related biological processes were enriched in eyes and brain in LNG and DDG treatments, which indicated rhythmic oscillation in eyes and brain. The qPCR data revealed that both LNG and DDG decreased transcription of arntl2 and clocka, while increased transcription of per1a, per1b, rpe65a and tefa in eyes and brain. However, DDG and LNG mixtures had slight effect on transcription of genes related to rhythm and vision. In addition, LNG and DDG reduced the thickness of inner nuclear layer in the eyes. Bliss independent model revealed that LNG and DDG had antagonist effects on transcription and histology in eyes and brain. Moreover, LNG and DDG formed the same hydrogen bonds with green-sensitive opsin-4 and rhodopsin kinase GRK7a. Taken together, LNG and DDG competed with each other for the same binding residues resulting in antagonist effect in their mixtures treatments, and have significant ecological implications to assess combined effects of progestins mixtures on fish in different organs.Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is an inflammatory disease in which eosinophil (Eos) infiltration into polyp tissues is associated with disease prognosis. Our previous study found that linoleic acid is an important differential metabolite. However, lipid metabolism in nasal polyps has been insufficiently investigated. This study aimed to explore the characteristics of lipid metabolism in CRSwNP tissue.This study employed a multi-omics approach by integrating lipidomics and single-cell transcriptomics. The lipidomics analysis was performed using nasal mucosal tissues obtained from 32 patients with nasal polyps and 20 healthy controls. The sequencing findings were validated by using immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting.Phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylcholine were the most abundant lipids expressed in the sinus mucosa, and lysophosphatidylinositol (LPI) was significantly increased in the eosinophilic CRSwNP group compared to the noneosinophilic CRSwNP and the control groups. The LPI levels showed significant positive correlations with the Eos counts and percentages in nasal polyp tissue. The expressions of membrane-bound O-acyltransferase 7 and receptor G-protein coupled receptor 55 in the LPI metabolic pathway were significantly elevated in eosinophilic nasal polyps, and their expression was mainly localized to Eos in polyp tissues.There are differences in the lipidomic patterns between healthy individuals and patients with CRSwNP. The LPI metabolic axis may be associated with Eos activation in polyp tissue. These findings could provide new insights into the pathogenesis and endotyping of CRSwNP.Copyright © 2026 The Korean Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Clinical Immunology • The Korean Academy of Pediatric Allergy and Respiratory Disease.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42284890 is a review article
Pharmacological treatment of metabolic-dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis remains challenging due to its complex pathophysiology. The endocannabinoidome (eCB) has emerged as a promising therapeutic target given its central role in energy homeostasis and its pharmacological tractability. Western-style diets high in fat and sugar exacerbate metabolic liver disease, highlighting the need for effective interventions. Here, we investigated the therapeutic potential of cannabinoid combinations targeting the eCB-liver axis in a Western diet-induced model of metabolic dysfunction. Two weeks of treatment reduced body weight, improved glycaemic control, and ameliorated liver pathology. These effects were accompanied by decreased liver weight, improved liver enzyme profiles, and reduced histological features of steatosis and injury. Overall, these findings suggest that modulation of the eCB system can induce acute improvements in metabolic and hepatic parameters under conditions of diet-induced metabolic stress. These results support further investigation into the eCB system as a therapeutic target, particularly to elucidate underlying mechanisms and longer-term effects.
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) is a complex signaling network that regulates diverse physiological processes, including pain, mood, metabolism, and immune response, through coordinated interactions among receptors, enzymes, and lipid-derived ligands. Although individual ECS components have been extensively studied, the integrated systems-level organization and structural dependencies of the ECS remain insufficiently characterized in a unified network context. Here, we present a computational, network-based systems analysis of the ECS that integrates protein-protein and protein-chemical interactions into a unified interaction framework, enabling the identification of components that occupy structurally prominent positions in the network, with potential relevance to the role of ECS in diverse physiological processes and therapeutic contexts.We constructed integrated ECS networks by combining experimentally validated protein-protein and protein-chemical interactions from multiple public databases. Network analyses were performed using centrality metrics, community detection algorithms, and targeted perturbations of highly ranked nodes to assess structural organization, modular architecture, and redistribution of topological influence.Centrality analyses systematically identified nodes with high topological prominence across the ECS network. Canonical receptors cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) and cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2) ranked consistently among the most influential nodes, while non-canonical components such as transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), G-protein coupled receptor 55 (GPR55), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), and diacylglycerol lipase alpha (DAGLα) also emerged as highly ranked nodes across multiple centrality measures. Closeness and eigenvector centrality further highlighted phytocannabinoids including cannabidiol (CBD), tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV), and cannabidivarin (CBDV) as structurally well-connected components within the network. Community detection revealed a modular organization separating receptor-mediated signaling components from endocannabinoid metabolic processes, with clusters centered on CB1/CB2 signaling machinery and enzymes such as FAAH and diacylglycerol lipase beta (DAGLβ), which are associated with 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) turnover. Perturbation analyses demonstrated that removal of dominant hubs, particularly CB1, redistributed centrality and altered shortest-path structure, increasing the relative prominence of nodes such as CB2 and GPR55 while decreasing that of others such as DAGLβ and linoleoyl ethanolamide (LEA). These findings identify structurally influential and configuration-dependent nodes whose prominence becomes apparent through network-level analysis.By mapping the ECS as an integrated interaction network, this study provides a structural framework for understanding how receptors, enzymes, and ligands collectively shape ECS organization. Our results demonstrate that network analysis can identify structurally influential components within the ECS, highlighting nodes whose importance emerges from the overall network organization. The identification of highly ranked and perturbation-sensitive nodes offers a systematic basis for prioritizing underexplored components for hypothesis-driven experimental investigation and pharmacological study. More broadly, this work establishes a network-based foundation for expanding ECS modeling to incorporate additional molecular entities, interaction directionality, signaling dynamics, and tissue- or context-specific interactions, thereby informing future therapeutic strategies targeting the ECS and its interacting molecular pathways across diverse physiological processes and disease pathways.© 2026. The Author(s).
Canine mammary carcinoma (CMC) is characterised by a chronic inflammatory microenvironment resembling human breast cancer; however, the upstream regulatory mechanisms driving this phenotype remain unclear. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) has emerged as a potential modulator of inflammation and tumour biology. This study investigated the role of the ECS in CMC and evaluated the anti-inflammatory effects of cannabidiol (CBD).Primary cell cultures were established from surgically excised CMC tissues, with matched normal mammary epithelium used as controls. Basal mRNA expression of ECS-related receptors (CB1, CB2, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 [TRPV1], G-protein-coupled receptor 55 [GPR55] and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha [PPAR-α]) and inflammatory mediators (COX-1, COX-2, interleukin [IL]-4, IL-6, IL-33, IL-17A, tumour necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-α] and LCN2) was assessed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Cytokine secretion (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α and IL-17A) was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Cell viability assays were performed to determine the 24-h IC50 of CBD (32 µM), and sub-cytotoxic concentrations (3, 10 and 20 µM) were subsequently applied for 24 h.Canine mammary carcinoma-derived cells exhibited significant overexpression of ECS receptors (CB1, CB2, TRPV1, GPR55 and PPAR-α) compared to normal controls. These cells also showed increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α and IL-17A. Treatment with CBD at 10-20 µM significantly downregulated key inflammatory genes, particularly COX-2, IL-6 and TNF-α, and reduced corresponding cytokine release without compromising cell viability.The ECS is upregulated in CMC and appears to contribute to the inflammatory tumour microenvironment. Cannabidiol effectively attenuates this inflammatory phenotype at sub-cytotoxic concentrations, supporting its potential as a therapeutic agent in CMC.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Record Open published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Veterinary Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42072396 is a review article
Cisplatin (CDDP) is an effective chemotherapeutic agent used to treat solid tumors, but it can cause irreversible hearing loss. Currently, there are no specific preventive measures available for this side effect. G protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55) exhibits antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic properties and is implicated in various disease processes. Nevertheless, whether GPR55 plays a role in CDDP-induced hearing loss remains unclear. We explored the effects and mechanisms of O-1602, a GPR55 agonist, on CDDP-induced ototoxicity. Our results showed that GPR55 is present in cochlear hair cells and HEI-OC1 cells, with increased expression following CDDP exposure. Moreover, O-1602-induced activation of GPR55 markedly mitigated the ototoxic effects of CDDP in HEI-OC1 cells, cochlear explants, and mouse models by preventing oxidative stress and apoptosis. In addition, GPR55 protected against CDDP-induced damage via inhibiting the MAPK pathway. Therefore, GPR55 is a potential therapeutic target for preventing CDDP-induced ototoxicity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41966803 is a review article
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype and currently lacks defined therapeutic targets. Although miR-152-3p functions as a tumor suppressor in various cancers, its specific mechanism and regulatory network in TNBC remain poorly understood.To investigate the expression and tumor-suppressive function of miR-152-3p in TNBC cells and to elucidate its mechanism of targeting STAT3, RELA and ADCY6.miR-152-3p expression was compared between MDA-MB-231 and MCF-10A cells using qRT-PCR. MDA-MB-231 cells were transfected with miR-152-3p mimics or inhibitors and cell proliferation, apoptosis and invasion were assessed by MTT assay, flow cytometry and Transwell assay, respectively. Direct target interactions were validated by a dual-luciferase reporter assay, and protein levels of STAT3, RELA, and ADCY6 were examined by Western blot. Key findings were further validated in Hs 578T cells.miR-152-3p expression was significantly downregulated in TNBC cells. Overexpression of miR-152-3p markedly inhibited proliferation and invasion while promoting apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells. Dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-152-3p directly binds to the 3'untranslated regions of STAT3, RELA and ADCY6. Overexpression of miR-152-3p significantly reduced STAT3 and RELA protein levels while upregulating ADCY6 expression. Rescue experiments demonstrated that restoration of STAT3 expression partially reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of miR-152-3p. These findings were recapitulated in Hs 578T cells, suggesting generalizability across TNBC subtypes.miR-152-3p suppresses TNBC progression by downregulating STAT3/RELA and upregulating ADCY6, thereby activating cAMP signaling. These findings provide a foundation for further investigation into the potential of miR-152-3p as a multi-target therapeutic strategy for TNBC.
Hypochlorous acid (HOCl), made by neutrophil-derived myeloperoxidase, has been suggested to inhibit platelets, however, the mechanisms involved have not been described. Here we confirm that HOCl exposure changes platelet morphology and inhibits platelet spreading and aggregation. HOCl effects could be reversed by glutathione suggesting a role for cysteine oxidation. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics of HOCl-exposed platelets revealed oxidised cysteine residues in 37 proteins including adenylate cyclase 6 and Rap1B. Adenylate cyclase is involved in the inhibitory cAMP pathway triggered by endothelium-derived prostacyclin and Rap1 is a small G protein required for integrin αIIbβ3 activation and platelet aggregation. We show that HOCl exposure stimulates cAMP production and phosphorylation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase substrate VASP in platelets and transfected HEK293T cells. In addition, HOCl inhibited Rap1-GTP formation. These data suggest that HOCl inhibits platelets at least in part through the cAMP pathway and by regulating Rap1. Thus, this study provides new insights into HOCl mediated crosstalk between neutrophils and platelets.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection can cause chronic activation, exhaustion, and anergy of the immune system. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) is an immune checkpoint molecule, which plays an important role in immune homeostasis and disease. CTLA-4 expression is elevated in HIV-1-infected patients and is associated with disease progression. However, the mechanism controlling expression of CTLA-4 in HIV-1 infection is poorly characterized. In this study, we used a SIV-infected Chinese rhesus macaque (ChRM) model to explore CTLA-4 expression in SIV infection. Results showed that SIV infection significantly increased CTLA-4 expression in all T cell subsets, especially central memory T cells. CTLA-4+CD4+ T cell frequency was significantly associated with disease progression markers. Activation of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathway regulated CTLA-4 expression in CD4+T cells, as confirmed by stimulation with dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate, forskolin, and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, and inhibition with H-89 ex vivo. Simultaneously, cAMP concentration in PBMCs and PKA activity in both PBMCs and CD4+ T cells were increased in acute SIV-infected ChRMs, accompanied by an increase in adenylate cyclase 6 expression and a decrease in cAMP-phosphodiesterase 3A (PDE3A), PDE4B, and PDE5A expression in PBMCs. In addition, selective inhibition of PDE4B and PDE5A activity enhanced CTLA-4 expression in CD4+ T cells. These results suggest that SIV infection alters cAMP metabolism and increases cAMP-PKA signaling pathway activation, which up-regulates the expression of CTLA-4 in acute SIVmac239-infected ChRMs. Thus, regulation of the cAMP-PKA signaling pathway may be a potential strategy for the restoration of T cell function and therapy for AIDS.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC) is a malignant tumor. Recently, studies have found that adenylate cyclase 6 (ADCY6) plays a pivotal role in many lethal tumors formation processes. The role of ADCY6 in OTSCC remains unknown. The expression of ADCY6 in OTSCC tissue samples was detected. The clinical significance of ADCY6 in OTSCC was analyzed by statistical methods. OTSCC cell lines were selected to analyze the biological function of ADCY6. Meanwhile, the effect of ADCY6 on the growth of OTSCC in vivo was explored using subcutaneous tumorigenesis assay. WB assay was used to detect the underlying signaling pathway. Cell function recovery test used to investigate the mechanism of ADCY6-promoting OTSCC malignant biological behavior via Hippo signaling pathway. We report that ADCY6 was obviously downregulated in OTSCC tissue samples and cell lines. Importantly, lower expression of ADCY6 indicates a poorer prognosis in patients with OTSCC, and its expression is significantly correlated with TNM stage and tumor size. Functionally, forced expression of ADCY6 can significantly inhibit the proliferation, migration, invasion, and promote apoptosis of OTSCC cells. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that ADCY6 upregulation impaired Hippo signaling pathway to reduce the malignant biological behavior of OTSCC. Generally, our findings suggest that ADCY6 suppressed Hippo signaling pathway to regulate malignant biological behavior in OTSCC, which provide new cues for further exploring the mechanism of occurrence and development of OTSCC.© 2023 The Authors. The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Diapause of the silkworm (Bombyx mori) is an important ecological adaptation strategy regulated by multiple signaling pathways. As an evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway, the insulin/IGF signaling (IIS) pathway is essential in regulating lifespan, energy accumulation, and stress resistance in diapause insects. However, the regulatory mechanism of IIS on diapause in B. mori is still not fully understood. To investigate the role of the IIS pathway in regulating diapause, we first analyzed the transcription levels of the insulin receptor (BmINR) and its downstream gene adenylate cyclase 6 (BmAC6). The diapause-terminated eggs of a bivoltine strain QiuFeng (V2-QF) were incubated at 25 °C in natural room light for preparing diapause egg producers (DEPs) and at 17 °C in total darkness for preparing non-diapause egg producers (NDEPs), respectively. Then we investigated the effects of BmINR and BmAC6 on diapause phenotype and expression of diapause-related genes by RNA interference (RNAi) and overexpression techniques. The results showed that the mRNA expression levels of BmINR and BmAC6 in the head and ovary of NDEPs were higher than those in DEPs during the early and middle pupal stages. Furthermore, when BmINR was knocked down in the NDEPs, approximately 14.43% of eggs were in light red color and subsequently changed into gray-purple color after 48 h post-oviposition, then stayed in a diapause state. On the other hand, overexpression of BmINR or BmAC6 via recombinant baculoviruses did not cause any obvious phenotypic alterations in NDEPs, but it upregulated the expression of genes related to carbohydrate metabolism, which provides energy for embryonic growth and development. Therefore, it can be concluded that BmINR and BmAC6 genes regulate embryonic diapause in bivoltine B. mori.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vitamins and microelements play essential roles in mammalian ovarian physiology, including follicle development, ovulation, and synthesis and secretion of hormones and growth factors. However, it is nevertheless elusive to what extent exogenous supplementation with mixtures of vitamins ADE, zinc (Zn), and selenium (Se) affects follicular growth and granulosa cells (GCs) molecular function. We herein investigated their effect on follicular growth and GCs physiological function. We showed that follicular growth and ovulation time was accelerated and shortened with the increases of vitamins ADE, Zn, and Se doses by continually monitoring and recording (one estrus cycle of about 21 days) with an ultrasound scanner. Integrated omics analysis showed that there was a sophisticated network relationship, correlation expression, and enrichment pathways of the genes and metabolites highly related to organic acids and their derivatives and lipid-like molecules. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) results showed that vitamin D receptor (VDR), transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily m member 6 (TRPM6), transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily v member 6 (TRPV6), solute carrier family 5 member 1 (SLC5A1), arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (ALOX5), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR), prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2), and insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) had a strong correlation between the transcriptome data. Combined multi-omics analysis revealed that the protein digestion and absorption, ABC transporters, biosynthesis of amino acids, aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, mineral absorption, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, glycine, serine and threonine metabolism, arginine biosynthesis, and ovarian steroidogenesis were significantly enriched. We focused on the gene-metabolite interactions in ovarian steroidogenesis, founding that insulin receptor (INSR), phospholipase a2 group IVA (PLA2G4A), adenylate cyclase 6 (ADCY6), cytochrome p450 family 1 subfamily b member 1 (CYP1B1), protein kinase camp-activated catalytic subunit beta (PRKACB), cytochrome p450 family 17 subfamily a member 1 (CYP17A1), and phospholipase a2 group IVF (PLA2G4F) were negatively correlated with β-estradiol (E2), progesterone (P4), and testosterone (T) (P < 0.05). while ALOX5 was a positive correlation with E2, P4, and T (P < 0.05); cytochrome p450 family 19 subfamily a member 1 (CYP19A1) was a negative correlation with cholesterol (P < 0.01). In mineral absorption, our findings further demonstrated that there was a positive correlation between solute carrier family 26 member 6 (SLC26A6), SLC5A1, and solute carrier family 6 member 19 (SLC6A19) with Glycine and L-methionine. Solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1) was a negative correlation with Glycine and L-methionine (P < 0.01). TRPV6 and ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 1 (ATP1A1) were positively associated with Glycine (P < 0.05); while ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit beta 3 (ATP1B3) and cytochrome b reductase 1 (CYBRD1) were negatively related to L-methionine (P < 0.05). These outcomes suggested that the vitamins ADE, Zn, and Se of mixtures play an important role in the synthesis and secretion of steroid hormones and mineral absorption metabolism pathway through effects on the expression of the key genes and metabolites in GCs. Meanwhile, these also are required for physiological function and metabolism of GCs. Collectively, our outcomes shed new light on the underlying mechanisms of their effect on follicular growth and GCs molecular physiological function, helping explore valuable biomarkers.Copyright © 2022 Guo, Zhao, Li, Dai, Wu, Wu and Zeng.
Early detection of biomarkers in lung cancer is one of the best preventive strategies. Although many attempts have been made to understand the early events of lung carcinogenesis including cigarette smoking (CS) induced lung carcinogenesis, the integrative metabolomics and next-generation sequencing approaches are lacking. In this study, we treated the female A/J mice with CS carcinogen 4-[methyl(nitroso)amino]-1-(3-pyridinyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and naturally occurring organosulphur compound, diallyl sulphide (DAS) for 2 and 4 weeks after NNK injection and examined the metabolomic and DNA CpG methylomic and RNA transcriptomic profiles in the lung tissues. NNK drives metabolic changes including mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid (TCA) metabolites and pathways including Nicotine and its derivatives like nicotinamide and nicotinic acid. RNA-seq analysis and Reactome pathway analysis demonstrated metabolism pathways including Phase I and II drug metabolizing enzymes, mitochondrial oxidation and signaling kinase activation pathways modulated in a sequential manner. DNA CpG methyl-seq analyses showed differential global methylation patterns of lung tissues from week 2 versus week 4 in A/J mice including Adenylate Cyclase 6 (ADCY6), Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 3 (Rac3). Oral DAS treatment partially reversed some of the mitochondrial metabolic pathways, global methylation and transcriptomic changes during this early lung carcinogenesis stage. In summary, our result provides insights into CS carcinogen NNK's effects on driving alterations of metabolomics, epigenomics and transcriptomics and the chemopreventive effect of DAS in early stages of sequential lung carcinogenesis in A/J mouse model.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
The impact of lipid metabolism on the development and prognosis of bone metastasis from breast cancer (BRCA) is currently unknown. Sequencing data of BRCA samples in this study were obtained from the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) Xena database. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs1) between the BRCA group and the control group, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs2) between the bone metastasis group and the non-bone metastasis group, and the lipid metabolism score-related genes (LMSRGs) were intersected to obtain LMSRGs (DE-LMSRGs). Biomarkers were obtained using univariate logistic regression analysis, support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) and multivariate logistic regression analysis for Correlation Analysis, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, Immunohistochemistry, Co-creation of Networks, and Drug Prediction, and then analyses were performed using Immunohistochemistry, Western blot analyses to validate the samples. We identified two biomarkers (Regulator of G-protein Signaling 9 Binding Protein (RGS9BP) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3)). There were nine immune cells that were markedly differential between bone metastasis and non-bone metastasis groups, such as activated dendritic cell, neutrophil, plasmacytoid dendritic cell, etc. Then, the lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network was created, including the regulated relationship pairs HLX-AS1-hsa-mir-541-SOCS3, ZNF337-AS1-hsa-mir-541-SOCS3. Molecular docking analyses have demonstrated that the complexes formed by SOCS3 alongside folic acid, estradiol, and S-Adenosylmethionine exhibit heightened stability. Similarly, the pairing of RGS9BP with benzopyrene showcases a notable degree of stability. Finally, the biomarkers were associated with angiogenesis scores and most angiogenesis related genes (ARGs). Our study identified two potential biomarkers (RGS9BP and SOCS3) for prognostic evaluation of bone metastasis patients with BRCA. These findings provided a scientific reference for further research on bone metastasis in BRCA patients.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-025-00221-0.© International Human Phenome Institutes (Shanghai) 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
To report multimodal imaging findings and natural history of clinical features in two probands with bradyopsia harboring homozygous variants (c.895T>C) in Regulator of G-protein Signaling 9 (RGS9).Ophthalmic history, clinical examination, fundus autofluorescence (FAF), optical coherence tomography (OCT), microperimetry, flood-illuminated adaptive optics (AO) imaging, and electroretinogram (ERG) were obtained.A 37-year-old male and a 67-year-old female from non-consanguineous parents had normal fundus examination, FAF, and OCT. ERGs for the male case between the age of 4 and 38 years showed no progression. Both probands had flat International Society for Clinical Electrophysiology of Vision (ISCEV) Standard full-field ERG light-adapted (LA) responses but dark-adapted (DA) red x-wave and S-cone responses were present. DA 30 Hz flicker was present after 2 but not after 10 seconds. The reduced amplitude and b:a ratio of the DA10 response improved with increasing interstimulus interval. AO and microperimetry demonstrated preservation of foveal cone density and subnormal retinal sensitivity, respectively. Both measures remained stable over 3 years. The c.895T>C variant was classified as pathogenic.Bradyopsia associated with homozygous RGS9 c.895T>C variants is characterized by normal retinal structure but subnormal macular sensitivity. Extended ERG protocols can be used to confirm delayed phototransduction recovery.
Human cone outer segment (COS) length changes in response to stimuli bleaching up to 99% of L- and M-cone opsins were measured with high resolution, phase-resolved optical coherence tomography (OCT). Responses comprised a fast phase (∼5 ms), during which COSs shrink, and two slower phases (1.5 s), during which COSs elongate. The slower components saturated in amplitude (∼425 nm) and initial rate (∼3 nm ms-1) and are well described over the 200-fold bleaching range as the sum of two exponentially rising functions with time constants of 80 to 90 ms (component 1) and 1,000 to 1,250 ms (component 2). Measurements with adaptive optics reflection densitometry revealed component 2 to be linearly related to cone pigment bleaching, and the hypothesis is proposed that it arises from cone opsin and disk membrane swelling triggered by isomerization and rate-limited by chromophore hydrolysis and its reduction to membrane-localized all-trans retinol. The light sensitivity and kinetics of component 1 suggested that the underlying mechanism is an osmotic response to an amplified soluble by-product of phototransduction. The hypotheses that component 1 corresponds to G-protein subunits dissociating from the membrane, metabolites of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) hydrolysis, or by-products of activated guanylate cyclase are rejected, while the hypothesis that it corresponds to phosphate produced by regulator of G-protein signaling 9 (RGS9)-catalyzed hydrolysis of guanosine triphosphate (GTP) in G protein-phosphodiesterase complexes was found to be consistent with the results. These results provide a basis for the assessment with optoretinography of phototransduction in individual cone photoreceptors in health and during disease progression and therapeutic interventions.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33860373 is a review article
While ATPase Copper Transporting Beta ( ATP7B ), Dystonia-1 ( DYT-1 ), Lysine (K) Methyl transferase 2B ( KMT2B ), and Adenylate Cyclase 5 ( ADCY5 ) gene mutations are well-characterized causes of childhood-onset choreo-dystonic movement disorders, G protein subunit alpha O1 (GNAO1)-related disorders are not commonly suspected. The GNAO1 gene is crucial for neuronal transmission, and its mutation has been linked to neurodevelopmental delay, infantile-onset epilepsy, and movement disorders. To the best of our knowledge, only five Indian cases have been reported to date. We report a 9-year-old girl with predominant choreo-dystonic manifestations along with dyskinetic storm, i.e., episodes of significant worsening in involuntary movements following febrile episodes. Her brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was unremarkable. She presented to us in a dyskinetic crisis, which responded to oral haloperidol. Thus, GNAO1 -related disorder must be suspected in a child with developmental delay, infantile- to childhood-onset seizures with/without movement disorders, along with episodes of dyskinetic crisis related to stress or febrile episodes.Copyright © 2025 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Inducing tumor cell differentiation is a promising strategy for treating malignant cancers, including glioma, yet the critical regulator(s) underlying glioma cell differentiation is poorly understood. Here, we identify G Protein Subunit Alpha O1 (GNAO1) as a critical regulator of neural differentiation of glioma stem-like cells (GSCs). GNAO1 expression was lower in gliomas than in normal neuronal tissues and high expression of GNAO1 correlated with a better prognosis. GNAO1 overexpression markedly promoted neural differentiation of GSCs, leading to decreased cell proliferation and colony formation. Mechanistically, GNAO1 recruited TRIM21 and facilitated TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination. This ubiquitination resulted in the degradation of CREB and further reduced p300-mediated H3K27ac levels of the HES1 promoter. As a result, GNAO1 overexpression downregulated HES1 expression, which reinforced neuronal differentiation. In addition, knockdown of METTL3, a key writer of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A), enhanced GNAO1 mRNA stability. Treatment with GNAO1 adenovirus increased neuronal differentiation of tumor cells and reduced tumor cell proliferation in orthotopic GSC xenografts and temozolomide further enhanced GNAO1 adenovirus effects, resulting in extended animal survival. Our study presents that engineering GNAO1 overexpression-inducing neural differentiation of GSCs is a potential therapy strategy via synergistic inhibition of malignant proliferation and chemotherapy resistance.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
GNAO1 encodes G protein subunit alpha O1 (Gαo). Pathogenic variations in GNAO1 cause developmental delay, intractable seizures, and progressive involuntary movements from early infancy. Because the functional role of GNAO1 in the developing brain remains unclear, therapeutic strategies are still unestablished for patients presenting with GNAO1-associated encephalopathy. We herein report that siRNA-mediated depletion of Gnao1 perturbs the expression of transcripts associated with Rho GTPase signaling in Neuro2a cells. Consistently, siRNA treatment hampered neurite outgrowth and extension. Growth cone formation was markedly disrupted in monolayer neurons differentiated from iPSCs from a patient with a pathogenic variant of Gαo (p.G203R). This variant disabled neuro-spherical assembly, acquisition of the organized structure, and polarized signals of phospho-MLC2 in cortical organoids from the patient's iPSCs. We confirmed that the Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632 restored these morphological phenotypes. Thus, Gαo determines the self-organizing process of the developing brain by regulating the Rho-associated pathway. These data suggest that Rho GTPase pathway might be an alternative target of therapy for patients with GNAO1-associated encephalopathy.© 2024. The Author(s).
GNAO1-related neurodevelopmental disorder is a heterogeneous condition characterized by hypotonia, developmental delay, epilepsy, and movement disorder. This study aims to better understand the spectrum of epilepsy associated with GNAO1 variants and experience with anti-seizure medications, and to review published epilepsy phenotypes in GNAO1.An online survey was distributed to caregivers of individuals diagnosed with GNAO1 pathogenic variants, and a literature review was conducted.Fifteen respondents completed the survey with the median age of 39 months, including a novel variant p.Q52P. Nine had epilepsy - six had onset in the first week of life, three in the first year of life - but two reported no ongoing seizures. Seizure types varied. Individuals were taking a median of 3 seizure medications without a single best treatment. Our cohort was compared to a literature review of epilepsy in GNAO1. In 86 cases, 38 discrete variants were described; epilepsy is reported in 53 % cases, and a developmental and epileptic encephalopathy in 36 %.While GNAO1-related epilepsy is most often early-onset and severe, seizures may not always be drug resistant or lifelong. Experience with anti-seizure medications is varied. Certain variant "hotspots" may correlate with epilepsy phenotype though genotype-phenotype correlation is poorly understood.© 2023 The Authors.
Mutations in the G-protein subunit alpha o1 (GNAO1) gene have recently been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of early infantile epileptic encephalopathy and movement disorders. The clinical manifestations of GNAO1-associated movement disorders are highly heterogeneous. However, the genotype-phenotype correlations in this disease remain unclear, and the treatments for GNAO1-associated movement disorders are still limited.The objective of this study was to explore diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for GNAO1-associated movement disorders.This study describes the cases of three Chinese patients who had shown severe and progressive dystonia in the absence of epilepsy since early childhood. We performed genetic analyses in these patients. Patients 1 and 2 underwent globus pallidus internus (GPi) deep brain stimulation (DBS) implantation, and Patient 3 underwent subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS implantation. In addition, on the basis of a literature review, we summarized and discussed the clinical characteristics and outcomes after DBS surgery for all reported patients with GNAO1-associated movement disorders.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) analysis revealed de novo variants in the GNAO1 gene for all three patients, including a splice-site variant (c.724-8G > A) in Patients 1 and 3 and a novel heterozygous missense variant (c.124G > A; p. Gly42Arg) in Patient 2. Both GPi and STN DBS were effective in improving the dystonia symptoms of all three patients.DBS is effective in ameliorating motor symptoms in patients with GNAO1-associated movement disorders, and both STN DBS and GPi DBS should be considered promptly for patients with sustained refractory GNAO1-associated dystonia.© The Author(s), 2022.
Leukemogenesis is characterized by chromosomal rearrangements with additional molecular disruptions, yet the cooperative mechanisms are still unclear. Using whole-exome sequencing of a pair of monozygotic twins who were discordant for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with ETV6-RUNX1 (E/R) gene fusion successively after birth, we identified the R209C mutation of G protein subunit α o1 (GNAO1) as a new ALL risk loci. Moreover, GNAO1 missense mutations are recurrent in ALL patients and are associated with E/R fusion. Ectopic expression of the GNAO1 R209C mutant increased its GTPase activity and promoted cell proliferation and cell neoplastic transformation. Combined with the E/R fusion, the GNAO1 R209C mutation promoted leukemogenesis through activating PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling. Reciprocally, activated mTORC1 phosphorylated p300 acetyltransferase, which acetylated E/R and thereby enhanced the E/R transcriptional activity of GNAO1 R209C. Thus, our study provides clinical evidence of the functional cooperation of GNAO1 mutations and E/R fusion, suggesting GNAO1 as a therapeutic target in human leukemia.© 2021 by The American Society of Hematology.
Over the last 34 years, the Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices has provided an interactive forum for stakeholders to discuss investigational and recently licensed treatments for seizures and epilepsy. The Eighteenth Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVIII) took place in Madrid, Spain, on May 3-6, 2026. This article provides summaries of eight treatments in preclinical and early clinical development that were presented at EILAT XVIII. These include AUT00206, a positive allosteric modulator of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channels in development for the treatment of rare epilepsy syndromes as well as neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders; ION283, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to suppress the expression of glycogen synthase 1, under investigation for the treatment of Lafora disease; MSCA-7136, a selective allosteric RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor being developed for the treatment of focal seizures associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex; OV329, a selective inhibitor of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase, in development for the treatment of drug-resistant focal seizures; PTI5803 (probenecid), an uricosuric agent and a blocker of pannexin 1 channels, repurposed as a treatment for seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasia; simufilam, a filamin A modulator under investigation for the treatment of tuberous sclerosis complex-related epilepsy; SN-2000, a selective allosteric phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, in development for the treatment of focal seizures; and sodium selenate, a promoter of the dephosphorylation of pathological hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain, under investigation as a disease-modifying agent in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Treatments in more advanced clinical development are discussed in an accompanying article.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Spatially confined β-adrenergic receptor-cAMP nanodomain signaling depends on scaffolded protein-protein interactions (PPIs), yet converting such nanointerfaces into cell-active disruptor peptides remains challenging. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A)-filamin A complex in human cardiac tissue that is disrupted in dilated cardiomyopathy. To target this interaction, we developed a nanodomain-resolved AlphaFold3 workflow integrating interface-recurrence filtering, orthogonal docking, and peptide-binding site inference to define a tractable binding region. This approach identified a filamin A docking sequence spanning R2520-H2528, which was optimized to RLVSNHSLH and rendered cell-permeant by N-terminal polyarginine tagging. In ventricular cardiomyocytes, the peptide reduced PDE4A-filamin A proximity and selectively attenuated β-adrenergic cAMP signaling in cytosolic and sarcolemmal compartments, measured by FRET biosensors. This work establishes a potential transferable strategy for translating predicted scaffolded PPI nanointerfaces into functional disruptor peptides and highlights compartmentalized signaling complexes as actionable targets for selective cellular modulation.
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSDs) comprise rare autoimmune diseases of the CNS in which disabilities accrue with relapses. The ability to predict and prevent relapses could dramatically improve clinical outcomes, potentially reducing morbidity and quality-of-life declines. This proteomic study aimed to identify individual and composite candidate serum biomarkers predictive of NMOSD relapse.Patients with NMOSD previously enrolled in the Collaborative International Research in Clinical and Longitudinal Experience Study (CIRCLES) cohort were selected based on documented relapses simultaneous with retrievable banked cryopreserved serum. Longitudinal serum proteomic profiles were characterized using high-resolution mass spectrometry. We used linear models with logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards models with fixed-time intervals, and time-dependent Cox proportional hazards models to analyze individual proteins and proteomic profiles for their association with future relapses factoring demographics, clinical phenotype/course, and treatments.We characterized a total of 305 longitudinally collected serum samples (N = 126), using high-resolution mass spectrometry, and identified 265 proteins overall. There was a 10-protein signature with the highest average association coefficient consistently across at least 4 of the 6 modeling analyses, including factor XI, surfactant protein B, C1RL, filamin A, cholesteryl ester transfer protein, cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide, C4A, transferrin receptor, for consistency immunoglobulin kappa constant, and serum amyloid A2 protein. This signature could significantly stratify patients with higher vs lower risk of subsequent relapse. These proteins differed in their increasing or decreasing abundance trajectories in advance of relapse. Most belong to pathways plausibly related to the immunopathology of NMOSD.Collectively, these findings provide a basis for novel biomarker development to predict NMOSD relapses sufficiently in advance to enable preventive treatment.
Myxomatous mitral valve disease (MMVD) is a progressive cardiac disease characterized by extracellular matrix remodeling, leaflet thickening, and proteoglycan accumulation. Despite its significant contribution to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms involved in its development and progression remain unclear. Recent investigations have revealed a genetic component to the disease, such as mutations in the FLNA gene, and suggested potential involvement of immune cells in the pathogenesis of MMVD. In this study, we investigated the role of macrophages in MMVD using a large collection of human non-syndromic MMVD samples and a unique animal model, the Filamin-A knock-in (KI) rat.Transciptomic analysis of 78 human non-syndromic MMVD samples revealed significant enrichment of pathways associated with immune activation and macrophage recruitment. Comparative analyses between human and rat MMVD identified shared molecular signatures, validating the Filamin-A KI rat model for studying human MMVD pathophysiology. Analyses of wild-type (WT) and KI rat MVs demontrated a gradual activation of valvular cells from birth, which translated into phenotypic MV remodeling by postnatal day 7. These early events were associated with the development of a pro-inflammatory valvular environment, despite no initial increase in myeloid cells. The subsequent accumulation of macrophages in the already remodeled MV leaflets indicated the initiation of an active recruitment process, likely involved in the progression of non-syndromic MMVD.This study highlights the central role of chemotaxis and macrophage recruitment and activation in the pathophysiological processes leading to non-syndromic MMVD. Macrophage involvement emerges as a hallmark of non-syndromic MMVD, a disease previously described as non-inflammatory, and opens new avenues to identify potential therapeutic targets to mitigate disease progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The epicardium provides essential cellular and molecular cues required for proper cardiogenesis and cardiac repair. Epicardial-derived cells (EPDCs) play a pivotal role in establishing cardiac structure, contributing to coronary vasculature formation, connective tissue organization, and post-ischemic cardiac remodeling. During EPDC emergence, the epicardium must preserve a precise balance between cellular motility and epithelial integrity. However, the mechanisms determining why some epicardial cells undergo epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition to become EPDCs while others retain an epithelial state remain unclear. We show that miR-200b is expressed in a subset of epicardial cells during embryonic EPDC formation. Gain-and loss-of-function experiments reveal that miR-200b regulates the overall number of EPDCs by modulating the proportion of symmetric and asymmetric cell divisions. RNA pull-down coupled with RNA-seq, together with in vitro and ex vivo functional assays, identified filamin A (FLNA)-a key regulator of spindle positioning during asymmetric division-as a direct miR-200b target in epicardial cells. FLNA loss reduced asymmetric divisions, supporting its role in promoting this division mode. Overall, our study defines a miR-200b-FLNA axis that governs symmetric versus asymmetric division to control epicardial tissue dynamics during cardiogenesis. Additionally, altered miR-200b expression after myocardial infarction in mice and humans suggests a potential role post-MI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Filamin A (FLNA) is an actin-binding protein that regulates mechanosensitivity and functions as an intracellular signaling scaffold in various cell types. It has also been implicated in tumor growth. We recently reported FLNA expression in human ovarian granulosa cells and in KGN cells, a granulosa cell tumor (GCT) line.Immunohistochemistry analysis of 51 GCT samples revealed heterogeneous FLNA expression, with approximately 20% showing weak, 18% strong, and the majority moderate expression. We therefore conducted functional studies in KGN cells using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. A proteomic approach revealed marked changes in protein abundance upon FLNA depletion: proteins with increased abundance were predominantly related to adhesion, cytoskeletal organization, regulation of cell shape, and lipid metabolic process, whereas those with decreased abundance were associated with DNA replication, cell division, and cell cycle regulation. FLNA-knockout cells showed enlarged cell sizes, reduced proliferation, and slightly affected steroidogenesis. Disruption of FLNA further reduced migration velocity, altered actin cytoskeletal alignment under flow, and modified expression of genes involved in cytoskeletal architecture, adhesion, and mechanosensing under shear stress.Our results identify crucial roles of FLNA in shaping the cellular architecture, motility, and proliferation of KGN cells. Consequently, alterations in FLNA expression may influence intracellular signaling, and responsiveness to mechanical cues in both physiological and pathological contexts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Thiamine deficiency is a rare but life-threatening complication for which children on long term parenteral nutrition (PN) are at higher risk.We describe a 13-year-old male with intestinal failure secondary to Filamin A mutation who presented with one-week of oedema and orthopnoea. He was fully dependent on PN and his intravenous multivitamin supplementation was replaced with enteral vitamins due to a national shortage. On presentation he was tachycardic, tachypnoeic, hypotensive, and fluid overloaded. Investigations revealed hyponatraemia, hypoalbuminaemia, metabolic acidosis, and a significantly elevated lactate. Chest radiography showed bilateral pleural effusions. Intravenous thiamine and oral vitamin C supplementation led to rapid clinical improvement and testing confirmed low thiamine and vitamin C levels. His presentation was consistent with wet beriberi due to thiamine deficiency.This case highlights the risk of water-soluble vitamin deficiency in PN-dependent children during intravenous vitamin shortages and the need for biochemical monitoring.Crown Copyright © 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of International Intestinal Rehabilitation & Transplant Association.
Huntington disease's (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of a polyglutamine region (PolyQ) within the huntingtin protein (HTT). Mutated huntingtin (mHTT) is cytotoxic, particularly for striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs), whose degeneration is the hallmark of HD. Autophagy inducers currently available promote the clearance of toxic proteins. However, due to their low selectivity and the possibility that prolonged autophagy hampers essential processes in unaffected cells, researchers have questioned their benefits in neurodegenerative diseases. Since MSNs express dopamine receptors D2 (DRD2) and D3 (DRD3) and DRD2/DRD3 agonists may activate autophagy, here, we explored how healthy and mHTT-challenged cells respond to prolonged DRD2/DRD3 agonist treatment. Autophagy activation and its effects on mHTT/polyQ clearance were studied in R6/1 mice (a genetic model of HD), their wild-type littermates, and DRD2- and DRD3-HEK cells expressing a pathogenic (Q74) and a non-pathogenic (Q23) polyQ fragment of mHTT treated with the DRD2/DRD3 agonist pramipexole. Two forms of DRD3-mediated autophagy were found: a transient mTORC1-dependent in WT mice and Q23-DRD3-HEK cells and a persistent AMPK-ULK1-activated in R6/1 mice and Q74-DRD3-HEK cells. This also promoted a robust clearance of soluble mHTT/polyQ and neuroprotection in striatal neurons and DRD3-HEK cells. The findings indicate that DRD3-induced autophagy may be a safe, disease-modifying intervention in HD patients.
Accumulating preclinical evidence suggests that selective antagonists of dopamine receptor D3 (Drd3) affects opioid-induced addictive behaviors across various animal models, highlighting Drd3 as a potential therapeutic target for opioid use disorders. However, the cellular type and neural circuit mechanisms by which Drd3 mediates these effects remains unclear. We employed YQA14, a selective antagonist and knock-out to selectively block or delete Drd3 in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) or ventral tegmental area (VTA). We utilized a battery of morphine-induced self-administration assays, fiber photometry, RNAscope in situ hybridization and RT-PCR to functionally characterize the roles of antagonists of Drd3s in the morphine actions. Our results revealed Drd3 mRNA expression in approximately 80 % of vesicular GABA transporter 1 (VGAT1)-positive GABA neurons in the NAc and approximately 50 % of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopamine neurons in the VTA. Strikingly, microinjections of YQA14 into the NAc, rather than the VTA, inhibited morphine taking and cue-induced drug-seeking. Transgenic down-regulation of Drd3 gene expression in the NAc yielded similar results. To explore the dopamine-dependent mechanism underlying Drd3's action, we found that intra-NAc microinjections of YQA14 significantly reduced morphine- or cue-induced activation of dopamine neurons in the VTA during morphine self-administration or cue-induced drug-seeking tests. These results suggest that YQA14 effectively reduces opioid taking and seeking, mainly by blocking Drd3 in the NAc, which subsequently inhibits VTA dopamine neuron activity and opioid action in dopamine transmission.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The medial habenula (MHb) and its projection target, the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN), are highly conserved throughout vertebrate evolution. The MHb-IPN pathway connects the limbic system to the brainstem, consisting of subpathways that project in a topographically organized manner, and has been implicated in the regulation of fear and anxiety. Previous studies have revealed subregion-specific functions of the cholinergic ventral MHb and a substance P (SP)-positive (SP+) subpart of the dorsal MHb (dMHb). In contrast, the dMHb also contains another subpart, a SP-negative subpart known as the 'superior part of MHb (MHbS)'. Although the MHbS has been characterized from various aspects, e.g. distinct c-Fos responses to stressful events and electrophysiological properties compared to other subregions, many of its physiological functions remain to be investigated. Here we found that dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3)-Cre mice enable the labeling of the IPN subregion that receives the MHbS projection. The Cre-expressing somata within the lateral subnucleus of the IPN (LIPN) were concentrated in its most lateral area, which we refer to as the 'lateral subregion of the LIPN (lLIPN)'. This region is characterized by the absence of SP+ axons, in contrast to the medial subregion of the LIPN (mLIPN) innervated by the SP+ axons from the dorsal MHb. Chemogenetic activation and genetically induced synaptic silencing of the DRD3-Cre+ cells reduced and enhanced anxiety-like behavior, respectively. Moreover, c-Fos expression was increased in the lLIPN under an anxiogenic environment. These findings suggest that the MHbS-lLIPN pathway is activated under anxiogenic environments to counteract anxiety.© 2025. The Author(s).
The objective of this study is to conduct network toxicology analysis based on smoking habits and develop a simpler and more effective toxicology product ingestion control system.Smoking behavior can affect the pathogenesis and prognosis of neuroimmune gastrointestinal diseases.The purpose of developing tools to assist clinical practice is to avoid the harm of cigarettes to the human body.Molecular dynamics method was used to elucidate the biophysical mechanism of TP53 gene mutation caused by harmful ingredients, and the signaling pathway of midbrain edge excitation was determined by molecular dynamics of nicotine and dopamine receptor D3. The possible involvement of nicotine in neuronal damage was determined through the molecular interaction between nicotine and ACHE. Molecular pathways were analyzed based on the aforementioned biological principles, developed artificial intelligence systems and brain computer interface systems.Several signaling pathways were elucidated, and effective AI algorithms were developed.The accuracy of artificial intelligence systems is over 70%. This study provides clinical doctors with a new precision medicine strategy and tool to regulate patient behavior and reduce disease risk. Other: This project was approved by the Ethics Committee of Chifeng Cancer Hospital and reported to the WHO.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Circadian rhythm alterations are related to the onset and severity of various diseases. The expression of the dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3) is regulated by clock genes, and DRD3 functional abnormalities are linked to various neurological diseases. However, the relationship between DRD3 function and circadian machinery is unclear. Here, we demonstrate the influence of DRD3 on the circadian machinery. Although the expression of DRD3 in mouse suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) did not show a circadian rhythm, the expression of Per1 mRNA was altered in the SCN of Drd3 knockout (Drd3-/-) mice compared to that in wild-type (WT) mice. These differences were caused by the upregulation of the DRD3-extracellular signal-regulated kinase-cAMP response element binding protein (DRD3-ERK-CREB) signaling pathway in cultured cells and SCN. In addition, Drd3-/- mice demonstrated increased period length of locomotor activity than WT mice only under constant dark conditions. Expression of clock genes in the liver, which does not express DRD3, was affected by the loss of DRD3 only under constant dark conditions, similar to that in the SCN. These results suggest that DRD3 expressed in the SCN regulates the central clock via endogenous ligands and affects peripheral organs. This may provide new evidence to unravel the relationship between dopamine neurotransmission and the circadian clock, which has not yet been fully elucidated.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aim of this study was to develop a clinical application model for the rational use of caffeine.Caffeine is related to the incidence of neuro immune gastrointestinal diseases. Coffee consumption needs to be optimized in order to reduce the incidence rate.By using KEEG analysis to explore potential molecular signaling pathways involved in the progression of neurological immune gastrointestinal diseases, and analyzing the details of this signaling Pathway using molecular simulation results, which can support AI system for doctor.The research team designed a controlled experiment to analyze the differences in reward and reinforcement of Brain pleasure/addiction and dopamine related signaling pathways function between multiple groups of people with different coffee drinking habits and a blank control group. The study team used molecular dynamics methods to investigate the signaling route that links coffee with the binding of dopamine receptor D3.AI is used to predict the prevalence of gastric reflux disease.Human experiments have shown a correlation between caffeine intake and gastroesophageal reflux disease. AI algorithm results can provide clinical support, and molecular simulation results are consistent with human experimental results. Caffeine and DRD3 protein have a stable interaction system.The research team elucidated the intermolecular interaction between caffeine and DRD3, and AI algorithms can predict the likelihood of disease occurrence, providing a new strategy for clinical practice. This study has passed ethical approval at Chifeng Cancer Hospital, and the ethical documents for this study have been submitted to the World Health Organization for filing.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Dopamine is a crucial neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS) that facilitates communication among neurons. Activation of dopamine receptors in the CNS regulates key functions such as movement, cognition, and emotion. Disruption of these receptors can result in severe neurological diseases. Although recent research has elucidated the structure of D3R in complex with Gi-protein, revealing the binding and activation mechanisms, the precise conformational changes induced by G-protein activation and GDP/GTP exchange remain unclear. In this study, atomic-level long-term molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were employed to investigate the dynamics of D3R in complex with different states of Gi-protein and β-arrestin. Our simulations revealed distinct molecular switches within D3R and fluctuations in the distance between Ras and helical domains of G-protein across different G-protein-D3R states. Notably, the D3R-GTP-Gi state exhibited increased activity compared with the D3R-empty-Gi state. Additionally, analyses of potential of mean force (PMF) and free energy landscapes for various systems revealed the formation of a continuous water channel exclusively in the D3R-Gi-GTP state. Furthermore, allosteric communication pathways were proposed for active D3R bound to Gi-protein. This study offers insights into the activation mechanism when Gi-protein interacts with active D3R, potentially aiding in developing selective drugs targeting the dopaminergic system.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Many neurodegenerative and psychiatric malignancies like Parkinson' disease (PD) originate from an imbalance of 17β-Estradiol (E2) in the human brain. However, the peripheral side effects of the usage of E2 for PD therapy and less understanding of the molecular mechanism hinder establishing its neurotherapeutic potential. In the present work, systemic side effects were overcome by targeted delivery using Dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3) conjugated E2-loaded chitosan nanoparticles (Ab-ECSnps) that showed a promising delivery to the brain. E2 is a specific calpain inhibitor that fosters neurodegeneration by disrupting mitochondrial function, while B-cell-specific Moloney murine leukemia virus integration region 1 (BMI1), an epigenetic regulator, is crucial in preserving mitochondrial homeostasis. We showed the administration of Ab-ECSnps inhibits calpain's translocation into mitochondria while promoting the translocation of BMI1 to mitochondria, thereby conferring neurotherapeutic benefits by enhancing cell viability, increasing mitochondrial DNA copy number, and preserving mitochondrial membrane potential. Further, we showed a novel molecular mechanism of BMI1 regulation by calpain that might contribute to maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis for attenuating PD. Concomitantly, Ab-ECSnps showed neurotherapeutic potential in the in vivo PD model. We showed for the first time that our brain-specific targeted delivery might regulate calpain-mediated BMI1 expression, thereby preserving mitochondrial homeostasis to alleviate PD.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder influenced by genetic and environmental factors. This study examined the specific gene variants, dopamine transporter 1 (DAT1) rs6350, dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3) rs6280, dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) rs6277, and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) rs4633, in relation to ADHD among Pakistani children by exploring the potential gene-gene and gene-environment interactions.A total of 100 cases of ADHD and 100 healthy children were recruited. The tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS) assays were designed for genotyping the selected variants in both groups, and their association with ADHD was determined in different genetic models. Gene-gene and gene-environmental interactions were determined by the multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) method.The DAT1 rs6350 SNV AA genotype showed a significantly increased risk for ADHD in the codominant and recessive models. Conversely, the AG genotype demonstrated a protective factor for ADHD in the codominant and overdominant models. The DRD3 rs6280 T allele exhibited a decreased risk for ADHD, and the TT genotype showed a reduced risk in the recessive and log-additive models. No association between the DRD2 rs6277 and COMT rs4633 SNVs with ADHD was found in our population. The MDR analysis of the best three-fold interaction model showed redundancy between DAT1 rs6350 and DRD3 rs6280; however, the risk was increased with the gender variable, which showed a weak synergistic interaction with these SNVs.Genes associated with dopaminergic neurotransmission may contribute to the occurrence of ADHD. Furthermore, gene-gene and gene-environmental interactions may increase ADHD susceptibility.© 2024 The Author(s).
Levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) is a debilitating motor feature in a subset of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) after prolonged therapeutic administration of levodopa. Preliminary animal and human studies are suggestive of a key role of dopamine type 3 (D3) receptor polymorphism (Ser9Gly; rs6280) in LID. Its contribution to development of LID among Indian PD patients has remained relatively unexplored and merits further investigation.200 well-characterised PD patients (100 without LID and 100 with LID) and 100 age-matched healthy controls were recruited from the outpatient department of Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata. MDS-UPDRS (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale from International Movement Disorder Society) Part III and AIMS (abnormal involuntary movement scale) were performed for estimation of severity of motor features and LID respectively in the ON state of the disease. Participants were analysed for the presence of Ser9Gly single nucleotide variant (SNV) (rs6280) by polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism techniques.The frequency of AA genotype (serine type) was more frequently present in PD patients with LID compared to PD patients without LID (50 % vs 28 %; P = 0.002; OR = 2.57, 95 % CI: 1.43 - 4.62). The abnormal involuntary movement scale score was significantly higher in PD patients with AA genotype compared to carriers of glycine allele (AG + GG) (4.08 ± 3.35; P = 0.002).We observed a significant association of serine type SNV (rs6280) in D3 receptor gene in a cohort of PD patients with LID from India. More severe motor severity was found in patients with glycine substitution of the same SNV. The current study emphasised the role of D3 receptor in the pathogenesis of LID.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1, also known as excitatory amino acid transporter 3) is a member of the EAAT family of sodium-dependent glutamate carriers. Ferroptosis is a nonapoptotic cell death that is caused by phospholipid peroxidation promoted by radical reactions involving iron. Here, we identify SLC1A1 as a driver of ferroptosis resistance in PDAC cells and delineate the cause of its upregulation. SLC1A1 was overexpressed in PDAC tumors and correlated with poorer prognosis. Knockdown of SLC1A1 reduced cystine uptake by inhibiting glutamate transport, leading to decreased cysteine, GSH, and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) content, and the production of ROS and lipid peroxidation. Knockdown of SLC1A1 enhanced the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC cells and promoted ferroptosis inducer RSL3-induced ferroptosis and tumor suppression. Long noncoding RNA RASSF1-AS1 bound to CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) protein, thereby inhibiting CTCF-mediated SLC1A1 transcription. Overexpression of RASSF1-AS1 enhanced the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC by blocking glutamate transport in vitro and in vivo, which was reversed by restoring CTCF/SLC1A1 signaling. Taken together, RASSF1-AS1 enhances the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC by inhibiting the CTCF/SLC1A1 axis-mediated intracellular transport of glutamate.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The parental imprinted GNAS complex locus encodes the α-subunit of the stimulatory G protein. Pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ib (PHP1B) is characterized by renal resistance to parathormone and is caused by epigenetic anomalies, ie, at least the loss of methylation (LOM) at the A/B differentially methylated region (DMR). LOM or gain of methylation (GOM) may also affect other DMRs and different transcripts expressions within the locus (NESP, exon H, AS1, XLαs, A/B). Most PHP1B are sporadic and result from abnormal methylation of all DMRs in the regulatory region of GNAS. Autosomal dominant PHP1B (AD-PHP1B) is usually caused by a recurrent STX16 gene microdeletion in the maternal allele which leads to isolated LOM at the A/B DMR. In this study, we investigated an AD-PHP1B family without STX16 deletion using whole genome sequencing (WGS). The two affected siblings presented a LOM at the A/B DMR and the half telomeric portion of the XLαs DMR and their healthy mother presented a partial GOM at the AS1 DMR and the half centromeric portion of the XLαs DMR. The WGS analysis revealed a 140-kb paracentric inversion with breakpoints located in the NPEPL1 gene and XLαs DMR. We identified the first inversion involving the regulatory region of GNAS locus leading to a maternally inherited AD-PHP1B. This observation provides additional insight into the methylation regulatory elements in the GNAS locus on both alleles, especially on NESP and exon H transcription-mediated methylation. This study will help design subsequent strategies for further studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Appendiceal cancer (AC) is a rare malignancy that often presents at advanced stages with significant histological variability influencing clinical outcomes. Precise genomic profiling is essential for accurate diagnosis and personalized patient management. This study interrogated DNA from appendiceal tumor tissue, buffy coat cells, and the cell-free DNA component of plasma using a 523-gene panel for comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) to identify cancer-related genetic mutations in tumor and blood, evaluate tumor mutation burden, and determine genetic markers associated with histologic grade.A total of 73 patients provided blood samples comprising cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and germline buffy coat cells (bcDNA) for analysis compared with tumor tissues available from 56 of these patients. Concordance of mutations between matched tumor tissue and plasma samples (n = 51) was assessed and tumor-specific and germline variants were classified using OncoKB™ clinical criteria to delineate oncogenic and therapeutically actionable variants [level 1 mutations with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapy]. Additionally, cfDNA concentrations were tested for association with clinical and pathologic features and oncologic outcome including disease-specific (DSS) and progression-free (PFS) survival.Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from plasma cell-free DNA demonstrated high concordance with tumor genomic profiling, reaching 98.4% concordance [median, interquartile range (IQR) 13.5, 21.5] overall and 85.7% (IQR 64.6, 100) for therapeutically actionable level 1 mutations. Prevalent appendiceal tumor-specific mutations included KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS) (41%), GNAS complex locus (GNAS) (30%), tumor protein p53 (TP53) (30%), and SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) (29%). Tumor-specific TP53, SMAD4, and spectrin alpha, erythrocytic 1 (SPTA1) mutations strongly correlated with intermediate and high-grade histology, whereas GNAS mutations predominated in low-grade tumors. Germline analysis identified coding mutations shared among this patient cohort in notch receptor 4 (NOTCH4) (55%) and BRCA1 associated RING domain 1 (BARD1) (48%) genes, with zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3) (29%) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor A2 (ADGRA2), DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE), and transcription factor 3 (TCF3) mutations (all = 23%) specifically enriched in intermediate and high-grade AC. Both histological grade and cfDNA stratified by concentration tertiles independently predicted progression-free and disease-specific survival. Plasma samples exhibited consistently lower variant allele frequencies than solid tumors, limiting sensitivity for discovery of novel mutations exclusively from plasma.This study supports integrating comprehensive ctDNA assays into standard diagnostic and treatment pathways for AC using large gene panels. TP53, SMAD4, SPTA1, and GNAS mutations serve as prospective tumor-specific molecular classifiers for histological grade, while germline variants in NOTCH4 and BARD1 may further influence disease biology, with ZFHX3, ADGRA2, POLE, and TCF3 affecting grade stratification. Overall cfDNA concentration may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker in AC.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Fibrous dysplasia (FD) is a bone mesenchymal stromal cells (BMSCs)-derived disorder caused by GNAS gene mutation, characterized by excessive fibrous tissue proliferation in bone and the formation of immature trabecular bone. Although impaired osteogenesis of BMSCs is central to FD pathogenesis, the underlying mechanism remains largely elusive. Here we demonstrate that hyperactivation of the cAMP-PRKA/PKA signaling axis disrupts mitochondrial homeostasis through impaired mitophagy, ultimately leading to diminished amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP) secretion and consequent mineralization failure in FD. Mechanistically, in FD BMSCs, PRKA activation inhibits DNM1L/DRP1 recruitment to mitochondria through phosphorylation at S637, thereby suppressing mitochondrial fission. Consequently, excessive mitochondrial fusion leads to an elevated mitochondrial membrane potential, impaired mitophagy, and diminished ACP release. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel signaling nexus linking cAMP-PRKA signaling, mitochondrial dynamics, and biomineralization processes in FD pathogenesis, providing critical insights into the molecular basis of this disorder.Abbreviation: ACP: amorphous calcium phosphate; ALPL: alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BGLAP/osteocalcin: bone gamma-carboxylglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMSCs: bone marrow stromal cells; BV/TV: bone volume/tissue volume; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; COL1: collagen type I; COX4/COXIV: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CsA: cyclosporin A; CT: computerized tomography; Cyto: cytoplasm; DAPI: diamino phenylindole; DEPs: differentially expressed proteins; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; ECL: electrochemiluminescence; ECM: extracellular matrix; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone; FD: fibrous dysplasia; GNAS/guanine nucleotide-binding protein alpha-stimulating activity peptide: GNAS complex locus; GTPase: guanosine triphosphatase; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; Lyso: lysosome; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; Mdivi: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MEMα: minimum essential medium α; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; Mito: mitochondria; MMP: mitochondrial membrane potential; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MV: matrix vesicle; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PHEX: phosphate regulating endopeptidase X-Linked; PHOSPHO1: phosphoethanolamine/phosphocholine phosphatase 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKA/protein kinase A: protein kinase cAMP-activated; PVDF: polyvinylidene fluoride; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SEM: scanning electron microscopy; SOST: sclerostin; SP7/Osterix: Sp7 transcription factor; TA9: tyrphostin A9; Tb.N: trabecular. number; Tb.Sp: trabecular. separation; Tb.Th: trabecular. thickness; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine; UA: urolithin A.
This research sought to examine the role of solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1) in renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF), exploring its relationship with fibrosis extent and its influence on amino acids absorption and ion levels.Renal tubulointerstitial damage was assessed using tissue microarray analysis combined with HE staining. Immunohistochemistry was used to identify SLC1A1 expression in fibrotic tissues, and its relationship with renal tubulointerstitial damage was examined. Additionally, an in vitro fibrosis model was created using HK-2 cells stimulated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). The levels of SLC1A1 protein were evaluated by immunofluorescence staining, while glutamate uptake capacity and extracellular ion and amino acid levels were monitored.The expression of SLC1A1 decreases in cases of renal interstitial fibrosis, with a more pronounced reduction as fibrosis worsens. Following 48 h of exposure to TGF-β1 (15 ng/mL), these alterations became even more apparent. At this 48 h mark, the glutamate uptake in the experimental group was significantly lower compared to the control group, while the levels of extracellular Na+ and Cl- showed a notable increase. Additionally, aspartic acid (ASP) levels rose, whereas glutamic acid (Glu) levels fell, and cysteine (Cys) levels remained unchanged.The downregulation of SLC1A1 during renal interstitial fibrosis is inversely related to the severity of fibrosis and impacts both glutamate uptake and the balance of extracellular ions, indicating its potential as a therapeutic target for enhancing kidney function.Copyright © 2025 Lv, Cheng, Luo, Yang, Liu, Huang and Chen.
G protein α-subunit (Gαs), encoded by GNAS, mediates G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling through the cAMP second messenger pathways, and plays a pivotal role in craniofacial morphogenesis and osteoblast differentiation. Craniosynostosis, one of the most prevalent craniofacial developmental anomalies, is characterized by the premature fusion of cranial sutures. Here, we identify germline heterozygous variants in GNAS as a novel genetic cause of craniosynostosis. Affected individuals presented with multiple-suture synostosis, recognizable dysmorphic features, brachydactyly, short stature, with or without hormone resistance. We identified 3 de novo missense variants (c.286A > G;p.K96E, c.758A > G;p.Y253C, and c.691C > T;p.R231C) and 1 maternally inherited splicing variant (c.1039-2A > G). Functional analyses using bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assays compared these variants to well-characterized activating variants p.R201H and p.Q227L. All tested variants impaired trimeric G protein assembly to varying degrees and exhibited reduced coupling with PTHR1. While the p.R201H and p.Q227L variants induced excessive cAMP production, the craniosynostosis-associated variants either displayed decreased basal cAMP levels or reduced agonist-induced cAMP production compared to WT, suggesting an inactivating nature. In zebrafish models, heterozygous gnas inactivation recapitulated human phenotypes, including multiple-suture synostosis, craniofacial abnormalities, and short stature. Mechanistically, GNAS knockdown in human MSCs promoted osteogenic differentiation through disrupted cAMP-cAMP response element-binding protein signaling, which relieved SMAD6-mediated repression of RUNX2 transcription. This study establishes inactivating GNAS variants as a genetic cause of craniosynostosis, and uncovers a disease mechanism linking G protein inactivation to craniosynostosis through defective GPCR signal transduction.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cognitive dysfunction in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves significant impairments in synaptic plasticity and dendritic spines integrity. Intriguingly, exercise interventions have demonstrated efficacy in enhancing cognitive function. However, the precise molecular mechanisms, particularly the upstream endogenous regulators (such as miRNAs) through which exercise mediates this synaptic improvement, remain unclear. Our findings indicated that 12 weeks of aerobic exercise effectively increased learning and memory, promoted amyloid beta (Aβ) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) clearance in early-stage AD. Furthermore, aerobic exercise markedly enhanced dendritic spines density of pyramidal neurons in cortical layers II/III and the hippocampal CA1 region, as well as the expression of synapse-associated proteins such as cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), synaptophysin (SYN), and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). Whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify miR-3473e, a target closely related to AD and also a response factor that serves as a key mediator of aerobic exercise benefits. Subsequent findings revealed that miR-3473e was overexpressed in the brains of APP/PS1 mice, whereas aerobic exercise led to a decrease in its expression. Moreover, aerobic exercise enhanced its downstream targets, EPH receptor B2 (EphB2) and solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (Slc1a1) as well as increased downstream GluN1, GRIA1 and p-GluN2B/GluN2B protein expression levels. In summary, we demonstrate that aerobic exercise can improve synaptic plasticity, and these effects are mediated via suppression of miR-3473e and regulation EphB2-NMDA/AMPA receptor signaling pathway, underscoring the potential of aerobic exercise to enhance cognitive function in early-stage of AD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Globally, poultry production has increased to meet the demand for animal protein. Traditionally, antibiotic growth promoters have been used to enhance growth performance and prevent infections in commercial poultry practices. However, concerns regarding antimicrobial resistance have triggered interest in alternative solutions, such as essential oils (EOs) and seaweed additives. The aim of the current study was to assess the impact of a microencapsulated blend of EOs (cinnamaldehyde, eugenol, and thymol) and Ascophyllum nodosum seaweed meal on growth performance, intestinal function, blood biomarkers, and hepatic gene expression in broiler chickens. A total of 440 Arbor Acres chicks were randomly assigned to either a control (CON) or treatment (NEX) group. Each treatment was divided into 11 replicates (20 birds per replicate). NEX chicks were supplemented with 100 mg/kg feed containing a microencapsulated blend of EOs (cinnamaldehyde, eugenol, and thymol) and Ascophyllum nodosum seaweed meal. Data were analyzed using the UNIVARIATE procedure in SAS software. Each replicate was considered an experimental unit. Over a 35-d period, NEX supplementation improved the feed conversion ratio (P = 0.02), reduced mortality rate (P = 0.01), and increased the European performance efficiency factor. No differences in carcass traits were observed between the 2 treatments (P > 0.05). Jejunal digestive enzyme activities, particularly those of amylase and lipase, were higher in NEX birds (P < 0.05) and correlated with morphometric parameters, such as villus height (P = 0.04) and muscular layer thickness (P < 0.01). Gene expression analysis revealed the upregulation of key genes related to nutrient transporters (solute carrier family 5 member 1 gene (SLC5A1), solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (SLC1A1), solute carrier family 15 member 1 gene (SLC15A1)) in the jejunum (P < 0.05) and lipid metabolism (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha gene (PPARA) and microsomal triglyceride transfer protein gene (MTTP)) in the liver (P < 0.05) of NEX-supplemented birds. NEX treatment altered plasma biomarkers, including increased glucose (P < 0.01), insulin (P < 0.01), and protein profiles (P < 0.05) but decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P = 0.03), suggesting enhanced metabolic health. NEX supplementation improved growth performance, economic efficiency, intestinal morphology, digestive enzyme activity, liver function, and metabolic biomarkers in broiler chickens.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Obesity, a global public health concern, is influenced by various factors, including genetic predispositions. Although many obesity-associated genes have been identified through genome-wide association studies (GWAS), the molecular mechanisms linking these genes to adipose tissue function remain largely unexplored. This study integrates proteomic data on adipocyte fat accumulation with GWAS data on obesity to unravel the roles of the identified key candidate genes - G protein subunit beta 1 (GNB1) and scavenger receptor class B member 2 (SCARB2) - involved in fat accumulation. We utilized RNA interference to knock down GNB1 and SCARB2 in human subcutaneous adipocytes, followed by lipidome and proteome analyses using mass spectrometry. Knockdown of these genes resulted in a reduction in lipid droplet accumulation, indicating their role in adipocyte lipid storage. Digital PCR confirmed effective gene knockdown, with GNB1 and SCARB2 mRNA levels significantly reduced. In total, the lipidomic analysis identified 96 lipid species with significant alterations. GNB1 knockdown resulted in a decrease in cholesterol esters and an increase in phosphatidylcholines, phosphatidylinositols, and ceramides. SCARB2 knockdown also led to an increase in phosphatidylcholines, with a trend towards decreased triacylglycerols. Proteomic analysis revealed significant changes in proteins involved in lipid metabolism and adipocyte function, including PLPP1 and CDH13, which were upregulated following GNB1 knockdown, and HSPA8, which was downregulated. Conversely, SCARB2 knockdown resulted in the downregulation of PLPP1 and METTL7A, and the upregulation of PLIN2, HSPA8, NPC2, and SQSTM1. Our findings highlight the significant roles of GNB1 and SCARB2 in lipid metabolism and adipocyte function, providing insights that could inform therapeutic strategies targeting these regulatory genes in obesity.Copyright: © 2025 Kitamoto, Kitamoto. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
1. Chicken ghrelin (GH) plays an important role in regulating growth hormone secretion, immunity and gastrointestinal motility. This study utilised haematoxylin-eosin staining, quantitative reverse transcription PCR and western blotting to examine the effects of high-level ghrelin on the proliferation of small intestinal epithelial cells, intestinal nutrient transport and the mucosal immune barrier in chicks.2. Eighty, 17-d-old layer type chicks were randomly divided into two groups: control (C treated with sterile phosphate buffer) and the ghrelin-treated group (GH; intraperitoneally injected with 0.5 nM GH per 100 g body weight). At 1, 3 and 5 d post-injection, six chicks from each group were randomly selected for sampling of the duodenum and ileum.3. Administering GH reduced the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen protein in the duodenum and leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 5 mRNA in both the duodenum and ileum. In addition, GH affected villus height and ratio of villus height to crypt (H/C) depth in these sections and fatty acid binding protein 6 expression in the ileum. The relative mRNA levels of oligopeptide transporter 1, solute carrier family 3 member 1, solute carrier family 1 member 1 and solute carrier family 5 member 1 were decreased by GH.4. Birds treated with GH had a decrease in duodenal intraepithelial lymphocytes, Paneth cells and ileal goblet cells. There was a reduction in mucin 2 mRNA in goblet cells and lysozyme C and phospholipaseA2 mRNA in Paneth cells. Additionally, the relative mRNA levels of avian β-defensin 1 (AvBD1), AvBD6 and AvBD7 in the duodenum and ileum decreased with GH administration.5. The GH inhibited proliferation of chicken duodenal epithelial cells and decreased surface area available for intestinal villus absorption. This affected the transport of intestinal amino acids, glucose and bile acids and impaired the function of the mucosal immune barrier in both the duodenum and ileum.
Freezing of gait (FOG) is a disabling complication of Parkinson's disease (PD), but peripheral associations remain poorly defined. C-terminal agrin fragment-22 (CAF22) is a circulating biomarker of neuromuscular junction degradation. We investigated whether baseline plasma CAF22 predicts the development of FOG in PD patients. In this prospective cohort study, 233 patients with idiopathic PD and no baseline FOG were followed for 24 months with assessments at 6-month intervals. Incident FOG was identified using the New Freezing of Gait Questionnaire. Cox proportional hazards models assessed associations between CAF22 and time to first FOG, adjusting for age, sex, disease duration, motor severity, gait speed, muscle strength, cognitive performance, and levodopa-equivalent daily dose. During follow-up, 55 participants (23.6%) developed incident FOG. Higher baseline plasma CAF22 was associated with an increased risk of FOG per standard deviation increase (HR 1.4, 95% CI 1.09-1.81). This association remained significant after multivariate adjustment (adjusted HR 1.37, 95% CI 1.03-1.82). Baseline CAF22 concentrations were higher in participants with greater motor severity and slower gait speed, but showed weaker associations with global cognitive performance. Faster gait speed was independently protective against FOG (HR 0.64, 95% CI 0.52-0.78). Kaplan-Meier analyses demonstrated progressively lower FOG-free survival across increasing CAF22 tertiles (log-rank p = 0.046). Elevated baseline plasma CAF22 independently predicts incident FOG in PD. CAF22 may reflect peripheral neuromuscular dysfunction and could serve as a biomarker of FOG risk.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
This study investigated the effect of glutamine (Gln) on paralytic symptoms in rats poisoned by Bungarus multicinctus and explored the underlying mechanism, focusing on the Agrin-MuSK signaling pathway in neuromuscular transmission recovery.An ex vivo diaphragm tension assay assessed Gln's reversal of venom-induced neuromuscular blockade. A rat poisoning model was established with Bungarus multicinctus venom (0.15 mg/kg). Rats were divided into normal, venom, and venom + Gln groups. We evaluated survival, paralysis, blood gases (PaO2, PaCO2, PaSO2), diaphragm histopathology and ultrastructure, and oxidative stress markers (SOD, MDA). RT-qPCR and Western Blot analyzed key Agrin-MuSK pathway components (mRNA: Agrin, Chrne, Chrna, LRP4, MuSK, Rapsyn; protein: Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK, α1- subunit of nAChR, ε- subunit of nAChR). Gln significantly reversed venom-induced diaphragm tension decline ex vivo (P < 0.05). In vivo, high-dose Gln (750 mg/kg) significantly improved survival (P < 0.05), alleviated paralysis and hypoxia (increased PaSO2, PaO2; decreased PaCO2, P < 0.05), reduced diaphragm ultrastructural damage, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (increased SOD, decreased MDA, P < 0.05). Venom significantly suppressed key Agrin-MuSK pathway elements (Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK; P < 0.01). Gln intervention significantly upregulated the expression of pathway molecules (Agrin, Chrne, LRP4, MuSK, Rapsyn mRNA and Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK protein; P < 0.05 or P < 0.01).Gln effectively alleviates paralysis and improves survival in Bungarus multicinctus-poisoned rats. This protection is associated with improved neuromuscular junction ultrastructure, reduced oxidative stress, and activation of the Agrin-MuSK signaling pathway, promoting neuromuscular transmission recovery. The study provides experimental evidence and potential therapeutic targets for Gln in treating Bungarus multicinctuspoisoning, especially respiratory paralysis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518135 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510568 is a review article
Childhood adversity (CA) is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Proteomic profiling may help elucidate underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to explore how CA and genetic risk jointly impact CVD and the potential role of proteomic biomarkers.A total of 14 508 participants without baseline CVD and with available proteomics data from the UK Biobank were included. CA was assessed using the Childhood Trauma Screener questionnaire. Proteomic signatures were derived using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression. Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine the associations of CA with CVD, and mediation analyses were conducted to assess the extent to which proteomic biomarkers explained these associations.Over a median follow-up of 13.5 years, 2286 incident CVD events were identified. The per-score increase in CA score was associated with all-cause and cause-specific CVD, with hazard ratios (HRs) for all-cause CVD, coronary heart disease, arrhythmia/conduction disorder, and heart failure being 1.049 (95% CI, 1.031-1.068), 1.039 (95% CI, 1.009-1.070), 1.041 (95% CI, 1.015-1.067), and 1.066 (95% CI, 1.012-1.122), respectively. No significant interaction between CA and genetic risk was observed. Participants with both high CA and high genetic risk had the highest all-cause CVD risk (HR, 1.847 [95% CI, 1.380-2.472]). Several proteins (pro-adrenomedullin, agrin, AHNAK, CD302, CD83, and yes-associated protein 1) explained 1.58% to 9.98% of the associations between CA and all-cause and cause-specific CVD. Proteomic signatures statistically mediated 3.68% to 10.80% of these associations.CA and genetic susceptibility jointly contributed to increased CVD risk. Proteomic biomarkers partially mediate the CA-CVD associations, providing insight into biological pathways linking early-life adversity and CVD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42496377 is a review article
Background: Sarcopenia is a common complication and an important negative prognostic factor in patients with liver cirrhosis, being associated with reduced muscle mass and function, as well as increased mortality. Although computed tomography (CT) is considered the gold standard for assessing muscle mass, there is growing interest in identifying serum biomarkers that may facilitate the early diagnosis and monitoring of disease progression. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic value of osteonectin, the C-terminal agrin fragment (CAF), the N-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen (P3NP), and myostatin in patients with liver cirrhosis and sarcopenia, in correlation with CT-derived imaging parameters. Materials and Methods: A prospective observational caseâcontrol study was conducted, including 60 participants: 30 patients with liver cirrhosis (with or without hepatocellular carcinoma) and sarcopenia, and 30 healthy control subjects. Sarcopenia was diagnosed according to the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People 2 (EWGSOP2) criteria, using the skeletal muscle index (SMI) and psoas muscle index (PMI) measured by computed tomography. Serum concentrations of osteonectin, CAF, P3NP, and myostatin were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Statistical analyses included parametric and non-parametric tests, as well as Pearson correlation analysis. Results: Patients with liver cirrhosis and sarcopenia exhibited significantly higher serum levels of osteonectin, CAF, P3NP, and myostatin compared with healthy controls (p 0.001 for all comparisons). The skeletal muscle index was significantly lower in cirrhotic patients, confirming the presence of muscle wasting. Correlation analysis demonstrated positive associations between osteonectin and CAF (r = 0.441, p 0.001), osteonectin and P3NP (r = 0.313, p = 0.016), osteonectin and myostatin (r = 0.444, p 0.001), as well as a strong correlation between CAF and myostatin (r = 0.882, p 0.001). No significant associations were observed between biomarker levels and viral etiology or ChildâPugh class. Conclusions: Simultaneous assessment of osteonectin, CAF, P3NP, and myostatin, combined with computed tomography-based imaging evaluation, may improve the diagnosis of sarcopenia associated with liver cirrhosis and facilitate the early identification of patients at increased risk of muscle deterioration. Larger multicenter prospective studies are warranted to validate the clinical utility of these biomarkers in routine medical practice.Celsius.
Functional decline is common in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and is not fully explained by pulmonary impairment. Early biological markers capable of identifying patients at risk of accelerated physical deterioration are lacking. C-terminal agrin fragment-22 (CAF22), a circulating biomarker of neuromuscular junction (NMJ) degradation, may detect future functional decline in COPD.In this prospective longitudinal cohort study, 292 clinically stable patients with COPD (171 men and 121 women) were followed for 12 and 24 months. Stable patients were defined as having a preserved Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) score ≥9. Plasma CAF22 was measured at baseline and analyzed as quartiles and as a continuous variable. Functional decline was defined as a ≥ 1-point reduction in total SPPB score.Baseline CAF22 concentrations were higher in patients with lower baseline SPPB scores and in those who subsequently developed functional decline. The proportion of participants experiencing decline increased progressively across higher CAF22 quartiles at both 12 and 24 months (p for trend <0.001). After multivariate adjustment, participants in the highest CAF22 quartile had increased odds of functional decline compared with the lowest quartile at 12 (AOR 2.85, 95% CI 1.32-6.17; p = 0.008) and 24 (AOR 3.60, 95% CI 1.65-7.82; p = 0.001) months. When analyzed continuously, each unit increase in CAF22 independently predicted functional decline at 12 months (AOR 1.02; p = 0.022) and 24 months (AOR 1.04; p < 0.001).Elevated baseline plasma CAF22 independently predicts subsequent functional decline in patients with stable COPD, supporting its potential utility as an early biomarker of NMJ degradation and physical deterioration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is associated with sarcopenia and functional decline, yet the underlying mechanisms remain underexplored. Neuromuscular junction (NMJ) degradation and neurotrophic imbalance may play key roles, but relevant studies remain scarce.We recruited 74 healthy controls, 65 patients with early CP, and 57 patients with advanced CP for evaluation of sarcopenia, including handgrip strength (HGS), muscle mass, and gait speed. Physical performance was measured using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). Plasma C-terminal agrin fragment-22 (CAF22; a marker of NMJ degradation), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and markers of inflammation, oxidative stress, and nutritional status were measured.Sarcopenia prevalence and functional impairment increased significantly with CP severity. Plasma CAF22 showed a stepwise increase from controls to early and advanced CP, with increases of 10.2% and 24.3%, respectively. BDNF declined by 12.4% in advanced CP, while the total protein and albumin were lowest in advanced CP. CAF22 displayed robust associations with HGS, gait speed, and SPPB across all groups, with the largest effect sizes in advanced CP. BDNF exhibited positive associations with muscle function, while inflammatory, oxidative, and nutritional biomarkers exhibited weaker and stage-dependent relationships. These associations appeared to strengthen with worsening CP, suggesting that neuromuscular, inflammatory, and metabolic stressors may become more closely linked to functional decline in advanced disease.CP is associated with progressive sarcopenia along with NMJ degeneration, neurotrophic imbalance, inflammation, oxidative stress, and nutritional decline. These findings highlight the potential value of CAF22 and BDNF as biomarkers of functional impairment.Copyright © 2026 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) and GPR37-like 1 (GPR37L1) are orphan G protein-coupled receptors enriched in the central nervous system. However, their cellular distribution in pituitary tissue remains unclear. Here, we mapped Gpr37l1 expression in the adult rat anterior pituitary and identified the expressing cell type(s). Quantitative real-time PCR demonstrated that Gpr37l1 mRNA is significantly more abundant than Gpr37 in the anterior lobe. In situ hybridization (ISH) revealed sparsely distributed Gpr37l1-positive cells throughout the anterior lobe, and the signals did not colocalize with major hormone-producing cell types. Combined ISH and immunohistochemistry further showed that Gpr37l1 mRNA is localized to S100B protein-immunoreactive cells, commonly referred to as folliculo-stellate (FS) cells, and that only a subset of S100B-positive FS cells expresses Gpr37l1. Single-cell RNA-seq analysis corroborated these findings, as Gpr37l1-expressing cells were distributed within the broader S100b-expressing cluster, without forming a distinct subcluster, while showing no detectable Gpr37l1 expression in endocrine lineages or vascular-associated cell populations. Together, these data provide a cell-type-resolved map of Gpr37l1 expression in the adult rat anterior pituitary and identify Gpr37l1 as a marker of heterogeneity within FS cells, establishing a foundation for future studies on GPR37L1 signaling in pituitary microenvironmental regulation.2026 The Japan Society of Histochemistry and Cytochemistry.
Sepsis, a critical and life-threatening condition, is one of the most common causes of death among inpatients. Emerging evidence suggests that active metabolites derived from gut microbe-associated metabolism of dietary essential amino acid L-tryptophan (Trp) help the host in combating infectious diseases. This study aims to investigate the mechanisms through which these active metabolites regulate sepsis progression.The effects of dietary Trp and indole-3-pyruvate (IPyA) on the mouse septic model were evaluated by 72-hour survival rate monitoring, organ pathological injury score, bacterial load, and inflammatory factor expression. The changes in gut microbiota composition caused by dietary Trp were detected by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The changes in Trp bacterial metabolites were detected by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The effects of IPyA on macrophage phagocytosis were evaluated by flow cytometry and plate colony formation assay. The interaction between IPyA and G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) was evaluated by Western blot and surface plasmon resonance. Gpr37 knockout mice, small interfering RNA transfection in macrophages, and macrophage adoptive transfer assay were used to explore the detailed mechanism of IPyA in protecting sepsis.It is revealed that dietary Trp supplementation alleviated septic organ injury by modulating the abundance of key commensal microbes and their metabolic function. Furthermore, we found that GPR37 activation in macrophages by a key microbial metabolite, IPyA, raised after dietary Trp supplementation, protected the host against sepsis. Mechanistically, IPyA bound directly to GPR37 in macrophages, causing activation of small GTPases Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1/Cell division cycle 42 (RAC1/CDC42) and increased expression of actin-related protein (Arp) 2/3, ultimately enhancing bacterial phagocytosis in macrophages. In addition, IPyA exhibited the potential to promote bacterial phagocytosis in macrophages obtained from patients.Targeting GPR37 through dietary Trp supplementation may be a potential prophylactic strategy to optimize gut microbiota metabolic functioning and ameliorate septic bacterial infections.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Intense injury induces long-term changes in the spinal nociceptive system, which increases pain in magnitude and duration. We investigated whether activation of G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) at the spinal level can erase this nociceptive system sensitization and resolve long-lasting, enhanced pain using two animal models: the capsaicin model and the hyperalgesic priming model. Without altering normal mechanical and heat nociception, a single intrathecal (i.th.) administration of two GPR37 agonists, TX14A and protectin D1 (PD1), dose-dependently inhibited capsaicin-induced increase in nociception not only acutely but also long-term. In the hyperalgesic priming model, a single i.th. injection of either GPR37 agonist after an initial injury-induced priming dose-dependently prevented increased nociception following a subsequent inflammatory insult, indicating an unpriming effect. Global GPR37 knockout or conditional knockout of GPR37 in TRPV1-lineage sensory neurons abolished the long-term inhibitory effect and unpriming effect of i.th. TX14A, confirming that GPR37 in this specific cellular population mediates these effects. Ex vivo Ca²⁺ imaging revealed that i.th. TX14A, given in vivo to the capsaicin model a week before imaging, had rescued dorsal horn excitatory and inhibitory interneurons from long-term potentiation and depression of responsiveness to afferent inputs, respectively, suggesting the erasure of capsaicin-induced nociceptive system sensitization. Conditioned place preference tests indicated no obvious abuse liability for centrally administered GPR37 agonists. These findings suggest that spinally targeting GPR37 in TRPV1-expressing sensory neurons represents a promising therapeutic strategy for resolving persistent pain by erasing nociceptive system sensitization. PERSPECTIVE: This article presents preclinical evidence that spinal-level activation of GPR37 normalizes injury-induced long-term changes in the spinal nociceptive system, thereby resolving long-lasting pain hypersensitivity without affecting normal nociception or causing apparent abuse liability. These findings support spinal-level GPR37, specifically the receptor in TRPV1-positive sensory neuronal cell bodies and/or central terminals, as a promising target for novel pain therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 United States Association for the Study of Pain, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42077587 is a review article
Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are a chronic inflammatory vascular disorder characterized by progressive aortic dilation and destruction of the vascular wall, often culminating in rupture. Current management is limited to surgical repair, with no approved targeted pharmacologic therapies. In this study, we investigated the immunomodulatory role of Protectin D1 (PD1), a specialized pro-resolving lipid mediator, through G-protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) signaling on macrophages in mitigating AAA progression and preventing aortic rupture. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of human tissue demonstrated significant differences in PD1/GPR37 axis-related genes in macrophages in AAAs compared to control aortic tissue. Using an established murine AAA model, PD1 administration significantly attenuated aortic diameter, pro-inflammatory cytokine and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP2) expression, as well as maintained aortic morphology in a GPR37-dependent manner. Importantly, PD1 treatment prevented preformed AAA progression to aortic rupture in another preclinical elastase + BAPN model of aortic rupture by attenuating aortic diameter, tissue inflammation as well as decreasing macrophage infiltration, preserving elastin integrity, and restoring smooth muscle α-actin expression in the aortic wall. Mechanistically, PD1 enhanced macrophage efferocytosis of apoptotic vascular smooth muscle cells in the murine aortic tissue, as well as in isolated macrophages via GPR37-dependent manner and attenuated the inflammatory paracrine secretion of macrophage-specific paracrine release of TNF-α and IL-β. These findings suggest that PD1/GPR37 signaling on macrophages promotes inflammation-resolution by enhancing efferocytosis of apoptotic SMCs, conferring protection against aortic inflammation and remodeling to mitigate AAA formation and impending rupture.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) and G protein-coupled receptor 37 like 1 (GPR37L1) are implicated in tumorigenesis; however, their prognostic significance and roles in chemotherapy and immunotherapy responses across diverse cancers is incompletely defined. Utilizing transcriptomic, genomic, pharmacogenomic, and clinical data, we mapped the molecular landscapes of GPR37 and GPR37L1 and assessed their potential clinical value in retrospective real-world cohorts. Our analysis revealed high genetic alteration rates for GPR37 (10.2%) and GPR37L1 (10.7%). Aberrant expression of GPR37 served as a predictive biomarker for survival outcomes in breast invasive carcinoma, lower grade gliomas, and lung adenocarcinoma, a pattern similarly observed for GPR37L1. Intriguingly, the 2 receptors exhibited divergent prognostic effects in adrenocortical carcinoma, cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma, lung squamous cell carcinoma, stomach adenocarcinoma, uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma, and uveal melanoma. Evaluation of chemotherapy response identified significant correlations between the expression levels of both GPR37 and GPR37L1 and sensitivity to 21 common chemotherapeutic agents. For example, in lung adenocarcinoma, the elevated expression of either receptor was significantly associated with reduced sensitivity to cisplatin and gemcitabine. Analysis of 2 immunotherapy-treated melanoma cohorts demonstrated that high GPR37 or GPR37L1 expression correlated with inferior overall survival, a finding corroborated by immune infiltration and chemokine profiles. Our in vitro experiments demonstrated that the proposed ligand TX14A was unable to activate GPR37 and GPR37L1 through the cyclic adenosine monophosphate or extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. Notably, this is the first systematic pan-cancer profiling of both GPR37 and GPR37L1 that integrates analyses of chemotherapy sensitivity, immunotherapy response, and immune landscapes. GPR37 and GPR37L1 may represent candidate biomarkers for prognostic stratification and for predicting chemotherapy and immunotherapy response.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Rapid escape from visual threats is essential for survival, yet the mechanisms establishing its "permissive state" remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that osteocalcin (OCN), a bone-derived hormone, permits rapid visual escape by enhancing the excitability of a ventral tegmental area (VTA) GABAergic neuron subpopulation through the OCN-G Protein-Coupled Receptor 37 (GPR37)-cAMP-TWIK-related halothane-inhibited potassium channel (THIK-1) pathway. Loss of OCN, loss of its receptor GPR37, or conditional deletion of GPR37 in VTA GABAergic or glutamatergic neurons delays escape responses, while reconstituting OCN-GPR37 signaling in the VTA restores normal behavior. Single-cell transcriptomics and electrophysiology reveal that OCN suppresses THIK-1 potassium currents via GPR37-mediated cyclic AMP (cAMP) reduction, thereby increasing neuronal excitability. These findings reveal a novel mechanism through which a bone-derived hormone modulates the excitability of co-releasing neurons to facilitate rapid escape, offering new insights into the regulation of survival behaviors by the bone-brain metabolic axis.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Perineural invasion (PNI) is an established adverse prognostic factor in gastric cancer (GC), yet the molecular events initiating this process remain poorly defined. In this study, we identify Schwann cells (SCs) as active facilitators of PNI and elucidate a reciprocal signaling axis between GC cells and SCs that promotes PNI. Using a GC–SCs co-culture model, we show that SCs enhance PNI potential in GC cells, accompanied by increased expression of prosaposin (PSAP), a lysosomal secretory protein, in both co-cultured cells and PNI-positive tumor specimens. Mechanistic studies reveal that PSAP forms a complex with cathepsin D (CTSD) and galactocerebrosidase (GALC) to inhibit autophagy and to promote PNI progression. GC-derived PSAP activates the G protein–coupled receptor 37(GPR37) on SCs, initiating RAC1-dependent cytoskeletal remodeling. This activation also induces secretion of transforming growth factor-β-1(TGFβ1) by SCs, which, in turn, binds transforming growth factor-β receptor-II (TGFβRII) on GC cells and activates a TGFβ1/Smad4/Sortilin signaling cascade. This pathway amplifies PSAP production and reinforces tumor–nerve interactions, establishing a feedforward paracrine loop that drives PNI. Functionally, enforced PSAP expression in GC cells significantly enhances PNI both in vitro and in vivo. Clinically, co-expression of PSAP, TGFβ1, and SCs marker S100β correlates with PNI incidence and improve PNI discrimination. Collectively, these findings define a novel PSAP–TGFβ1–Sortilin axis that mediates SCs–tumor crosstalk and sustains PNI in GC. Disrupting this paracrine loop may provide a therapeutic avenue to limit PNI and improve outcomes.
In mammals, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) exerts a potent hypoglycemic effect, whereas its role in fish remains controversial. In this study, synthetic grass carp GIP was administered via intraperitoneal injection, and its effects were evaluated over 24 h. GIP significantly elevated blood glucose levels at 0.5 h post-injection compared to the saline control. This hyperglycemia was accompanied by increased hepatic expression of the gluconeogenic genes glucose-6-phosphatase (g6pc) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (pck1) and decreased expression of the glycolytic gene pyruvate kinase (pk). Postprandial expression of the gip gene was also significantly upregulated in the foregut at 6 h. Furthermore, GIP administration modulated central appetite regulators within 1 h, increasing expression of the anorexigenic cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (cart) and decreasing expression of the orexigenic neuropeptide Y (npy) and agouti related neuropeptide (agrp). Collectively, these results indicate that in grass carp, GIP functions primarily as an appetite regulator rather than as a hypoglycemic incretin, highlighting its potential as a target for studies on appetite control in fish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Intense nociceptor inputs from injury induce long-term changes in the spinal nociceptive system - referred to as spinal pain memory - that increase pain in magnitude and duration. We investigated whether activation of G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) at the spinal level can erase this memory and resolve long-lasting, enhanced pain using two animal models: the capsaicin model and the hyperalgesic priming model. Without altering normal mechanical and heat nociception, a single intrathecal (i.th.) administration of two GPR37 agonists, TX14A and protectin D1 (PD1), dose-dependently inhibited capsaicin-induced increase in nociception not only acutely but also long-term. In the hyperalgesic priming model, a single i.th. injection of either GPR37 agonist, administered after an initial injury-induced priming, dose-dependently prevented increased nociception following a subsequent inflammatory insult, indicating an unpriming effect. Global GPR37 knockout abolished the long-term inhibitory effect and unpriming effect of i.th. TX14A, confirming the receptor at the spinal level as the molecule mediating the effects. Ex vivo Ca2+ imaging revealed that i.th. TX14A, given in vivo to the capsaicin model a week before imaging, had rescued dorsal horn excitatory and inhibitory interneurons from long-term potentiation and depression of responsiveness to afferent inputs, respectively, suggesting the erasure of capsaicin-induced spinal pain memory. Conditioned place preference tests indicated no obvious abuse liability for centrally-administered GPR37 agonists. These findings suggest that spinally targeted GPR37 agonism represents a promising therapeutic strategy for resolving persistent pain by erasing spinal pain memory.
Orexin/hypocretin receptor type 2 (Ox2R), which is widely expressed in the brain, receives orexin signals and modulates sleep and metabolism. Ox2R selective agonists are currently under clinical trials for narcolepsy treatment. Here, we focused on Ox2R expression and function in melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons, which have opposite roles to orexin neurons in sleep and metabolism regulation. Ox2R-expressing MCH neurons showed heterogeneity of RNA expression, and orexin B application in brain slices induced both excitatory and inhibitory responses in distinct MCH neuron populations. Ox2R inactivation in MCH neurons reduced transitions from non-rapid eye movement (NREM) to REM sleep and impaired insulin sensitivity with excessive feeding after a fasting period in female mice. In conclusion, Ox2R mediates excitatory and inhibitory responses in MCH neuron sub-populations in vivo, which regulate sleep and metabolism in female mice.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder caused by an apparent degeneration of orexin/hypocretin neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area and a subsequent decrease in orexin/hypocretin levels in the cerebrospinal fluid. Narcolepsy is classified into type 1 (NT1) and type 2 (NT2). While genetic associations in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region and candidate autoantibodies have been investigated in NT1 to imply an autoimmune origin, less is known about the pathogenesis in NT2. Twenty-six NT1 and 15 NT2 patients were included, together with control groups of 24 idiopathic hypersomnia (IH) patients and 778 general population participants. High-resolution sequencing was used to determine the alleles, the extended haplotypes, and the genotypes of HLA-DRB3, -DRB4, -DRB5, -DRB1, -DQA1, -DQB1, -DPA1, and -DPB1. Radiobinding assay was used to determine autoantibodies against hypocretin receptor 2 (anti-HCRTR2 autoantibodies). NT1 was associated with HLA-DRB5*01:01:01, -DRB1*15:01:01, -DQA1*01:02:01, -DQB1*06:02:01, -DRB5*01:01:01, -DRB1*15:01:01, -DQA1*01:02:01, -DQB1*06:02:01 (odds ratio [OR]: 9.15; p = 8.31 × 10-4) and HLA-DRB5*01:01:01, -DRB1*15:01:01, -DQA1*01:02:01, -DQB1*06:02:01, -DRB4*01:03:01, -DRB1*04:01:01, -DQA1*03:02//03:03:01, -DQB1*03:01:01 (OR: 23.61; p = 1.58 × 10-4) genotypes. Lower orexin/hypocretin levels were reported in the NT2 subgroup (n = 5) that was associated with the extended HLA-DQB1*06:02:01 haplotype (p = .001). Anti-HCRTR2 autoantibody levels were not different between study groups (p = .8524). We confirmed the previous association of NT1 with HLA-DQB1*06:02:01 extended genotypes. A subgroup of NT2 patients with intermediate orexin/hypocretin levels and association with HLA-DQB1*06:02:01 was identified, indicating a possible overlap between the two distinct narcolepsy subtypes, NT1 and NT2. Low anti-HCRTR2 autoantibody levels suggest that these receptors might not function as autoimmune targets in either NT1 or NT2.© 2024 The Author(s). International Journal of Immunogenetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background: Methamphetamine use disorder (MUD) is a worldwide health concern. The hypothalamic orexin system regulates stress response and addictive behaviors. The genetic variation in the hypocretin receptor 2 (HCRTR2), rs2653349, is associated with substance use disorder.Objectives: We explored the gene-environment (GxE) interaction of rs2653349 and adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) associated with MUD susceptibility.Methods: Four hundred and one individuals (336 males, 65 females) with MUD and 348 healthy controls (288 males, 60 females) completed a self-report questionnaire evaluating ACEs, encompassing childhood abuse and household dysfunction categories, and were genotyped for SNP rs2653349. Methamphetamine use variables were collected using the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Studies. We used regression analyses to assess the GxE effect on MUD risk.Results: The MUD group had a comparable genotypic distribution for rs2653349 to the control group, albeit with a higher prevalence and number of types of ACEs, correlating with an increased MUD risk (p < .05). No significant genetic impact of rs2653349 on MUD risk was found. However, we observed a GxE interaction effect between the minor allele of rs2653349 and the number of childhood abuse or household dysfunction types, correlating with a reduced MUD risk (OR = -0.71, p = .04, Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted p = .08 and OR = -0.59, p = .045, Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted p = .09, respectively).Conclusion: HCRTR2 SNP rs2653349 has no significant impact on MUD risk, but ACEs may increase this risk. GxE results suggest that rs2653349 could offer protection against developing MUD in individuals experiencing multiple types of ACEs.
Hypocretin/Orexin (HCRT/OX) and dopamine (DA) are both key effectors of salience processing, reward and stress-related behaviors and motivational states, yet their respective roles and interactions are poorly delineated. We inactivated HCRT-to-DA connectivity by genetic disruption of Hypocretin receptor-1 (Hcrtr1), Hypocretin receptor-2 (Hcrtr2), or both receptors (Hcrtr1&2) in DA neurons and analyzed the consequences on vigilance states, brain oscillations and cognitive performance in freely behaving mice. Unexpectedly, loss of Hcrtr2, but not Hcrtr1 or Hcrtr1&2, induced a dramatic increase in theta (7-11 Hz) electroencephalographic (EEG) activity in both wakefulness and rapid-eye-movement sleep (REMS). DAHcrtr2-deficient mice spent more time in an active (or theta activity-enriched) substate of wakefulness, and exhibited prolonged REMS. Additionally, both wake and REMS displayed enhanced theta-gamma phase-amplitude coupling. The baseline waking EEG of DAHcrtr2-deficient mice exhibited diminished infra-theta, but increased theta power, two hallmarks of EEG hyperarousal, that were however uncoupled from locomotor activity. Upon exposure to novel, either rewarding or stress-inducing environments, DAHcrtr2-deficient mice featured more pronounced waking theta and fast-gamma (52-80 Hz) EEG activity surges compared to littermate controls, further suggesting increased alertness. Cognitive performance was evaluated in an operant conditioning paradigm, which revealed that DAHcrtr2-ablated mice manifest faster task acquisition and higher choice accuracy under increasingly demanding task contingencies. However, the mice concurrently displayed maladaptive patterns of reward-seeking, with behavioral indices of enhanced impulsivity and compulsivity. None of the EEG changes observed in DAHcrtr2-deficient mice were seen in DAHcrtr1-ablated mice, which tended to show opposite EEG phenotypes. Our findings establish a clear genetically-defined link between monosynaptic HCRT-to-DA neurotransmission and theta oscillations, with a differential and novel role of HCRTR2 in theta-gamma cross-frequency coupling, attentional processes, and executive functions, relevant to disorders including narcolepsy, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and Parkinson's disease.© 2023. The Author(s).
Recent studies have focused on how sickness behaviours, including lethargy, are coordinated in the brain in response to peripheral infections. Decreased hypocretin (orexin) signalling is associated with lethargy and previous research suggests that hypocretin signalling is downregulated during sickness. However, there are studies that find increases or no change in hypocretin signalling during sickness. It is further unknown whether hypocretin receptor expression changes during sickness. Using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce sickness in female mice, we investigated how LPS-injection affects gene expression of hypocretin receptors and prepro-hypocretin as well as hypocretin-1 peptide concentrations in brain tissue. We found that hypocretin receptor 1 gene expression was downregulated during sickness in the lateral hypothalamus and ventral tegmental area, but not in the dorsal raphe nucleus or locus coeruleus. We found no changes in hypocretin receptor 2 expression. Using a gene expression calculation that accounts for primer efficiencies and multiple endogenous controls, we were unable to detect changes in prepro-hypocretin expression. Using radioimmunoassay, we found no change in hypocretin-1 peptide in rostral brain tissue. Our results indicate that hypocretin receptor expression can fluctuate during sickness, adding an additional level of complexity to understanding hypocretin signalling during sickness.© 2023 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36400667 is a review article
Hypocretin/Orexin (HCRT) is a neuropeptide that is associated with both stress and reward systems in humans and rodents. The different contributions of signaling at hypocretin-receptor 1 (HCRT-R1) and hypocretin-receptor 2 (HCRT-R2) to compulsive alcohol drinking are not yet fully understood. Thus, the current studies used pharmacological and viral-mediated targeting of HCRT to determine participation in compulsive alcohol drinking and measured HCRT-receptor mRNA expression in the extended amygdala of both alcohol-dependent and non-dependent male rats. Rats were made dependent through chronic intermittent exposure to alcohol vapor and were tested for the acute effect of HCRT-R1-selective (SB-408124; SB-R1), HCRT-R2-selective (NBI-80713; NB-R2), or dual HCRT-R1/2 (NBI-87571; NB-R1/2) antagonism on alcohol intake. NB-R2 and NB-R1/2 antagonists each dose-dependently decreased overall alcohol drinking in alcohol-dependent rats, whereas, SB-R1 decreased alcohol drinking in both alcohol-dependent and non-dependent rats at the highest dose (30 mg/kg). SB-R1, NB-R2, and NB-R1/2 treatment did not significantly affect water drinking in either alcohol-dependent or non-dependent rats. Additional PCR analyses revealed a significant decrease in Hcrtr1 mRNA expression within the central amygdala (CeA) of dependent rats under acute withdrawal conditions compared to nondependent rats. Lastly, a shRNA-encoding adeno-associated viral vector with retrograde function was used to knockdown HCRT in CeA-projecting neurons from the lateral hypothalamus (LH). LH-CeA HCRT knockdown significantly attenuated alcohol self-administration in alcohol-dependent rats. These observations suggest that HCRT signaling in the CeA is necessary for alcohol-seeking behavior during dependence. Together, these data highlight a role for both HCRT-R1 and -R2 in dependent alcohol-seeking behavior.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35624073 is a review article
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis.© 2022 The Authors.
Observational studies suggest that obesity impacts brain functional connectivity, but critical developmental periods for these effects remain unclear. Herein, we aimed to investigate the causal relationships between life-course body weight and brain functional connectivity.Mendelian randomization (MR) was applied to infer the causality between life-course body weight (birth weight [n = 80,745], childhood body mass index [BMI; n = 39,620], and adulthood BMI [n = 322,154]) and 191 resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging traits (n = 34,691) using genome-wide association data. Linkage disequilibrium score regression and colocalization analysis were conducted to reinforce the causality. Two-step mediation MR, transcriptome-wide association studies, and enrichment analyses were performed to explore the underlying mechanisms.Adulthood BMI increased neural activity in the frontal lobe (β = 0.078, 95% CI: 0.029 ~ 0.127), whereas childhood BMI reduced functional connectivity between the subcortical-cerebellum and motor or attention network (β = -0.087, 95% CI: -0.144 ~ -0.031). Birth weight decreased the functional connectivity of the central executive or default mode network in the temporal lobe (β = -0.147, 95% CI: -0.217 ~ -0.078). These causalities were consistent with the MR sensitivity analyses and colocalization results. The mediation MR identified neurexophilin-3 as a potential mediator of the causal effect of birth weight on functional connectivity, explaining 27.3% of the total effect (95% CI: 2.6%-52.0%, p = 0.048). Furthermore, transcriptional analysis revealed prioritized genes and pathways that interconnect body weight at different life stages and brain functional connectivity.This study demonstrated distinct life-stage-specific effects of body weight on brain functional networks, highlighting the need for targeted interventions across the life course to mitigate the persistent effect of early-life obesity on brain health.© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is the most prevalent chemical modification in eukaryotic mRNA and is associated with the development of various immune diseases. However, the role of m6A methylation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) development is unclear. We preliminarily explored the role of m6A methylation-related mRNAs in RA for its clinical application. The discovery of m6A methylation-modifying genes in this study may provide a fresh perspective on the development of drugs for RA treatment. High-throughput sequencing combined with methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP-seq) and RNA sequencing were used to assess whole-transcriptome m6A modifications in the synovium of patients with RA. The relationship between m6A-modified target genes and RA inflammation and macrophages was determined. The expression of the m6A-modified significant transcript-enriched inflammatory signaling pathway was assessed through animal experiments. Differentially expressed m6A genes were correlated with macrophage activation involved in immune response, vascular endothelium, MAPK signaling pathway, PI3K - Akt signaling pathway, and other inflammatory processes. Furthermore, combined analysis with m6A-seq and RNA-seq revealed 120 genes with significant changes in both m6A modification and mRNA expression. We selected the top 3 candidate mRNAs that were upregulated and downregulated simultaneously. The expression of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN) mRNA and protein in RA patients was lower than that in healthy control (HC). SHC-binding protein 1 (SHCBP1) and neurexophilin-3 (NXPH3) mRNA expressions were increased in RA patients. The expression of M1 macrophages was increased in RA patients. RA markers are such as rheumatoid factor (RF) and peptide containing citrulline (CCP). Further animal experiments showed that the expression of synovial MAPK, PI3K, and Akt1 proteins in the RA model was increased, and the PTEN, p-PTEN protein expression was decreased. PI3K, Akt1, PTEN, and p-PTEN were correlated to RA joint inflammation. This study revealed a unique pattern of differential m6A methylation modifications in RA and concluded that m6A modification is related to the occurrence of RA synovial inflammation.Copyright © 2022 Lei Wan et al.
While androgen receptor (AR) pathway inhibitors such as enzalutamide have demonstrated significant therapeutic efficacy in prostate cancer (PCa) treatment, the inevitable development of acquired resistance continues to pose a major clinical challenge in managing advanced PCa. We characterized Neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4) as a contributor to enzalutamide resistance (EnzR). Gain- and loss-of-function studies were conducted in PCa cell lines and mouse subcutaneous xenograft models to elucidate the role of NXPH4 in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Additionally, the regulatory mechanisms of gene expression were assessed using a series of molecular and biochemical experiments. Our study demonstrates that AR as a transcriptional activator of NXPH4. Elevated NXPH4 expression facilitated PCa proliferation under enzalutamide treatment through mitochondrial metabolic reprogramming. We identified that NXPH4 partially localizes to mitochondria and physically interacts with aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L2 (ALDH1L2), a critical enzyme in one-carbon metabolism. Androgen deprivation stimulated NXPH4 mitochondrial translocation and enhanced its binding to ALDH1L2. NXPH4-mediated metabolic reprogramming promotes PCa progression. Notably, the combination of NXPH4 knockdown and enzalutamide treatment showed potent synergistic effects, significantly suppressing cell proliferation in vitro and substantially inhibiting tumor growth in vivo. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism of EnzR and identify the NXPH4-ALDH1L2 complex as a promising therapeutic target for CRPC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a common malignant tumor of the head and neck, representing a significant public health concern. Neurexophilin-4 (NXPH4) facilitates cancer cell proliferation and invasion. E26 oncogene homolog 1 (ETS1) can influence OSCC cell migration and invasion by modulating various factors. This study aims to explore the molecular mechanism of NXPH4 and ETS1 in the progression of OSCC. Bioinformatics analysis was used to analyze the NXPH4 and ETS1 expression in OSCC tissues and explore the relationship between NXPH4 and tumor stage. The mRNA and protein levels were examined by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot. Besides, the OSCC tumor models were constructed, and tumor volume and weight were detected. The immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay was used to analyze Ki-67 expression in vivo. The apoptosis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by flow cytometry. The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and ferrous ion (Fe2+) were detected using the corresponding detection kits. The cell proliferation was tested by 5‑ethynyl‑2'‑deoxyuridine (EdU) staining. Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) 2.0 and flow cytometry were used to analyze the relationship between NXPH4 and macrophage M2 polarization. The interaction between NXPH4 and ETS1 was demonstrated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (CHIP) and a dual luciferase reporter gene assay. NXPH4 expression was significantly increased in OSCC tissues and CAL-27 and SCC-25 cell lines (P < 0.01). Silencing NXPH4 inhibited the OSCC tumor growth in vivo. In human OSCC cell lines, silencing NXPH4 promoted the apoptosis, MDA, and ROS levels and suppressed the GPX4 expression (P < 0.01), cell proliferation, and macrophage M2 polarization. Furthermore, ETS1 could bind to NXPH4 and positively regulate its expression. Knockdown of ETS1 facilitated the apoptosis, increased MDA and ROS levels, and repressed the GPX4 expression, cell proliferation, and macrophage M2 polarization. However, up-regulation of NXPH4 in vitro reversed the effect of sh-ETS1 in human OSCC cell lines. ETS1 elevates the progression of OSCC and enhances macrophage M2 polarization by contributing to NXPH4. These findings identify the ETS1/NXPH4 axis as a potential therapeutic target in OSCC.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-025-00869-6.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a form of malignancy that exhibits a comparatively elevated occurrence and fatality rate. Given the relatively slower progress in diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for CRC, there is a need to investigate more accurate and efficient biomarkers.Core regulatory genes were screened using the TCGA database, and the expression of neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4) and its prognostic implications were validated using tissue microarray staining. The assessment of NXPH4 functions involved a range of experiments, including cellular, organoid, and murine models. Furthermore, a regulatory network between m5C, NXPH4, and HIF1A was established through several in vitro experiments.The overexpression of NXPH4 is associated with unfavorable prognoses in patients with CRC and hepatocellular carcinoma. Additionally, it facilitates the progression of malignant tumors both in laboratory settings and in living organisms of colorectal carcinoma. Our research also reveals that NXPH4 mRNA can avoid degradation through RNautophagy, relying on an m5C-dependent mechanism. Moreover, NXPH4 amplifies the HIF signaling pathway and stabilizes HIF1A by competitively binding to PHD4.NXPH4, regulated by m5C, promotes malignant tumor progression and regulates the HIF pathway. Consequently, targeting NXPH4 through molecular therapies could potentially serve as an efficacious therapeutic strategy for the management of CRC exhibiting elevated NXPH4 expression.© 2024. The Author(s).
Colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) is a prevalent gastrointestinal malignant disease with high mortality rate, and identification of novel prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets is urgently needed. Although neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4) has been investigated in several tumors, its role in COAD remains unclear. The aim of this study was to explore the prognostic value and potential functions of NXPH4 in COAD.The expression of NXPH4 in COAD were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The prognostic value of NXPH4 was determined using Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox regression analysis. To investigate the possible mechanism underlying the role of NXPH4 in COAD, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were employed. The correlation between NXPH4 expression and immune cell infiltration levels was examined thorough single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Furthermore, the competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory network that may be involved in NXPH4 in COAD was predicted and constructed through a variety of databases.NXPH4 expression was significantly higher in COAD tissue compared with normal colon tissues. Meanwhile, high expression of NXPH4 was associated with poor prognosis in COAD patients. GO-KEGG and GSEA analyses indicated that NXPH4 was associated with glycolysis and hypoxia pathway, and may promote COAD progression and metastasis by modulating metabolic reprogramming. ssGSEA analysis demonstrated that NXPH4 expression also associated with immune infiltration. Furthermore, we identified various microRNAs (miRNAs) and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) as upstream regulators of NXPH4 in COAD.The present study revealed that high expression of NXPH4 is associated with tumor progression, metabolic reprogramming, and immune infiltration. These findings suggest that NXPH4 could serve as a reliable prognostic biomarker and a promising therapeutic target in COAD.2024 Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology. All rights reserved.
Subplate neurons (SpNs) are a heterogeneous neuronal population actively involved in early cortical circuit formation. In rodents, many SpNs survive and form layer 6b. The molecular heterogeneity of SpNs raises the question of whether different subpopulations of SpNs survive through the early postnatal period similarly and whether such diverse SpN populations in the auditory cortex (ACtx) share a common distribution pattern with other sensory systems. To address that, we investigated the expression pattern of multiple specific SpN markers in the ACtx, as well as in the visual (VCtx) and somatosensory (SCtx) cortices as controls, using complexin 3 (Cplx3) antibodies and different SpN-specific Cre-driver mice, such as connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), dopamine receptor D1 (Drd1a), and neurexophilin 4 (Nxph4). We focused on two early time windows in auditory development: (1) during the second postnatal week (PNW) before ear-canal opening and (2) during the third PNW after ear-canal opening. We compared the expression pattern of different SpN markers in ACtx with VCtx and SCtx. At both examined timepoints, Cplx3 and Nxph4 expressing SpNs form the largest and smallest population in the ACtx, respectively. Similar distribution patterns are observable in the VCtx and SCtx during the second PNW but not during the third PNW, for a higher proportion of Drd1a expressing SpNs is detected in the VCtx and CTGF expressing SpNs in the SCtx. This study suggests that different populations of SpNs might contribute differently to the development of individual sensory circuits.© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common malignant tumor. At present, the in-depth study of the formation, development and treatment of CRC at the molecular and gene levels is a research hot spot. Neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4) expression has been revealed to be abnormally elevated in several types of cancer, but its expression in CRC has not yet been reported. First, relevant databases were used to predict the expression of NXPH4 in CRC and its association with the survival rate of patients with CRC. Subsequently, the expression of NXPH4 in CRC cells was verified through cell experiments. Cell Counting Kit-8, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining, flow cytometry, wound healing assay, Transwell assay, western blotting and the kits were used to detect the effects of NXPH4 knockdown in CRC cells on cell proliferation, invasion, migration and glycolysis. The association between NXPH4 and forkhead box protein K1 (FOXK1) was predicted using the JASPAR database, and verified through luciferase reporter gene and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments. The NXPH4 regulation mechanism was also discussed. NXPH4 was revealed to be highly expressed in CRC. NXPH4 knockdown in CRC cells could significantly inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis. NXPH4 knockdown inhibited cell invasion, migration and glycolysis. The aforementioned process could be reversed by further FOXK1 overexpression in CRC cells. In conclusion, FOXK1-regulated NXPH4 promotes proliferation, metastasis and glycolysis in CRC.Copyright: © Fan et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading malignant carcinomas. Despite the advancement in the treatment for HCC, such as precise hepatectomy, radiotherapy, transarterial therapies, chemotherapy, targeted treatments, and immunotherapy, the 5-year overall survival rate of HCC is extremely low. Hence, novel biomarkers are urgently needed for advancing the therapy and prognosis of HCC. Neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4) is a neuropeptide-like glycoprotein. The study is designed to investigate the function of NXPH4 in HCC through a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis. NXPH4 expression status and prognostic values were analyzed via multiple datasets, such as TCGA, GEO, and ICGC. The association between NXPH4 and immune cell infiltration was estimated by TIMER, TISIDB, and CIBERSORT. In vitro, we explored the biological function of NXPH4 in JHH7 and SNU182 cells through knocking down the expression of NXPH4 via siRNA. In general, NXPH4 was predominantly upregulated in HCC tumors, and increased NXPH4 expression predicted unfavorable prognosis. The gene enrichment analysis displayed that NXPH4 was related with metabolic pathways. NXPH4 expression was correlated with immune cell infiltration. NXPH4 knockdown significantly suppressed proliferation, migration, and invasion of JHH7 and SNU182 cells. This study suggested that the upregulation of NXPH4 is associated with adverse prognosis and immune cell infiltration in HCC. NXPH4 could be a novel biomarker of unfavorable prognosis and an underlying target for immunotherapy in HCC.Copyright © 2022 Qin Tang et al.
Recent studies have shown that NXPH family member 4 (NXPH4) plays an important role in the progression of cancer. However, the potential role of NXPH4 in bladder cancer (BCa) remains to be explored. The purpose of the present study was to identify whether NXPH4 could be used as a biomarker to predict the prognosis of BCa. We first examined the expression of NXPH4 in pan-cancer, and then focused on BCa. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis were used to investigate whether NXPH4 could be used as an independent prognostic indicator. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was used for functional analysis of NXPH4-related genes. CIBERSORT algorithm was used to calculate immune cell infiltration levels with different NXPH4 expression. Finally, the expression of NXPH4 was validated in clinical tissue specimens and bladder cancer cell lines by immunohistochemistry and qRT-PCR. The tumor-promoting effects of NXPH4 were further investigated using counting kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation, EdU assays, and tumor xenograft model. Our results showed that NXPH4 was highly expressed in BCa tissues. Patients in the high NXPH4 expression group had shorter overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). We found that immune-related pathways were enriched in NXPH4-related genes. Immune cell infiltrations in BCa were also associated with different NXPH4 expression. NXPH4 was further found to be highly expressed in our validation specimens. The proliferative effect of NXPH4 was confirmed in BCa in vivo and in vitro. Overall, NXPH4 is a biomarker for predicting BCa prognosis and associated with immune infiltration.Abbreviations: NXPH4: Neurexophilin 4; BCa: Bladder cancer; TCGA-BLCA: The Cancer Genome Atlas Urothelial Bladder Carcinoma; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; NC: Negative control; OS: Overall survival; PFS: Progression-free survival; TME: Tumor microenvironment; IPS: immunophenoscore; ICIs: Immune checkpoint inhibitors; DEGs: Differential expression genes.
The high morbidity rate of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is mainly linked to late diagnosis. Early diagnosis of this leading cause of mortality is therefore extremely important. We designed a gene selection strategy to identify potential secretory proteins by predicting signal peptide cleavage sites in amino acid sequences derived from transcriptome data of human multistage HCC comprising chronic hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and early and overt HCCs. The gene selection process was validated by the detection of molecules in the serum of HCC patients. From the computational approaches, 10 gene elements were suggested as potent candidate secretory markers for detecting HCC patients. ELISA testing of serum showed that hyaluronan mediated motility receptor (HMMR), neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4), paired like homeodomain 1 (PITX1) and thrombospondin 4 (THBS4) are early-stage HCC diagnostic markers with superior predictive capability in a large cohort of HCC patients. In the assessment of differential diagnostic accuracy, receiver operating characteristic curve analyses showed that HMMR and THBS4 were superior to α-fetoprotein (AFP) in diagnosing HCC, as evidenced by the high area under the curve, sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and other values. In addition, comparative analysis of all four markers and AFP combinations demonstrated that HMMR-PITX1-AFP and HMMR-NXPH4-PITX1 trios were the optimal combinations for reaching 100% accuracy in HCC diagnosis. Serum proteins HMMR, NXPH4, PITX1 and THBS4 can complement measurement of AFP in diagnosing HCC and improve identification of patients with AFP-negative HCC as well as discriminate HCC from non-malignant chronic liver disease.
Neurotensin (NTS) is a secretory peptide produced by lymphatic endothelial cells. Our previous study revealed that NTS suppressed the activity of brown adipose tissue via interactions with NTSR2. In the current study, we found that the depletion of Ntsr2 in white adipocytes upregulated food intake, while the local treatment of NTS suppressed food intake. Our mechanistic study revealed that suppression of NTS-NTSR2 signaling enhanced the phosphorylation of ceramide synthetase 2, increased the abundance of its products ceramides C20-C24, and downregulated the production of GDF15 in white adipose tissues, which was responsible for the elevation of food intake. We discovered a potential causal and positive correlation between serum C20-C24 ceramide levels and human food intake in four populations with different ages and ethnic backgrounds. Together, our study shows that NTS-NTSR2 signaling in white adipocytes can regulate food intake via its direct control of lipid metabolism and production of GDF15. The ceramides C20-C24 are key factors regulating food intake in mammals.© 2024. The Author(s).
As the incidence and survival rates of patients with cancer continues to grow, an increasing number of people are living with comorbidities, which often manifests as cancer-induced bone pain (CIBP). The majority of patients with CIBP report poor pain control from currently available analgesics. A conotoxin, Contulakin-G (CGX), has been demonstrated to be an antinociceptive agent in postsurgical and neuropathic pain states via a neurotensin receptor 2 (NTSR2)-mediated pathway. However, the efficacy and side effect profile of CGX have never been assessed in CIBP. Here, we evaluated CGX's antinociceptive potential in a rodent model of CIBP. We hypothesized that CGX engages the NTSR2 pathway, providing pain relief with minimal tolerance and motor side effects. Our results demonstrated that CGX intrathecal injection in mice with CIBP attenuated both spontaneous pain behaviors and evoked mechanical hypersensitivity, regardless of their sex. Furthermore, the antinociceptive effect of CGX was dependent upon expression of NTSR2 and the R-type voltage-gated calcium channel (Cav2.3); gene editing of these targets abolished CGX antinociception without affecting morphine antinociception. Examination of the side effect profile of CGX demonstrated that, unlike morphine, chronic intrathecal infusion maintained antinociception with reduced tolerance in rats with CIBP. Moreover, at antinociceptive doses, CGX had no impact on motor behavior in rodents with CIBP. Finally, RNAScope and immunoblotting analysis revealed expression of NTSR2 in both dorsal and ventral horns, while Cav2.3 was minimally expressed in the ventral horn, possibly explaining the sensory selectivity of CGX. Together, these findings support advancing CGX as a potential therapeutic for cancer pain.Copyright © 2024 International Association for the Study of Pain.
Current therapies that target the B-cell receptor pathway or the inhibition of anti-apoptotic proteins do not prevent the progressive forms of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), have low long-term efficacy and are subject to therapeutic resistance. Deciphering the mechanisms of leukemic cell survival and searching for new specific targets therefore remain major challenges to improve the management of this disease. It was evidenced that NTSR2 (neurotensin receptor 2), through the recruitment of TRKB (tropomyosin related kinase B), induces survival pathways in leukemic B cells. We have investigated the therapeutic potential of this protein complex as a new target. The binding domain of NTSR2 and TRKB was identified and a peptide targeting the latter was designed. The peptide binds TRKB and efficiently decreases the interaction of the two proteins. It is also effectively internalized by CLL-B cells in which it notably affects Src family kinase signaling and anti-apoptotic proteins levels. It demonstrated a cytotoxic effect both in vitro on the MEC-1 cell line and ex vivo on a cohort of 30 CLL patients. Altogether, these results underline the therapeutic potential of the NTSR2/TRKB protein complex as a target in CLL and open new perspectives for the development of targeted therapies.© 2024. The Author(s).
The reactivation of ubiquitously present Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is known to be involved with numerous diseases, including neurological ailments. A recent in vitro study from our group unveiled the association of EBV and its 12-amino acid peptide glycoprotein M146-157 (gM146-157) with neurodegenerative diseases, viz., Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis. In this study, we have further validated this association at the in vivo level. The exposure of EBV/gM146-157 to mice causes a decline in the cognitive ability with a concomitant increase in anxiety-like symptoms through behavioral assays. Disorganization of hippocampal neurons, cell shrinkage, pyknosis, and apoptotic appendages were observed in the brains of infected mice. Inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) were found to be elevated in infected mouse brain tissue samples, whereas TNF-α exhibited a decline in the serum of these mice. Further, the altered levels of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) and neurotensin receptor 2 affirmed neuroinflammation in infected mouse brain samples. Similarly, the risk factor of AD, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), was also found to be elevated at the protein level in EBV/gM146-157 challenged mice. Furthermore, we also observed an increased level of myelin basic protein in the brain cortex. Altogether, our results suggested an integral connection of EBV and its gM146-157 peptide to the neuropathologies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37962046 is a review article
Neurotensin receptor 2 (NTS2) is a well-known mediator of central opioid-independent analgesia. Seminal studies have highlighted NTS2 overexpression in a variety of tumors including prostate cancer, pancreas adenocarcinoma, and breast cancer. Herein, we describe the first radiometalated neurotensin analogue targeting NTS2. JMV 7488 (DOTA-(βAla)2-Lys-Lys-Pro-(D)Trp-Ile-TMSAla-OH) was prepared using solid-phase peptide synthesis, then purified, radiolabeled with 68Ga and 111In, and investigated in vitro on HT-29 cells and MCF-7 cells, respectively, and in vivo on HT-29 xenografts. [68Ga]Ga-JMV 7488 and [111In]In-JMV 7488 were quite hydrophilic (logD7.4 = -3.1 ± 0.2 and -2.7 ± 0.2, respectively, p < 0.0001). Saturation binding studies showed good affinity toward NTS2 (K D = 38 ± 17 nM for [68Ga]Ga-JMV 7488 on HT-29 and 36 ± 10 nM on MCF-7 cells; K D = 36 ± 4 nM for [111In]In-JMV 7488 on HT-29 and 46 ± 1 nM on MCF-7 cells) and good selectivity (no NTS1 binding up to 500 nM). On cell-based evaluation, [68Ga]Ga-JMV 7488 and [111In]In-JMV 7488 showed high and fast NTS2-mediated internalization of 24 ± 5 and 25 ± 11% at 1 h for [111In]In-JMV 7488, respectively, along with low NTS2-membrane binding (<8%). Efflux was as high as 66 ± 9% at 45 min for [68Ga]Ga-JMV 7488 on HT-29 and increased for [111In]In-JMV 7488 up to 73 ± 16% on HT-29 and 78 ± 9% on MCF-7 cells at 2 h. Maximum intracellular calcium mobilization of JMV 7488 was 91 ± 11% to that of levocabastine, a known NTS2 agonist on HT-29 cells demonstrating the agonist behavior of JMV 7488. In nude mice bearing HT-29 xenograft, [68Ga]Ga-JMV 7488 showed a moderate but promising significant tumor uptake in biodistribution studies that competes well with other nonmetalated radiotracers targeting NTS2. Significant uptake was also depicted in lungs. Interestingly, mice prostate also demonstrated [68Ga]Ga-JMV 7488 uptake although the mechanism was not NTS2-mediated.© 2023 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
The lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) is essential for ingestive behavior but has primarily been studied in modulating feeding, with comparatively scant attention on drinking. This is partly because most LHA neurons simultaneously promote feeding and drinking, suggesting that ingestive behaviors track together. A notable exception are LHA neurons expressing neurotensin (LHANts neurons): activating these neurons promotes water intake but modestly restrains feeding. Here we investigated the connectivity of LHANts neurons, their necessity and sufficiency for drinking and feeding, and how timing and resource availability influence their modulation of these behaviors. LHANts neurons project broadly throughout the brain, including to the lateral preoptic area (LPO), a brain region implicated in modulating drinking behavior. LHANts neurons also receive inputs from brain regions implicated in sensing hydration and energy status. While activation of LHANts neurons is not required to maintain homeostatic water or food intake, it selectively promotes drinking during the light cycle, when ingestive drive is low. Activating LHANts neurons during this period also increases willingness to work for water or palatable fluids, regardless of their caloric content. By contrast, LHANts neuronal activation during the dark cycle does not promote drinking, but suppresses feeding during this time. Finally, we demonstrate that the activation of the LHANts → LPO projection is sufficient to mediate drinking behavior, but does not suppress feeding as observed after generally activating all LHANts neurons. Overall, our work suggests how and when LHANts neurons oppositely modulate ingestive behaviors.Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Intrathecal application of contulakin-G (CGX), a conotoxin peptide and a neurotensin analogue, has been demonstrated to be safe and potentially analgesic in humans. However, the mechanism of action for CGX analgesia is unknown. We hypothesized that spinal application of CGX produces antinociception through activation of the presynaptic neurotensin receptor (NTSR)2. In this study, we assessed the mechanisms of CGX antinociception in rodent models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Intrathecal administration of CGX, dose dependently, inhibited thermal and mechanical hypersensitivities in rodents of both sexes. Pharmacological and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/Cas9 editing of NTSR2 reversed CGX-induced antinociception without affecting morphine analgesia. Electrophysiological and gene editing approaches demonstrated that CGX inhibition was dependent on the R-type voltage-gated calcium channel (Cav2.3) in sensory neurons. Anatomical studies demonstrated coexpression of NTSR2 and Cav2.3 in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Finally, synaptic fractionation and slice electrophysiology recordings confirmed a predominantly presynaptic effect. Together, these data reveal a nonopioid pathway engaged by a human-tested drug to produce antinociception.Copyright © 2022 International Association for the Study of Pain.
Neurotensin (NT) acts as a primary neurotransmitter and neuromodulator in the CNS and has been involved in a number of CNS pathologies including epilepsy. NT mediates its central and peripheral effects by interacting with the NTSR1, NTSR2, and Sort1/NTSR3 receptor subtypes. To date, little is known about the precise expression of the NT receptors in brain neural cells and their regulation in pathology. In the present work, we studied the cellular distribution of the NTSR2 protein in the rat hippocampus and questioned whether its expression was modulated in conditions of neuroinflammation using a model of temporal lobe epilepsy induced by pilocarpine. This model is characterized by a rapid and intense inflammatory reaction with reactive gliosis in the hippocampus. We show that NTSR2 protein is expressed in hippocampal astrocytes and its expression increases together with astrocyte reactivity following induction of status epilepticus. NTSR2 immunoreactivity is also increased in astrocytes proximal to blood vessels and their end-feet, and in endothelial cells. Proinflammatory factors such as IL1β and LPS induced NTSR2 mRNA and protein in cultured astroglial cells. Antagonizing NTSR2 with SR142948A decreased NTSR2 expression as well as astroglial reactivity. Together, our results suggest that NTSR2 is implicated in astroglial and gliovascular inflammation and that targeting the NTSR2 receptor may open new avenues in the regulation of neuroinflammation in CNS diseases.© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Summary/Abstract Sensory neurons play well defined roles in the regulation of intestinal motility, digestion, and interoception, but transcriptional dissection of intrinsic and extrinsic sensory neurons innervating the intestines has been challenging because these cells share many genetic markers. However, we cross-referenced transcriptional profiles of intrinsic and extrinsic intestinal neurons and the cells that surround them and identified Pdyn, the gene encoding Prodynorphin, as a marker of putative sensory enteric neurons of the mouse intestines. In a Pdyn lineage-reporter mouse, we identified labeled cells in the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of the large intestine, in contrast to their sparse presence in the dorsal root or nodose ganglia. In dissociated cell culture, these neurons mostly display a phasic firing pattern, discharging one or two action potentials at the onset of a depolarizing current pulse, followed by a prompt cessation of firing despite continued current injection, as assessed by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Optogenetic activation of Pdyn -lineage neurons propels stool in ex vivo colons, and in untethered and mobile mice, optogenetic stimulation of the proximal colon induces freezing behaviors and orbital tightening, suggesting interoceptive behaviors, without significant stool output differences. Together, these findings suggest that activation of Pdyn -lineage enteric neurons regulates motility and visceral interoception.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511998 is a review article
Background: Impaired insulin secretion by pancreatic beta cells drives chronic hyperglycemia, which characterizes type 2 diabetes mellitus. The mechanosensitive ion channel Piezo2 has been implicated in various physiological processes. However, its expression and functional role in pancreatic endocrine cells remain poorly understood. Methods: We investigated the expression, cellular localization, and potential functional significance of Piezo2 in the pancreatic islets of mice fed normal- and high-fat diets (HFD) using molecular, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence approaches. Results: Piezo2 mRNA and protein expression were detected in rat pancreatic tissue and the pancreatic beta cell line INS-1 via polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting analyses. Hematoxylin and eosin staining and histopathological analysis were performed to determine the localization of Piezo2, insulin, and glucagon in the islets of Langerhans from mouse pancreas. Immunofluorescence revealed that Piezo2 colocalized with insulin, glucagon, pancreatic polypeptide (PP, a pancreatic cell marker), and insulin/PP (suggesting Ppy-lineage beta cells). Piezo2 expression is significantly reduced in islets from HFD-fed mice and downregulated under high glucose conditions in INS-1 cells. Stretch stimulation, with or without D-GsMTx4 (a Piezo2-specific inhibitor), enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, whereas ruthenium red (a non-specific Piezo channel inhibitor) did not alter the response to high glucose. Conclusions: These findings demonstrate Piezo2 expression in pancreatic islets and suggest that it is enriched in beta cells and Ppy-lineage beta cells, minority in alpha cells and is responsive to metabolic stress. Although Piezo2 may contribute to beta-cell adaptation, its role in insulin secretion remains unclear.
Early detection of pancreatic cancer remains challenging, and reliable circulating biomarkers are needed to enable earlier diagnosis and improve clinical outcomes. We conducted a plasma proteomics study using the Olink Explore HT platform to identify novel biomarker candidates for early-stage pancreatic cancer. The study included 42 patients with stage I-II pancreatic cancer and 43 matched controls. Plasma protein levels were quantified using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay, and differential abundance was assessed using Welch's t-test with correction for multiple testing. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). Among 5419 proteins analyzed, 982 showed significant differences between cases and controls. Carboxylesterase 3 (CES3) was the most significantly decreased protein, whereas leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4) was the most significantly increased protein; both demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91). In addition, pancreatic polypeptide (PPY) showed markedly reduced levels in patients with tumors arising in the head of the pancreas, suggesting anatomical specificity. This comprehensive Olink-based proteomic analysis identifies CES3 and LILRB4 as promising plasma biomarkers for early-stage pancreatic cancer and highlights PPY as informative for tumor localization. These findings provide a valuable resource for biomarker discovery and support further validation of these candidates for noninvasive early detection and risk stratification.© 2026 UICC.
The variability of physiological biomarkers is emerging as an independent indicator of health across various contexts. In intensive care unit (ICU) patients, high variability in serum creatinine, regardless of absolute values, has been associated with higher mortality. This study investigates the dynamics of blood and urine kidney function markers in ICU patients.In a post hoc analysis of the FROG-ICU cohort, focusing on patients with blood and urine samples at ICU admission and discharge, we investigate the relationships among kidney function markers, their dynamics between the two time points, and their association with kidney outcomes and survival. As a post hoc, exploratory analysis, all findings should be considered hypothesis-generating and require prospective validation.At ICU admission, only serum Proenkephalin (PENK) values demonstrated a weak association with short-term post-ICU survival. In contrast, urine peptidome score CKD273 and cystatin C levels measured at ICU discharge were strongly associated with one-month survival. The differences in CKD273, Galectin-3, and plasma neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) between admission and discharge were the most predictive of one-month survival, independent of baseline values. Furthermore, the slopes of CKD273 and plasma NGAL trajectories were prognostic. Absolute dynamic changes in urine NGAL were also linked to poorer short-term survival. Long-term post-ICU survival showed patterns similar to short-term outcomes with respect to biomarker differences during the ICU stay. When examining absolute changes, pronounced dynamics in PENK across the ICU course were associated with worse one-year survival.Both the magnitude and dynamics of kidney function markers may serve as independent predictors of short and long-term post-ICU mortality. As a post hoc exploratory study, this study is hypothesis-generating and requires prospective validation. It highlights the importance of tracking biomarker fluctuations in ICU patients rather than relying solely on static measurements.Copyright © 2026 Landau, Unterman, Tzukert, Frantzi, Mischak, Boutin, Depret, Latosinka and Ilan.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377086 is a review article
Human pancreatic islets exhibit greater anatomic and cellular heterogeneity than previously appreciated, raising fundamental questions about how their composition varies with age, sex, region, and islet size and how type 1 diabetes (T1D) alters these relationships. Yet these questions remained largely unresolved due to the bottleneck of manual tissue inspection. Here, we developed an integrated artificial intelligence (AI)-guided imaging, processing, and statistical pipeline enabling unbiased, high-throughput analysis of more than 2 million candidate islets from 106 non-diabetic (ND) and T1D donors. We identified age-, region-, sex-, and islet size-dependent differences in islet distribution and composition between ND and T1D donors. Profound β-cell loss in T1D was accompanied by reciprocal α-cell expansion, whereas δ-cells and pancreatic polypeptide cells were largely resilient. Cell area and pseudotime analyses uncovered regional and age-dependent trajectories of islet remodeling across T1D progression, along with distinct patterns of cytoarchitectural reorganization of the endocrine pancreas.
Fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes mellitus (FCPD) is characterised by pancreatic calcification, intraductal calculi and severe insulin deficiency, yet abnormalities in glucagon regulation and incretin hormone responses remain incompletely understood. We evaluated the glucagon, incretins and oxyntomodulin secretory responses to oral and intravenous glucose administration in participants with FCPD. Participants with FCPD (cases; n = 9; mean age 34 ± 7.2 years) and healthy individuals (controls; n = 6; mean age 29.8 ± 7.7 years) underwent an extended oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and isoglycaemic intravenous glucose infusion (IIGI). Serial measurements of plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), oxyntomodulin (OXM), and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) were done. Serial hormone responses were analysed using linear mixed-effects models, with area-under-the-curve analyses using trapezoidal rule, performed as secondary summaries. On primary mixed-model analysis, the participants with FCPD exhibited significantly higher fasting and post-OGTT glucagon concentrations with glucagon exposure being greater following OGTT than IIGI in the group with FCPD, whereas no route-dependent difference was observed in control participants. GLP-1 and OXM responses were similarly increased in participants with FCPD, particularly following, oral glucose tolerance test, while GIP responses were attenuated. In contrast, C-peptide and pancreatic polypeptide responses were profoundly suppressed during both OGTT and IIGI in FCPD, consistent with severe pancreatic endocrine failure. Despite matched glycaemic exposure, the incretin effect and gastrointestinal glucose disposal were reduced in the FCPD group. These findings demonstrate persistent hyperglucagonemia accompanied by a distinctive pattern of incretin secretion in FCPD, characterised by exaggerated L-cell-derived hormone secretion with attenuated K-cell (GIP) response and impaired pancreatic peptide responses, highlighting altered entero-pancreatic hormonal regulation in this condition.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dietary sugar intake has been increasingly linked to emotional cognition and mental health. However, the duration-dependent effects of sugar intake on fear memory extinction remain elusive. In this study, we found that long-term sucrose intake impaired fear memory extinction, while short-term sucrose exposure facilitated fear memory extinction. Moreover, long-term sucrose consumption induced aberrant activation of neurons and astrocytes in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), which was characterized by upregulation of proenkephalin (Penk) in engram neurons alongside increased insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (Igfbp2) in astrocytes, indicating that a sustained co-activation may stabilize extinction-resistant fear circuits. In contrast, short-term sucrose intake did not activate the amygdala or prefrontal cortex but induced increased hippocampal insulin expression. Pharmacological blockade of hippocampal insulin receptors abolished the behavioral effect of short-term sucrose exposure, supporting a functional contribution of hippocampal insulin signaling. Overall, these findings demonstrate that the effects of sugar on fear extinction depend strongly on the duration of exposure via distinct mechanisms, providing a novel insight into how eating habits influence emotional cognition and mental health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
A subpopulation of neurons known as Kisspeptin, neurokinin B, and dynorphin (KNDy) are located in the hypothalamus. These neurons co-express and release the corresponding neuropeptides. KNDy neurons are important in the reproductive process and can be affected by a number of factors, such as stress.To investigate the effect of chrysin as an anti-stress agent on the gene expression of hypothalamic Kisspeptin(Kiss1), tachykinin 2 (Tac2), pro-dynorphin (Pdyn), and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) in stress model rats.In this experimental study, 30 male Wistar rats (200 ± 10 gr, 8 wk old) were randomly assigned into 6 groups (n = 5/each). The rats were subjected to stress for 2 hr. The control and stress groups received normal saline. Chrysin (40 or 20 μg, intracerebroventricular injection, single dose) was injected into stress-induced rats, respectively. Also, intact groups received chrysin (40 or 20 μg, intracerebroventricular injection, single dose). Hypothalamic tissue was removed. Relative gene expression was assessed by a real-time polymerase chain reaction.Expression of Kiss1 (p ≤ 0.001), GnRH (p = 0.002), and Tac2 genes (p = 0.002) decreased, and the expression of Pdyn (p = 0.02) increased, in the stress group compared to the control group. No significant increase was observed in the expression of Kiss1, GnRH, and Tac2 genes in rats treated with chrysin (40 or 20 μg) compared to the stress group; however, it caused a significant decrease in the expression of Pdyn gene compared to the stress group (p = 0.02, p = 0.01).Chrysin may regulate the reproductive axis via modulation of hypothalamic KNDy gene expression following stress suppression.Copyright © 2026 Haghighat et al.
Limited availability of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) currently complicates the differentiation of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-dependent Cushing's syndrome (CS). The diagnostic value of common screening tests in distinguishing Cushing's disease (CD) from ectopic CS (ECS) remains unclear.To assess the diagnostic performance of screening tests, alone and in combination, in differentiating CD from ECS.Retrospective multicenter study enrolling patients with confirmed ACTH-dependent CS and available screening tests at diagnosis. Data are expressed as multiples of upper limit of normal (×ULN). Optimal cut-offs were determined using Youden's Index. Combination with composite score models and machine learning (ML) algorithm were performed.A total of 566 patients were included (509 [90%] with CD). The optimal morning ACTH cut-off was 1.8×ULN (sensitivity 74%, specificity 77%, AUC=0.776 [CI-95% 0.688-0.853]). 24h-urinary free cortisol (24h-UFC) showed the best performance (cut-off 5.9×ULN, sensitivity 72%, specificity 83%, AUC=0.854 [0.816-0.923]), followed by the 1 mg dexamethasone suppression test (12.8×ULN, sensitivity 70%, specificity 86%, AUC=0.828 [0.740-0.906]). Using a composite score, a cut-off of 1.5 yielded 78% sensitivity and 92% specificity (AUC=0.865 [0.798-0.933]). Combining this score with pituitary MRI-findings, sensitivity and specificity were 88% and 85% (AUC=0.931 [0.887-0.974]). ML algorithm (balanced random forest) including screening tests-results yielded a sensitivity of 71% and specificity of 84% (AUC=0.853 [0.741-0.966]), while including the MRI-findings variant achieved a sensitivity and specificity of 76% and 91% (AUC=0.902 [0.805-0.999]).Combining screening tests in composite scoring and ML differentiates ACTH-dependent CS and offers a potential diagnostic alternative to CRH-stimulation test.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology.
Little is known as to whether there may be a patogenetic continuum among subsets of lung neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs), including both neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) and neuroendocrine carcinomas (NECs). In this study, transcriptomic data from 205 pulmonary NETs and NECs were collected from four publicly available datasets and analyzed through supervised clustering of a curated 20-gene signature dealing with neuroendocrine differentiation, key oncogenic pathways, chromatin remodeling genes, and lineage-specific transcription factors. Two major clusters were identified, PNEN-A and PNEN-B. Compared to PNEN-A and independently of histological typing, PNEN-B demonstrated reduced neuroendocrine gene expression and increased activation of pulmonary epithelial cell lineages, such as glandular (club/AT2⁺), basal (ΔNp63⁺/p63⁺/CK5⁺), and tuft cell (POU2F3⁺) differentiation. PNEN-B tumors also exhibited features of inflamed but functionally constrained immune microenvironment, with increased expression of immunomodulatory neuropeptides (calcitonin, proopiomelanocortin, and gastrin-releasing peptide), alongside enrichment of T cell exhaustion markers. PNEN-B tumors significantly correlated with poor prognosis in a subset of cases. These findings reveal common transcriptional programs across the entire spectrum of pulmonary NENs, independent of histological typing. Attenuation of neuroendocrine differentiation, activation of alternative cell lineages, and modulation of microenvironment highlight subsets of tumors with potential pathogenetic and clinical implications.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511727 is a review article
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal gland axis (HPAA) dysfunction impairs survival and can be diagnosed with an arginine vasopressin (AVP) stimulation test.Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol response to an AVP stimulation test will be attenuated in hospitalized foals compared to healthy foals and associated with severity of disease.Fifteen healthy and 45 hospitalized foals: 19 septic, 26 sick non-septic (SNS).A prospective, observational case-control design was utilized to assess HPAA function and compare corticotropin-releasing hormone, ACTH, and cortisol concentrations at 0, 15, 30, 60, and 90 min after administration of AVP (5 IU). Adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol fold increase were calculated at 15 and 30 min compared to baseline.Adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol concentrations increased at 15 and 30 min after AVP administration in all groups (P < .05). Adrenocorticotropic hormone concentration was lower in septic (112; 95% CI, 86.3-181.8 pg/mL) and SNS (102; 95% CI, 82.8-150 pg/mL) compared to healthy foals (179; 95% CI, 135.6-275.8 pg/mL) 15 min after AVP administration (P < .05). Fold increase in ACTH was lower in septic (3.3; 95% CI, 2.3-5.6) compared to SNS (3.7; 95% CI, 3.5-6.1) and healthy foals (7; 95% CI, 5.7-9.5; P < .01). Fold increase in cortisol was lower in septic (2; 95% CI, 1.8-8.3) compared to healthy foals (4.3; 95% CI, 2.8-9.4; P < .05).Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal gland axis dysfunction, evidenced by ACTH and cortisol responses to an AVP stimulation test, appears linked to disease severity and is a complication of illness. An AVP stimulation test might help guide therapy in ill foals.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.
Hyperactivity of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons contributes to elevated sympathetic outflow in hypertension, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that activation of the WNK-SPAK-NKCC1/KCC2 pathway disrupts chloride homeostasis in paraventricular nucleus (PVN) CRH neurons, diminishing GABAergic inhibition and driving neuronal hyperactivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Chemogenetic inhibition of PVN-CRH neurons reduced blood pressure and renal sympathetic nerve activity in SHRs. We found depolarizing shifts in GABA reversal potential (E GABA) and elevated intracellular chloride concentrations ([Cl-]i) in PVN-CRH neurons of SHRs, associated with increased phosphorylation of NKCC1 (Thr212/Thr217) and KCC2 (Thr1007). Upstream WNK1/4 and phospho-SPAK (Ser373) were upregulated in the PVN of SHRs. Pharmacological inhibition of WNK or SPAK shifted E GABA toward more hyperpolarized values, reduced PVN-CRH neuronal excitability, and lowered blood pressure in SHRs. These findings identify the WNK-SPAK-NKCC1/KCC2 pathway as a promising therapeutic target for neurogenic hypertension.© 2026 The Author(s).
: This study aims to identify the mechanisms underlying the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT).: This study investigated 93 patients included in our previous clinical trial: 24 received 30 g of their own feces (placebo group), while 47 and 22 received 30 g and 60 g of donor feces, respectively. The patients underwent sigmoidoscopy with biopsies, provided fecal samples, and completed questionnaires to assess irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) symptoms, fatigue, and quality of life at the baseline and at 1 month following FMT. The biopsy samples were immunostained for Musashi-1, neurogenin-3, and enteroendocrine and immune cells. The cell densities were quantified by computerized image analysis. Fecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were measured by gas chromatography, and fecal bacteria were measured by 16S ribosomal RNA polymerase chain reaction DNA amplification.: The densities of stem cells, enteroendocrine cell progenitors, serotonin, glucagon-like peptide 1, and peptide YY (PYY) cells increased following FMT in the 30-g and 60-g treated groups but not in the placebo group, and they were inversely correlated with both IBS symptoms and fatigue. The densities of submucosal immune cells and mast cells decreased following FMT in the 30-g and 60-g treated groups but not in the placebo group, and they were correlated with IBS symptoms and fatigue. The fecal level of butyric acid increased in patients treated with donor feces, and this was inversely correlated with IBS symptoms and fatigue.: Stem cells, enteroendocrine progenitors, serotonin, and glucagon-like peptide 1 as well as low-grade inflammation may play roles in IBS symptom manifestations. The effects of FMT are probably due to the amelioration of these abnormalities.
Obesity induced by high‑fat, high‑sucrose diets (HFSD) remains a major global health challenge, disrupting lipid metabolism, glucose homeostasis, and gut microbial balance. These disturbances underscore the need for safe interventions capable of restoring metabolic regulation. Senna alexandrina (SA), traditionally used for weight reduction, has recently been shown to modulate the gut microbiota beyond its laxative effects. To enhance efficacy while minimizing adverse outcomes, this study investigated the effects of a low and safe dose of SA combined with intermittent fasting (IF), a strategy that reshapes nutrient availability and microbial dynamics. HFSD‑induced obese rats were treated for four weeks with SA leaf powder (300 mg/kg/day), IF, or both. Bioactive constituents of SA were characterized using LC‑HRMS, alongside systematic evaluation of physiological and metabolic parameters-including adiposity, morphometry, lipid profiles, insulin sensitivity markers, and gut-endocrine axis indicators. SA supplementation showed improvements across all parameters, surpassing those achieved with IF alone. Importantly, the combined intervention (SA+IF) yielded complementary benefits, notably enhancing GLUT4 expression, short‑chain fatty acid (SCFA) production, peptide YY (PYY) secretion, and reducing the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio. These findings highlight the complementary roles of SA and IF in metabolic regulation, providing experimental evidence for a potential dietary approach to mitigate obesity‑related dysfunction.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The development of dual agonists for the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR) has been a landmark moment in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity. However, for reasons that are incompletely understood, in preclinical and clinical studies, adding either a GIPR agonist or GIPR antagonist to GLP-1R agonism causes additional weight loss1. Here we show that distinct brain regions mediate the appetite-suppressing effects of GIPR agonists and the synergistic weight loss effects conferred by GIPR antagonists. We knock out Gipr in either the area postrema (AP) or hypothalamus of mice (GiprAP-KO and Giprhypo-KO, respectively) and compare body weight and food intake responses to GIPR agonists and antagonists, alone and in combination with the GLP-1R agonist liraglutide. GiprAP-KO mice exhibit partial protection against diet-induced obesity, reduced responsiveness to the appetite-suppressing effects of acyl-GIP and a reduced ability of acyl-GIP to prevent avoidance triggered by peptide YY. Weight loss effects of liraglutide are comparable in GiprAP-KO and control mice, and the co-administration of a GIPR antagonist peptide causes similar additional weight loss in both groups. Giprhypo-KO mice, by contrast, exhibit normal appetite suppression by acyl-GIP but enhanced weight loss on liraglutide compared with control mice. Giprhypo-KO also abolishes the synergistic effect of a GIPR antagonist when combined with liraglutide-an effect that is not mediated by nucleus tractus solitarius preproglucagon neurons. GIPR antagonism and Giprhypo-KO also sensitise to cagrilintide-induced weight loss. Overall, our results suggest that the AP is responsible for the appetite-suppressing effects of GIPR agonism but that GIP receptors in the hypothalamus underlie the ability of GIPR antagonism to enhance the weight loss effects of GLP-1R and amylin receptor agonists.© 2026. The Author(s).
Peptide YY (PYY) comprises the secretory repertoire of enteroendocrine L-cells alongside glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and positively modulates postprandial satiety, digestion mechanics, and regeneration of the intestinal epithelium. Whereas immortalised GLP-1-secreting human L-cell models support pre-clinical drug discovery, comparable human lines that robustly secrete PYY are lacking, hindering mechanistic studies of its release. We present a biosensor for detection of PYY production and secretion from human enteroendocrine cells in vitro. Guided by in silico structural prediction, we engineer a superecliptic phluorin (SEP)-tagged PYY, SEP-PYY, that engages native hormone processing machinery and is responsive to canonical nutrient stimuli when expressed in a human enteroendocrine-like cell line, NCI-H716. SEP-PYY production and secretion can be measured by flow cytometry and spectrofluorometric plate readouts respectively, methods with superior time- and cost-efficacy to current hormone detection methods. Leveraging the pH sensitivity of SEP, we use this biosensor in detection of single-event hormone exocytosis by total internal reflection microscopy. Finally, we demonstrate the application of our platform in screening ligands of metabolite-sensing G-protein coupled receptors that drive SEP-PYY secretion, supporting discovery of druggable and nutrient-driven pathways in metabolic disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bile acid diarrhoea (BAD) is a chronic disease caused by a disturbance of the enterohepatic circulation resulting in an abundance of bile acids in the colon, which in turn causes diarrhoea. Since bile acids stimulate the secretion of the hormone peptide YY (PYY), we investigated PYY levels in plasma samples from earlier studies enrolling patients with BAD and healthy volunteers.We analysed total PYY in 1) a case-control study comparing individuals with BAD with matched healthy controls during acute administration of the bile acid sequestrant colesevelam and placebo; 2) a randomised controlled trial comparing the treatment effects of colesevelam and the glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analogue liraglutide on bowel movements in individuals with BAD; and 3) a sequestrant study investigating the effect of treatment cessation in patients with BAD. We also investigated the PYY/GLP-1 ratios along the intestines of healthy individuals based on mRNA expression and immunohistochemistry.Individuals with BAD had higher fasting plasma PYY levels compared with controls but similar postprandial increments in the two groups. Symptom-alleviating treatment of BAD with sequestrants or liraglutide resulted in a decline of fasting PYY levels. Fasting PYY levels correlated positively with 7α-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (C4) and plasma total bile acids. Finally, the PYY/GLP-1 ratio increased along the intestine with the highest ratios observed in the colon.Collectively, these results suggest a role for PYY as a marker for BAD pathophysiology and warrant further studies into the role of PYY in BAD and other diarrhoeal diseases.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Hookworms of the family Ancylostomatidae are intestinal parasites that infect hundreds of millions of people worldwide, contributing to malnutrition, anemia, and impaired development. Although hookworms are known to secrete immunomodulatory molecules to evade host defenses, it has been unclear whether they also exploit host hormonal signaling. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized family of hookworm peptides, which we term ancylotensins. Ancylotensins share strong sequence similarity with the chordate hormone neurotensin, a key regulator of metabolism, gut-brain communication, and intestinal function. In vitro pharmacological assays, ex vivo gut contractility studies, and cryoelectron microscopy demonstrate that ancylotensins closely replicate both the structural and functional properties of mammalian neurotensin to modulate gut function. Furthermore, ancylotensins do not share common ancestry with chordate neurotensin and likely evolved independently via convergent evolution. These findings reveal the existence of gut peptide mimicry as a mechanism by which intestinal parasites may manipulate host physiology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The objective of this study was to investigate the clinical features and genetic variation of a patient with monogenic nonsyndromic obesity caused by melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) gene variation. Additionally, this study aims to provide a reference for the diagnosis of the disease.A monogenic non syndromic obese patient who was admitted to Dongying People's Hospital in December 2024 was enrolled in the study. The clinical data and peripheral blood samples of the patient were collected. Whole-exome sequencing was utilized to identify gene variants. Subsequently, bioinformatic analysis was performed on the candidate variants detected in the patient. The pathogenicity of the variant was evaluated in accordance with the Standards and Guidelines for the Classification of Genetic Variants, which were formulated by the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). A comprehensive database was meticulously curated to encompass all previously documented monogenic non syndromic cases. A retrospective analysis was then conducted to systematically summarize the phenotypic and pathogenic variation spectrum of the MC4R gene. A comprehensive review of the extant literature on cellular and molecular genetics was conducted, with the objective of elucidating the discrepancies between the mutation location of the MC4R gene and its clinical phenotype.The results of the patient's case reveal that the subject is a 10-year-2-month-old female who exhibits the clinical manifestations of severe obesity, hyperinsulinemia, and accelerated puberty development. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a missense mutation c.185A > G (p.Asn62Ser) in the MC4R gene. According to the ACMG guidelines, the variant was designated as pathogenic (PM2_Supporting + PM3_Supporting + PS4_Supporting + PS3_Moderate + PP1_Strong + PP3_Supporting). A comprehensive literature search yielded a total of 64 children with obesity caused by MC4R mutation. Regardless of the location of the mutation, whether in the transmembrane region or the topological region, no statistically significant differences were observed in age (months), gender, BMI, BMISDS, acanthosis nigricans, hyperinsulin, hyperappetite, and underlying diseases between the two groups. Interaction analysis revealed a significant modification effect of underlying disease status on the association between mutation location and BMI (P for interaction = 0.002-0.069). Among children without underlying diseases, topological region mutations were associated with higher BMI (β = 8.52, 95% CI: -3.20-20.24), whereas among those with underlying diseases, the effect was reversed (β = -9.73, 95% CI: -21.42-1.96), indicating opposite directions of effect across subgroups.The present study has demonstrated that MC4R gene missense variants are among the most prevalent genetic factors contributing to monogenic nonsyndromic obesity. For children with early-onset severe obesity, accelerated puberty, and hyperinsulinemia, the consideration of monogenic nonsyndromic obesity is imperative, and genetic testing should be utilized to confirm the diagnosis expeditiously. In the context of pediatric obese patients with underlying diseases, the effect of different mutation positions on BMI varies. These findings also expand the spectrum of MC4R variants.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Up to half of patients switch or discontinue antihypertensive medications within the first year, but underlying mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to identify genetic predictors of antihypertensive medication use trajectories within the first year.Using longitudinal medication data from >400 000 genotyped antihypertensive medication users across three cohorts (FinnGen, the UK Biobank, and the Estonian Biobank), short-term antihypertensive medication use trajectories were classified as Continue, Switch, or Discontinue. Genome-wide association studies were performed across five medication classes.In total, 14 genome-wide significant loci were identified for switching from angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (dCCB) to other antihypertensive medications. For ACEI switching, evidence converged on the neurotensin-NTSR1 pathway, including a 320-fold Finnish-enriched protective missense variant in the neurotensin receptor gene NTSR1 (rs148569146 [G301R], odds ratio [OR] 0.49, P = 3.3 × 10-43) and a variant near RASSF9 (rs181941187, OR = 0.74, P = 1.2 × 10-49) tagging the neurotensin gene NTS. In drug-gene interaction analyses, NTSR1 G301R was associated with reduced ACEI-induced cough risk (OR 0.39, P = 8.1 × 10-4). The dCCB switching locus at CYP3A43 was in near-complete linkage (r2 = 0.99) with the functional CYP3A4*22 allele (rs35599367, OR 1.23, P = 6.1 × 10-10). A polygenic risk score (PRS) for ACEI switching predicted two-fold ACEI cough risk in the top 10% PRS compared with the middle 20% in an independent sample of the Estonian Biobank.These findings extend the bradykinin hypothesis of ACEI-induced cough by implicating neurotensin-NTSR1 signalling, pinpoint CYP3A4*22 as a novel functional predictor of dCCB switching with potential for genotype-guided prescribing, and validate medication use trajectories as a framework for pharmacogenetic discovery.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Consumption of food and water is regulated by interactions between neural circuits that govern motivational drive states, arousal, motor activity, and reward signaling, among other factors. Neurons in the lateral hypothalamus that express the neuropeptide neurotensin (LH-Nts neurons) are known to influence many of these elements, but their precise role in regulating specific aspects of ingestive behavior remains unclear. Utilizing a tightly controlled head-fixed task, we find that LH-Nts neurons strongly encode the rate of licking for water and sweet solutions, with weaker modulation of activity by solution identity and restriction state. Silencing LH-Nts neurons reduces water intake but has little direct effect on hunger or satiety. Instead, we find that these neurons impact multiple underlying behavioral components necessary for food consumption, including arousal and engagement with a novel food source, and also influence thermoregulation and metabolism. Together, these data establish tonic activity of LH-Nts neurons as a critical signal supporting exploration and volitional movement, while also delineating a role for these neurons in driving active consumption, particularly of water. Furthermore, quantitative projection mapping revealed widespread innervation of structures linked to thirst, arousal, reward, metabolism, and facial motor control, suggesting that these neurons play an important role coordinating neural circuits governing multiple different aspects of ingestion.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare ciliopathy characterized by early-onset obesity and multisystem endocrine dysfunction. The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) agonist setmelanotide is approved for hyperphagia-related obesity in BBS, but its endocrine effects remain incompletely understood.In this prospective single-centre observational cohort study, 58 genetically confirmed BBS patients initiating setmelanotide therapy were followed longitudinally. Linear mixed-effects models adjusted for age, sex, and BMI z-score were used to evaluate changes over time.After 6 months, significant reductions in BMI and HbA1c were observed. Treatment was associated with increases in gonadotropins and testosterone and estradiol age-dependently. IGF-1 levels increased independently of weight change, while TSH decreased without corresponding changes in peripheral thyroid hormones. These effects were established within the first 6 months and remained stable thereafter.Setmelanotide exerts pleiotropic effects beyond weight reduction, modulating multiple endocrine axes in BBS. The observed changes highlight MC4R signaling pathway as a key integrator of metabolic and endocrine function and suggest partially weight-independent therapeutic effects.German Federal Ministry of Research and Education and Rhythm Pharmaceuticals.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) often leads to diabetic gastroenteropathy characterized by gastrointestinal motility disorders, mucosal damage, and oxidative stress. Neurotensin (NT), a gastrointestinal peptide, modulates mucosal healing and metabolic regulation, but its role in diabetic GI dysfunction remains unclear.A streptozotocin (STZ) + nicotinamide (NAD) rat model was used to induce a non-obese T2D phenotype. Male Sprague Dawley rats were assigned to four groups (n = 8/group): Control, STZ, STZ + NT, and STZ + NT + SR-48692 (NTR1 antagonist). Systemic metabolic parameters, serum biochemical markers, gastric and ileal histopathology, oxidative stress markers (MDA, GSH, MPO, luminol and lucigenin chemiluminescence), and neurotransmitter levels (dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine) were evaluated. Gastrointestinal function was assessed by intestinal transit, visceromotor reflex responses, and isolated organ bath analysis of gastric and ileal smooth muscle contractility.Diabetes induction caused significant hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, hepatic and renal dysfunction, accompanied by marked gastric and ileal structural injury, including mucosal disruption, reduced glycoprotein content, and altered NT immunoreactivity. These changes were associated with increased oxidative stress, inflammatory activity, and disturbances in monoaminergic signaling. Functionally, diabetic rats exhibited impaired intestinal transit, reduced visceral sensory responses, and diminished cholinergic contractility in gastric and ileal smooth muscle. NT treatment significantly attenuated hyperglycemia, improved serum metabolic abnormalities, restored mucosal architecture, reduced oxidative stress, and improved gastrointestinal motility and contractile function. Most protective effects were abolished by SR-48692 co-administration, supporting a predominantly NTR1-dependent mechanism.NT ameliorates diabetes-induced GI dysfunction and systemic metabolic disturbances primarily via NTR1 signaling, suggesting the NT/NTR1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for diabetic gastroenteropathy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The spinal cord critically regulates startle responses through local excitatory and inhibitory circuits. The glycine receptor alpha 1 subunit (GlyRα1) mediates the primary inhibitory neurotransmission in the spinal cord, however, the contribution of spinal glycinergic inhibition to startle regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we show that GlyRα1 controls startle behavior in a cell-type- and region-specific manner. GlyRα1 deletion in ChAT-positive spinal neurons markedly enhances startle responses and c-Fos activation in spinal motor neurons as well as excitatory interneurons. In contrast, GlyRα1 deletion in inhibitory interneurons suppresses startle behavior while selectively increasing spinal c-Fos activation in inhibitory but not excitatory interneurons. Consistent with these findings, intraspinal AAV-Cre induced deletion of GlyRα1 without cell-type specificity increases startle responses, whereas deletion from spinal CamK2α-positive cells, which predominantly overlap with glycinergic inhibitory interneurons, attenuates startle reflexes. By contrast, deletion of GlyRα1 from brainstem RtTg CamK2α-positive cells, which are predominantly glutamatergic, enhances startle responses. GlyRα1 deficiency in glycinergic neurons reduces the amplitude of puff-applied glycine-elicited currents without affecting synaptic inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmission in the spinal cord. Together, these findings identify spinal GlyRα1 subunits as a cell-type specific regulator of startle behavior and reveal opposing contributions of GlyRα1 signaling in spinal inhibitory interneurons and motor/excitatory output pathways.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508632 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42499770 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41750307 is a review article
Neuropeptides like galanin are increasingly recognized as modulators of cognitive pathways. Galanin has been implicated in a wide range of pathological conditions in which frontal and temporal structures are compromised. Recently, we discovered that direct pharmacological stimulation of galanin receptor type 1 (GalR1) in the ventral prefrontal cortex (vPFC) and ventral hippocampus (vHC) caused opposing effects on attention and impulse control behaviors. In the present study, we investigate how neurons expressing GalR1 in these two areas differentially contribute to these behaviors. First, using multiplex fluorescent in situ-hybridization, we established that GalR1 is predominantly expressed in glutamatergic neurons in both the vPFC and vHC. Rats were assessed in their visuospatial attention and impulse control behaviors using the 5-Choice task. We developed a novel viral approach to gain genetic access to GalR1-expressing neurons in the vPFC and vHC and found that optogenetic excitation of GalR1 expressing neurons in the vPFC, but not vHC, selectively disrupted attention. Finally, using fiber photometry, we measured bulk calcium dynamics in GalR1-expressing neurons and discovered that GalR1- expressing neurons in the vPFC and vHC showed opposing activity; increased activity in neurons in the vPFC corresponded to correct, attentive actions, whereas activity in the vHC was associated with errors. This region- and response-specific intrinsic activity of galanin, mediated by subclasses of neurons in frontotemporal circuitry participates in shaping the expression of executive-control behaviors that often go awry in various disorders of mental health.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Galanin-expressing neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPOgalanin) are active during sleep and play an important role in regulating non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. It is generally believed that VLPOgalanin neurons promote sleep via inhibitory actions in arousal-promoting regions of the brain. Histaminergic neurons are a population of wake-active neurons that receive strong projections from the sleep-active VLPOgalanin neurons. However, the ability of galanin to influence the activity of histaminergic neurons has received limited attention. Here, using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological recordings from genetically identified histaminergic neurons in male mice, we explore the mechanisms by which galanin influences histaminergic neuron electrical excitability. Our results reveal that galanin is a powerful inhibitor of histaminergic neuron activity and demonstrate that the inhibitory effects of galanin are mediated by galanin receptor 1 (GALR1) and the subsequent opening of G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying (GIRK) and large conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels. Furthermore, we identify that histaminergic neurons highly express Galr1 mRNA and show that the GALR1-mediated hyperpolarization of histaminergic neurons is largely independent of action potential-dependent synaptic transmission or fast excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmitters. Together, these results suggest that direct postsynaptic activation of GALR1 expressed on histaminergic neurons mediates the inhibitory effects of galanin on these neurons. This data also supports the notion that the sleep-promoting effects of VLPOgalanin neuron activation may occur via the ability of galanin to inhibit the arousal-promoting histaminergic neurons.Copyright © 2026 Khouma et al.
Photoperiodic regulation is a key technique in modern poultry farming. In geese, however, the molecular pathways by which the pituitary gland transduces photoperiodic signals remain incompletely understood. Therefore, this study aimed to identify key factors by analyzing the pituitary transcriptome of female Yangzhou geese subjected to a short photoperiod and a long photoperiod. RNA-seq analysis showed that the prolactin (PRL) gene was the most highly expressed among all DEGs in the pituitary, and its dynamic expression pattern was closely associated with reproductive status. Furthermore, the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway was significantly enriched. Within this pathway, we identified key receptor genes, including neurotransmitter receptors (e.g., Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid Type A Receptor Subunit Gamma1 (GABRG1), Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid Type B Receptor Subunit 2 (GABBR2), Glutamate Ionotropic Receptor NMDA Type Subunit 1 (GRIN1), Opioid Receptor Mu 1 (OPRM1)) as well as neuropeptides and their receptors (e.g., Adenylate Cyclase Activating Polypeptide 1 Receptor 1 (ADCYAP1R1), Galanin Receptor 1 (GALR1)). Our results established the pituitary transcriptomic profile of geese under photoperiod-mediated reproduction, underscoring its role as a critical neuroendocrine center. It regulates reproductive activity primarily through PRL signaling and through specific neural pathways that receive and integrate diverse neural signals.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genetic factors contribute to the development of opioid dependence syndrome (ODS), with evidence suggesting that the neuropeptide galanin, which plays a role in the stress response, may influence addiction risk through its receptor galanin receptor 1 (GALR1). However, this area is largely unexplored in the Indian context.This case-control study included 85 opioid-dependent patients and 85 healthy controls, all males, recruited from a tertiary care hospital in North India. All participants were assessed using a socio-demographic proforma, a case record form for substance use parameters, and the World Health Organization Alcohol, Smoking and Substance Involvement Screening Test (WHO-ASSIST) to assess harmful use of other substances. Participants were genotyped for polymorphisms in the galanin gene (GAL rs948854, rs3136541) and its receptor gene (GALR1 rs9807208).The GAL rs3136541 and GALR1 rs9807208 polymorphisms showed significant differences in the genotypic distribution between cases and controls. The GALR1 rs9807208 minor allele (G) was associated with a 2.27-fold increased risk of opioid dependence (95% CI = 1.17-4.41; p = .01). However, no association was found between these polymorphisms and substance use patterns or related clinical parameters.This study provides preliminary evidence of an association between GALR1 rs9807208 polymorphism and opioid dependence in an Indian population, suggesting a potential genetic basis for addiction risk. Further studies with larger samples could be considered to confirm these findings and also to explore gene-environment interactions in opioid dependence.© 2025 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41308866 is a review article
Bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS3) is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that plays critical roles in energy homeostasis, glucose metabolism, and insulin secretion. Recent structural studies have elucidated BRS3 signaling mechanisms using synthetic ligands, including BA1 and MK-5046. However, the molecular basis of BRS3 activation by bioactive natural compounds and their derivatives, particularly those derived from traditional Chinese medicine, remains unclear. Here, we present high-resolution cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of the human BRS3-Gq complex in both unliganded and active states bound by two herb-derived compounds (DSO-5a and oridonin), at resolutions of 2.9, 2.8, and 2.9 Å, respectively. These structures display distinct ligand recognition patterns between DSO-5a and oridonin. Although both compounds bind to the orthosteric pocket, they differentially engage the interaction network of BRS3, as demonstrated by mutagenesis studies assessing calcium mobilization and inositol phosphate 1 (IP1) accumulation. These findings enhance our understanding of BRS3 activation and provide valuable insights into the development of small-molecule BRS3 modulators with therapeutic potential.© 2025 The Authors.
Bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS-3) is a type 1 G-protein-coupled receptor. BRS-3 is an orphan GPCR which is structurally related to the neuromedin B and gastrin-releasing peptide receptors. When activated, BRS-3 causes phosphatidylinositol turnover in lung cancer cells. BRS-3 stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of the epidermal growth-factor receptor (ErbB1), however it is unknown if it transactivates ErbB2/HER2. Adding the nonpeptide BRS-3 allosteric-agonist, MK-5046 or the peptide agonist, BA1 to the lung cancer cell line, NCI-H727 or BRS-3-transfected NCI-H1299 lung cancer cells, increased tyrosine phosphorylation of HER2/ERK2. This increase was antagonized by the BRS-3 peptide antagonist, Bantag-1 and the small molecule BRS-3 antagonist, ML-18. The increase in HER2/ERK phosphorylation caused by MK-5046 was inhibited by ROS inhibitors, N-acetylcysteine and Tiron (superoxide-scavenger). Adding MK-5046 to lung cancer cells increased reactive-oxygen species which was inhibited by NAC or Tiron. MK-5024 and BA1 increased NSCLC colony formation whereas, Bantag-1/ML-18 inhibited proliferation. These results indicate that in lung cancer cells activation of BRS-3 regulates HER2-transactivation in ROS-dependent manner which can mediate tumor growth. These results raise the possibility that the use of HER2-inhibiting compounds alone or in combination with other agents, could be a novel approach in the treatment of these tumors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42311882 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42193398 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41980671 is a review article
From birth, offspring must balance internal energy state with the costs of signaling need to caregivers to secure nutrition for growth and healthy development. How diet during this period shapes the developing brain and behavior is a central question in biology, with growing relevance for understanding the developmental origins of metabolic disorders such as obesity. Yet the effects of early nutrition on growth, neural development, and behavior are rarely examined together within a single system. Here, we use poison frog tadpoles as a vertebrate model in which offspring develop outside a womb, can be reared independently under precisely controlled dietary conditions, and display diverse behaviors at a young age. By independently manipulating dietary quantity and quality, we link early nutrition to growth, brain development, and social behavior during ontogeny. Diet quantity increased body size, whereas diet quality accelerated development. Diet quality, but not quantity, shaped behavior: tadpoles fed a natural diet showed increased affiliation during food solicitation and reduced feeding, while aggression and risk avoidance remained unchanged. Diet also affected body and brain development differently, with artificial diets producing larger tadpoles but reduced volume in some brain regions, including areas associated with begging behavior. Anorexigenic urocortin-1 neurons were active during begging behavior and, together with another anorexigenic midbrain population, decreased in abundance under an artificial diet. Functionally, urocortin-1 reduced feeding without directly increasing begging, suggesting it gates socio-positive behavior by suppressing a competing drive rather than initiating it. Together, this work shows that dietary quantity and quality act on distinct developmental processes, with diet quality programming the brain circuits that permit begging behavior while growth is determined by food quantity.
While nose-to-brain drug delivery is promising, there is limited research on optimizing formulation. Universal design guidelines could enhance intranasal delivery of diverse therapeutics. Therefore, we systematically investigated how lead lipid effect (positive, negative, and polyphenol lipids), lipid composition ratio, and cholesterol content affect nose-to-brain drug delivery efficiency.Positively charged liposomes trended toward delivering more drug than negatively charged or polyphenol-based formulations; however, this difference was not significant. Notably, lowering the lipid composition ratio and cholesterol markedly enhanced fluorescent-drug delivery by 1.9- and 4.3-fold, respectively. These improvements were associated with stronger mucin interactions, a longer linear viscoelastic region supporting stable nasal coating, and a favorable viscosity that enables efficient polymer mobility along the nose-to-brain route. Mechanistic analysis revealed that the optimized formulation with reduced cholesterol and lipid content (11cholND) led to significantly higher cellular uptake. Inhibitor assays identified macropinocytosis and cholesterol-dependent endocytosis as key routes for drug entry, while cell-surface zeta-potential profiling indicated that charge complementarity contributed to uptake preference. Encapsulating urocortin into this optimized formulation resulted in clear therapeutic benefits in a rat intracerebral hemorrhage model: intracerebral hemorrhage lesion volume was reduced by 30% compared to the untreated group, and neurological function improved significantly, as evidenced by decreases of 34.5% and 37.5% in the modified Neurological Severity Score on days 1 and 3, respectively.Lowering the lipid ratio and cholesterol content enhances the effectiveness of nose-to-brain drug delivery through improved rheological properties and cellular interactions, offering a strong therapeutic platform for intranasal neuropharmacology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Over 100 genetic variants are linked to iron (Fe) biomarkers in European populations, but their effects on nonheme Fe absorption remain unknown. Additionally, despite the higher body Fe burden observed in East Asian (EA) individuals, the genetic factors influencing Fe absorption in this population remain unexplored.We aimed to examine the impact of genetic variation on Fe absorption and evaluate how it differs across individuals of genetically inferred Northern European (NE) or EA ancestry.Participants in this genetic association study were healthy males and premenopausal females of EA (n = 253) or NE (n = 251) ancestry, aged 18-50 y. Genotyping data were obtained using the Illumina Global Diversity Array. Fe absorption was assessed using the erythrocyte Fe isotope incorporation method, normalized to a serum ferritin (SF) of 40 μg/L. We evaluated the associations of candidate variants with SF-corrected Fe absorption, tested for variant-ancestry interaction effects, and assessed a European-derived polygenic score for SF (PGS-SF).Seven variants nominally associated with SF-corrected Fe absorption in either EA or NE were tested for variant-ancestry interactions. Two variants remained significant after Bonferroni correction (P-interaction < 0.007), rs1672992 in hepsin and rs9423600 in urocortin 3 (UCN3), indicating ancestry-specific genetic effects on Fe absorption. The C allele of rs1672992 was associated with a 26% decrease in Fe absorption in NE (P = 0.04) but with a 62% increase in EA (P = 0.008). The G allele of rs9423600 was associated with a 27% decrease in Fe absorption in NE (P = 0.005) but with a nonsignificant 17% increase in EA (P = 0.18). The PGS-SF was significantly associated with SF-corrected Fe absorption in both groups (P < 0.05) but captured only a small proportion of its variance (NE: 1.8%, EA: 2.3%).Our findings underscore the need to further understand the genetic architecture of Fe metabolism across diverse populations to inform precision nutrition strategies aimed at reducing Fe-related chronic diseases. The study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT04198545.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cholinergic neurons of the preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) are involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, the role of urocortin 1 (UCN1) positive peptidergic neurons of the centrally projecting EW (EWcp) remains unclear. EWcp cells exclusively express transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) ion channels, implicated in neurodegenerative disorders. We hypothesized that the EWcp/UCN1/Trpa1 neurons may be involved in AD-related pathologies. Age-dependent (2, 6, 9, 12 and 18 months) Trpa1 mRNA expression (RNAscope in situ hybridization) and UCN1 peptide (immunostaining) content of the EWcp were examined in male triple transgenic mouse (3xTg-AD) model of AD. 1H-MRI spectroscopy was performed in the hippocampus at 6, 12 and 18 months to evaluate the taurine and N-acetylaspartate levels, metabolites reflecting neuroprotection and neuronal integrity as AD prognostic markers. Trpa1 expression was lower in 2 and 6-months-old 3xTg-AD than controls. Later the genotype differences disappeared due to the progressive, age-related reduction of Trpa1 mRNA transcripts in the controls. In contrast, the Trpa1 expression of transgenic mice remained persistently low. Similarly, the UCN1 peptide content was also lower in the 2 and 6-months-old 3xTg-AD compared to controls. However, UCN1 level increased with age, which was more pronounced in 3xTg-AD than controls abolishing the genotype differences. Age-dependent decrease in taurine level was detected in transgenic animals leading to significantly lower taurine/creatine ratio in 12 and 18-months-old 3xTg-AD animals compared to the controls. This age-related dynamics of Trpa1 and UCN1 expression of 3xTg-AD mice suggests that altered UCN1 signaling may contribute to AD-associated mood disorders and memory decline.© 2026. The Author(s).
Stress can disrupt menstrual cycles, impair fertility and cause reproductive disfunction. The posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) integrates stress signals and regulates the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse generator through a dense network of GABA and Urocortin-3 (UCN3) neurons, yet the mechanisms underlying the circuitry remain poorly understood. Here, we combine in vivo mini-endoscopic calcium imaging, optogenetics, clustering analysis, and computational modeling to investigate the MePD circuitry in female mice. We uncover two anti-correlated GABA subpopulations in the MePD that are involved in the response to restraint stress and UCN3 neuron stimulation. Computational modeling suggests that mutual inhibition between these GABA groups drives their anti-correlated activity and predicts how these interactions shape downstream responses to stimulation of GABA and UCN3 neurons. In vivo optogenetics confirms that GABA neurons are critical for transmitting UCN3 signals to regulate luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse frequency. Together, our findings reveal amygdala GABAergic circuit mechanisms that mediate stress effects on reproductive health, linking emotional processing and neuroendocrine control.© 2026. The Author(s).
Most general anesthetics have long been believed to work by exerting a wide range of inhibitory impacts on the central nervous system, yet accumulating evidence has highlighted their excitatory effects-particularly that multiple anesthetics activate a common neural target to induce anesthesia. However, it remains unclear whether three widely used volatile anesthetics (isoflurane, sevoflurane, desflurane) with similar pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties share a common brain region for their anesthetic effects, and most receptors mediating the excitatory effects of general anesthetics remain unidentified. To explore the shared excitatory neural targets of common volatile anesthetics, we combined c-Fos staining, targeted recombination in active populations (TRAP), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in adult male and female mice, and molecular docking prediction to characterize anesthetic-activated neurons, their cell types, and potential mediating receptors. We found that desflurane and sevoflurane, except isoflurane, significantly increased c-Fos expression in Edinger-Westphal (EW) neurons with high urocortin 1 (UCN1) expression. Chemogenetic inhibition of sevoflurane-activated EW neurons shortened the emergence time from desflurane anesthesia without significantly changing the induction time. Furthermore, growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR) was substantially enriched in both sevoflurane- and desflurane-activated EW neurons, and local knockdown of GHSR in EW neurons accelerated recovery from both anesthetics. These findings suggest that UCN1+ EW neurons and GHSR contribute greatly to recovery from desflurane and sevoflurane anesthesia.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Bovine leukemia virus (BLV) is a cell-associated retrovirus of cattle transmitted mainly through the transfer of infected lymphocytes, but the possible role of hematophagous insects in its epidemiology remains incompletely understood. This study investigated BLV DNA in field-collected Culicoides biting midges and Stomoxys calcitrans from cattle farms in Poland. Insects were collected on four farms in northeastern Poland. Culicoides spp. were identified morphologically, classified by gonotrophic status, and pooled by species and status, whereas S. calcitrans were analyzed individually. DNA quality was verified by PCR targeting insect markers. Bovine host DNA was detected by PCR targeting mitochondrial cytochrome b in Culicoides and prepronociceptin (PNOC) in S. calcitrans. BLV proviral DNA was detected by TaqMan real-time PCR targeting the pol gene, followed by nested PCR and sequencing of a 400 bp fragment of the env gene. BLV DNA was detected in 20 of 138 Culicoides pools (14.5%). BLV copy numbers ranged from 2 to 19,000 copies per 500 ng of total DNA. All BLV-positive Culicoides pools were also positive for bovine cytochrome b DNA. Among the pol-positive pools, 18 were positive in nested env PCR, and 15 yielded high-quality sequences. One S. calcitrans specimen was also positive in both BLV assays. Sequences obtained from insects were identical to those from infected cattle, and phylogenetic analysis assigned them to genotypes G4 and G7, the predominant BLV genotypes circulating in Poland. These findings provide field-based molecular evidence that Culicoides biting midges and S. calcitrans can carry bovine blood and BLV DNA under natural farm conditions, supporting their possible role in the mechanical transfer of BLV between cattle.Copyright © 2026 Aneta Pluta et al. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The arcuate nucleus (ARC) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) are highly specialized hypothalamic nuclei controlling appetite and energy expenditure. Here, we demonstrate that human VMH and ARC neurons can be generated from pluripotent stem cells by fine-tuned timing and duration of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) exposure. We identified SHH-/NKX2.1+/FGF10+/RAX+/TBX3+ posterior tuberal progenitors as the source of ARC cell types, including agouti-related peptide (AGRP)-, prepronociceptin (PNOC)-, growth-hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)-, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-expressing neurons and β2-tanycytes. Differentiated ARC cultures showed high transcriptomic similarity to human ARC and responded to energy homeostasis-regulatory peptides including leptin, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), ghrelin, and fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1). In contrast, anterior tuberal TBX3- progenitors generated VMH-associated neurons expressing NR5A1, SOX14, and GPR149. Strikingly, two transcriptionally distinct pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) subpopulations emerged from these lineages, mapping spatially to either the ARC (POMC+/TBX3+/NR5A2+) or the VMH (POMC+/SOX14+/NR5A1+). This model provides a cellular platform to study human hypothalamic subtype specification and pathways involved in central appetite regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Influenza A virus (IAV) is an important zoonotic pathogen responsible for substantial respiratory morbidity and mortality. Elucidating the mechanisms by which IAV evades host innate immunity is critical for developing novel antiviral strategies. Although the IAV non-structural protein 2 (NS2) is well-characterized for the export of viral ribonucleoproteins (vRNPs) from the host cell nucleus, the function of NS2 in evading host innate immunity, especially the NFKB/NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling pathway, remains poorly understood. The present study uncovered that NS2 is a novel viral inhibitor of the NFKB pathway. Mechanistically, NS2 interacted with and mediated the degradation of the NFKB essential modulator (IKBKG/NEMO), thereby suppressing downstream signal transduction. The macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) was exploited by NS2 to mediate the selective autophagic degradation. Furthermore, the K72 residue was critical for the NS2-mediated degradation of IKBKG/NEMO, as the K72R substitution in NS2 disrupted the IKBKG/NEMO-NS2 interaction and abrogated the autophagic degradation. In addition, NS2K72R mutant virus displayed less viral load and milder pathogenicity in mice. In conclusion, these findings highlighted the novel biological function of IAV NS2 in exploiting selective autophagy to evade host defenses, and offered a potential target for controlling IAV infections.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AIV: avian influenza virus; ATG7: autophagy related 7; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CHX: cycloheximide; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CHUK/IKKα: component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole, dihydrochloride; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; dpi: days post-infection; EID50: 50% egg infective dose; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; hpi: hours post-infection; IAV: influenza A virus; IFN: interferon; IKBKB/IKKβ: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IFNG: interferon gamma; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit gamma; IKK: IκB kinase; IP: immunoprecipitation; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; IRF7: interferon regulatory factor 7; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP3K14/NIK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 14; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MLD50: 50% mouse lethal dose; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MRV/Sendai virus: murine respirovirus; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NEP: nuclear export protein; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKB2/p100: nuclear factor kappa B subunit 2; NFKBIA/IκBα: NFK inhibitor alpha; NP: nucleoprotein; NS1: non-structural protein 1; OPTN: optineurin; PB1: basic polymerase 1; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; poly(I:C): polyriboinosinic polyribocytidylic acid; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RELB: RELB proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; RIGI: RNA sensor RIG-I; RIGI-IN: RIGI-CARD; RLR: RIGI-like-receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SIM: SUMO-interacting motif; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; TRAF6: TNF receptor associated factor 6; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; Vec: empty vector; vRNP: viral ribonucleoprotein.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42047332 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41945261 is a review article
Fetal development in endothermic mammals relies on a tightly regulated maternal body temperature. In animal models, deviations from normothermia during gestation cause fetal developmental abnormalities. However, the direct and physiological manipulation of the maternal core temperature has been technologically challenging, as traditional methods involve the imposition of external thermal stress. Recent advances in the identification of thermoregulatory neurons in the mouse preoptic area have allowed precise control of maternal body temperature without altering environmental conditions. Here we show that the activation of excitatory neurons in the medial preoptic area (MPO) induces a torpor-like hypothermic state in pregnant mice. When induced during early gestation, this state resulted in pregnancy loss, likely due to implantation failure. Hypothermia in mid- and late-gestation reduced fetal liver and kidney size and caused severe growth retardation. Similar outcomes were observed following pyroglutamylated RFamide peptide (Qrfp)-expressing neuron activation in the MPO, whereas inhibitory neuron activation had minimal effect. Furthermore, activating MPO excitatory neurons projecting to the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus reproduced both the torpor-like state and fetal growth retardation. These results underscore the importance of a stable maternal body temperature in fetal development and establish a new model for studying the effects of altered maternal temperature on embryogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
The receptor for pyroglutamylated RF amide peptide (QRFPR) is a G protein-coupled receptor that plays a role in various physiological and pathological processes. However, a gap remains in our understanding of QRFPR's pan-cancer properties.This study performs an extensive pan-cancer analysis of QRFPR utilizing large-scale genomic datasets, including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). We evaluated QRFPR expression levels in multiple malignancies and examined their correlations with clinical outcomes. Additionally, we investigated associations between QRFPR expression and immune cell infiltration using bioinformatics tools.Our results reveal significant alterations in QRFPR expression across several cancer types, particularly breast, colorectal, and prostate cancers. Elevated levels of QRFPR are linked to poor prognosis in certain malignancies, such as uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) and mesothelioma (MESO), and correlate with increased infiltration of immune cells, especially T cells and macrophages. Pathway enrichment analyses suggest that QRFPR may impact critical signaling pathways associated with cell growth, apoptosis, and immune regulation.The observed variations in QRFPR expression across cancer types suggest its diverse roles in tumor biology. Its association with unfavorable clinical outcomes in specific cancers, as well as its link to immune cell infiltration, highlights its multifaceted impact on tumor progression and microenvironment modulation.Our findings underscore the potential of QRFPR as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in cancer biology. Further investigations into its functional mechanisms could pave the way for precision medicine approaches in oncology.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Dysregulation in neural circuits that encode arousal responses to aversive stimuli is thought to contribute to changes in motivated behaviors associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the relationship between arousal and motivation remains poorly understood. We previously identified that prepronociceptin-expressing neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (Pnoc BNST neurons) modulate rapid physiological arousal responses to a motivationally salient aversive odor. However, whether Pnoc BNST neurons also signal behavioral actions triggered by an aversive odor is still unknown.In this study, we investigated the role of Pnoc BNST neurons in signaling behavioral responses to an aversive odor. We leveraged miniaturized head-mounted microscopes to monitor the calcium activity of Pnoc BNST neurons in vivo while freely behaving mice performed an odor preference test.We found that the bulk activity of Pnoc BNST neurons increased as mice approached an aversive odor. Single-cell analyses revealed heterogeneity in response dynamics within the Pnoc BNST neuronal population upon initial exposure to the odor. Subsequent analysis revealed that the response dynamics of Pnoc BNST neurons that showed excitation when mice were in close proximity to the aversive odor were due to the initiation of darting away from the odor.These results highlight a novel role of Pnoc BNST neurons to signal escape behavior in response to an aversive stimulus. This, in combination with our previous findings that Pnoc BNST neurons encode arousal responses, supports a neurobiological relationship of arousal and motivation within extended amygdala circuits.© 2025 The Authors.
The olfactory placode (OP) generates a broad array of chemosensory neurons in the nasal region, including olfactory sensory neurons, vomeronasal sensory neurons, neurons of the septal organ, and Grueneberg ganglion. During invagination, the OP also generates migratory neuronal populations, including gonadotropin-releasing hormone-1 (GnRH-1) neurons, somatostatin-expressing neurons, and Prokineticin Receptor 2 (Prokr2) pioneer/terminal nerve (TN) neurons. Despite extensive research, the genetic lineage and molecular identity of many OP-derived neurons remain unclear. GnRH-1 neurons are vital for reproductive functions and chemosensory processing but are genetically distinct from olfactory and vomeronasal sensory neurons. The regulator Goofy/Gfy is expressed in placode-derived chemosensory neurons. Our study aimed to determine whether its expression is restricted to these neurons or shared among OP derivatives. The 123Cre mouse expresses Cre under the Gfy1 promoter. Cre tracing analyses across embryonic stages showed widespread 123Cre recombination in chemosensory neurons but not in migrating GnRH-1. However, at late development and postnatal stages, some Gfy-traced cells appear in the basal forebrain, including a subset of GnRH-positive neurons. These findings demonstrate heterogeneity among migratory nasal neurons and suggest that, besides GnRH-1, other nasal-origin neurons also populate the forebrain. Postnatal studies of vomeronasal neurons revealed distinct developmental trajectories for the two main VSN subtypes.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Dynamics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Association for Anatomy.
To investigate the role of prokineticin 2 (PK2) in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia (PE), a severe hypertensive disorder of pregnancy with incompletely understood placental mechanisms.The placental expression of PK2 and prokineticin receptor 2 (PKR2) was assessed by immunohistochemistry, and PK2 levels were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in samples from patients with PE and a PE mouse model, compared with normal controls. The functional impact of recombinant PK2 protein on proliferation and migration was assessed in the trophoblast cell line HTR-8/SVneo. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on PK2-treated cells to identify differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways.PK2 and PKR2 were significantly upregulated in PE placentas. PK2 expression was significantly higher in the culture medium of primary trophoblast cells derived from PE patients and a PE mouse model than in that from normal controls. Recombinant PK2 markedly inhibited trophoblast proliferation and migration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed PK2-induced upregulation of a gene set (including EGR1, FOS, JUN, CCN1, and CCN2) with significant enrichment in stress-response and inflammatory pathways.This study identifies PK2 as a key pathogenic factor in PE that impairs trophoblast function. The findings suggest that its mechanism may involve the induction of AP-1 components. Our work provides the first evidence positioning the PK2/PKR2 axis as a novel contributor to PE pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target.
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) shows a notable female bias in both prevalence and severity. This bias is closely linked to declining estradiol levels during menopause. Our study demonstrated that estradiol can inhibit the accelerated progression of AD caused by ovariectomy (OVX) in female APP/PS1 mice. Transcriptome analysis revealed that estradiol prevented the decline in sortilin-related receptor 1 (Sorl1), which encodes the sorting receptor SORLA, in the hippocampus of female APP/PS1-OVX mice. Neuronal Sorl1 knockdown blocked estradiol’s ability to alleviate AD symptoms. Mechanistically, estradiol enhanced SORLA-mediated redirection of amyloid precursor protein (APP) trafficking from early endosomes toward the Golgi apparatus and lysosomes, which were involved in non-amyloidogenic processing and reducing Aβ levels. Additionally, estradiol promoted estrogen receptor α (ERα) binding to the Sorl1 promoter, thereby activating SORLA expression. Notably, estradiol ameliorated AD progression in female APP/PS1-OVX mice through ERα, and this effect depended on SORLA. Overall, estradiol mitigated AD pathology by activating Sorl1 transcription via ERα, which in turn directed APP endosomal trafficking through SORLA. This pathway provides valuable mechanistic insights into sex differences in AD and highlights potential therapeutic targets.
Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity, particularly from doxorubicin, remains a major limitation in cancer therapy, contributing to heart failure and long-term morbidity. Prokineticin receptor-1 (PKR1), involved in cardiomyocyte survival and anti-fibrotic signalling, represents a promising therapeutic target. This study evaluated the cardioprotective potential of IS39, a novel non-peptide PKR1 agonist, in models of doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury.In silico ADME-toxicity profiling, scaffold optimisation and molecular docking were used to refine non-peptide PKR1 agonists, replacing the dehydroamide moiety of first-generation compounds with a D-aminoacyl group to enhance metabolic stability. The lead compound IS39 was evaluated in vitro in primary cardiomyocytes and in vivo in a murine model of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Parallel studies assessed potential interference with doxorubicin antitumour activity in breast cancer cell lines and 3D tumour spheroids. Endpoints included cardiomyocyte viability, oxidative stress, fibrotic markers, cardiac function, histopathology and systemic tolerability.IS39 selectively activated PKR1, reduced reactive oxygen species, suppressed profibrotic gene expression and protected cardiomyocytes from doxorubicin-induced cytotoxicity in vitro. These effects were abolished by PKR1 knockdown or antagonism, confirming on-target activity, and IS39 did not impair doxorubicin antitumour efficacy. In vivo, IS39 preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, attenuated myocardial fibrosis and apoptosis, and improved cardiac morphology. However, systemic IS39 administration exacerbated doxorubicin-associated weight loss and did not improve overall survival.IS39 confers cardioprotection via PKR1-mediated antioxidant and antifibrotic mechanisms. Despite systemic tolerability limitations, these findings support PKR1 as a therapeutic target and justify development of tissue-selective PKR1 agonists for cardio-oncology applications.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Limited data are available regarding the fertility-inducing treatment outcomes and spermatogenic duration in congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism patients carrying prokineticin receptor 2 rare sequence variants.We aimed to delineate the rare sequence variant profiles of PROKR2 in a large Chinese cohort with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, and to characterize the associated clinical phenotypes and therapeutic outcomes. In addition, the reproductive phenotypes and therapeutic outcomes were compared between patients with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism who harbored PROKR2 rare sequence variants and those without identified rare sequence variants in known congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism-associated genes.Seven unrelated congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism probands carrying PROKR2 rare sequence variants (four with Kallmann syndrome and three with normosmic congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism) were included. PROKR2 variants in these patients were identified using targeted next-generation sequencing and verified using Sanger sequencing. The pathogenicity of the identified PROKR2 rare sequence variants was assessed according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines. Baseline clinical characteristics and therapeutic outcomes were retrospectively evaluated and compared between patients with PROKR2 rare sequence variants and those lacking the identified rare sequence variants in established congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism-associated genes.We identified a novel PROKR2 rare sequence variant (p.Y154*, a nonsense mutation). Four rare sequence variants were classified as likely pathogenic according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines. Spermatogenesis was achieved in all six male patients with PROKR2 rare sequence variants who received gonadotropin therapy following an average of 1.28 years. No statistically significant differences were observed in the baseline clinical characteristics and spermatogenic outcomes between patients with PROKR2 rare sequence variants and those without identified rare sequence variants in known congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism-associated genes.We observed a lack of evidence for a significant difference in reproductive phenotype or spermatogenic outcomes between male patients with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and PROKR2 rare sequence variants and those without identified rare sequence variants in congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism-associated genes, but this finding is critically limited by the small number of PROKR2 rare sequence variant carriers in our treatment cohort. The identification of a novel PROKR2 rare sequence variant expands the PROKR2 variant spectrum in patients with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.© 2026 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Depression, a common neuropsychiatric disorder, profoundly disrupts individuals' daily lives. Although the pathogenesis of depression is intensively investigated for decades, its underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, dysfunctional adenylyl cyclase 8 (Adcy8) is identified as a critical risk factor for the development of depression. Adcy8 expression is selectively decreased in the hippocampus, but not in the cortex, thalamus, and hypothalamus, of mice exposed to chronic stress. Adcy8 conditional knockout (CKO) in excitatory neurons, particularly dorsal CA1 (dCA1) neurons, resulted in pronounced depressive-like behaviors. Depletion of Adcy8 in dCA1 neurons reduces neuronal excitability and glutamatergic neurotransmission. Further mechanistic studies reveal a remarkable inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway by Adcy8 CKO, which downregulates parathyroid hormone 2 receptor (PTH2R) level in the hippocampus. Knocking down Pth2r with AAV-shRNA duplicates the impairments in neuronal excitability, glutamatergic neurotransmission and depressive-like behaviors. In contrast, overexpression of PTH2R in Adcy8 CKO hippocampus rescues these deficits. Chronic infusion of TIP39, the endogenous ligand for PTH2R, into the hippocampus also alleviates depressive-like behaviors of Adcy8 CKO mice. Taken together, these results uncover critical roles of Adcy8 in suppressing depressive-like behaviors, likely by maintaining the excitability and glutamatergic neurotransmission of dCA1 neurons through TIP39-PTH2R signaling pathway.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer (OC) is a highly aggressive gynecological malignancy, with a poor 5-year survival rate of less than 50%. Identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets is crucial to improving patient prognosis. Sortilin-related VPS10 domain-containing receptor 2 (SORCS2) regulates various biological processes and is implicated in carcinogenesis, yet its specific role in OC remains unclear. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Multiple bio-informatics analyses were used to analyze SORCS2 expression and potential role in OC. Cell proliferation, migration assays and flow cytometry were performed to assess the effects of SORCS2 on OC cells. Further, Xenograft mouse models were built to identify its function in OC cell growth in vivo. RESULTS: In this study, we first identified that SORCS2 expression is down-regulated in OC tissues, correlating with adverse clinical characteristics and poor clinical outcomes, emphasizing its potential as a prognostic marker for OC. In vitro, SORCS2 over-expression suppressed cell proliferation and migration, induced cell cycle arrest at the S/G2 phase via the p21/CCNA1 pathway, and induced apoptosis by regulating PIDD1 and CASP9. Xenograft mouse models further validated the tumor-suppressive effects of SORCS2 in vivo. Additionally, SORCS2 was found to participate in tumor-specific immune responses by promoting T cell activation and release of immune factors. CONCLUSION: Our findings underscore SORCS2 as a tumor suppressor in OC development and highlight its potential as a prognostic marker for OC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41206054
Internal motive states, such as sexual arousal, drive behaviour in response to social cues. However, little is known about how internal states and external cues are integrated to release appropriate behaviours at the correct moment during a social interaction, such as the transition from the appetitive to the consummatory phases of mating1,2. Here we identify a neural circuit in male mice that gates the onset of consummatory reproductive behaviours on contact with a mating partner. Stimulating MPOAEsr1∩Vgat hypothalamic neurons promotes mounting of conspecifics and three-dimensional dummy objects3. We find that such mounting depends on mechanosensory but not visual cues. Through a large-scale electrophysiological screen, we identify neurons in the subparafascicular thalamic nucleus that nonlinearly integrate medial preoptic area of the hypothalamus (MPOA) and mechanosensory input to encode contact with a potential mate. Circuit tracing and perturbations demonstrated that this conjunctive coding occurs by means of convergent disinhibition from MPOA and excitation from the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Functional manipulations and calcium recordings showed these social-contact neurons, marked by parathyroid hormone 2, were essential for and able to promote mounting. These data indicate that subparafascicular thalamic nucleus-parathyroid hormone 2 neurons integrate internal drive with social touch to trigger mounting at opportune moments during mating. More generally, our findings uncover a brain mechanism whereby an internal state can attribute a social quality to a generic touch to initiate purposeful reproductive actions.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder mainly characterized by progressive cognitive decline and memory loss. Identifying candidate biomarkers before the clinical onset of AD is crucial for enabling earlier diagnosis and timely therapeutic intervention. Among different molecular targets, N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase 2 (ASAH2), a key enzyme in ceramide metabolism, has been linked to many neurodegenerative diseases, including AD. This study investigates ASAH2 expression in human serum and AD mouse models to explore its potential as an early biomarker and to understand its involvement in AD progression. Methods The protein levels in the serum of pre-AD, mild cognitive impairment, and control patients were measured using the SOMAscan assay platform (SomaLogic Inc., CO, USA) to identify potential candidate biomarkers for preclinical AD. ASAH2 expression at different Alzheimer's stages of triple transgenic (3x-TG) Alzheimer's mice organs and tissues was analyzed. Human serums and hepatoblastoma cells (also referred to as HepG2 cells) were stained and quantified with ASAH2, membrane, and vesicle trafficking proteins. Results We found that neutral ceramidase (ASAH2/ASAH2B) and sortilin-related VPS10 domain-containing receptor 2 (SORCS2) were significantly elevated in the serum of individuals who later developed Alzheimer's dementia. Similarly, 3x-TG AD mice showed an increased ASAH2 expression at three months, followed by a marked decline at 14 months compared to age-matched non-3x-TG controls. In non-3x-TG mice, ASAH2 was highly expressed in visceral organs such as the heart, liver, kidneys, lungs, and stomach, but was nearly absent in the brain. Ingenuity pathway analysis revealed dysregulation in lipid trafficking and inflammatory pathways. Additionally, we observed elevated lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1) and reduced levels of filamin A and RAB7 (a member of the RAS oncogene family) in the pre-AD mild cognitive impairment group. Conclusion Our findings suggest that ASAH2 may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of AD, potentially contributing to early molecular changes that precede clinical symptoms. In addition, the identification of a subgroup of lipid- and membrane-associated proteins provides promising candidates for predictive biomarkers that could facilitate earlier diagnosis and offer new insights into the mechanisms underlying disease progression and possible therapeutic targets for AD prevention.Copyright © 2025, Khabazeh et al.
The lateral septum (LS) demonstrates activation in response to pup exposure in mothers, and its lesions eliminate maternal behaviors suggesting it is part of the maternal brain circuitry. This study shows that the density of pup-activated neurons in the ventral subdivision of the LS (LSv) is nearly equivalent to that in the medial preoptic area (MPOA), the major regulatory site of maternal behavior in rat dams. However, when somatosensory inputs including suckling were not allowed, pup-activation was markedly reduced in the LSv. Retrograde tract tracing identified various brain regions potentially influencing LSv neuronal activation through their projections. Among all, anterograde tract tracing confirmed that the posterior intralaminar thalamic nucleus (PIL), implicated in processing touch-related stimuli, targets the pup-activated region of the LSv. Moreover, nerve terminals containing the maternally induced PIL neuropeptide parathyroid hormone 2 (PTH2), were found to form synaptic connections with c-Fos activated LSv neurons using electron microscopy. Confirmation of PTH2 + PIL fibers projecting to LSv was achieved by retrograde tract tracing methods. Furthermore, double retrograde injections revealed that neurons within the PIL can project to both LSv and MPOA, suggesting their simultaneous regulation by PIL input. We also established that septal neurons activated by the pups in the mother are GABAergic and send inhibitory projections to the MPOA and other components of the maternal brain circuitry. This implies that the LSv and MPOA form an interconnected subcircuit in the maternal brain network, which is primarily driven by somatosensory input from the pups via the PIL PTH2 + neurons.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
RF-amide peptide receptors including the neuropeptide FF receptor 1 (NPFFR1) are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that modulate diverse physiological functions. High conservation of endogenous ligands and receptors makes the identification of selective ligands challenging. Previously identified antagonists mimic the C-terminus of peptide ligands and lack selectivity towards the closely related neuropeptide FF receptor 2 (NPFFR2) or the neuropeptide Y1 receptor (Y1R). In a high-throughput screening, we identified the pentacyclic triterpenoid hederagenin (1) as a novel selective antagonist for the NPFFR1. Hederagenin (1) is a natural product isolated from Hedera helix (ivy). We characterized its mode of activity using in vitro and in silico methods, revealing an overlapping binding site of the small molecule with the orthosteric peptide agonists. Despite the high similarity of the orthosteric binding pockets of NPFFR1 and NPFFR2, hederagenin (1) shows strong subtype selectivity, particularly caused by slight differences in the shape of the binding pockets and the rigidity of the small molecule. Several residues inhibiting the activity of hederagenin (1) at the NPFFR2 were identified. As NPFFR1 antagonists are discussed as potential candidates for the treatment of chronic pain, these insights into the structural determinants governing subtype specificity will facilitate the development of next-generation analgesics with improved safety and efficacy.© 2024 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Influenza virus-induced pneumonia (IVP) is a contagious lung disease marked by severe lung inflammation following viral infection and remains a significant public health concern due to its high mortality rate. G protein-coupled receptor 84 (GPR84) has been implicated in various inflammatory diseases, however, its role in influenza virus-induced lung inflammation remains poorly understood. In this study, using high-throughput screening, we found that Influenza A virus (IAV) infection markedly upregulates the expression of several G protein-coupled receptors, with GPR84 mRNA and protein levels being highly induced in the lungs of animal models during pneumonia. Mechanistically, GPR84 enhances ZBP1-PANoptosome mediated PANoptosis and exacerbates the release of inflammatory chemokines and danger associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Notably, deletion of GPR84 attenuates influenza virus-induced PANoptosis, indicating that GPR84 participates in regulating lung inflammation and the pathogenesis of pneumonia during influenza infection. Overall, these findings demonstrate that GPR84 plays a central role in influenza virus-induced lung inflammation by promoting PANoptosis and the release of inflammatory mediators. Targeting GPR84 attenuates IAV-induced PANoptosis, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target to mitigate the pathogenesis of influenza virus-induced pneumonia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Innate immunity mediated by myeloid cells defends against infection and injury, but when chronically activated, it drives tissue damage and neurodegeneration. Molecular imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) enables noninvasive, real-time monitoring of such processes in vivo. However, most current neuroinflammation PET tracers lack specificity for activated myeloid cells. G protein-coupled receptor 84 (GPR84) is a promising biomarker that is selectively upregulated on activated microglia and macrophages. Here, we report the development and validation of two fluorine-18-labeled GPR84 tracers, [18F]MGX-110S and [18F]MGX-111S. Both exhibit specific binding to human GPR84-expressing cells, with [18F]MGX-110S demonstrating superior affinity, selectivity, and signal-to-background ratio. [18F]MGX-110S enables sensitive detection of systemic- and neuro-inflammation in LPS-treated mice and outperforms PET images obtained using a radiotracer specific for translocator protein 18 kDa in 5xFAD mice-revealing pathology-correlated activation across cortical, hippocampal, and thalamic regions. Taken together, our data indicate that [18F]MGX-110S is a highly sensitive and specific tool for visualizing maladaptive myeloid cell activation; its clinical translation could enable more precise detection and staging of inflammation in addition to improved therapeutic monitoring in neurodegenerative disorders and more broadly in inflammatory diseases.
Alcohol consumption is strongly associated with aggression and violence in humans, yet the underlying neurobiological mechanisms within key aggression circuits remain poorly understood. In this preclinical study, we examined the effects of intermittent alcohol intoxication on dominance and aggressive behaviors in mice, focusing on sex differences and the potential involvement of the nucleus incertus relaxin-3/relaxin-family peptide receptor 3 (RXFP3) signaling pathway. Using an intermittent ethanol-intoxication protocol, we observed that male mice displayed a transient increase in dominance and aggressive behaviors during acute abstinence, as measured by the tube-dominance and resident-intruder tests, whereas female mice displayed heightened defensive responses. Distinct patterns of neural activation across brain regions, reflected by c-Fos protein expression, were associated with aggression in males, including decreased expression in the medial amygdala (MeA) and increased expression in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), consistent with an established MeA-VMH based aggression circuit. Additionally, the levels of relaxin-3 immunoreactivity in MeA nerve fibers increased in parallel with behavioral recovery, suggesting a modulatory role of relaxin-3/RXFP3 signaling. To test this hypothesis, we bilaterally injected an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector expressing the selective RXFP3 agonist, R3/I5, into the MeA of male mice. Notably, this chronic localized R3/I5 treatment significantly reduced dominance and aggressive behaviors both before and after alcohol intoxication. Together, these data demonstrate that relaxin-3/RXFP3 signaling in the MeA counteracts alcohol-related aggression in male mice, pointing to this pathway as a potential target for treating impulsive violence associated with alcohol intoxication in humans.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) is a critical determinant of therapeutic outcome in ischemic stroke and can lead to further neurological complications. Given the critical role of RNA modifications in human disease, this study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms of CIRI associated with m6A methylation.The study analyzed differentially expressed genes between brain tissues from the sham operation group and the ischemic/reperfusion injury group of mice through the GSE23163 dataset. An in vitro model of CIRI was established by exposing HT22 mouse hippocampal neuronal cells to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R). The middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion model was also established for the study. Western blotting and quantitative polymerase chain reaction were performed to examine protein and mRNA expression, respectively. Cell function was detected using cell viability assay and flow cytometry. Oxidative stress was assessed by detecting reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, and superoxide dismutase. Inflammatory tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β levels were quantified using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation assay was performed to confirm m6A modification. Gene interaction was analyzed by RNA immunoprecipitation assay.G protein-coupled receptor 84 (Gpr84) was upregulated in brain tissues of CIRI mice and OGD/R-induced HT22 cells. Gpr84 knockdown mitigated OGD/R-induced oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and apoptosis. Mechanistically, fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) governed m6A demethylation modification to inhibit Gpr84 mRNA stability. OGD/R-induced cell injury was also attenuated after FTO overexpression. Moreover, insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 1 stabilized Gpr84 mRNA by acting as an m6A reader. FTO overexpression relieved OGD/R-induced oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and apoptosis and brain injury by suppressing Gpr84.FTO-mediated m6A demethylation modification reduced Gpr84 mRNA stability, thereby alleviating OGD/R-induced CIRI.Copyright © 2026 by the Shock Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41638604 is a review article
The whitefly, Bemisia tabaci, as a globally significant agricultural pest, poses a serious threat to various food crops and thus causes enormous economic losses to global agricultural production. In recent decades, with the long-term and extensive use of chemical pesticides, B. tabaci has developed high levels resistance to thiamethoxam. Therefore, an in-depth analysis of the molecular mechanisms involved in insecticide detoxification within B. tabaci is of great theoretical and practical significance. Neuropeptide FF receptor 2 (NPFF2), a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), plays a key role in the neonicotinoid resistance of B. tabaci. Whether NPFF2 is involved in the resistance to thiamethoxam remains unclear. In this study, we cloned the full-length NPFF2 gene of B. tabaci, and further confirmed its vital role in thiamethoxam resistance via Quantitative real-time PCR and RNA interference assays. To investigate the signaling pathway of NPFF2 involved in thiamethoxam resistance in B. tabaci. The expression of six published detoxification-related genes (UGT354A1, UGT352A3, CYP6CX1, CYP6CX2, CYP6CX3 and CYP6CX4) were determined in the resistant and susceptible strains. The results showed that the expression of CYP6CX4 was over-expressed in resistant, and decreased by knockdown of NPFF2. Additionally, in a metabolism assay in vitro, the CYP6CX4 protein could metabolize 52.64% of thiamethoxam with a clothianidin-guanidine hydrochloride metabolite via UPLC-QTOF/MS. Overall, our study reveals a novel NPFF2 - CYP6CX4 signaling pathway underlying thiamethoxam resistance in B.tabaci, providing a theoretical basis for its resistance monitoring and novel control target development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human urotensin 2 (hU2) interacts with the urotensin 2 receptor (UR2R), a member of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) family. UR2R signaling is known to induce vasoconstriction and promote cell proliferation, and its overexpression is strongly associated with cardiovascular diseases. Despite continued efforts to develop UR2R antagonists, structural information on hU2 binding to UR2R remains unrevealed for developing highly effective therapeutic candidates. Here, we present a high-yield expression and purification workflow to enable cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) studies of active UR2R/hU2 complex. Full-length and truncated UR2R constructs were cloned and expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda 9 (Sf9) insect cells. Following hU2 binding, UR2R was purified using Talon resin and a reverse Ni-NTA column, with an intermediate detergent exchange from n-dodecyl-β-D-maltoside (DDM) to lauryl maltose neopentyl glycol (LMNG) to improve sample homogeneity. Final polishing by size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) yielded highly purified UR2R/hU2 complex. Using this strategy, we successfully assembled the UR2R11-336/hU2-mGqi-scFv16 complex, and complex formation was confirmed by cryo-EM 2D classification and SDS page. These optimized methods of UR2R expression, purification, and complex assembly enable to determine high-resolution cryo-EM structure of active UR2R/hU2. Our data will support structure-guided drug discovery targeting UR2R-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
'Emergency' myelopoiesis usually occurs to facilitate malignancy progression. Immunosuppressive neutrophils, also termed polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, are potent mediators of immunosuppression and tumor promotion. Here we demonstrate that the STAT3-dependent induction of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 (CysLTR1), with a key role in asthma and other inflammatory conditions, sustains tumor-promoting emergency myelopoiesis. Genetic ablation and pharmacological inhibition of CysLTR1 diminishes tumor growth with enhanced antitumor immunity. Antitumor effect of CysLTR1 inhibition is linked with transcriptomic rewiring of granulopoiesis and neutrophil reprogramming toward an antitumor immune phenotype; this process requires the distinct transcriptional factors MXD1 and NFE2 to specifically dictate myeloid progenitor commitment and differentiation in association with controlled de novo synthesis of granule cargoes. Targeting CysLTR1 with clinically available antagonists overcomes resistance to anti-PD1 in multiple mouse tumor models. These findings, thus, open the opportunity for rapid translation of CysLTR1 inhibitors targeting emergency granulopoiesis and unveil a new programmed 'disarming' neutrophil strategy to improve cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Global warming and marine heatwaves have devastating impacts on marine ectotherms. Clams inhabiting sandflats are frequently exposed to air and high temperatures. Different geographical species/populations facing diverse thermal environments may exhibit divergent physiological capabilities to cope with local conditions, and understanding species/population-specific physiological plasticity has been highlighted as important to fully uncover species' tolerance capacity within the highly heterogeneous spatial patterns. In the present study, we conducted metabolomic analyses of four Meretrix populations along China's coast, including three populations of Meretrix petechialis and one of Meretrix lusoria, to illustrate species/population-specific metabolomic responses to thermal stress. Our results indicated that the thermal environments of clam habitats varied along the coastlines. Metabolome responses showed species/population-specific patterns in response to high temperatures, suggesting metabolomic plasticity among species/populations. The northern populations mainly respond to high-temperature stress by enhancing antioxidant defenses and adjusting energy metabolism. Glycerophospholipid metabolism was a vital metabolic response to thermal stress in the southern species/population. GDP-L-fucose levels were positively correlated with the clams' upper thermal limits. Additionally, metabolite-based genome-wide association studies on GDP-L-fucose identified six candidate genes: neuropeptide FF receptor 2-like, E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase rnf213-alpha-like isoform X2, uncharacterized protein LOC123550816, solute carrier family 28 member 3-like isoform X1, adenylate kinase isoenzyme 5-like isoform X6, and E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TRIM33-like, highlighting the potential roles of codon usage bias and changes in protein structure. Overall, we emphasized metabolome diversity across species/populations and stressed the importance of accounting for it when assessing the impacts of climate change on marine ectotherms.© 2026 The Author(s). Integrative Zoology published by International Society of Zoological Sciences, Institute of Zoology/Chinese Academy of Sciences and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
The evolution of insecticide resistance is often accompanied by fitness costs on life-history traits; however, the genetic mechanisms underlying this 'benefit-cost' trade-offs remain limited.Here, we aim to elucidate the molecular basis of fitness trade-offs associated with P450-mediated insecticide resistance.Insecticide bioassay and life-table methodology were used to determine thiacloprid resistance and its associated fitness cost in the whitefly Bemisia tabaci MED, a notorious pest of crops worldwide. Reverse genetics, western blots, immunofluorescence, molecular docking and dynamics simulation, recombinant P450 enzymes and UPLC-MS/MS were performed to demonstrate the role of the P450 CYP6EM1 in thiacloprid resistance. Dual-luciferase reporter assays, Phos-tag, EMSA, yeast one-hybrid and immunoprecipitation assay were conducted to investigate the role of a transcription factor in regulating the fitness trade-offs between thiacloprid resistance and the associated fitness cost.Here, we uncover that a single transcription factor, Ecdysone-induced protein 75 (E75), underpins trade-offs associated with thiacloprid resistance in the whitefly. We demonstrate that the transmembrane G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) Neuropeptide FF receptor 2 (NPFF2) triggers the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) p38 and ERK signaling pathways, which then promote phosphorylation of E75. This GPCR-E75 regulatory axis not only activates the P450 gene CYP6EM1 but also represses a key oogenesis gene Bg, thereby contributing to the evolution of thiacloprid resistance at the expense of reproductive fitness in the whitefly.Our findings demonstrate a pivotal role of cis-trans regulatory networks in fitness trade-offs mediated by GPCR-MAPK-E75 signaling, providing in-depth insights into developing effective measures for sustainable pest control.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic cancer is characterized by a dense tumor microenvironment enriched with cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which display context-dependent tumor-promoting and tumor-restraining properties. However, the molecular basis of stromal heterogeneity remains incompletely understood.We examined stromal responses of pancreatic stellate cells (PSCs), a major source of CAFs, using an orthotopic mouse co-implantation model, RNA sequencing, conditioned medium-based functional assays, and immunohistochemical analysis of resected pancreatic cancer specimens.Co-implantation of PSCs with pancreatic cancer cells was associated with smaller primary tumor volumes and selective activation of SMAD3 in PSCs. Cancer cell-derived conditioned medium activated SMAD3 signaling in PSCs but not in cancer cells, suggesting cell type-specific pathway activation. Transcriptomic analysis identified prostaglandin D2 receptor 2 (PTGDR2) as a gene upregulated in association with SMAD3 activation, and its expression decreased following SMAD3 inhibition. Functional assays showed that SMAD3 activation was associated with modulation of PTGDR2 and inflammatory gene expression in PSCs. In clinical samples, higher p-SMAD3 expression in CAFs correlated with favorable overall survival.SMAD3 activation in PSCs was observed in association with PTGDR2 expression, altered inflammatory profiles, and reduced tumor growth in vivo. These findings support the presence of distinct stromal phenotypes in pancreatic cancer and warrant further investigation into CAF modulation strategies.Copyright © 2026 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This research seeks to investigate the prognostic significance and molecular mechanisms of derived organoid-angiogenesis-related genes (DOARGs) in colorectal cancer (CRC). DOARGs associated with CRC prognosis were screened based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Machine learning techniques were employed to create and assess a signature based on DOARGs, and a nomogram was constructed. Additionally, assessments were conducted on the levels of tumor mutational burden (TMB), immune infiltration, potential chemotherapeutic agents, and immune therapy responses to assess variations between groups with varying risk levels. In vitro experiments, including quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western blot, CCK-8, and transwell assays were conducted to verify the expression and molecular mechanisms of the model genes. A total of 13 DOARGs significantly associated with prognosis were identified. Five model genes (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP1), matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24), melanotransferrin (MELTF), and lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1)) were identified for prognostic signature establishment. This signature demonstrated robust predictive performance for CRC prognosis upon validation. Significant differences were observed in TMB, immune infiltration, potential chemotherapeutic responses, and immune therapy reactions between groups with varying risk levels. Subgroup analysis categorized tumor samples into C1 and C2 groups, with C1 exhibiting significantly lower survival rates compared to C2. qRT-PCR analysis indicated a marked upregulation in the expression of the five model genes in CRC cells, and low expression of CCL24 suppressed the biological functions of CRC cells. This study has developed a prognostic signature for CRC utilizing DOARGs. This signature offers novel targets for the prognosis and personalized treatment of CRC.
The study investigates how sex and age influence treatment response in paediatric, adolescent and young adult (AYA) classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), integrating clinical data, immune-gene profiling and metabolic imaging from the European Network for Paediatric Hodgkin Lymphoma (EuroNet-PHL-C2 trial). cHL patients treated in Italian Association of Pediatric Hematology & Oncology Research (AIEOP) centres (2018-2020) underwent fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) at baseline, after two chemotherapy cycles early response assessment (ERA) and post-chemotherapy (late response assessment, LRA). Responses were classified as early complete metabolic response (CMR) or as adequate response (AR), inadequate (IR) or progressive disease at LRA. Tumour samples were profiled for 730 immune-related genes, and clinical and quantitative positron emission tomography parameters were integrated to assess sex- and age-related patterns. Sixty-eight cases passed quality control. Early CMR occurred in 51.5% at ERA; 29.4% showed (AR) at LRA. Older age (≥13 years), especially in males, was associated with higher IR risk. runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) expression characterized CMR; a five-gene panel (Bone Marrow Stromal Cell Antigen-1/CD157 [BST1]; C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 6 [CXCR6]; Inducible T-cell Co-stimulator/CD278 [ICOS], Ubiquitin Specific Peptidase 9 Y-Linked [USP9Y], and Single Ig IL-1-Related Receptor/IL-1R8 [SIGIRR]) predicted IR and reflected sex-related immune differences. USP9Y expression correlated with baseline tumour volume (total metabolic tumour volume, TMTV1). Combining TMTV1 with RUNX3 improved CMR discrimination, while TMTV1 with the five-gene panel increased sensitivity but reduced accuracy at LRA. Sex and age influence immune response in AYA cHL. RUNX3 and the five-gene panel show promise as biomarkers of early and late response.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background: CC chemokines orchestrate intercellular communication and modulate tumor microenvironment. This study investigates the role of C-C motif chemokine ligand 24 (CCL24) in immune regulation in colorectal cancer (CRC). Methods: CCL24 expression and its clinical relevance in CRC were analyzed via bioinformatics and tissue microarrays. Genetic knockout of CCL24, or antibody-mediated inhibition of CCL24 was performed in AOM/DSS-induced mouse CRC models. CCL24 knockout (CCL24ko) CRC cells were co-cultured with macrophages or CD8+ T cells. Mouse MC38 CRC cells with CCL24ko were implanted into C57BL/6 mice to generate subcutaneous or metastasis models. Molecular docking was conducted to identify potential pharmacological inhibitors of CCL24. Results: CCL24 is abundantly expressed in CRC tissues and linked to T cell dysfunction and unfavorable patient survival. Inhibition or knockout of CCL24 suppressed AOM/DSS-induced colorectal tumorigenesis in mice, reduced the population of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), and increased CD8+ T cell numbers. While the morphology of CCL24ko cells showed minimal changes in vitro, their tumorigenic ability was reduced in immunocompetent but not in immunodeficient mice. CCL24 did not directly alter CD8+ T cell populations; instead, CCL24+ tumor cells recruited CCR3+ TAMs, which promote immunosuppression by promoting nuclear translocation of YAP1, a key transcription factor of the Hippo pathway. Gracillin, a natural compound, was identified as a CCL24 inhibitor and synergized with 5-fluorouracil and programmed cell death 1 monoclonal antibody therapies in allograft-bearing mice. Conclusion: CCL24 facilitates recruitment of CCR3+ TAMs, enhancing the immunosuppressive TME in CRC. Targeting CCL24 with agents like gracillin represents a promising therapeutic strategy.© The author(s).
Gallbladder cancer (GBC), the most common malignancy of the biliary tract, exhibits a high propensity for lymphatic system invasion. However, the mechanisms underlying lymphatic metastasis in GBC remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that C-C motif chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21) is significantly upregulated in GBC and positively correlates with lymphatic vessel density and lymph node metastasis. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments confirm that CCL21/CCR7 axis promotes lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis in GBC. Mechanistically, CCL21/CCR7 modulates Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-D (VEGF-D) mRNA N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) modification in an AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5)-dependent manner, thereby regulating VEGF-D protein expression. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments reveal that m6A modification sites in the coding sequence (CDS) region of VEGF-D mRNA are critical for VEGF-D protein regulation. Collectively, our findings highlight that CCL21/CCR7 regulates VEGF-D expression via m6A modification, driving lymphatic metastasis in GBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Behçet's disease (BD) is a chronic multisystem inflammatory disorder with diverse neurological manifestations. While central nervous system involvement is well recognized, peripheral neuropathy remains an underdiagnosed and poorly understood complication. Chemokines, particularly C-C motif chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21), play a critical role in immune-mediated neuroinflammation and have been implicated in several autoimmune diseases. This study aimed to investigate the association between selected CCL21 gene polymorphisms and BD-associated peripheral neuropathy, and to assess their relationship with disease activity.This cross-sectional observational study included 42 adult patients with BD and 20 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. All patients underwent comprehensive clinical and neurological evaluation, assessment of disease activity, and nerve conduction studies. Genotyping of CCL21 single nucleotide polymorphisms rs951005, rs2492358, and rs2812378 were performed for patients and controls.Electrophysiological evidence of peripheral neuropathy was detected in all evaluated Behçet's disease patients, despite only 50% reporting clinical neuropathic symptoms. Polyneuropathy was the predominant pattern, with sensory and mixed nerves more frequently affected than purely motor nerves, and greater involvement of upper limb nerves. A significant difference in the distribution of the CCL21 rs2492358 polymorphism was observed between patients and controls (p = 0.001). Additionally, the rs951005 polymorphism was significantly associated with higher disease activity scores (p = 0.009).Peripheral neuropathy is a frequent and often subclinical manifestation of BD. CCL21 gene polymorphisms appear to contribute to both peripheral neuropathy association and disease activity, highlighting CCL21 as a potential biomarker linking systemic inflammation to peripheral nerve involvement. Key Points • Chemokine dysregulation previously found to play a central role in the development of neuroinflammation. • This cross-sectional study identifies specific chemokines' gene of CCL21 linked to peripheral neuropathy in Behcet's disease. • Results may guide future therapeutic strategies targeting chemokine modulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Polystyrene microplastics (PMs) are pervasive aquatic contaminants, yet the molecular mechanisms driving their ecotoxicity, particularly intestinal inflammation, remain poorly elucidated. Here, we investigated the effects of environmentally relevant PMs concentrations (1.0 μm; 0, 25, and 250 μg/L) in zebrafish (Danio rerio). Multi-organ screening identified the intestine as the primary site of inflammation, where PMs were confirmed to accumulate. Exposure of 4 weeks induced significant histopathological damage (2.2-2.7-fold increase in histological scores) and elevated key pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (increased by 251.0 %) and interleukin-2 (increased by 81.7 %) at 250 μg/L. Mechanistic investigation using transcriptomics and qPCR revealed the activation of the interferon-gamma (INFγ)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) pathway. This activation resulted in the significant upregulation of downstream chemokine genes, notably cxcl11.1 (>2.2-fold). This signaling cascade subsequently promoted T-cell infiltration into the intestine, as confirmed by immunofluorescence (1.8-1.9-fold increase in cluster of differentiation 3ε (CD3ε) intensity and Western blot (2.2-2.3-fold increase in CD3ε protein). Our findings demonstrate that PMs disrupt intestinal homeostasis by triggering an INFγ-STAT1-CXCL11 signaling axis, which heightens C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11) expression to drive T-cell recruitment and amplify the inflammatory cascade. This study provides novel molecular insights into PMs-induced immunotoxicity in fish, elucidating a specific pathway of intestinal disruption and highlighting the ecological risks of microplastic pollution.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder lacking established clinical biomarkers. We performed an exploratory multi‑omics analysis of transcriptome and proteome data from small PD and control cohorts at Huaihe Hospital of Henan University. Using two local datasets, we identified 124 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 28 proteins, then performed protein‑protein interaction (PPI) and gene set variation analysis (GSVA). After intersecting with 2,964 DEGs from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) Dataset 3, we obtained a 28‑gene panel. Potential markers were prioritized via random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM) and principal component analysis (PCA), and evaluated in external GEO data, clinical serum samples and a 1‑methyl‑4‑phenyl‑1,2,3,6‑tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)‑induced PD mouse model. PPI highlighted C‑X‑C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1), C‑X‑C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), S100 calcium‑binding protein A12 (S100A12) and C‑X‑C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11) as hub genes. GSVA indicated upregulated cardiac muscle contraction and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). C‑C motif chemokine ligand 4 (CCL4), CKLF like MARVEL transmembrane domain containing 2 (CMTM2), tudor domain containing 6 (TDRD6), potassium voltage‑gated channel subfamily S member 1 (KCNS1) and member RAS oncogene family (RAB15) were identified as candidate markers. They showed consistent expression changes in clinical samples and mice. Immune infiltration differed in B cells, CD8 + T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. LY‑303511 and HC‑toxin were predicted as candidate compounds. These five genes represent preliminary candidate biomarkers for PD; however, further validation in larger independent cohorts is warranted for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The secretion of chemokines by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) is a critical driver of cancer progression. Nevertheless, the precise contribution of CAFs in the nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) tumor microenvironment to disease progression is yet to be fully understood. In this study, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11) was identified to be upregulated in tumor tissues of NPC patients and NPC cells compared to counterpart normal tissues and cell lines. The CAFs-secreted CXCL11 was found to enhance the proliferative, invasive, and migratory capacities of NPC cells. CAFs-derived CXCL11 upregulates CXCR3 expression to facilitate NPC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Through mechanism investigation, we confirmed that CXCL11/CXCR3 axis upregulated PD-L1 expression through p65-mediated transcription activation. Finally, in vivo experiments further validated the tumor-promoting role of CAFs-secreted CXCL11 in NPC. In conclusion, our findings reveal a novel mechanism wherein CAFs-secreted CXCL11 promotes NPC malignant progression by activating the CXCR3/PD-L1 signaling axis.
Protein epigenetic scores (EpiScores) are DNA methylation (DNAm)-based proxies for circulating protein levels and may provide insights into inflammation-cognition relationships. Although some EpiScores have been linked to cognitive decline, it remains unclear whether these proxies show similar associations in other cohorts, and whether their effects vary across distinct cognitive domains. We aimed to evaluate the associations between inflammatory proteins EpiScores and cognitive functions including specific domains in the Swedish Adoption/Twin Study of Aging (SATSA) cohort. We analyzed 1332 repeated measurements from 520 SATSA participants across up to six testing waves (1992-2014). Inflammatory protein EpiScores (N = 27) were generated using previously published CpG site-specific weights. Outcomes were a global cognitive function (GCF) score and four specific cognitive domains (verbal ability, spatial ability, memory, and perceptual speed). We applied marginal linear models within the generalized estimating equations (GEE) framework to estimate population-averaged longitudinal associations, controlling the false discovery rate (FDR) using the Benjamini-Hochberg (BH) procedure (q < 0.05 considered significant). Two EpiScores-C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9) and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM1)-showed significant positive associations with GCF. In domain-specific outcomes, VCAM1 demonstrated a positive association with spatial ability, whereas C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11) had a negative association with verbal ability. These associations were broadly consistent across multiple sensitivity analyses. Inflammation-related DNAm signatures of certain proteins were associated with cognitive performance in SATSA samples. Moreover, the associations differ by cognitive domain. Future longitudinal studies are warranted to clarify the causal implications of these EpiScore-cognition associations and to explore population differences in DNAm patterns.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cancer immunotherapy has shown significant promise but faces challenges due to concerns around safety, the complex tumor microenvironment, and the low immunogenicity of cancer vaccines. Here, we report the synthesis of degradable chiral trimanganese tetroxide nanoparticles (Mn3O4 NPs) by modifying chiral mannose ligands to create chiral vaccines for cancer therapy and prevention. The L-type Mn3O4 nanoparticles (L-NPs) exhibit nearly twice the uptake rate into mouse bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs) compared to D-type Mn3O4 nanoparticles (D-NPs), thanks to a higher affinity for X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (XCR1), cluster of differentiation 14 (CD14), and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). When loaded with tumor antigens as vaccines (L-Vac), the L-NPs activate BMDCs through both NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome and cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathways, enhancing the levels of C-C motif chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) and reducing C-C motif chemokine ligand 22 (CCL22) expression. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation explored the lock-and-key mechanism on the chiral NPs distinct patterns of interaction with antigen. Noticeably, the anti-tumor immunity was successfully confirmed in patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model, depicting the clinical potential of chiral vaccines. L-Vac demonstrates high in vivo biosafety, breaking down into manganese ions that are primarily excreted through feces. Therefore, chiral adjuvants will pave a brilliant avenue to facilitate cancer immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Science China Press. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the causal relationship between inflammatory proteins and Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the mediating role of plasma metabolites therein.Using Mendelian mandomization (MR) methods and publicly available genome-wide association study (GWAS) data, we selected 91 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that were strongly linked to inflammatory proteins without reverse causality with AD as the outcome. A bidirectional two-sample MR analysis was performed. Inflammatory proteins with causal links to AD were identified via inverse variance weighted (IVW) analysis. A mediation MR analysis was then performed using 1400 plasma metabolites to assess their mediating role in this causal pathway.The preliminary bidirectional MR analysis identified 3 inflammatory proteins that had a potential positive causal association with AD without reverse causality: Axin-1, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11), and interleukin-12β (IL-12β). Elevated levels of Axin-1 were positively causally associated with AD risk (OR=1.082, 95% CI: 1.009-1.159; P=0.026), while CXCL11 (OR=0.951, 95% CI: 0.914-0.990; P=0.026) and IL-12β (OR=0.959, 95% CI: 0.926-0.994; P=0.026) were negatively causally associated with AD risk. Sensitivity analyses indicated that these causal effects exhibited no heterogeneity or pleiotropy. In the mediation analysis, 18 plasma metabolites with causal links to AD were identified, among which 3 plasma metabolites exhibited mediating effects in the inflammatory protein-AD causal relationship. Methyl-4-hydroxybenzoate sulfate partially mediated the effect between Axin-1 and AD (20.10%). Pregnenetriol sulfate partially mediated the effect between CXCL11 and AD (18.20%). The ratio of spermidine to ornithine played an important mediating role between IL-12β and AD, with a mediating effect of 43.40%.This study reveals how specific inflammatory proteins influence AD risk via plasma metabolites and provides genetic evidence for inflammatory-metabolic interactions in AD to facilitate the identification of potential biomarkers and targets for early detection and intervention of AD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41571961 is a review article
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, prominent eosinophil accumulation, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin (IL)-5 plays a central role in eosinophil differentiation and activation, its involvement in driving EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study investigated IL-5 receptor α (IL-5Rα)-mediated signaling and EMT profiles in ECRSwNP, aiming to determine whether IL-5-activated eosinophil-like cells promote EMT in HNECs.Nasal tissues from healthy controls, non-ECRSwNP patients, and ECRSwNP patients (n=12 per group) were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells and subsequently stimulated with IL-5. HNECs were cocultured with undifferentiated HL-60 cells, differentiated HL-60 cells, or IL-5-stimulated differentiated HL-60 cells using a Transwell system. Expression of EMT-related markers was assessed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence.ECRSwNP tissues demonstrated markedly increased eosinophil infiltration, elevated IL-4 and IL-5 transcript levels, and significantly higher expression of IL-5Rα, phosphorylated Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) compared with controls and non-ECRSwNP tissues. EMT-associated changes, characterized by reduced E-cadherin and increased vimentin expression, were most pronounced in ECRSwNP. In vitro, IL-5 stimulation enhanced IL-5Rα expression, activated JAK2/STAT5 signaling, and increased secretion of eosinophil-associated mediators in differentiated HL-60 cells. Co-culture with IL-5-stimulated eosinophil-like cells induced EMT in HNECs, whereas unstimulated HL-60 cells exerted minimal effects.IL-5Rα-mediated signaling is upregulated in ECRSwNP and may contribute to EMT through eosinophil-dependent mechanisms. IL-5-activated eosinophils promote EMT-related changes in HNECs, providing a mechanistic link between type 2 inflammation and epithelial remodeling. These findings suggest that IL-5Rα signaling may represent a potential therapeutic target for modulating tissue remodeling in ECRSwNP.
Thrombotic events are a major morbidity among Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasm (Ph-MPN) patients. There is a lack of data from Kerala regarding the profile of Ph-MPN and the prevalence of thrombosis among these patients.To study the clinical profile, driver mutations, incidence of thrombotic events among Ph-MPN patients, and the response to hydroxyurea therapy.We reviewed the medical records of 84 Ph-MPN patients who were on follow-up from April 2019 to June 2023 in a tertiary care hospital in Kerala.There were 48 polycythemia vera (PV), 16 essential thrombocythemia (ET), 14 primary myelofibrosis (PMF), and six unclassifiable MPN (MPN-u) patients. The incidence of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) mutation was 96, 62.5, and 79% among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of calreticulin (CALR) mutation was 37.5 and 21% among ET and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of thrombotic events was 23/48 (48%), 7/16 (43.5%), and 6/14 (42.8%) among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. All ET and PMF patients with thrombotic events were JAK2V617F-mutated. Eighty-seven percent of the evaluable patients on hydroxyurea for PV achieved freedom from therapeutic phlebotomies. ET patients who were on hydroxyurea achieved a median platelet count of 4.3 lakhs/µL (3.16-6.08).There is a higher incidence of thrombosis among Ph-MPN patients from Kerala, which needs to be ascertained in a population-based study. JAK2V617F mutation is the major determinant of thrombotic episodes in ET and PMF. Hydroxyurea is an effective cytoreductive therapy in PV and ET.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Based on the Janus kinase 2(JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) pathway, the inhibitory effect and relevant mechanism of astragaloside-Ⅳ(AS-Ⅳ) on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury(CIRI) in rats were explored. Sixty rats were randomly divided into six groups: sham operation group, model group, low-dose AS-Ⅳ group(10 mg·kg~(-1)), medium-dose AS-Ⅳ group(20 mg·kg~(-1)), high-dose AS-Ⅳ group(30 mg·kg~(-1)), and edaravone group(3 mg·kg~(-1)), with 10 rats per group. Except for the sham operation group, the middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion(MCAO/R) model was established in all other groups. Rats in the drug-administered groups were intraperitoneally injected with the corresponding drugs from 7 d before surgery to 3 d after reperfusion, while the rats in the sham operation groups were given an equal volume of normal saline. Neurological behavior scores of rats were recorded; cerebral infarct volume was measured by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride(TTC) staining; enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to detect the contents of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), superoxide dismutase(SOD), and malondialdehyde(MDA) in serum; hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining and Nissl staining were performed to observe the pathological changes of cerebral tissue; the ultrastructure of cells was observed by transmission electron microscope; terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling(TUNEL) was used to detect neuronal apoptosis; immunohistochemical staining was applied to determine the protein expressions of apoptotic proteins B-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2(Bcl-2), and Bcl-2 associated X(Bax); immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the protein expressions of phosphorylated(p)-JAK2 and p-STAT3; western blot was employed to detect the protein expressions of cleaved cysteine aspartate specific protease-3(cleaved caspase-3), Bax, Bcl-2, p-JAK2, JAK2, p-STAT3, and STAT3 proteins. Compared with the sham operation group, the model group showed significant increases in neurological behavior scores, cerebral infarct volume, inflammatory factors(IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α), and MDA, a decrease in SOD, upregulated expressions of Bax, cleaved caspase-3, p-JAK2, and p-STAT3, as well as a downregulated expression of Bcl-2. Compared with the model group, groups with each AS-Ⅳ dose can reverse the above indicator changes and promote the nuclear translocation of p-STAT3. In conclusion, AS-Ⅳ can activate the JAK2/STAT3 pathway and inhibit neuronal apoptosis, thereby improving CIRI in rats.
Liver fibrosis is pathologically characterized by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition induced by diverse etiological factors, which is associated with hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and proliferation. B-cell translocation gene 1 (BTG1) contributes to the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation, and development. The biological role of BTG1 in HSC activation and liver fibrosis remains incompletely understood.To clarify the regulatory role of BTG1, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced rat liver fibrosis models and platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-activated HSC-T6 cells were used. For in vivo studies, rats were injected with BTG1-overexpressing recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV). siRNA or overexpression vectors targeting BTG1 were transfected into HSC-T6 cells in vitro, respectively. Rat serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were measured using biochemical assays. Liver histopathological alterations were evaluated by histological staining. 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays and flow cytometry were used to assess cell proliferation and apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were performed to quantify the levels of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen I, interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), as well as proliferation- and apoptosis-related proteins. Furthermore, a specific JAK2 inhibitor was used to further clarify the underlying molecular mechanism.BTG1 was significantly downregulated in CCl4-induced fibrotic liver tissues and activated HSCs. AAV-mediated BTG1 overexpression markedly alleviated liver fibrosis in rats. siRNA-mediated BTG1 knockdown resulted in the significant upregulation of collagen I, α-SMA, IL-6, and TNF-α expression in HSC-T6 cells. BTG1 deficiency enhanced HSC-T6 cell proliferation induced by PDGF-BB as evidenced by increased expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki67, while inhibiting apoptotic death, as evidenced by reduced levels of Bax and cleaved caspase-3, and by enhanced Bcl-2 expression. BTG1 overexpression had the opposite effects. Mechanistically, BTG1 deficiency enhanced JAK2/STAT3 signaling by upregulating the phosphorylation of these signaling intermediaries, whereas BTG1 overexpression inhibited this signaling pathway. Notably, pretreatment with the JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib neutralized BTG1 knockdown-induced JAK2/STAT3 hyperactivation.BTG1 suppresses HSC activation by modulating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis and retards liver fibrosis progression, suggesting that it may represent a promising therapeutic target for anti-fibrotic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Gastric gland mucins contain O-glycans carrying terminal α1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine (αGlcNAc). A previous study demonstrated that A4gnt-deficient mice lack αGlcNAc, spontaneously develop differentiated-type gastric adenocarcinoma, and exhibit significant up-regulation of Il11 transcripts in gastric mucosa. This study assessed mechanisms by which αGlcNAc deficiency induces tumorigenesis, focusing on the IL-11 receptor α (IL-11Rα)-glycoprotein 130 (gp130)-Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)-STAT3 axis. A4gnt-deficient mice exhibited enhanced phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT3 in pyloric mucosa compared with wild-type mice, with significant increases in JAK2 phosphorylation at 5 weeks and in STAT3 phosphorylation at 5 and 10 weeks. IL-11Rα and gp130 proteins also significantly increased during this period. The thickness of the pyloric gland cell layer was significantly decreased in A4gnt and Il11 doubly deficient (A4gnt-/-;Il11-/-) mice at 10 but not 30 weeks compared with A4gnt-deficient mice, suggesting an IL-11 requirement in the early stage of tumorigenesis. Significant reduction of the proportion of phosphorylated STAT3-positive nuclei in pyloric mucosa of A4gnt-/-;Il11-/- mice at 10 weeks supports the IL-11-mediated phosphorylated STAT3 involvement in this stage. Analysis of gastric cancer AGS-A cells overexpressing αGlcNAc using a Tet-On system revealed significant reduction of IL-11-induced STAT3 phosphorylation compared with αGlcNAc-negative conditions. Moreover, both IL-11Rα and gp130 from wild-type mice and αGlcNAc-expressing AGS-A cells carried αGlcNAc, suggesting that the presence of αGlcNAc on these proteins interferes with receptor-complex formation. Overall, these findings indicate that αGlcNAc protects gastric mucosa from inflammation-induced tumorigenesis by regulating IL-11Rα-gp130-JAK2-STAT3 signaling.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519674 is a review article
Background and Objectives: Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (ECRSwNP) is characterized by type 2 inflammation, marked eosinophil infiltration, and enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Although interleukin-5 (IL-5) is central to eosinophil differentiation and activation, its role in EMT in human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the contribution of IL-5Rα/Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling in eosinophils in EMT in ECRSwNP. Materials and Methods: Nasal mucosal tissues from control and ECRSwNP or non-ECRSwNP group patients (n = 12 each) were analyzed for type 2 cytokine, EMT marker, and IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 axis component levels using Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. HL-60 cells were differentiated into eosinophil-like cells using butyric acid and stimulated with IL-5, and HNECs were co-cultured with undifferentiated, differentiated, or IL-5-activated differentiated HL-60 cells. EMT induction and migration were assessed using immunofluorescence, wound-healing assays, and Western blotting. IL-5RA, JAK2, or STAT5 was silenced using small interfering RNA to determine pathway dependency. Results: ECRSwNP tissues showed elevated type 2 cytokine and EMT marker expression and enhanced IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 pathway activation. Co-culture with IL-5-activated differentiated HL-60 cells induced EMT in HNECs, evidenced by decreased E-cadherin and zonula occludens-1, increased N-cadherin and vimentin levels, and enhanced migration. Moreover, silencing IL-5RA, JAK2, or STAT5 significantly attenuated these effects. Conclusions: IL-5-activated IL-5Rα/JAK2/STAT5 signaling in eosinophils may contribute to EMT in HNECs. Thus, this pathway could be a potential therapeutic target for tissue remodeling and polyp formation in type 2 chronic rhinosinusitis.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) management has advanced rapidly in recent years, with new therapies supplementing established treatments. The cardiorenal benefits of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) and nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (ns-MRA) in patients with DKD have been proven in several large randomised controlled trials. Recent studies show that combining SGLT2i, ns-MRA and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockade significantly slows DKD progression compared with using single agents. The concurrent use of four agents, including GLP-1RA, SGLT2i, ns-MRA and RAAS blockade, may confer additional benefits, and a four-pillar approach to managing DKD could become standard therapy in the future. Additional investigational agents, including endothelin receptor antagonists, aldosterone synthesis inhibitors, and Janus kinase 1 and Janus kinase 2 inhibitors, have demonstrated encouraging results in Phase 2 trials. These therapies may offer further treatment options for patients who are unable to use other agents.Copyright © 2026 Singapore Medical Journal.
Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) poses a significant challenge to successful early pregnancy, and trophoblast cell ferroptosis is an important pathogenic mechanism of RSA. However, it remains unclear whether decidual macrophages, as key immune regulators at the maternal-fetal interface, participate in the regulation of ferroptosis in trophoblast cells. This study observed significant ferroptosis in the placental trophoblast cells of patients with RSA and aborted mice. Transcriptomic sequencing results revealed that decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA significantly promoted trophoblast cell ferroptosis while simultaneously impairing trophoblast cell function. Mechanistically, silencing heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) in trophoblast cells effectively reversed ferroptosis and restored trophoblast cell function, which was inhibited by decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA. Notably, decidual macrophages regulate trophoblast ferroptosis and function by secreting C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2). Furthermore, the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was significantly enriched in trophoblast cells co-cultured with decidual macrophages derived from patients with RSA. Further reversal experiments indicated that the CXCL2/NF-κB/HMOX1 signaling axis may be a crucial mechanism by which decidual macrophages regulate trophoblast cell ferroptosis and function in RSA. Our subsequent findings demonstrated that trophoblast cells co-cultured with RSA-derived decidual macrophages promoted pro-inflammatory polarization in macrophages. This effect was mediated by the interleukin-6 (IL-6) deficiency-inhibited janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling axis. Finally, pharmacological analysis revealed Eriodictyol exhibits CXCL2-axis-associated protective effects in RSA. In conclusion, we observed that decidual macrophages in patients with RSA can induce ferroptosis in trophoblast cells, implying that targeting this mechanism may offer novel opportunities for reshaping maternal-fetal tolerance.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Neuroinflammation plays a central role in the progression of tauopathy via the glial activation and T cell accumulation in the brain parenchyma. However, the key molecular mediators that link these processes to tau pathology remain poorly understood.Here, we identify C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) as a critical inflammatory mediator that is markedly upregulated in the brains of P301S-mutant tau transgenic mice and associated with regions of severe tau pathology. Spatial transcriptomics revealed that CXCL10 is mainly expressed by disease-associated astrocytes, defining an astrocytic CXCL10-rich inflammatory niche within the tauopathy brain.Genetic ablation of Cxcl10 significantly attenuated soluble and insoluble tau accumulation selectively in 9-month-old female mice, whereas no attenuation of tau accumulation was observed at 11-12 months of age. In addition, Cxcl10 deficiency significantly prolonged survival specifically in female tauopathy mice. Although Cxcl10 deficiency reduced the number of parenchymal T cells in both sexes, this reduction did not explain the female-specific effects. Furthermore, Cxcl10 deficiency did not alter neurodegeneration and motor dysfunction, suggesting that downstream sex-dependent regulatory mechanisms govern tauopathy progression. Moreover, CXCL10-dependent inflammatory activation within the local microenvironments was observed in both sexes. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the sex-dependent effects of CXCL10 remain unclear, these findings suggest that CXCL10 contributes to tau pathology through multiple inflammatory pathways.In summary, our findings identify CXCL10 as a key inflammatory mediator of sex specific tau-associated pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
The cardiovascular health (CVH) metrics have been reported to play an important role in the development of noncommunicable chronic diseases, yet its link to pulmonary hypertension (PH) risk and the underlying biological mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the association of CVH with PH risk and elucidate the mediating role of plasma proteomic signatures.A total of 279 220 participants without PH at enrollment of the UK Biobank were included. Cox regression was used to quantify the association between CVH and incident PH. Proteome-wide association analysis, mediation analysis, and functional enrichment analysis were conducted to identify protein mediators. Key hub proteins were further validated at the transcriptional level through quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) in an animal model of PH, as well as at the protein level, and by macrophage-specific knockdown of interleukin (IL)-6 and CCL4 to evaluate its impact on rat pulmonary artery smooth muscle cell (PASMC) migration and proliferation.Over a median 13.2-year follow-up, 1325 PH cases occurred. Compared to the lowest CVH, participants with moderate and high CVH had 59% [hazard ratio (HR): 0.41; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.33-0.49] and 82% (HR: 0.18; 95% CI: 0.14-0.23) lower risk, respectively. Proteomic analyses revealed that this association was significantly mediated by a distinct plasma protein signature. Pathway enrichment analysis indicates that proteins are significantly enriched in inflammatory/immune pathways, and key hub proteins were identified as participating in the central mechanism pathway. In the lung tissue of PH rat models, the mRNA and protein expression levels of IL-6 and C-C motif chemokine ligand 4 (CCL4) were significantly elevated. Furthermore, functional assays demonstrated that knockdown of IL-6 or CCL4 in macrophages significantly attenuated the migration and proliferation of rat PASMCs in vitro.High CVH level, defined by Life's Essential 8 (LE8), is significantly linked to a reduced risk of developing PH. This protective effect is primarily mediated by a proteomic signature, revealing the role of signaling pathways such as cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction in the prevention of PH.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Chronic pain is sustained by complex neuroimmune interplay within the spinal cord, yet how astrocytes constrain immune amplification remains poorly understood. Here we identified Src-homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP1; encoded by Ptpn6) as a key suppressor of spinal neuroinflammation and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Astrocyte-specific SHP1 deletion in the spinal dorsal horn induced profound astrocytic morphological changes, increased C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) expression, disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and facilitated the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes into the spinal parenchyma. These infiltrating T cells promoted microglial activation, enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission, increased the excitability of somatostatin (SOM)-positive neurons, and ultimately triggered nociceptive hypersensitivity. Mechanistically, T cell recruitment was governed by an SHP1-dependent regulatory circuit, in which SHP1-mediated Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dephosphorylation restrained Cxcl10 transcription. Blocking the STAT1-CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling axis alleviated T cell infiltration and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, we found that during the development of neuropathic pain, spinal SHP1 expression was significantly downregulated, accompanied by upregulation of CXCL10. Overexpression of SHP1 in astrocytes markedly attenuated astrocyte activation and alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by spared nerve injury (SNI). Collectively, our findings revealed an astrocyte-defined immune checkpoint that restrains neuroinflammatory escalation and pain persistence, emphasizing SHP1 as a promising therapeutic target for chronic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to investigate the ameliorative effects of the traditional Chinese herbal compound formula, Shenge Yifei Formula, on pulmonary inflammation and function in mice with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD) and to elucidate its underlying mechanism from the perspective of inhibiting T helper 1(Th1) immune responses. A COPD model was established in C57BL/6 mice by intratracheal instillation of lipopolysaccharide(LPS) combined with passive smoking exposure. The mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, a tiotropium bromide group, and low-and high-dose Shenge Yifei Formula groups. Following a 5-week intervention, pulmonary function tests and HE staining were performed to assess lung histopathological changes. Flow cytometry, multicolor immunofluorescence, and ELISA were employed to detect the proportion and distribution of CD4~+ C-X-C chemokine receptor 3(CXCR3)~+ Th1 cells in lung tissue, as well as the levels of interferon-γ(IFN-γ), interleukin-12(IL-12), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10(CXCL10) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid(BALF). Additionally, transcriptomic sequencing was conducted on lung tissue from the high-dose Shenge Yifei Formula group. The study demonstrated that, compared with the model group, Shenge Yifei Formula significantly improved pulmonary function in COPD mice and attenuated alveolar structural damage, airway remodeling, and inflammatory cell infiltration in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistic investigations revealed that the high dose of Shenge Yifei Formula markedly reduced the proportion and density of CD4~+CXCR3~+Th1 cells in lung tissue and decreased the levels of IFN-γ, IL-12, and CXCL10 in BALF. Transcriptomic analysis further confirmed that its mechanism of action is closely associated with the modulation of immune pathways such as T cell differentiation and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. In conclusion, Shenge Yifei Formula effectively ameliorates pulmonary inflammation and dysfunction in COPD mice by inhibiting Th1 cell differentiation, recruitment, and the associated cytokine network. Unlike tiotropium bromide, which primarily improves ventilatory function, Shenge Yifei Formula exerts a significant inhibitory effect on the Th1 axis, suggesting a distinct advantage complementary to bronchodilator therapy at the level of immune inflammation. This study provides modern experimental evidence for the clinical application of Shenge Yifei Formula and indicates its therapeutic potential in COPD by concurrently targeting anti-inflammatory and anti-remodeling processes.
Angina pectoris, a key symptom of coronary artery disease, is closely associated with inflammation. Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors have shown cardiovascular benefits, but their exact mechanisms, particularly regarding inflammation, are not fully understood. This study used Mendelian Randomization (MR) to investigate whether SGLT2 inhibition reduces angina risk by modulating inflammatory cytokines, especially C-C motif chemokine ligand 4 (CCL4). A two-sample MR approach was employed, using genetic instruments derived from SLC5A2-related eQTLs and HbA1c-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms. Genome-wide association study summary statistics for CCL4 and other inflammatory cytokines were utilized. The primary analysis was conducted using the inverse variance weighted method. SGLT2 inhibition was associated with a significantly reduced risk of angina pectoris (odds ratio [OR] = 0.28, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.11-0.70, P = .007). Notably, CCL4 was the only inflammatory cytokine linked to both SGLT2 inhibition and angina. SGLT2 inhibition was positively associated with CCL4 levels (β = 1.14, 95% CI: 0.33-1.95, P = .006), and CCL4 itself was associated with a higher risk of angina (OR = 1.07, 95% CI: 1.01-1.13, P = .022). However, the calculated indirect effect of SGLT2 on angina via CCL4 was negative, indicating that the mediation proportion could not be quantified due to biological complexity. Our study indicates that SGLT2 inhibition may offer protective effects in angina pectoris. The observed association between SGLT2 inhibition and CCL4 suggests a potentially complex inflammatory pathway that warrants further investigation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526787 is a review article
A case-control study was conducted in Basrah, Iraq, between September 2023 and December 2024. Stool samples from 110 symptomatic individuals were examined microscopically using direct wet mounts, concentration methods, and permanent staining techniques. Confirmed cases included 43 patients infected with Entamoeba spp. and 30 patients infected with Giardia duodenalis, while 50 apparently healthy individuals served as controls. Hemoglobin and leukocyte differential counts, serum total protein, albumin, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10), malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were evaluated. The results demonstrated significant hematological, biochemical, inflammatory, and oxidative stress alterations among infected individuals. Hemoglobin, serum total protein, and albumin levels were significantly reduced in both amoebiasis and giardiasis patients compared with healthy controls, with more pronounced alterations observed in amoebiasis. IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, CXCL10, MDA, and LDH levels were significantly elevated, whereas increased GSH levels may reflect a compensatory antioxidant response rather than antioxidant depletion, particularly among amoebiasis patients. Giardiasis patients exhibited inflammatory and oxidative stress changes, although these alterations were less pronounced than those observed in amoebiasis. Comparative analysis indicated that amoebiasis induced stronger inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue injury responses than giardiasis, due to the invasive nature of amoebic infection. Overall, Entamoeba spp. infection elicited stronger inflammatory, oxidative stress, and tissue injury responses than giardiasis, providing further insight into the distinct host-parasite interactions associated with these intestinal protozoan infections.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intra-abdominal infection frequently progresses to sepsis, where the liver is an early and commonly injured organ. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mouse model combined with bulk and single‑cell RNA sequencings, we observed marked neutrophil infiltration in the liver that correlated with injury severity. Sepsis‑associated neutrophils displayed a pro‑inflammatory phenotype and specifically upregulated the divalent metal transporter solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1). Conditional knockout of Slc11a1 in neutrophils (Ly6G-Cre+ Slc11a1f/f) significantly alleviated liver injury and improved survival. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 drives intracellular Fe2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species production via the Fenton reaction, promoting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Hepatocytes were found to secrete C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) through nuclear factor kappa B (NF‑κB) activation, which both recruit neutrophils and stimulates the JAK/STAT1/SLC11A1 axis, thereby enhancing NETs‑mediated pro‑inflammatory macrophage polarization. Clinically, peripheral blood CXCL10 levels correlated with liver injury markers in sepsis patients. Neutralization of CXCL10 using an anti-CXCL10 antibody or liver-specific knockdown of CXCL10 via Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) reduced NETs formation and attenuated liver damage in CLP mice. This study delineates a "CXCL10-SLC11A1-NETs" signaling axis that exacerbates sepsis‑induced liver injury, offering a novel target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Although multi-omics studies have increasingly revealed molecular alterations associated with epilepsy, clinically accessible cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers that are stably detectable and biologically relevant remain scarce. This study aimed to identify measurable biomarkers associated with epilepsy-related molecular alterations. Kainic acid (KA)-induced mouse model, single-cell RNA sequencing, and public transcriptomic datasets identified secreted protein-coding genes associated with inflammation, glial activation, and metabolic dysregulation. Candidate biomarkers were validated across mouse and human datasets and quantified in CSF of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and non-epileptic controls using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Machine learning models were built to evaluate diagnostic performance and interpretability using SHAP analysis. Six proteins (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 [CXCL10], transthyretin [TTR], apolipoprotein E [APOE], apolipoprotein D [APOD], galectin-3-binding protein [LGALS3BP], and lysozyme [LYZ]) were dysregulated in human CSF. CSF levels of CXCL10, APOE, APOD, LGALS3BP, and LYZ were significantly elevated in TLE, whereas TTR was markedly reduced (all p < 0.001). Machine learning models demonstrated promising classification performance, with TTR and CXCL10 emerging as major contributing features. CSF CXCL10 levels positively correlated with preoperative seizure frequency (Spearman's ρ = 0.698, p < 0.0001). Multilevel evidence from animal models and clinical CSF samples indicates that microglial activation and glia-related molecular alterations are associated with TLE progression, and related secreted proteins may provide candidate biomarkers for future translational investigation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500203 is a review article
A large number of functional disorders and uncomfortable symptoms often remain following ischemic stroke (IS). Existing drug therapy is not ideal for the direct improvement of symptoms, which often leads to poor patient compliance with physical rehabilitation therapy. Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHWD) is a famous prescription that is effective in treating IS, especially during the sequela stage of IS. We analyzed the therapeutic mechanism of BYHWD through network pharmacology. This study aims to investigate the potential active ingredients, targets, and signaling pathways of BYHWD for the treatment of IS, utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active ingredients of 7 Chinese herbs in BYHWD were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology and HERB databases, and IS-related disease targets were searched in the DisGeNET, GeneCards, and OMIM databases. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the STRING database and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.10.2 software. Additionally, the target genes were uploaded to the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery website for Gene Ontology alongside Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. With the assistance of AutoDockTools and PyMOL software (Schrödinger, Inc.), a validation of molecular docking results and a visualization of the results were performed. The results showed that there were 190 intersection targets between the active drug components and IS, corresponding to 61 active components, among which the top 5 target genes were tumor suppressor protein 53, Jun proto-oncogene, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, and estrogen receptor alpha. The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway is one of the top 10 pathways. The molecular docking results indicated that most of the top 5 targets had good affinities for the 8 core compounds. This computational analysis suggests that BYHWD may treat IS through multiple targets and pathways. It may play a neuroprotective role by regulating the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, autophagy, and vascular endothelial homeostasis. The identification of core effective components provides a theoretical foundation and candidate compounds for further investigation into new drugs for the treatment of sequelae after IS.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Astrocytes participate in the clearance of obsolete or unwanted neuronal synapses. However, the molecular machinery involved in synapse recognition remains unclear, particularly in pathological conditions. Here, we investigated the phagocytic process of astrocytes through individual gene silencing using a druggable gene library. Our study demonstrates that the Atypical chemokine receptor 3 (Ackr3) is a major player of astrocyte-mediated synapse engulfment. Mechanistically, we showed that Ackr3 recognizes phosphatidylethanolamine (PE)-bound C-X-C motif chemokine 12 (CXCL12) at synaptic terminals, thus serving as a novel marker of synaptic dysfunction. Notably, both ACKR3 and CXCL12 are upregulated in post-mortem brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and AD mouse models. Genetic downregulation of Ackr3 in AD mice significantly reduces astrocyte-mediated synaptic elimination and rescues pathological phenotypes, including synapse loss and cognitive impairment. Overall, this work unveils a novel, possibly targetable mechanism of astrocyte-mediated synaptic engulfment implicated in neurodegenerative disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Platelets and certain immune cells contain releasable granules that play essential roles in hemostasis and immune regulation. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing degranulation of platelets versus immune cells remain incompletely understood.This study aimed to elucidate the distinct regulatory mechanisms underlying granule release in platelets and immune cells.Mouse platelets were freshly isolated from peripheral blood, neutrophils were purified from bone marrow, and mast cells were generated from bone marrow progenitors by in vitro differentiation. The effects of phorbol ester (PMA), ionomycin, and their combination on degranulation of platelets, neutrophils, and mast cells were examined. In addition, pharmacological inhibitors targeting key components of multiple signaling pathways were used to investigate the molecular mechanisms regulating degranulation of these three cell types.PMA and ionomycin strongly induced α-granule release of platelets, whereas only moderately stimulating dense-granule secretion. For neutrophils, PMA and ionomycin each triggered moderate azurophilic-granule release, whereas their combination markedly enhanced degranulation. In contrast, PMA alone failed to induce mast cell degranulation, ionomycin robustly stimulated granule release, and their combination further amplified ionomycin-induced response. Mechanistically, thrombin-induced platelet degranulation was inhibited exclusively by phospholipase C (PLC) and protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors. Zymosan-induced neutrophil degranulation was suppressed by inhibitors of phosphoinositide 3 kinase, spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK), Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) and P38 but was enhanced by PLC and PKC inhibition. Mast cell degranulation induced by IgE and antigen was significantly inhibited by the inhibitors targeting SYK, BTK, PLC, and PKC.These findings reveal substantial differences in the regulatory pathways controlling degranulation in platelets and immune cells. Such distinctions highlight the opportunities for the development of cell type-selective inhibitors to modulate degranulation, providing potential therapeutic strategies for thrombotic diseases and immune-related diseases.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).
Computer-aided drug discovery increasingly depends on virtual-screening workflows that remain reliable under severe class imbalance, chemical redundancy and early-recognition constraints. In this study, we developed a leakage-aware prioritization workflow for two cancer-relevant targets, pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MAPK1/ERK2), using the LIT-PCBA benchmark. The workflow combines canonical-SMILES curation, duplicate and label-conflict auditing, scaffold-aware validation, a non-learning nearest-active Tanimoto baseline, imbalance-aware machine-learning models, repeated-seed robustness analysis, isotonic probability calibration, ensemble-disagreement estimation, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicity (ADMET)-aware triage, molecular docking, and residue-level contact analysis. Benchmark enrichment is interpreted alongside calibration, ADMET filtering, docking and residue-contact evidence, rather than as a standalone discovery claim. PKM2 emerged as the clearer machine-learning case, with scaffold-aware tree models improving early recognition beyond the nearest-active similarity baseline and yielding top-ranked candidates supported by calibrated activity scores, ADMET profiles, docking scores, and residue-contact fingerprints. MAPK1 provided a biologically relevant contrast target, where ligand-neighborhood similarity remained competitive and downstream structural triage became more decisive than ligand-based ranking alone. These results support a conservative drug-discovery workflow in which leakage-aware benchmarking, calibration, uncertainty, and molecular-level triage remain visible throughout candidate prioritization.
The Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) is an intricately linked signaling cascade that frequently contributes to drug resistance in neurodegenerative diseases. This study presents an integrated approach combining in silico molecular docking, ADMET-based screening, and evaluation to identify novel N-substituted heterocyclic compounds as MAPK inhibitors for neuroinflammation.The molecular docking of the designed 135 nitrogen-substituted 5-, 6-, and 7- membered derivatives was carried out using Flare GUI software, docked into the MAPK (p38, ERK, JNK) binding site with PDB code 3LN1. The interaction was evaluated based on the reranked score comparison between the designed derivatives and the co-crystallized ligand. Trametinib was used as the reference, and 8 selected compounds were evaluated for their ADMET profiling using Swiss ADME, Molinspiration, OSIRIS, and Protox II. The molecules were filtered for their drug-like properties.The docking results showed that more than 6% of the designed compounds displayed a good binding score compared with the reference Trametinib. The three targets used for screening are P38-alpha MAP kinase (2BAL), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 ERK (3I5Z), and JNK-interacting protein 1 (7NYK). A maximum binding score of -8 kcal/mol was found for P38-alpha MAP kinase (2BAL).ADMET screening gave 13 selected compounds that displayed affirmative pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles, paving the way for many new drugs for development.There is a large scope for the optimization of the core, suggesting that the screened 8 molecules might be promising targets as inhibitors of P38-alpha MAP kinase in the MAPK pathway and are feasible to be synthesized.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare clonal neoplasm driven by activating mutations in the MAPK pathway, leading to accumulation of pathological Langerhans cells in various tissues. LCH is increasingly associated with secondary malignancies, including leukemias, lymphomas, and solid tumors. However, chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has not previously been reported in association with LCH. Here, we describe a rare case of CML arising in the setting of active LCH in a pediatric patient.A 15-year-old boy was initially diagnosed at age 11 with single-system multifocal skeletal LCH. He received 12 months of vinblastine and prednisolone per the LCH-III protocol but failed to achieve remission and was lost to follow-up. Two years later, he re-presented with fever, bone pain, leukocytosis, anemia, and thrombocytosis. Bone marrow analysis was consistent with CML and PCR confirmed BCR::ABL1 p210-positive CML. PET and MRI demonstrated concurrent active LCH lesions. The patient was treated with imatinib and cladribine, achieving complete hematologic and molecular remission of both diseases within 7 months.This rare association of CML with LCH expands the recognized spectrum of LCH-associated malignancies. It underscores the importance of long-term surveillance in LCH patients, with particular vigilance for secondary malignancies. It also highlights the need for further research into possible biological relationships between histiocytic and myeloid neoplasms.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Recent shifts in the geopolitical landscape, including the threat of nuclear conflict and the proliferation of nuclear materials, have heightened concerns about radiological emergencies. Acute radiation syndrome (ARS) is a major health consequence of such events, but effective medical countermeasures (MCMs) remain limited. Although several compounds have been approved as mitigators to treat ARS, there is currently no FDA-approved drug that can be used as a prophylaxis-administered before exposure to prevent or lessen the effects of radiation. One key mitigator is Nplate (romiplostim), a thrombopoietin receptor agonist currently approved for use as soon as possible after expected or confirmed exposure to myelosuppressive doses of radiation (2 Gray (Gy)). However, there is growing interest in expanding its utility beyond this narrow window. Our current research suggests that administering Nplate at later time points (e.g., 48 or 72 hours postexposure) could still provide a significant survival benefit. Furthermore, its potential as a prophylaxis is being explored, which could offer a vital layer of protection for first responders and military personnel in high-risk environments. This expansion would address a critical gap in current medical readiness and increase resilience in a radiologically contaminated environment.The efficacy of Nplate as both a mitigator and prophylaxis for ARS was evaluated in 2 separate studies using C57BL/6 mice. The first study used the Armed Forces Radiobiology Research Institute (AFRRI) cobalt-60 gamma irradiator to simulate nuclear fallout. Nplate was administered as a mitigator at 24, 48, and 72 hours postirradiation and as a prophylaxis at 6 and 12 hour preirradiation. The second study utilized the AFRRI Training, Research, Isotope, General Atomic (TRIGA) reactor to mimic nuclear detonation with mixed neutron-gamma radiation. All experiments were conducted under the oversight of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS) Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC).When used as a mitigator for delayed administration, Nplate significantly enhanced the survival of both male and female subjects in a dose-dependent manner. In addition to improved survival rates, Nplate treatment led to the recovery of deficiencies in blood cell counts, an increase in colony-forming units (CFUs) in bone marrow, and a notable increase in megakaryocytes in sternal sections. Similarly, and even more pronounced, results were seen when Nplate was used as a prophylaxis. Prophylactic use resulted in a greater increase in overall survival, underscoring its potential to protect against the damaging effects of radiation.The data presented in this manuscript provides compelling evidence to support the expanded use of Nplate as a MCM against radiation exposure. Our findings demonstrate that Nplate's efficacy extends beyond its current approved use, remaining effective as a mitigator when administered at 24, 48, and even 72 hours postirradiation. Furthermore, the studies show that Nplate is a potent prophylaxis, offering significant protection for military personnel and first responders in the event of a radiological or nuclear incident. This data will be used to support continued interactions with the FDA to broaden Nplate's indications.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559680 is a review article
Aplastic anemia (AA) is a bone marrow failure syndrome. Whether the combination of TPO-RAs and IST is superior to IST alone is an ongoing debate. This meta-analysis compares the efficacy of EPAG+IST versus IST alone, and assesses the initiation timing and treatment duration of eltrombopag (EPAG) across different age groups of AA patients.The literature was retrieved from Chinese and English databases up to October 1, 2025. The analysis was conducted using RevMan 5.4 software, employing a fixed-effects model to calculate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the outcomes. The I² statistic was used to assess heterogeneity among included studies.21 studies involving 2,239 patients were included. The overall response rate in the EPAG+IST group was higher at 3 months (OR = 2.13, 95% CI 1.65 - 2.74, P < 0.00001) and 6 months (OR = 2.13, 95% CI 1.73 - 2.61, P < 0.00001). There was no significant difference between the two groups at 12 months (OR = 1.14, 95% CI 0.86 - 1.51, P = 0.36, I² = 35%).The addition of EPAG to IST may improve early hematological responses at 3 and 6 months in patients with AA, with no significant difference at 12 months. Concurrent initiation (within 7 days) was associated with earlier responses in adults.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, identifier CRD42024604778.Copyright © 2026 Tan, Shang, Guo, Su, Wang, Ma, Hui, Ni, Cai, He, Cao, Li, Li, Chen, Sun and Sun.
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an acquired autoimmune disease characterized by increased platelet destruction and thrombocytopenia. Fostamatinib inhibits spleen tyrosine kinase and suppresses platelet destruction. However, clinical evidence of its efficacy in Japanese patients with ITP remains limited.In this study, we retrospectively evaluated the clinical outcomes of fostamatinib, with or without thrombopoietin receptor agonists (TPO-RAs), at a single center in Japan.The study included 11 patients. At week 1, all 3 evaluable patients (100.0%) achieved platelet count ≥ 30,000/μL and a twofold increase from baseline; at week 2, 10 of 11 (90.9%) met the criteria. Ultimately, 10 of 11 (90.9%) patients achieved the criteria at least once within 24 weeks. All 3 patients using concomitant TPO-RAs (100.0%) achieved the primary endpoint. After fostamatinib initiation, 9 of 11 (81.8%) patients discontinued or reduced their concomitant glucocorticoid (GC) dose. Thrombosis was not observed regardless of concomitant TPO-RA use.This study demonstrates the real-world effectiveness and safety of fostamatinib in patients with ITP. Platelet count rose soon after fostamatinib initiation, within 1-2 weeks. Fostamatinib may enable reduction or discontinuation of GCs, even in patients with ITP refractory to TPO-RAs.UMIN000057096.© 2026. The Author(s).
The CAR-HEMATOTOX score has been associated with hematologic toxicity after chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy, but it is usually assessed shortly before lymphodepletion, when hematopoietic reserve may already be affected by bridging therapy. We investigated whether the CAR-HEMATOTOX score assessed at leukapheresis, before bridging therapy initiation (Pre-CAR-HEMATOTOX), could predict delayed platelet recovery after idecabtagene vicleucel (ide-cel) in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.We conducted a single-center retrospective cohort study of consecutive patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma who underwent leukapheresis and subsequently received ide-cel between November 2022 and March 2026. The primary endpoint was time to platelet recovery to ≥ 100 × 109/L without platelet transfusion or thrombopoietin receptor agonist support. Secondary endpoints included time to platelet recovery to ≥ 75 × 109/L, time to neutrophil recovery to ≥ 1.0 × 109/L without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support, and platelet transfusion burden.Among 96 patients, median time to platelet recovery to ≥ 100 × 109/L was significantly shorter in the Pre-CAR-HEMATOTOX low group than in the high group (1.8 vs. 15.8 months, P < .001). Similar findings were observed for recovery to ≥ 75 × 109/L (1.3 vs. 6.3 months, P = .005). High Pre-CAR-HEMATOTOX remained independently associated with delayed platelet recovery in both the primary and exploratory multivariable models. High Pre-CAR-HEMATOTOX was also associated with greater platelet transfusion burden. In contrast, intensive BT, rather than Pre-CAR-HEMATOTOX, was independently associated with delayed neutrophil recovery.Pre-CAR-HEMATOTOX assessed at leukapheresis predicted delayed platelet recovery after ide-cel and may support early risk stratification before BT selection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Primary mitochondrial diseases (PMD) have limited disease-modifying therapies, currently applicable to only 3 of over 400 discrete gene disorders. Cycloheximide (CHX) is a global cytosolic translation inhibitor we previously reported to rescue PMD preclinical models, although its toxicity precluded clinical development. To identify specific mediators underlying CHX treatment benefit in PMD, SOMAscan-based proteomics was performed in complex I deficient and genetic disease fibroblast cell line models grown in galactose. Thrombopoietin (THPO) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) were the only two differentially regulated proteins, together with ERK/MAPK pathway dysregulation, identified upon CHX treatment in PMD versus healthy control cells. THPO inhibition by siRNA or pharmacologic approaches rescued stress-induced viability loss in patient fibroblasts having diverse PMD gene etiologies, and significantly improved mitochondrial stress, linear growth, and neuromuscular function in a classical ndufs2 -/- C. elegans model. IGFBP5 overexpression by lentiviral or mRNA approaches rescued cell viability across distinct PMD gene etiologies, as did IGF1 pharmacologic inhibition across both PMD mutant and C. elegans models. MAPK pharmacologic inhibition rescued multiple distinct complex I disease cells' survival, as well as mitochondrial stress in SLC25A46 -/- C. elegans . Combination therapies targeting multiple of these glucose signaling pathway proteins, together with glucose and N-acetylcysteine, yielded superior therapeutic benefit in complex I disease cell and C. elegans models. Additionally, single or combined pharmacologic inhibition of THPO or IGF1 significantly enhanced primary and metastatic osteosarcoma cell death. Collectively, targeted small molecule and genetic modulation of THPO, IGF1, or MAPK recapitulated the significant therapeutic benefit of CHX in PMD, while avoiding global translation inhibition. These novel PMD therapies likely confer benefit by attenuating MAPK-driven autophagy and potentially promoting noncanonical glucose uptake, improving cellular energy balance. Overall, these glucose signaling cellular pathway targets hold broad therapeutic promise for PMD patients, warranting further clinical research development.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536103 is a review article
Fostamatinib was approved in Japan in December 2022 for primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). Given the limited clinical trial data, post-marketing surveillance (PMS) was conducted in Japan to collect safety and effectiveness data for fostamatinib. This interim analysis of PMS collected data between April 2023 and April 2025. Most of the 489 patients in the safety analysis set had received ≥ 3 treatment lines. Approximately 70% used fostamatinib with glucocorticoids and/or a thrombopoietin receptor agonist. Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) were reported in 49.5% (serious ADRs in 8.6%). The most common ADRs were diarrhoea (20.0%), hypertension (15.7%), hepatic function abnormal (9.6%), liver disorders (4.9%), and neutrophil count decreased (4.1%). Safety analysis revealed no major differences in the frequency of ADRs, including those of special interest, by combination treatment(s). Median platelet count increased at 2 weeks of treatment and remained above 50,000/μL thereafter, regardless of the ITP treatment combination. Further, complete response (platelet count ≥ 100,000/μL) was observed in 135 of 309 patients at 3 months and 128 of 241 patients at 6 months under continuous fostamatinib use. The results of this real-world PMS revealed no new safety concerns and support the effectiveness of fostamatinib in patients with primary ITP.© 2026. The Author(s).
The immunomodulatory factor translationally controlled tumor protein (TCTP) drives tumor progression by inducing an immunosuppressive microenvironment; however, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in cervical cancer (CC) remain uncharacterized. To address this gap, in this study, we analyzed the expression of TCTP, non-canonical nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12), and C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) in CC tissues from patients and compared them with that in paired no cervical epithelial lesion tissues. TCTP, ZEB1, non-canonical NF-κB pathway molecules, and CXCL12 exhibited marked upregulation at the mRNA and protein levels in CC tissues. TCTP knockdown reduced ZEB1, p100/p52, and CXCL12 expression in CC cells. Treating CC cells with non-canonical NF-κB activation cascade agonist CD40L and inhibitor B022 increased and decreased ZEB1 and CXCL12 expression, respectively. Dual luciferase reporter assays in both SiHa and HeLa cells confirmed that ZEB1 has a transcriptional activating effect on CXCL12 expression, suggesting that TCTP may interact with NF-κB/ZEB1 to regulate CXCL12 secretion. Additionally, CC tissues exhibited elevated infiltration of immunosuppressive cell populations, including M2-polarized tumor-associated macrophages, regulatory T cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, and exhausted CD4+PD-1+ T cells. Furthermore, these cells showed increased surface expression of CXCR4, the specific receptor for CXCL12. In summary, our findings indicate that high TCTP expression potentiates NF-κB/ZEB1-mediated signaling in CC, increases CXCL12 secretion, and recruits the infiltration of immunosuppressive cells in CC tissues, thereby providing a potential molecular target for improving the tumor-suppressive microenvironment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) is a frequent and severe complication after liver transplantation and hepatectomy, driven by sterile inflammation and lacking effective therapies. Regulator of G-protein signaling 16 (RGS16) is an inflammatory modulator, but its role in HIRI remains unclear. We found that RGS16 expression was markedly increased in the livers of post-hepatectomy patients and positively correlated with neutrophil extracellular trap formation (NETosis). Using hepatocyte-specific Rgs16 knockout and transgenic mouse models, we demonstrated that Rgs16 deficiency attenuated hepatic inflammation and apoptosis after HIRI, whereas Rgs16 overexpression significantly exacerbated liver injury. Integrated multi-omics analyses, including RNA-seq, MeRIP-seq, and mass spectrometry, identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) as a key downstream effector of RGS16. Mechanistically, RGS16 competitively binds YTH domain family protein 3 (YTHDF3), displacing poly(A)-nuclease deadenylation complex subunit 3 (PAN3) and stabilizing m6A-modified Cxcl1 mRNA, thereby enhancing CXCL1 expression. Elevated CXCL1 promotes hepatocyte apoptosis and inflammation through C-X-C chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) and drives neutrophil recruitment and NETosis. Pharmacological inhibition of CXCL1 or degradation of NETs with DNase I significantly alleviated RGS16-induced liver injury. Collectively, RGS16 aggravates HIRI by amplifying hepatocyte-intrinsic CXCL1-CXCR2 signaling and CXCL1-mediated neutrophil recruitment and NETosis, suggesting RGS16 and its downstream pathways as potential therapeutic targets for HIRI.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) remain the leading cause of mortality worldwide, with exercise emerging as a potential non-pharmacological strategy to reduce adverse outcomes. Prior studies examining macrophage responses to exercise primarily focused on recruited C-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2+) monocytes and macrophages in blood, adipose tissue, and skeletal muscle, but the physiological role of macrophages within the heart remains poorly defined.To determine the role of CCR2+ macrophages in exercise-induced cardiac remodeling in both male and female mice.We validated a voluntary exercise wheel-running model with diphtheria toxin mediated depletion of CCR2+ macrophages. Cardiac remodeling was assessed using morphometric indices, echocardiography, and tissue analysis.Echocardiography revealed voluntary exercise increased left ventricle (LV) mass and wall thickness while preserving cardiac function compared to sedentary conditions. Exercise increased morphometric heart, LV, and right ventricle (RV) mass as well as Fulton index. Cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area was also increased in both the LV and RV of voluntary exercise mice. Cardiac remodeling occurred in both sexes, with sex-specific differences in the LV. Immunofluorescence quantification of interstitial CD68+ cardiac macrophages revealed increased CCR2+ macrophages and increased CCR2+ to CCR2- macrophage ratios in both LV and RV of voluntary exercise mice. Notably, depletion of CCR2+ macrophages prevented exercise-induced cardiac hypertrophy in echocardiography, morphometric, and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area measures. CCR2+ depletion also decreased cardiomyocyte stiffness, regardless of condition, while no changes in fibrosis were observed.Together, these findings identify CCR2+ macrophages as required for exercise-induced cardiac remodeling and provide new insight into immune-cardiac interactions underlying adaptation to exercise.Copyright © 2026 Bonnici, Cobb, Burns, Daigle, Sticco-Ivins, Hardy, Lang, Dun, Nelson, Peña, Gu and Kopecky.
Local tumor progression and metastasis substantially compromise the therapeutic efficacy of thermal ablation in liver cancer. Although the inflammatory microenvironment contributes, the specific role of neutrophils after ablation remains unclear. This study aimed to clarify the roles of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) after thermal ablation and evaluate the translational potential of NETs-targeted strategies.The adverse prognostic impact of thermal ablation-induced neutrophil and inflammatory changes in liver cancer was retrospectively evaluated. Circulating NETs were quantified by ELISA, and their association with local tumor progression was analyzed. An orthotopic liver cancer mouse model and patient-derived neutrophils elucidated the spatiotemporal dynamics and mechanisms of ablation-induced NETs, and pharmacologic inhibition was used to investigate NET formation, function, and translational potential.Thermal ablation rapidly activates neutrophils, elicits a sustained local inflammatory response and NET formation, which is closely associated with poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer. Depletion of neutrophils, inhibition of NET formation, or degradation of thermal ablation-induced NETs markedly suppressed post-ablation tumor progression. Mechanistically, tumor cell-intrinsic reactive oxygen species generated under heat stress contributed to nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) activation, promoting p65 binding to theC-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) promoter and transcriptional upregulation of CXCL1. This process drove CXCL1-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) signaling and led to the formation of a characteristic band-like NETs-enriched zone at the peri-ablational margin. In turn, NETs activated toll-like receptor (TLR)9-dependent NF-κB,mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in heat-stressed cancer cells, reinforcing a pro-inflammatory feedback loop. Concurrently, NETs impaired CD8+ T-cell responses and fostered an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Together, this coordinated pro-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effect promotes liver cancer progression following thermal ablation, which can be effectively reversed by dual blockade of NF-κB and CXCR2.Our research uncovers a novel mechanism underlying tumor-promoting inflammation after thermal ablation, highlighting the critical role of NETs as mediators through TLR9 activation of downstream inflammatory pathways and the significant potential of NETs-targeted strategies in combination with thermal ablation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Kaposi sarcoma (KS) is defined by aberrant angiogenesis driven by Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV)-infected spindle cells with endothelial characteristics. KS research is hindered by rapid loss of KSHV infection upon explant culture of tumor cells. Here, we established KS patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) through orthotopic implantation of cutaneous KS biopsies into immunodeficient mice. KS tumors were maintained in 27 of 28 PDXs until the experimental end point. KSHV latency-associated nuclear antigen-positive (LANA+) endothelial cells exhibited higher Ki-67 staining and increased density compared with their respective input biopsies. Spatial analysis of the PDXs revealed increased expression of viral transcripts from latent and lytic gene classes and enrichment in pathways of angiogenesis and endothelium development, similar to KS tumor biopsies. C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), a receptor for the inflammatory C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12), was more highly expressed in infected tumor cells than uninfected cells, suggesting a direct response to virus infection. Cells with fibroblast characteristics derived from PDXs were permissive for de novo KSHV infection, and one lineage produced CXCL12, which was also elevated in the sera of patients with KSHV-associated diseases compared with those of patients who had KS alone. Together, the reproducible expansion of KSHV-infected endothelial cells in PDXs from multiple donors and the similar recapitulation of molecular and pathologic features of KS support KS PDXs as a preclinical model for the discovery of pathogenic mechanisms and candidate therapeutics.
Diabetic wound healing is a complex process that requires precise coordination among functional cells, with endothelial cells (ECs) playing a critical role in tissue vascularization. We begin by identifying neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) as one of critical stressors that disrupts mitochondrial homeostasis in ECs. In addition, inadequate recruitment of ECs often leads to unsatisfactory regenerative outcomes. To address these issues, we developed a composite hydrogel formulation co-encapsulating C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12) mRNA-loaded exosomes to promote pro-regenerative endothelial cell homing, and leonurine (Leo) to regulate cellular functionalities, thereby preserving endothelial function essential for neovascularization. By pairing exosomal mRNA delivery with the MS2 coat protein (MCP)-MS2 tethering system for mRNA payload multiplication, we achieved sustained CXCL12 production and cascade-amplified recruitment of CXCR4-positive cells. Moreover, Leo released from the composite hydrogel protectively rescued mitochondrial dysfunction. Further, application of this hydrogel to full-thickness skin defects led to significantly improved wound regeneration in diabetic mice. In summary, this study establishes a therapeutic "recruit-reinforce" platform based on a dual-delivery hydrogel armed with CXCL12 mRNA-enriched exosomes and Leo, thereby precisely targeting mitochondrial homeostasis under NETs stress for efficient diabetic wound repair.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Backgrounds: Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are increasingly recognized as modulators of anti-tumor immunity, yet their clinical relevance in bladder cancer remains incompletely understood, partly owing to heterogeneity in their maturation states. Here, we demonstrate that germinal center (GC)-like TLS maturity, rather than TLS presence alone, is closely associated with immune activation and therapeutic response to Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade in bladder cancer. The objective of this study was to systematically investigate the clinical significance, biological function, and therapeutic potential of tertiary lymphoid structure (TLS) maturation in bladder cancer. Specifically, we aimed to determine whether GC-like TLS maturity provides prognostic and predictive value beyond TLS presence alone, to elucidate the immune programs and tumor microenvironment remodeling associated with TLS maturation, and to explore whether TLS maturation can be therapeutically induced to enhance responsiveness to PD-L1 blockade. Methods: We performed an integrative analysis combining multi-cohort transcriptomics, spatially resolved histopathology, single-cell RNA sequencing, and functional murine experiments. TLS maturation states were defined using gene-expression-based GC-like TLS signatures and validated through multiplex immunohistochemistry. Clinical relevance was assessed in public immunotherapy cohorts and an independent neoadjuvant PD-L1-treated muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) cohort. Tumor immune microenvironment remodeling and chemokine-mediated cellular crosstalk were analyzed using deconvolution, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), and CellChat. The therapeutic inducibility of TLS maturation was examined using a lymphotoxin-β receptor (LTβR) agonist in combination with PD-L1 blockade in a syngeneic bladder cancer model. Results: Across multiple transcriptomic cohorts, tumors enriched for GC-like TLS signatures exhibited significantly prolonged survival and higher objective response rates to anti-PD-L1 therapy, whereas less mature TLS phenotypes showed no consistent association with clinical association. These observations were independently validated in a neoadjuvant PD-L1-treated muscle-invasive bladder cancer cohort, in which high mature TLS density was associated with major pathological response and prolonged event-free survival, outperforming PD-L1 expression. Integrative histopathological and transcriptomic analyses indicated that GC formation marks a functional transition linking humoral immune programs with cytotoxic effector activity and shaping a memory-prone, pro-inflammatory tumor immune microenvironment. Chemokine signaling via the CC chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21)-C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) axes was strongly associated with TLS maturation and spatial organization. Finally, in a syngeneic bladder cancer model, pharmacological activation of lymphotoxin-β receptor signaling promoted TLS maturation and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of PD-L1 blockade. Conclusions: Together, these findings suggest that GC-like TLS maturity represents a clinically relevant biomarker and a potential therapeutic entry point for precision immunotherapy in bladder cancer. Therapeutic strategies that promote TLS maturation may convert immune-cold tumors into checkpoint-responsive states, providing a mechanistically grounded precision immunotherapy approach.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Cerebral ischemia remains a major cause of disability, and the contribution of the hyperacute immune response is increasingly recognized. The aim of this study was to investigate the local inflammatory response in the affected brain of stroke patients with large vessel occlusion during the hyperacute phase of stroke.To decipher the role of myeloid immune cells in stroke-induced inflammation, we performed an unsupervised multiomics analysis of innate immune pathways in ischemic blood obtained directly from the occluded middle cerebral artery in 54 patients undergoing mechanical recanalization. Paired nonischemic arterial blood served as an internal control.Stroke triggered a local hyperacute activation of classical monocytes and neutrophils in the ischemic cerebral vasculature, with interleukin (IL)-1β emerging as a key mediator of inflammation. Elevated plasma adenosine triphosphate levels and inflammasome priming in intravascular monocytes were associated with IL-1β production within the occluded middle cerebral artery within 4.5 hours of stroke onset. IL-1β release coincided with increased neutrophil-attracting chemokines (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 [CXCL1], IL-8). Locally activated neutrophils formed neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) within the ischemic vasculature, a hallmark of thromboinflammation. Postmortem analyses revealed NET deposition within ischemic brain parenchyma.These findings indicate increased IL-1β expression and enhanced NET formation within the cerebral circulation in stroke caused by large vessel occlusion, suggesting that these mechanisms might contribute to early stroke pathophysiology and represent potential targets for immunomodulatory strategies. ANN NEUROL 2026.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Human norovirus (HuNoV) is a major cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. Although it can be replicated in vitro using human intestinal enteroids (HIEs), generating high-titer viral laboratory stocks remains challenging due to low infection and passage efficiencies. Interferon response and chemokine signaling may be key host pathways that restrict efficient HuNoV replication. Here, we evaluated the effect of their inhibitors, ruxolitinib-a Janus kinase (JAK) 1/JAK2 inhibitor-and TAK-779-a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3)/C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5/CCR2 antagonist-on HuNoV replication in wild-type jejunal HIEs. TAK-779 increased GII.17 HuNoV replication by 2.3- and 6.0-fold at 48 and 96 h postinfection (hpi), respectively, compared with the DMSO-treated control. In contrast, ruxolitinib alone did not affect viral replication. Notably, simultaneous treatment with these compounds further enhanced GII.17 replication by 6.0- and 10.7-fold at 48 and 96 hpi, respectively, which enabled serial passaging. These findings imply that the simultaneous suppression of these pathways potentially benefits GII.17 HuNoV replication.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
To elucidate the key role and underlying mechanisms of C-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CCL11) in cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs)-mediated prostate cancer (PCa) progression. In this study, we analyzed the dataset GSE85606 and validated the upregulation of CCL11 in CAFs using ELISA and qRT-PCR, demonstrating its strong correlation with established CAF biomarkers. Using CAFs-conditioned medium, recombinant human CCL11, specific siRNA, and CDK5 plasmid or siRNA in PCa cell lines, we investigated the functional role of CCL11. RNA-seq and TCGA database analyses predicted a CCL11's downstream target (CDK5). Transwell, wound healing, and flow cytometry assays, along with Western blot, were employed to assess the effects of CCL11 on migration, invasion, apoptosis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathways. The results indicate that CCL11, predominantly secreted by PCa-derived CAFs, significantly enhances the migration and invasion of PCa cells, suppresses their apoptosis, and activates the EMT pathway, largely through regulating CDK5 expression. Collectively, our findings suggest that CAFs-derived CCL11 may represent a potential therapeutic target for PCa.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01037-0.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Excessive intake of saturated fats triggers inflammation in the hypothalamus, a key regulator of energy balance. In the chronic phase of this inflammatory response, bone marrow-derived and lymphoid cells are chemoattracted to this region, partially mitigating high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic impairments. In rodents, the onset and magnitude of this inflammation differ between males and females, reflecting sex-specific patterns of metabolic regulation. However, how the hypothalamic chemokine profile evolves during HFD-induced inflammation, and whether it is influenced by biological sex, remains unclear. Here, male and female C57BL/6J mice were fed a HFD for 1, 3, 14, or 28 days. To isolate the role of ovarian hormones in modulating hypothalamic chemokine profile, we also analyzed ovariectomized (OVX) females with or without estrogen replacement. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction-based expression analysis revealed that most chemokines and their receptors were transiently modulated in the hypothalamus during the course of the HFD exposure, showing reduced levels in the acute phase and normalization during the chronic phase. Despite the modest sex-dependent effects observed, messenger RNA expression of the chemokine receptor C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3) was significantly higher in females than in males after 14 and 28 days of HFD, suggesting faster recruitment of CXCR3+ immune cells that may contribute to female protection against metabolic dysfunction. Females lacking ovarian hormone production displayed increased hypothalamic expression of Cxcr3 and Ccl2. Only Cxcr3 expression was partially normalized by estradiol treatment, suggesting that non-estrogenic ovarian factors may play a role in modulating specific chemokine signaling pathways. Together, our findings show that hypothalamic chemokine signaling is dynamically and transiently regulated throughout the phases of HFD-induced inflammation, with Cxcr3 modulation by HFD and ovarian hormones contributing to sex-specific resilience against metabolic inflammation.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42316210 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42246166 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality. Cholesterol crystal embolism (CCE) in advanced atherosclerosis can lead to acute kidney injury (AKI) through ischemic cortical necrosis. However, a single-cell atlas of the CCE kidney remains incomplete, impeding rational therapeutic design. In a C57BL/6J mouse CCE model generated by unilateral renal artery CC injection, single-cell transcriptomics revealed widespread changes across 17 kidney cell types. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) varied markedly, with 1659 in the ascending loop of Henle and 1505 in proximal tubules, whereas only 7 were in dendritic cells. Cell-cell interaction analyses revealed a central role for C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL)-C-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF)-cluster of differentiation 74 (CD74) pathways in CCE formation and related outcomes, including vascular injury, AKI, and immune cell infiltration. Human kidney biopsies from patients with CCE showed CD74-positive staining near obstructed arteries with cholesterol clefts. Pharmacological inhibition of CCR5 or CD74 using maraviroc or milatuzumab, respectively, as well as their combined administration before CC injection, reduced vascular thrombosis and tissue damage without raising bleeding risk in the C57BL/6J mouse CCE model. Even when treatment was delayed by 2 hours postembolism, it still decreased complications like thrombotic angiopathy and AKI upon CCE. These findings highlight CCR5 and CD74 as potential therapeutic targets for CCE-related necroinflammation.
Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) remains a major global health burden. The immune-active (IA) phase, characterized by positive Hepatitis B surface antigens (HBsAg), elevated alanine transaminase (ALT) levels, and detectable HBV DNA, is a pivotal period in the natural history of CHB. Understanding the biological process in this phase is critical for elucidating CHB pathogenesis. With the accumulation of multi-omics data, it has become feasible to identify key molecular targets regulating the host-virus interaction during the IA phase. Identifing these targets provides a critical foundation for developing novel strategies to modulate the host immune response as an important supplement to antiviral therapy.We integrated bioinformatics and machine learning approaches with clinical sample validation to identify IA-phase-specific hub genes in peripheral monocytes from CHB patients. Combining differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), we found gene modules significantly correlated with the IA phase from the transcriptomic dataset GSE230397. IA-specific hub genes were subsequently identified using machine learning algorithms. While the potential roles of the four identified hub genes were initially explored via immune infiltration analysis, the expression of the key hub gene, solute carrier family 24 member 4 (SLC24A4), in peripheral classical monocytes from CHB patients in IA phase were specifically validated by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets (GSE182159 and GSE283471) and confirmed by western blot analysis of clinical samples.The function of the key hub gene SLC24A4 was further explored through in silico knockout analysis. Structure-based virtual screening was conducted to identify potential U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved compounds targeting SLC24A4.Compared to healthy controls (HC), 36 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified as specific to the IA phase in GSE230397. WGCNA highlighted two key modules associated with IA features, from which 22 module-specific DEGs were derived. Machine learning integration pinpointed four hub genes: C-C motif chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5), interleukin 10 receptor subunit alpha (IL10RA), potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily A member 3 (KCNA3), and SLC24A4. Immune infiltration analysis of liver tissue revealed that SLC24A4 expression was positively correlated with the infiltration proportion of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages and negatively correlated with the infiltration proportion of immunosuppressive M2 macrophages, suggesting its connection with a pro-inflammatory microenvironment. Validation in two independent scRNA-seq datasets and western blot analysis of clinical samples confirmed that SLC24A4 expression in peripheral classical monocytes was significantly higher in IA phase compared with HC. In silico knockout of SLC24A4 in classical monocytes using scTenifoldKnk showed the upregulation of genes involved in histocompatibility antigens class II (MHC class II)-mediated antigen presentation and the regulation of T cell activation. This suggested that SLC24A4 may act as a negative regulator of monocyte activation, and its high expression during the IA phase could represent a compensatory mechanism to restrain excessive inflammation. The possible binding of a FDA-approved compound Rucaparib to SLA24A4 was predicted by virtual screening.This study revealed distinct transcriptional features of the CHB IA phase and identified SLC24A4 in peripheral classical monocytes as a potential key regulator and a potential drug target for immune modulation in CHB, offering novel insights into both pathogenesis and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 Li, Li, Du, Fan, Xiong, Hu, Deng, Wang, Shi, Sun, Zheng and Zhang.
Allergic conjunctivitis (AC) is a prevalent ocular surface inflammatory disorder with limited therapeutic options. In this study, we investigated the role of colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) in an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced murine model of AC. Conjunctival expression of CSF1R and its ligands, interleukin-34 (IL-34) and colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF1), was significantly upregulated following OVA challenge. Pharmacological inhibition of CSF1R with BLZ945 alleviated clinical symptoms, reduced the infiltration of CD45⁺ leukocytes and eosinophils, and attenuated an M2-associated macrophage phenotype in the conjunctiva. Similar suppression of eosinophil infiltration was observed with a second CSF1R inhibitor, AZD7507. In addition, conjunctival CD206⁺ macrophages with an M2-associated phenotype expressed C-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CCL11), which was elevated in AC and downregulated by CSF1R inhibition. Recombinant CCL11 significantly restored eosinophil infiltration in BLZ945-treated mice, supporting a role for CCL11 as a downstream effector of CSF1R signaling in this model. Collectively, these findings support a contributory role for CSF1R signaling in macrophage-associated eosinophilic inflammation in murine AC and suggest that targeting CSF1R may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for ocular allergic disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42049529 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536020 is a review article
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, and pathological angiogenesis, ultimately leading to progressive joint damage. Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRP) has been implicated in inflammatory responses; however, its role in RA-associated angiogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that CIRP gene knockout or pharmacological inhibition using C23 significantly attenuates arthritis severity and reduces synovial angiogenesis in adjuvant-induced arthritis models. In vitro experiments revealed that CIRP promotes human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation, migration, and invasion by upregulating the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4). Notably, blocking extracellular CIRP with C23 inhibited CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs. Further investigations showed that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) knockdown suppressed CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs, indicating that CIRP promotes angiogenesis through a TLR4-dependent mechanism. Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that CIRP upregulates histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression via TLR4 in HUVECs. We therefore investigated the role of HDAC1 in CIRP-induced angiogenesis, and found that HDAC1 knockdown significantly inhibited this process. Moreover, CIRP promotes pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) nuclear translocation and suppresses PKM2 lactylation through the TLR4-mediated HDAC1 pathway. Furthermore, The PKM2 lysine 62 to arginine (K62R) mutant enhances PKM2 nuclear translocation and promotes angiogenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that HDAC1-mediated PKM2 delactylation modification regulates CIRP-induced angiogenesis in RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Air pollutants, including vehicle emissions and photochemical smog such as ozone, have become a significant health concern in most industrialized nations. Inhaling ozone has repeatedly been linked to increased lung inflammation, immune responses, and cancer development, ultimately speeding up lung cancer metastasis and leading to higher death rates. However, the direct connection between ozone exposure and tumor cell migration has not yet been definitively established. This study aims to investigate the effects of ozone exposure on cancer spread and its underlying mechanisms, focusing on the hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α)/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) pathway, which influences cancer cell migration and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Using B16F10 melanoma and LL2 Lewis lung carcinoma cells, we examined how 1 ppm ozone exposure affects reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and its subsequent impact on the HIF-1α/CXCR4 pathway. Our results show a significant increase in HIF-1α/CXCR4 expression and EMT-related proteins after ozone exposure. Additionally, the use of arbutin, a known ROS scavenger, significantly reduced HIF-1α/CXCR4 levels and cell migration, confirming the role of ROS in ozone-induced metastasis. In summary, our research suggests that ozone promotes cancer spread by activating the HIF-1α/CXCR4 signaling pathway, highlighting an environmental factor that could facilitate cancer progression.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs), driven by KIT/PDGFRA mutations and treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), remain challenged by drug resistance, suggesting that poorly understood mechanisms sustain an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). This study aimed to investigate the cellular and molecular basis of the immune architecture in GISTs through integrated multi-omics analysis.We integrated bulk RNA-sequencing data from 20 GISTs and 20 matched normal tissue samples (GSE225819) with single-cell RNA-sequencing data from 2 GISTs and 2 normal tissue samples (GSE162115) to dissect the cellular and molecular basis of TME. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), immune deconvolution (CIBERSORTx), cell-cell communication inference (CellChat), and pseudotime trajectory analysis (Monocle 3) were employed. In vitro functional validation was performed using the GIST-T1 cell line, and clinical specimens were analyzed by RT-qPCR and flow cytometry.Transcriptomic profiling of GISTs revealed an inverse correlation between activated T-cell signatures and macrophage abundance, alongside significant transcriptional remodeling (1071 upregulated and 1211 downregulated genes). scRNA-seq further identified a tumor cell subpopulation with high C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 4 (CXCR4) expression that, together with activated CD4⁺ memory T cells, produced macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). Ligand-receptor analysis identified the MIF pathway as the dominant intercellular signaling network, primarily targeting macrophages, thereby offering a mechanistic basis for their reduced presence in the TME. In vitro, CXCR4 knockdown suppressed MIF mRNA expression and cell proliferation. In clinical specimens, tumor tissue CXCR4 and MIF transcripts were elevated and positively correlated with T-cell-derived MIF protein, which inversely correlated with macrophage infiltration.Our study identifies a CXCR4⁺ GISTs tumor subpopulation associated with CD4⁺ T cell activation and MIF signaling amplification, which correlates with reduced macrophage infiltration. These findings nominate the CXCR4/MIF axis as a candidate therapeutic target, although further functional validation is warranted.© 2026 Gao et al.
Microvascular inflammation (MVI) has long been considered a hallmark of antibody-mediated rejection (AMR). However, the 2022 Banff classification introduced isolated MVI (iMVI; MVI+/donor-specific antibody [DSA]-/C4d-) as a distinct phenotype. The biological characteristics and clinical significance of iMVI remain incompletely understood.Kidney transplant recipients who underwent allograft biopsy between 2013 and 2024 were classified into iMVI, AMR (MVI+/DSA+/C4d+), and acute tubular injury (ATI; MVI-/DSA-/C4d-). After propensity score matching, 80 patients (30 iMVI, 30 AMR, and 20 ATI) compromised the main cohort. An independent validation cohort (n = 88; 26 iMVI, 26 AMR, 26 T-cell-mediated rejection, 10 ATI) was additionally assembled. Serum proteomic profiling was performed using a proximity extension assay.iMVI exhibited a distinct proteomic profile enriched for innate and cytotoxic immune activation proteins, including tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 9, programmed death-ligand 1, interleukin-15 receptor subunit alpha, fibroblast growth factor 19, C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1, C-C motif chemokine ligand 23, signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 1, and interleukin-10 receptor subunit beta with enrichment of natural killer cell differentiation and leukocyte migration pathway. In contrast, AMR showed higher expression of adaptive and humoral immune mediators, including interleukin-33, interleukin-2, TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, and interleukin-2 receptor subunit beta with enrichment of immunoglobulin production and interferon-γ-related adaptive immune pathways. Protein risk scores showed strong discriminative performance in the main cohort (area under the curve, 0.856 for iMVI; 0.879 for AMR) and retained significant ability in the validation cohort (area under the curve, 0.708 and 0.689, respectively). Several iMVI-enriched proteins were significantly associated with increased risk of death-censored graft loss.iMVI is characterized by dominant innate and cytotoxic immune activation distinct from AMR and is associated with adverse graft outcomes, supporting its recognition as a clinically meaningful phenotype beyond conventional AMR.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Previous studies have reported causal associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Inflammatory cytokines may mediate the gut-skin axis. This study aimed to investigate the mediating roles of inflammatory cytokines in the associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases.Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data for 473 gut microbiota taxa, 91 inflammatory cytokines, and 11 inflammatory skin diseases were analyzed. Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed using the inverse variance weighted method as the primary approach. Two-step MR analysis was further conducted to evaluate the mediating effects of inflammatory cytokines.Ten inflammatory cytokines were identified as potential mediators linking gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases. Interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-18 mediated associations with eczema, while IL-18R1 mediated associations with eczema and atopic dermatitis. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-19 and IL-6 mediated associations with allergic contact dermatitis. In addition, C-C motif chemokine ligand 23 (CCL23), vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), artemin (ARTN), IL-8, and Delta and Notch-like epidermal growth factor-related receptor (DNER) mediated associations involving alopecia areata, vitiligo, seborrheic dermatitis, and rosacea. All identified inflammatory cytokines showed mediation proportions greater than 5%.Our findings suggest that specific inflammatory cytokines may mediate the associations between gut microbiota and inflammatory skin diseases. These results provide new insights into the gut microbiota-cytokine-skin disease axis and may contribute to the identification of potential therapeutic targets for inflammatory skin diseases.© 2026 Hu et al.
Stem cell collection for autologous stem cell transplant after induction therapy remains standard for multiple myeloma (MM). Motixafortide, a novel C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) antagonist with prolonged receptor occupancy compared to plerixafor, potentially enhances stem cell mobilization. Direct comparison with plerixafor in MM has not been reported. This quality initiative compares motixafortide + granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) versus plerixafor + G-CSF for stem cell mobilization in MM patients at a single center, assessing feasibility, collection/mobilization outcomes, and safety.A prospective cohort of 30 MM patients receiving motixafortide + G-CSF was compared to a contemporary, retrospective cohort of covariate-matched 30 patients receiving plerixafor + G-CSF. Institutional apheresis procedure practices were followed. Primary outcomes included number of collection days, apheresis procedure duration, and adverse events requiring intervention.Twenty-nine of 30 motixafortide patients completed mobilization. CD34+ stem cell yields and apheresis procedure times were similar between groups; 27 patients per group reached collection targets in 1 day. Motixafortide recipients experienced more frequent adverse reactions (ARs) than plerixafor recipients.In this first real-world comparison, use of motixafortide was feasible but not superior to plerixafor for MM mobilization. Motixafortide was associated with substantially higher rates of injection-site and systemic ARs requiring intervention and imposed additional workflow demands for premedication and post-injection monitoring. Due to the non-superiority of motixafortide, decreasing acquisition costs for plerixafor and motixafortide's higher resource utilization, our institution favors continuing plerixafor as the default for MM mobilization. We reserve motixafortide for select patients, with ongoing evaluation of poor mobilizers to clarify its role in collection and post-transplant outcomes.© 2026 AABB.
Circular_RNAs (circ_RNAs) are involved in the development and progression of human malignancies, including breast cancer. Novel circ_RNAs for breast cancer remain to be further determined. This study investigates the role and mechanism of a novel circ_RNA circ_0048766 in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) progression.Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE165884 database to identify differentially expressed circ_RNAs. The expression of circ_0048766 was validated in various breast cancer cell lines through quantitative real-time PCR. Functional assays, including CCK-8, flow cytometry, colony formation, and Transwell assays, were conducted in BT-549 and MDA-MB-231 cells. The mechanisms involving methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3), miR-329-3p, and C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 4 (CXCR4) were examined through bioinformatics, dual-luciferase reporter assays, RNA immunoprecipitation, and RNA pull-down. In vivo studies were conducted using a nude mouse xenograft model to evaluate tumor growth and CXCR4 expression.Circ_0048766 was significantly upregulated in TNBC cell lines compared to normal breast epithelial cells. Knockdown of circ_0048766 resulted in reduced cell viability, colony formation, migration, and invasion while increasing apoptosis in BT-549 and MDA-MB-231 cells. Mechanistically, circ_0048766 was confirmed to function as a sponge for miR-329-3p. Moreover, miR-329-3p directly suppressed CXCR4 expression, and circ_0048766 regulated CXCR4 in a miR-329-3p-dependent manner. Additionally, circ_0048766 promoted epithelial-mesenchymal transition, as evidenced by its regulation of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and Vimentin expression via miR-329-3p. MiR-329-3p inhibition or CXCR4 overexpression reversed the effects of circ_0048766 knockdown. In vivo, circ_0048766 knockdown significantly diminished tumor growth and weight, along with decreased CXCR4 levels. METTL3 was identified as an upstream regulator mediating m6A modification of circ_0048766. Functionally, METTL3 knockdown suppressed CXCR4 expression and cell proliferation, effects that were rescued by CXCR4 overexpression.Circ_0048766 is a novel oncogenic circ_RNA that promotes TNBC progression through the miR-329-3p/CXCR4 signaling axis, regulated by METTL3. This study highlights the potential of targeting the METTL3/circ_0048766/miR-329-3p/CXCR4 axis as a novel therapeutic strategy for TNBC treatment.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Prostate cancer (PCa) responds poorly to immunotherapy. We investigated the myeloid checkpoint TIM3 (HAVCR2) to define its lineage localization and regulatory logic in the PCa microenvironment. Methods: We integrated stage-resolved public single-cell RNA-seq datasets spanning primary PCa, metastatic hormone-sensitive PCa, and castration-resistant PCa. Myeloid compartments were analyzed via differential expression, regulon inference, and ligand-receptor modeling. Clinical relevance was evaluated in the Cancer Genome Atlas prostate adenocarcinoma (TCGA-PRAD) cohort and independent cohorts using a myeloid TIM3 signature. Mechanistic validation was achieved through PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR), TIM3-promoter luciferase assays, and functional perturbation of the galectin 9 (LGALS9)-TIM3 signaling pathway in macrophages differentiated. Results: TIM3 expression was predominantly confined to monocytes/macrophages, indicating TIM3 as a microenvironmental checkpoint in PCa. TIM3_high macrophages formed a Secreted Phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)-enriched tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) state coupled to chemokine programs and extracellular matrix remodeling. Regulon profiling nominated PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) as an upstream driver; PRDM1 correlated with TIM3. Communication inference further highlighted an LGALS9-TIM3 axis and a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4/integrin subunit beta 1 (CXCR4/ITGB1)-associated permissive niche. Recombinant LGALS9 induced TIM3-linked M2-like macrophages polarization and increased CXCR4/ITGB1, which was attenuated by TIM3 blockade. Conclusions: Our results delineate a PRDM1-licensed TIM3_high macrophage program sustained by an LGALS9-TIM3 reinforcement loop and coupled to immunosuppressive and remodeling-associated phenotypes. Targeting TIM3 in the myeloid compartment, alone or in rational combinations, may represent a feasible strategy to reprogram tumor-associated macrophage states in PCa.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Distinguishing active inflammatory or remodeling-associated processes from irreversible fibrosis in systemic sclerosis remains challenging using conventional imaging modalities. The tracer [68Ga]Pentixafor targets the C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) which is expressed on leukocytes. Uptake of [68Ga]Pentixafor may provide complementary biological information on CXCR4-associated inflammatory and remodeling activity.This prospective cohort study included patients with early SSc (disease duration ≤ 5 years) and preexisting interstitial lung disease. All patients underwent [68Ga]Pentixafor-PET/CT imaging. Normalized [68Ga]Pentixafor uptake was quantified using the target-to-background ratio (TBR). Follow-up data on disease progression was collected. A control group comprised patients with giant cell arteritis.Twelve patients with SSc were included. The highest [68Ga]Pentixafor uptake was observed in the hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes, in fibrotic lung regions, and in the left ventricular myocardium. In all three regions, a significantly higher [68Ga]Pentixafor uptake was measured in SSc compared to controls (median TBR of lymph nodes 3.5 [IQR 2.7 - 4.3] vs 1.6 [1.3 - 2.0] p < 0.0001; inferior lung lobes 2.3 [1.6 - 2.8] vs 0.8 [0.7 - 1.0], p < 0.0001; and left ventricle 2.0 [1.4 - 2.4] vs 1.3 [1.1 - 1.5], p = 0.0178). Patients who developed progressive lung disease during follow-up showed a higher [68Ga]Pentixafor uptake compared to non-progressive patients reaching statistical significance in the left ventricle (TBR of progressive vs non-progressive patients: 2.5 (2.1 - 3.3) vs 1.5 (1.3 - 2.1), p = 0.0283) and showing a numerical increase in fibrotic lung regions (2.8 (2.2 - 3.3) vs 1.7 (1.1 - 2.8), p = 0.1535).These findings provide proof-of-concept evidence that CXCR4-targeted PET/CT may visualize biologically active inflammatory and/or remodeling processes in early-stage SSc-ILD.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42497070
The gastric mucus layer protects the epithelium from gastric acid and ingested pathogens. However, studies of human gastric mucus have been limited due to poor accessibility of native human mucus and the abundance of contaminants in these samples. Here, we explored the potential of human gastric organoids as models for mucus production. Immunofluorescence staining confirmed that the organoids produced mucus containing MUC5AC and MUC6. The luminal mucus had viscoelastic properties similar to those of native human gastric mucus, as determined by particle tracking microrheology. To collect organoid-produced gastric mucus, termed bioengineered gastric mucus (BGM), organoids were cultured as monolayers at the air-liquid interface (ALI), and apically secreted mucus was harvested and analyzed by MUC5AC ELISA, proteomics, cryo-field emission scanning electron microscopy (CryoFE-SE), and rheometry. BGM contained high-molecular weight molecules also found in native gastric mucus. Proteomic analysis confirmed that BGM contained MUC5AC, MUC6, MUC1, and other stomach-specific molecules such as pepsin C, trefoil factor 2, and gastrokine. CryoFE-SE showed that both BGM and native mucus had a porous structure and a characteristic honeycomb scaffold. However, the viscosity of the BGM was generally lower than that of native human gastric mucus, and BGM failed to exhibit gelation at low pH. Collectively, these findings demonstrate the potential as well as some limitations of BGM as an accessible model system for human gastric mucus.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We demonstrate the structural and functional similarities of organoid-derived gastric mucus and native mucus collected from human patients. The bioengineered gastric mucus mimics its native counterpart in its proteomic profile and physical architecture. This work highlights the translational potential of organoid-derived mucus for functional investigations of the human gastric mucus layer.
To explore the underlying effect mechanism of fire needle therapy on hydroquinone-induced vitiligo based on transcriptome sequencing.Eighteen C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, and a fire needle group, with 6 mice in each group. The vitiligo mouse model was established in the model and fire needle groups using the hydroquinone depigmentation method. After successful modeling, in the fire needle group, fire needle therapy was operated on the white skin lesions, once a week and for 4 consecutive weeks. The skin and hair depigmentation conditions and depigmentation scores were observed before and after intervention. HE staining was used to observe skin morphology and melanin granules. Skin tissue from the local white lesions of 3 randomly selected mice in each group was subjected to RNA-seq to screen differentially expressed genes in skin tissue, followed by bioinformatics analysis.The mRNA expression of the partial differentially expressed genes was detected by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR.Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the epidermis and dermis were thickened, and the depigmentation score of the skin and hair was higher (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were decreased (P < 0.05). Compared with the model group, the depigmentation score of the skin and hair in the fire needle group was decreased (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were increased (P<0.05). In comparison with the blank group, 1 291 differentially expressed genes were screened in the model group (including 985 up-regulated genes and 306 down-regulated genes), the functional enrichment analysis of gene ontology (GO) primarily focused on keratinization and keratinized envelope, and the metabolic pathway analysis from the Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG)was mainly enriched in the interactions between viral proteins and cytokines/cytokine receptors. When compared with the model group, 306 differentially expressed genes were screened in the fire needle group, and the GO enrichment was in keratinized envelope and the establishment of skin barrier, and the KEGG metabolic pathway analysis was enriched in the interaction between cytokines and cytokine receptors. Through WikiPathways enrichment analysis, fire needle therapy significantly exerted its effect through the oxidative stress and redox pathways. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA)showed that the Hippo signaling pathway and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway were significantly activated. Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the mRNA expression was elevated for superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), quinone oxidoreductase 1(NQO1), monoamine oxidase (MAO), interleukin 18 (IL-18), interleukin 1 family member 8 (IL-1F8), interleukin 1 family member 9 (IL-1F9), C-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CCL8), serine/threonine protein kinase 4 (MST1), and MOB kinase activator 1A (MOB1A) in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the mRNA expression was reduced for glutathione S-transferase alpha 3 (GSTA3), glutathione S-transferase alpha 4 (GSTA4), gamma-glutamyl cyclotransferase (GGCT), Wnt family member 3A (WNT3A), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), catalase (CAT), and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3) (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the fire needle group showed the decrease in the mRNA expression of SOD3, PPARγ, NQO1, MAO,IL-18, IL-1F8, IL-1F9, CCL8, MST1 and MOB1A in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the increase in the mRNA expression of GSTA3, GSTA4, GGCT, WNT3A, TYRP1, CAT and FOXP3 (P<0.05).Fire needling therapy can attenuate the depigmentation of skin in vitiligo induced by hydroquinone in mice. Its effect mechanism may involve the regulation of Hippo signaling pathways and PPAR signaling pathways, thereby mitigating oxidative stress and inflammatory response, and regulating the immune system, ultimately promoting the recovery of melanocytes and reducing the size of white patches.
Arterial hypertension and endurance training are related to left atrial (LA) remodeling and risk of atrial fibrillation (AF). Serum blood biomarkers have been explored in relation to cardiovascular risk. Our aim was to assess the influence of patient and echocardiographic characteristics on serum blood biomarkers in individuals at risk for AF.A population of 511 subjects was analyzed: 286 endurance athletes and 225 patients with arterial hypertension. Participants underwent 2D and 3D echocardiography with speckle-tracking analysis. Blood samples were obtained to evaluate biomarkers of myocardial damage (Brain Natriuretic Peptide, troponin I, Oncostatin M, heart-type Fatty Acid-Binding Protein and Placenta Growth Factor), vascular endothelial dysfunction (Endothelial cell-specific molecule 1), and fibrosis (Matrix Metalloproteinase 1, 2 and 9, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 6 and 16, and Galectin-3 (Gal-3)). Linear regression models were fitted to discern the relationship of patient and echo characteristics and serum biomarker levels.The results revealed the significant influence of age, gender, body mass index and renal function on biomarker levels. Parameters of myocardial damage showed a limited range of values in our cohort with no differences between groups. Biomarkers of fibrosis were uniformly elevated in hypertension, with Gal-3 levels independently associated with LA reservoir strain.Serum levels of fibrosis biomarkers differ between populations at risk for AF. In hypertension Gal-3 levels are associated with LA reservoir function, making it a potential biomarker for LA remodeling in this setting. Clinical follow-up is needed to relate these findings with clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Loncaric, Forado Benatar, Mimbrero Guillamon, Nunno, Jimenez-Arjona, Tirapu, Montserrat, Sanchis, Doltra, Bijnens and Sitges.
Obesity-dysregulated periprostatic adipose tissue (PPAT) has been implicated in the aggressiveness of prostate cancer (PCa). On the other hand, obesity has been linked to environmental influences, namely, the endocrine-disrupting chemicals capable of promoting adipogenesis and fat accumulation (obesogens). However, it is unknown whether obesogens can induce PPAT dysfunction, disrupting its crosstalk with PCa cells. The present study hypothesises that obesogens can target the PPAT, affecting its secretory activity and contributing to the development or aggressiveness of PCa. Through in vivo, ex vivo approaches and conditioned medium (CM) assays, we demonstrated that exposure to tributyltin (TBT), the first described obesogen, induced a PPAT "obese" phenotype, with adipocyte enlargement and enhanced secretion of leptin and C-C motif chemokine ligand 7 (CCL7). TBT-PPAT altered prostate cell fate, enhancing their viability, proliferation and migration, and reducing apoptotic rate. Moreover, it was shown that the TBT-PPAT secretome promoted the migration of prostate cells involving the C-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CCR3). Overall, this study demonstrated the biological significance of TBT exposure, bringing functional evidence on the contribution of PPAT obesogenic dysregulation to prostate carcinogenesis. Moreover, it highlights the differences that may exist in PCa monitoring and treatment in obese vs. lean patients, pointing out the modulation of PPAT activity as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The pathogenesis of gallbladder adenocarcinoma(GBC) remains inadequately elucidated. While its association with intestinal metaplasia (IM) has been acknowledged, there is a paucity of evidence connecting GBC to the most prevalent metaplastic type-pseudopyloric metaplasia (PPM). Given the morphological similarities between PPM and spasmolytic polypeptide-expressing metaplasia (SPEM), a recognized gastric precancerous condition, we propose that trefoil factor 2 (TFF2)-positive PPM may represent a cellular origin of GBC. Furthermore, we examine the role of the emerging therapeutic target claudin-18 (CLDN18) in this context. Through immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis of 37 GBC, 30 biliary intraepithelial neoplasia (BilIN), 20 intracholecystic papillary neoplasm (ICPN), 26 IM, and 20 PPM samples, we observed an inverse correlation between CLDN18 expression and vascular invasion, whereas TFF2 expression was positively associated with tumor differentiation. CLDN18 overexpression(a staining intensity ≥ 2 + in ≥ 75% of tumour cells) was identified in 18.9% of GBC cases. This study provides the first evidence that CLDN18 is specifically activated at the precursor stage of gallbladder carcinogenesis, being strictly confined to lesions with an intestinal phenotype (IM, BilIN, ICPN) while remaining entirely negative in normal epithelium and PPM. This "all or none" expression pattern establishes CLDN18 as an ideal biomarker for identifying high risk gallbladder precursor lesions, particularly for recognizing PPM that has undergone malignant prone intestinal differentiation. Furthermore, the subset of GBCs with high CLDN18 expression identifies patients who may benefit from CLDN18 targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liver fibrosis is both a pathological feature and an instigator/promoter of chronic liver disease. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), by trans-differentiating into myofibroblasts, are the principal mediator of liver fibrosis. In the present study we investigated the involvement of macrophage-derived C-C motif chemokine ligand 7 (CCL7) in this process. We report that mice harboring macrophage conditional knockout (CKO) of BRG1, a chromatin remodeling protein, displayed diminished liver fibrosis compared to wild type littermates. Co-culture with macrophages from WT, but not CKO, mice enhanced HSC-myofibroblast transition. RNA-seq identified CCL7 as a target for BRG1. Depletion of CCL7 disrupted the crosstalk between macrophages and HSCs. On the contrary, recombinant CCL7 stimulated HSC-myofibroblast transition. Importantly, CCL7 blockade with a neutralizing antibody attenuated liver fibrosis in mice. Transcriptomic analysis indicated that CCL7 activated sterol response element binding protein 2 (SREBP2) to modulate intracellular cholesterol levels during HSC-myofibroblast transition. Consistently, cholesterol depletion with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MβCD) blocked HSC-myofibroblast transition and mitigated liver fibrosis. Finally, a positive correlation between CCL7 levels in peripheral blood monocytic cells (PBMCs) and myofibroblast markers in liver tissues was identified in patients with cirrhosis. In conclusion, our data uncover an uncanonical role for CCL7 in liver fibrosis by directly promoting HSC-myofibroblast transition.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL) functionality is emerging as a novel predictor of disease outcomes. The role of HDL functionality in patients with diabetes-related amputations is unexplored. We aimed to assess changes in HDL functionality in people with diabetes who had minor amputations and to determine the relationship between HDL functionality and wound closure (WC).Thirty patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and 11 without (non-DM) undergoing minor amputations were recruited. Blood was collected at baseline (DM, n = 30; non-DM, n = 11), 1 month (DM, n = 22; non-DM, n = 5), and 6 months (DM, n = 14; non-DM, n = 3) postamputation and from 20 healthy gender- and age-matched control participants. HDL was isolated from plasma and functionality markers of macrophage cholesterol efflux, and anti-inflammatory and proangiogenic capacities in endothelial cells were assessed. The study adhered to Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines.HDL-cholesterol (HDL-c) levels positively correlated with WC (r = 0.44, p < 0.05). Cholesterol efflux capacity of DM HDL was reduced 1-month postamputation (-44% vs. non-DM HDL, d = -1.5, p < 0.05). Following inflammatory stimulation, DM HDL-treated cells had elevated levels of C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (+92%, d = 0.9), C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (+49%, d = 0.8), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (+67%, d = 0.9), and intracellular adhesion molecule 1 (+58%, d = 0.9) (vs. non-DM HDL, p < 0.05). The capacity of endothelial cells to form tubules reduced linearly with time following DM HDL treatment (p < 0.05), concomitant with reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (-47% vs. non-DM HDL, d = -1.2, p < 0.05). Endothelial cells treated with HDL from participants with delayed WC (<50%, 1-month postamputation) exhibited increased v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog A (RELA) expression (+52%, d = 1.2, p < 0.05). The impairment of HDL functionality in DM was concomitant with reduced apolipoprotein AI (-34%, d = 1.2) and paraoxonase 1 (-32%, d = -1.3, vs. non-DM, p < 0.05) protein in HDL 1-month postamputation.An HDL panel, including HDL-c and HDL functionality and composition, could be used in early screening to identify patients who may benefit from early therapeutic intervention, guiding wound care management.Impaired HDL functionality, mediated through changes in HDL composition, may contribute to delayed wound healing.
Background: Asthma remains a global health burden, with its heterogeneity necessitating precision biomarkers and targeted therapies. Tumor necrosis factor-like ligand 1A (TL1A), a novel alarmin in the airway, remains poorly characterized in asthma pathogenesis. Methods: TL1A levels were measured in the sputum and serum samples of patients with various asthma phenotypes. Single-cell RNA sequencing of murine asthmatic lung and myeloid-cell-specific Tnfsf15-knockout mice (Tnfsf15 Mac-KO) was performed, and the effects of anti-TL1A interventions were evaluated in allergen-induced asthma models. Results: TL1A levels were significantly elevated in the serum and sputum of patients with asthma and correlated with clinical disease severity, declining lung function, and blood eosinophil counts. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified macrophages as the primary immune cells expressing TL1A in the context of allergic lung inflammation. In the Tnfsf15 Mac-KO mice, allergen-induced airway inflammation, T helper 2 cytokine secretion, and mucus hypersecretion were attenuated. Mechanistically, TL1A induced C-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CCL8) expression via the activation of death receptor 3, thereby driving type 2 inflammation. Critically, the anti-TL1A antibody interventions suppressed T helper 2-mediated responses and reduced the number of pathogenic CD8+ T cells in a dose-dependent manner. Conclusion: TL1A serves a dual role as a biomarker and therapeutic target in asthma, as it modulates macrophage-driven pathogenesis. TL1A inhibition disrupts CCL8/C-C motif chemokine receptor 8 signaling and pathogenic T-cell responses, providing a precision medicine strategy for asthma.Copyright © 2026 Jintao Zhang et al.
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), a hyperinflammatory syndrome leading to organ damage and death, may arise as a complication of lymphomas (L-HLH). L-HLH diagnosis is challenging and optimal treatment strategies, influenced by factors such as timing of onset, lymphoma subtype and disease severity, remain ill-defined. This narrative review summarises recent evidence to support clinicians in navigating the competing priorities posed by L-HLH, including the urgent need to control inflammation, establish a diagnosis and initiate lymphoma-directed therapy, while minimising toxicity and avoiding unnecessary immunosuppression.While HLH-94 and H-score diagnostic criteria were not specifically designed for L-HLH, the optimised HLH inflammatory index (OHI) was developed in L-HLH patients and predicts the risk of multiorgan failure (MOF) but also benefit from etoposide. Recent evidence also highlights improved survival with early administration of lymphoma targeting drugs while, in critically unwell patients, non-myelosuppressive treatment with anakinra, ruxolitinib and intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) might offer a survival advantage. Finally, novel markers such as C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL-9), recently shown to identify patients responding to interferon γ blockade, might become more widely available in the future.L-HLH encompasses a wide range of clinical presentations that force clinicians to balance competing priorities. Recent evidence improves patients stratification and supports early administration of lymphoma targeting drugs when feasible, etoposide in high risk patients and non-myelosuppressive regimens in critically unwell patients.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
BRAFV600E mutation is one of the most common oncogenic drivers in gliomas, sharing the highest incidence in pediatric low-grade gliomas (~ 20%) and being frequently associated with poor prognosis. Although combination therapies targeting both BRAFV600E and downstream MAPK signaling have been developed, their efficacy is substantially limited by acquired drug resistance. Consequently, identifying the underlying mechanisms of resistance and novel therapeutic vulnerabilities remains an urgent need.Using patient gene expression profiles, immunohistochemistry on glioma samples, glioma cell lines, and a Drosophila glioma model, we identified Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 Beta (PTK2B) as a druggable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. Loss-of-function studies were achieved by PTK2B knockdown in DBTRG-05MG cells and Fak knockout in Drosophila, assessing effects on tumor survival/proliferation. The underlying signaling mechanisms were investigated using RNA sequencing, proteomics and a suite of assays (e.g., Western blot, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry). Finally, the reciprocal compensatory mechanism between PTK2B and MAPK signaling was established in both cellular and Drosophila models, and the synergistic effect of their co-inhibition was validated in DBTRG-05MG and AM-38 cells.PTK2B and its Drosophila orthologue Focal adhesion kinase (Fak) are highly expressed in BRAFV600E/dRafGOF glioma, and their inhibition significantly suppresses tumor growth. Our studies revealed that PTK2B knockdown triggers potent ferroptosis in glioma cells through endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced autophagic flux disruption, a mechanism which is partially overlapped with the cell death induced by MAPK signaling inhibition. We uncovered the interlocking mechanism between highly expressed PTK2B and hyperactive MAPK signaling in BRAFV600E glioma, wherein suppression of either one prompts compensatory upregulation of the other, thereby attenuating tumor cell death under the stress. Simultaneous inhibition of PTK2B and MAPK signaling achieves strong synergistic anti-tumor effect, highlighting the therapeutic promise of this combination strategy.Our findings establish PTK2B as a critical regulator and co-targetable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. We delineate a novel interlocking mechanism wherein PTK2B and MAPK engage in reciprocal negative feedback regulation, enabling adaptive resistance. This work provides a compelling mechanistic rationale for co-targeting PTK2B and MAPK to disrupt this survival axis and overcome therapeutic resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
The extracellular matrix (ECM) of the brain undergoes dynamic remodeling during development and is crucial for neuronal plasticity. While chondroitin sulfates (CS) regulate oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination, their relationship with oligodendrocyte precursors (OPCs) and synaptic plasticity remains unclear. This study investigated a novel CS-rich ECM structure, its origin, and its role in synaptic plasticity. Using immunohistochemistry, disaccharide analysis, and dendritic spine characterization in mice, we examined postnatal development and analyzed single-cell RNA (scRNA) sequencing data from the National Center for Biotechnology Information database. We identified patch-like structures labeled with the chondroitin sulfate 56 (CS56) antibody (CS clusters) distinct from Wisteria floribunda agglutinin-positive perineuronal nets. Oligodendrocyte lineage cells expressing G protein-coupled receptor 17 (GPR17) localized at CS cluster centers, emerging postnatally and peaking at day 14, preceded CS cluster formation. ScRNA sequencing of Gpr17+ cells revealed the expression of carbohydrate sulfotransferase 3 (Chst3) and uronyl 2-sulfotransferase (Ust), genes coding enzymes synthesizing type C and D CS disaccharides, the primary components of the CS56 antibody epitope. Disaccharide analysis revealed elevated levels of type D chondroitin sulfate at day 35. Notably, dendritic spines within the CS clusters were longer and larger than those outside these regions, suggesting enhanced synaptic connectivity. Our findings reveal a CS-rich structure in the brain ECM that is causally linked to GPR17+ oligodendrocyte lineage cells and closely related to neuronal circuit development. The morphological differences in dendritic spines within CS clusters and persistence of GPR17+ oligodendrocyte lineage cells beyond the postnatal period suggest additional functions that warrant further investigation.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Xuefu Zhuyu Decoction (XFZYD) is clinically applied to traumatic brain injury (TBI) based on its traditional function of activating blood circulation and eliminating stasis. However, its precise mechanism underlying its efficacy, particularly through epigenetic regulation, are poorly understood.We hypothesized that the neuroprotective effects of XFZYD post-TBI are mediated through the modulation of transfer RNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs), a key class of epigenetic regulators. This study aimed to delineate the specific tsRNA-dependent molecular pathway underlying XFZYD's ability to mitigate neuroinflammation and facilitate neurological recovery.We employed a murine TBI model treated with XFZYD. Following comprehensive assessment of neurological, histopathological, and inflammatory outcomes to test the mice behavior. The anti-infammatory roles of tRF-3-Leu-AAG was investigated in vivo and in vitro. RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis revealed G protein-coupled receptor 17 (Gpr17) is tRF-3-Leu-AAG's target. The direct interaction between tRF-3-Leu-AAG and Gpr17 is validated by dual-luciferase assay. Finally, in vitro rescue experiments conclusively established the tRF-3-Leu-AAG/Gpr17 axis as the functional pathway underlying XFZYD's effects.XFZYD administration significantly attenuated neurological deficits, neuronal loss, and rescued cognitive impairment post-TBI. tRF-3-Leu-AAG, as a crucial mediator, which is suppressed by TBI and upregulated by XFZYD. The study demonstrated that tRF-3-Leu-AAG affect the inflammatory response. Critically, the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects of XFZYD were entirely dependent on tRF-3-Leu-AAG. We further delineated the downstream signaling by identifying Gpr17 as a direct and functional target of tRF-3-Leu-AAG. XFZYD mediated tRF-3-Leu-AAG binds to the 3'UTR of Gpr17 mRNA to suppress its expression, thereby inhibiting the Gpr17-induced pro-inflammatory pathway.This study elucidates that XFZYD exerts neuroprotection and anti-inflammation after TBI through tRF-3-Leu-AAG/Gpr17 axis. Our findings provide a modern scientific rationale for the application of XFZYD in treating TBI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Germinal matrix hemorrhage (GMH), a major complication of prematurity, involves severe neuroinflammation leading to neurological deficits. While G protein-coupled receptor 17 (GPR17) is known to modulate neuroinflammation, its therapeutic potential in GMH remains unexplored. This study investigated the anti-inflammatory effects and mechanisms of GPR17 activation in a neonatal rat GMH model induced by collagenase injection. Pre-treatment with the GPR17 agonist MDL-29951 was found to upregulate GPR17, downregulate cleaved Caspase-3, IL-1β, and TNF-α, and reduce apoptosis and glial infiltration at 1 day post-GMH. The treatment also improved neurological function, inhibited IκBα degradation and p65 nuclear translocation, and preserved white matter (WM) integrity. In vitro, GPR17 functioned as a negative regulator of the NF-κB pathway in primary microglia. These results suggest that GPR17 activation alleviates neuroinflammation and improves neurological outcomes after GMH, at least in part through attenuation of the NF‑κB pathway.
Chronic neuroinflammation disrupts oligodendrocyte differentiation and limits effective remyelination across multiple neurological disorders. Among the molecular regulators integrating inflammatory cues with oligodendrocyte maturation, G protein-coupled receptor 17 (GPR17) has emerged as a critical checkpoint. Physiologically, GPR17 expression is low in early oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), peaks in immature oligodendrocytes, and is subsequently downregulated to allow terminal maturation. Under neuroinflammatory conditions, GPR17 expression persists, suggesting a possible role in impaired oligodendrocyte maturation and defective myelination. Here, we tested whether receptor modulation by the selective GPR17 agonist Galinex (GAL) can support oligodendrocyte maturation under inflammatory conditions.Differentiating oligodendroglial cultures were exposed to a pro-inflammatory cytokine cocktail composed of TNFα, IL-1β, and IFNγ. We first identified a subtoxic inflammatory condition, defined as cytokine exposure that did not cause overt loss of cell viability, and assessed oligodendrocyte maturation, myelin-associated marker expression, GPR17 expression, and transcriptional remodelling. Publicly available transcriptomic signatures from neuroinflammatory mouse models and human Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis brains were used for cross-comparison. The effect of GAL was then evaluated by molecular, morphological, and functional readouts, including a synthetic nanofiber myelination assay.Subtoxic cytokine exposure consistently impaired oligodendrocyte morphological maturation, reduced the expression of myelin-associated markers, and was accompanied by increased GPR17 expression. Transcriptomic analysis revealed coordinated remodelling of pathways related to protein synthesis and proteostasis, mitochondrial metabolism, lipid homeostasis, and inflammatory/immunogenic-like responses, together with senescence- and DNA damage-associated features. Cross-comparison with disease-associated transcriptomic signatures showed significant overlap with neuroinflammatory modules, supporting the relevance of the inflammatory pathways engaged in our model. GAL treatment partially restored terminal maturation-associated features and oligodendrocyte morphology. Moreover, in the nanofiber assay, GAL significantly increased the length of MBP-positive segments compared with CTK-treated cells, suggesting improved wrapping/myelination-like capacity after inflammatory challenge.Together, this study establishes a controlled in vitro model linking inflammatory cytokine exposure, disease-associated transcriptional alterations, and impaired oligodendrocyte differentiation. Our findings indicate that pharmacological modulation of GPR17 can promote oligodendrocyte maturation and wrapping features under non-permissive inflammatory conditions. This strategy should be considered as an oligodendroglial-directed approach that may complement anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory interventions.Copyright © 2026 Castro e Silva, Marangon, Boccazzi, Raffaele, Cignitti, Bavetta, Arisi, Fumagalli, Abbracchio and Lecca.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42165038 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41788482 is a review article
Objective: To evaluate the impact of bone metastasis on the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma patients receiving first-line third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) and to explore the potential mechanisms by which bone metastasis contributes to EGFR-TKI resistance. Methods: A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical data of 370 EGFR-mutant advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients who received first-line treatment with third-generation EGFR-TKI at the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University from January 2019 to June 2024, with follow-up until June 2024. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were compared between patients with and without baseline bone metastasis. Survival curves were generated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between groups were assessed by the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models were applied to identify factors associated with PFS following third-generation EGFR-TKI treatment. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on two primary pulmonary tumors and two bone metastatic lesions to characterize transcriptomic differences in cancer cells and immune cells within the tumor microenvironment. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis was applied to identify bone metastasis-specific signaling pathways. Based on immune regulatory genes upregulated in cancer cells from bone metastatic lesions, an immune-regulatory score was constructed using a LASSO-Cox regression model in a training cohort of EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Patients in both the training cohort and an independent Asian EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma validation cohort were stratified into high-and low-score groups according to the median immune regulatory score, and OS was compared between groups. Results: Among the 370 lung adenocarcinoma patients receiving first-line third-generation EGFR-TKI treatment, 161 patients had baseline bone metastasis [mean age (60±11) years; 70 males], while 209 patients had no baseline bone metastasis [mean age (61±9) years; 80 males]. No significant differences in baseline clinicopathological characteristics were observed between patients with and without bone metastasis (all P>0.05). The median PFS in the bone metastasis group was 27.5 months (95%CI: 22.0-33.1), which was significantly shorter than that in the non-bone metastasis group [59.0 months (95%CI: 32.8-85.1), P<0.001]. The median OS was 46.2 months (95%CI: 40.4-51.9) in the bone metastasis group, whereas the median OS had not yet been reached in the non-bone metastasis group, with a statistically significant difference (P=0.013). Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified bone metastasis as an independent risk factor for PFS (HR=1.74, 95%CI:1.27-2.37, P<0.001). Cancer cells in bone metastatic lesions exhibited upregulation of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 17 (CXCL17), complement decay-accelerating factor (CD55), interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1), E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase pellino homolog 1 (PELI1), solute carrier family 7 member 5 (SLC7A5) and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2), which were predominantly enriched in pathways related to immune cell differentiation, chemotaxis, and inflammatory responses. At the immune cell level, lymphoid cells in bone metastatic lesions showed activation of stress response and apoptotic pathways, whereas myeloid cells demonstrated significant activation of cytokine/chemokine signaling and inflammation-related pathways. An immune-regulatory score based on CXCL17, CD55, IRF1, PELI1, SLC7A5, and PTGS2 was constructed. In the TCGA training cohort, the median OS of 41 patients with a high immune-regulatory score was 23.1 months (95%CI: 17.5-28.7), which was significantly shorter than that of patients with a low score [58.5 months (95%CI: 43.0-73.9), P<0.001]. In the independent Asian cohort of 93 EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma patients, the median OS of 46 patients with a high immune-regulatory score was 85.3 months (95%CI: 80.0-not reached), while the median OS in the low-score group was not reached, with a statistically significant difference (P=0.014). Conclusions: Bone metastasis is an adverse prognostic factor for progression-free survival in lung adenocarcinoma patients treated with third-generation EGFR-TKI. Bone metastasis lesions exhibit a distinct immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in EGFR-mutant advanced lung adenocarcinoma, in which upregulation of immune regulatory genes in cancer cells and dysfunction of immune cells may constitute a potential mechanism underlying resistance to third-generation EGFR-TKI.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is common complication in the critically ill. Standard functional biomarkers are limited at predicting persistent severe AKI (PS-AKI) and long-term outcomes. This study evaluated the diagnostic and prognostic performance of a panel of urinary biomarkers (novel and standard) for predicting PS-AKI and major adverse kidney events (MAKEs).This was an exploratory post hoc analysis of the prospective Dublin Acute Biomarker Group Evaluation (DAMAGE) multicentred prospective observational cohort study. ICU AKI (KDIGO stages 1-3) patients were included. Sixteen urinary biomarkers were measured on the day of AKI diagnosis. The primary endpoint was PS-AKI (stage 2/3 AKI ≥48 h). Discrimination was assessed using AUC and logistic regression models, and reclassification metrics (IDI, cfNRI). Secondary endpoints included MAKE90 and MAKE365. Tertile trends for CCL14 also evaluated.Among 186 patients with AKI, 80 (43.0%) developed PS-AKI. Albumin (uAlb; AUC = 0.82; 95% CI: 0.76-0.88), albumin/creatinine ratio (uAlb/Cr; AUC = 0.79; 95% CI: 0.72-0.85), urine output (AUC = 0.81; 95% CI: 0.74-0.87), and serum creatinine (AUC = 0.77; 95% CI: 0.70-0.84) demonstrated the highest discrimination. In logistic regression analysis adjusted for a clinical model, IL-18 showed the strongest association with PS-AKI (aOR = 3.09; 95% CI: 1.92-5.30), while uAlb, uAlb/Cr, cystatin C, CCL14, and MCP-1 were also significantly associated. CCL14 and uAlb tertiles showed a significant stepwise increase in PS-AKI. uAlb was the strongest discriminator for MAKE90 (AUC = 0.70; 95% CI: 0.57-0.83). Pi-GST was negatively associated with MAKE365 (aOR = 0.44; 95% CI: 0.21-0.81).Urine output, uAlb, and uAlb/Cr outperformed several novel biomarkers and demonstrated strong discrimination for PS-AKI. CCL14 showed moderate discrimination and was associated with early adverse outcomes. These findings support integrating standard and novel biomarkers to personalise AKI management.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) frequently accompanies benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) in aging males and often leads to bladder fibrosis, a secondary pathological change that contributes to bladder dysfunction. The role of Cathepsin S (CTSS), a cysteine protease associated with immune responses, in this process remains to be fully elucidated.Bladder tissues from BOO model mice were analyzed using microarray profiling, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and pathway enrichment analyses. Candidate genes, including CTSS, C-X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 17 (CXCL17), and Angiopoietin Like 7 (ANGPTL7), were identified. CTSS was selected for further investigation based on its association with fibrotic processes. The functional role of CTSS in smooth muscle cell hypertrophy and fibrosis was verified both in vivo and in vitro. A co-culture system of smooth muscle cells and monocyte-macrophages was used to explore the underlying mechanism.Microarray and bioinformatic analysis identified CTSS as a key candidate gene associated with immune response in BOO-induced bladder fibrosis. CTSS expression was upregulated in BOO bladders and was demonstrated to promote smooth muscle cell hypertrophy and fibrotic changes. Mechanistically, CTSS mediated proteolytic cleavage of the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) on immune cells, generating soluble IL-6R (sIL-6R). This process facilitated IL-6 trans-signaling, which in turn promoted smooth muscle cell hypertrophy and exacerbated bladder fibrosis.These findings indicate that CTSS contributes to BOO-induced bladder dysfunction and fibrosis by activating IL-6 trans-signaling through cleavage of IL-6R. CTSS may represent a potential therapeutic target for mitigating bladder fibrosis in BPH.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GA), a major contributor to cancer-related mortality worldwide, is characterized by malignant progression driven by complex gene regulatory networks. However, the biological functions and N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-dependent regulatory mechanisms of RNA-binding motif protein 15 (RBM15), immunoglobulin-like domain-containing receptor 1 (ILDR1), and insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) in GA remain unclear. This study investigated their expression patterns, correlations, and regulatory mechanisms. Bioinformatics analyses were performed using TIMER, GEPIA, and TNMplot databases to predict the key regulatory axis in GA. RBM15-overexpression and ILDR1/IGF2BP3 knockdown models were established in two GA cell lines (AGS and SNU638) via transfection. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blotting were used to assess gene and protein expression levels. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assay were performed to evaluate m6A modification and RNA-protein interactions. Messenger RNA stability was assessed using actinomycin D treatment, while Cell Counting Kit-8 and Transwell assays were employed to evaluate cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. In vivo xenograft experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of the RBM15/ILDR1 axis on tumor growth. RBM15 was significantly upregulated in GA tissues and positively correlated with ILDR1 expression. ILDR1 silencing markedly suppressed the cell proliferation, migration, and invasive capacity of GA. Mechanistically, RBM15 overexpression increased the m6A methylation level of ILDR1 mRNA. Furthermore, this methylation relied on the interaction between the m6A reader protein IGF2BP3 and ILDR1 mRNA. Notably, RBM15 overexpression effectively reversed the suppressive effects of ILDR1 depletion on malignant cellular phenotypes. Overall, RBM15 induced ILDR1 m6A methylation to enhance its stability in an IGF2BP3-dependent manner, thereby promoting GA progression. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights into GA pathogenesis and establish theoretical foundations for developing potential diagnostic biomarkers and targeted therapeutic strategies.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01022-7.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The contribution of fatty acid oxidation (FAO) to colorectal cancer (CRC) progression has been recognized. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying FAO remain obscure. This study explored the influence of ring finger protein 14 (RNF14) on FAO and its related mechanisms in CRC. We found that RNF14 was up-regulated in CRC, which was positively associated with FAO level. High expression of RNF14 promoted FAO to facilitate growth of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RNA binding motif protein 15 (RBM15)/YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 1 (YTHDF1)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification enhanced RNF14 translation. RNF14 reduced TATA-box binding protein associated factor 1 (TAF1) protein stability via promoting its ubiquitination. Moreover, TAF1 bound to PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) promoter to trigger its transcription. RNF14 knockdown or TAF1 overexpression repressed FAO of CRC cells, which was overturned by TAF1 or PINK1 silencing, respectively. In conclusion, RBM15/YTHDF1-mediated m6A modification of RNF14 mRNA contributed to FAO enhancement via ubiquitination of TAF1 to transcriptionally inhibit PINK1, thus promoting CRC progression.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The present study explored the protective mechanism of hydromorphone (HM) preconditioning in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury (CIRI). An animal model of CIRI was established by middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion in male C57BL/6J mice. An I/R cell model was induced by oxygen‑glucose deprivation/reperfusion. Brain tissue injury and cell injury were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin staining, 2,3,5‑triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining, lactate dehydrogenase testing and a Cell Counting Kit‑8 assay. Nod‑like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3)‑positive expression and caspase‑1 activity were assessed by immunostaining and caspase‑1 activity assays, respectively. Reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR or western blotting were used to quantify the expression levels of microRNA (miR)‑195‑5p, RNA‑binding motif protein 15 (RBM15) and upstream stimulatory factor 2 (USF2). RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and dual‑luciferase assays verified the binding between miR‑195‑5p and RBM15, followed by RIP analysis of N6‑methyladenosine (m6A) enrichment on USF2 and quantitative analysis of m6A content. The binding of RBM15 and insulin‑like growth factor 2 mRNA‑binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) to the USF2 m6A site was analyzed by a dual‑luciferase assay. HM preconditioning inhibited NLRP3‑mediated pyroptosis, alleviated neurological deficits, and reduced inflammatory injury in brain tissue. Mechanistically, hydromorphone (HM) preconditioning targeted RBM15 and reduced IGF2BP3‑mediated m6A modification by upregulating miR‑195‑5p expression, thus decreasing USF2 expression, reducing the enrichment of USF2 on the NLRP3 promoter, and inhibiting NLRP3‑mediated pyroptosis. In conclusion, HM preconditioning may repress NLRP3‑mediated pyroptosis and alleviate CIRI via the effects of miR‑195‑5p/RBM15/USF2.
CD81, a member of the tetraspanin family, is implicated in tumor progression, and its elevated expression in tumor cells has been associated with poor prognosis across multiple cancers. However, the functional significance of CD81 within the stromal compartments of the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains unclear. This study investigated the clinical relevance and mechanistic role of stromal CD81 (sCD81) in invasive breast cancer.A total of 462 human primary invasive breast cancer samples, along with 13 normal breast tissues and 10 ductal carcinoma in situ samples collected between 2000 and 2013, were analyzed. Immunohistochemistry and spatial analyses were used to evaluate sCD81 expression, and its association with cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subsets and immune components in the TME, as well as correlation with clinicopathological correlations and survival outcome.sCD81 expression was significantly higher in invasive breast cancer than in normal breast stromal tissue but did not differ across clinical subtypes. High sCD81 expression was associated with significantly longer disease-free survival, and multivariate analysis identified sCD81 as an independent prognostic factor alongside nuclear grade, estrogen receptor status, and lymph node metastasis. Co-expression analyses demonstrated that sCD81-high stromal cells exhibited a CD34-positive, FAP-low, and PDGFRα-low phenotype, indicating that they are distinct from established CAF subtypes. Both sCD81 and podoplanin (PDPN) expression correlated with increased immune cell infiltration. However, PDPN-positive CAFs promoted an immunosuppressive TME characterized by enrichment of regulatory T cells and M2-like macrophages, whereas CD81-high stromal cells did not exert such effects. Spatial analyses revealed that CD81-high stromal cells were preferentially localized near tumor vasculature and CCL19-expressing cells, suggesting a potential association with T-cell recruitment into the TME through CCL19-mediated mechanisms.These findings identify stromal CD81 expression as a novel prognostic marker in invasive breast cancer and highlight its association with a tumor-suppressive immune microenvironment, distinct from the immunosuppressive phenotype typically associated with PDPN-positive CAFs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide, and its morbidity and mortality are among the highest among malignant tumors. RNA binding motif protein 15 (RBM15) has been confirmed to be a proto-oncogene in a variety of tumors, and it is also highly expressed in gastric cancer. However, its specific mechanism of role in gastric cancer progression remains unclear. The relationship between RBM15, ras responsive element binding protein 1 (RREB1), and transcription factor early growth responsive gene-1 (EGR1) was predicted by bioinformatics analysis. Meanwhile, the proliferation, stemness, angiogenesis, invasion, and migration of gastric cancer cells were detected by MTT, sphere formation, tube formation, Transwell, and scratch assays. The N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation level of RREB1 was determined by MeRIP assay. The stability of RREB1 mRNA was assessed via Actinomycin D. Binding of RBM15 or insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) to RREB1, and EGR1 to RBM15 was confirmed by RIP and ChIP assay, respectively. A xenograft tumor model was constructed to analyze the effect of RBM15/RREB1 axis on tumor growth in vivo. RBM15 was highly expressed in gastric cancer. Knockdown of RBM15 inhibited the proliferation, stemness, angiogenesis, invasion, and migration of gastric cancer cells. RBM15 enhanced the stability of RREB1 mRNA by driving the m6A modification of RREB1 through recruiting IGF2BP2. EGR1 stimulated the activation of RBM15 transcription, thereby affecting RREB1's expression. The RBM15/RREB1 axis promotes gastric cancer tumor growth in vivo. This study confirmed that EGR1 activated RBM15 transcription, which mediated the m6A modification of RREB1 mRNA by recruiting IGF2BP2, thereby promoting malignant progression in gastric cancer. The discovery of this pathway provides a new perspective for revealing the pathogenesis of gastric cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Gut microbiota and its metabolites are revealed to affect metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) progression. Precedingly, we proved bifidobacterium bifidum BGN4 fractions declined sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1 (SREBP1) to suppress ferroptosis during MAFLD. This study explored whether agmatine, a key metabolite induced by BGN4, affected MAFLD development.High-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice or palmitate (PA)-stimulated MIHA hepatocytes were treated with agmatine. General conditions of the mice were evaluated by behavioral tests, body weight, liver weight, and plasma biochemical parameters, while hepatic steatosis was observed with H&E staining. Hepatocyte cytotoxicity was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase assay, and mitochondrial dysfunction was evaluated with ATP content and oxygen consumption rate. Ferroptosis was estimated by lipid peroxidation, iron, and expressions of related proteins. Immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, western blot, and RT-qPCR were used for detecting protein and mRNA levels. Molecular mechanism was investigated using RNA immunoprecipitation, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, luciferase reporter assay, and RNA stability assay.In the HFD-induced MAFLD mouse model, agmatine treatment alleviated metabolic abnormalities, depression-related behavior, hepatic damage, and ferroptosis, and decreased Iba1 and GFAP in cortex. In the in vitro model of PA-induced hepatocytes, agmatine mitigates cytotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ferroptosis. Increases of SREBP1, RNA binding motif protein 15 (RBM15), and IGF2 mRNA binding protein2 (IGF2BP2) in MAFLD models were rescued by agmatine. RBM15/IGF2BP2 knockdown inhibited m6A modification and stability of SREBP1 mRNA. SREBP1 overexpression neutralized the protective role of agmatine, which was overturned by silencing RBM15/IGF2BP2.Agmatine relieved MAFLD via inhibiting RBM15/IGF2BP2-mediated SREBP1 m6A modification.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
This study aimed to explore potential causal relationships between 91 circulating inflammatory cytokines and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) using a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) framework, with findings further examined at the transcriptomic level. We conducted a two-sample MR analysis utilizing summary-level genome-wide association studies data. The inverse-variance weighted method was used for the primary analysis, supplemented by sensitivity analyses (MR-Egger, weighted median) to assess pleiotropy. A false discovery rate (FDR) was applied to correct for multiple comparisons. Subsequently, we performed a differential expression analysis of the GSE197702 dataset, containing esophageal biopsies from a pediatric cohort with a significance threshold of adjusted P-value < .05. Our MR analysis identified nominally significant associations where genetically predicted higher levels of interleukin-8 (IL-8) and C-C motif chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19) were associated with an increased risk of EoE, whereas higher levels of hepatocyte growth factor were associated with a decreased risk (P < .05; P_fdr < .2). Sensitivity analyses showed no evidence of significant horizontal pleiotropy. Complementing the genetic finding for IL-8, our transcriptomic analysis observed that the gene encoding IL-8, chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8), was upregulated in esophageal tissues from EoE patients compared to healthy controls. Integrating genetic and transcriptomic insights, this study suggests a potential link between the IL-8 pathway and EoE pathogenesis. Given that the MR associations were suggestive after FDR correction, these findings should be considered exploratory. Nevertheless, they highlight the IL-8 pathway as a candidate target warranting further mechanistic and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
We examined gene expression profiles in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) lesions vs. normal aortas by cDNA microarray and real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Phosphorus (32P)-labeled cDNA from AAA specimens (mean AAA size 6.65 cm) and normal aortas were hybridized with a 588-gene microarray primarily of the cardiovascular system. The results were validated by qRT-PCR.A total of 35 out of the 588 genes were differentially expressed, with either log2 ratio of AAAs/controls ≥1 (upregulated; 20 genes) or ≤-1 (downregulated; 15 genes) in AAA lesions vs. normal aorta, and 25 of these were significantly different (71%). Expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9, TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 3, collagen type I α 1 chain (COL1A1), COL6A3, COL15A1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), ICAM2, decorin, endoglin, apolipoprotein D (APOD), APOE, phospholipid transfer protein, calcium and integrin binding 1 (CIB1), phospholipase A2 group IIA, von Willebrand factor, serpin family B member 6 (SERPINB6), urokinase-type plasminogen activator, H19, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta was upregulated in AAA vs. normal aorta. Expression of collagen type IV α 4 chain (COL4A4), COL11A2, gap junction protein α 1 (GJA1), biglycan, integrin subunit α 8, galectin-1, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1, acetyl-CoA acyltransferase, serpin family E member 1, melanoma cellular adhesion molecule, sodium channel epithelial 1 subunit beta (SCNN1B), natriuretic peptide receptor 1 (NPR1), superoxide dismutase 3, actinin α 1 (ACTN1) and cardiac phospholamban (PLN) was downregulated.Eleven genes differentially expressed (p≤0.05) in AAA lesions vs. normal aortas were not reported previously: upregulated: COL6A3, COL15A1, ICAM2, APOD, CIB and SERPINB6; downregulated: GJA1, SCNN1B, NPR1, ACTN1 and PLN. Remaining results confirmed previous reports regarding 21 genes differentially expressed in AAA. qRT-PCR results were in general in agreement with microarray results.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) remains the standard treatment for advanced prostate cancer (PCa); however, most patients ultimately progress to lethal castration-resistant PCa (CRPC). Emerging evidence implicates RNA N⁶-methyladenosine (m⁶A) modification as a key regulator of cancer biology, yet its role in CRPC remains poorly understood. As a critical adaptor in the m⁶A methyltransferase complex, RNA-binding motif protein 15 (RBM15) directs m⁶A deposition to specific mRNA targets. Here, we identified RBM15 as the key methyltransferase member significantly upregulated in CRPC tissues and strongly correlated with poor patient survival. Functionally, RBM15 overexpression reduces PCa cell sensitivity to enzalutamide, whereas its knockdown suppresses tumor growth and invasion. Mechanistically, RBM15 is an androgen-responsive protein whose expression increases upon chronic androgen deprivation. It catalyzes m⁶A methylation at position A1384 of damaged DNA binding protein 1 (DDB1) mRNA, leading to YTHDF2-dependent transcript decay and reduced DDB1 protein levels. Lower DDB1 impairs K48-linked polyubiquitination of the androgen receptor (AR), thereby stabilizing AR and amplifying AR signaling. Importantly, AR transcriptionally activates RBM15, forming a feed-forward loop that drives CRPC progression. Collectively, our findings establish RBM15 as a central epitranscriptomic driver of CRPC and identify the RBM15-DDB1-AR axis as a promising therapeutic target. Dual inhibition of RBM15 and AR may offer a novel strategy to overcome treatment resistance in advanced PCa.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer (BC) presents a major clinical challenge due to high recurrence and progression rates, highlighting the need for novel therapeutic targets. While the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) writer complex is broadly implicated, the specific function and regulatory mechanism of its adaptor protein RNA binding motif protein 15 (RBM15) remain poorly defined in BC. This study reveals the oncogenic role of RBM15 in BC and its m6A-dependent regulatory axis, providing a new rationale for targeted intervention. METHODS: The clinical relevance of RBM15 was established by assessing its expression and prognostic significance in public datasets and a large clinical cohort. The biological function of RBM15 and its effect on global m6A methylation were subsequently investigated using a comprehensive suite of in vitro assays and in vivo models. We performed integrated multiomics analyses (RNA-seq, m6A-seq, and RIP-seq) and validated the underlying molecular mechanisms by performing additional targeted assays to elucidate the downstream regulatory network. Finally, the therapeutic potential of targeting this axis was validated in preclinical models using the METTL3 catalytic inhibitor STM2457. RESULTS: RBM15 was significantly upregulated in BC, and its elevated expression served as an independent predictor of a poor prognosis. Functionally, RBM15 increased global m6A levels and promoted the malignant progression of BC cells both in vitro and in vivo; these oncogenic effects were reversed upon RBM15 knockdown. Mechanistically, RBM15 bound Zona Occludens 2 (ZO2) mRNA and recruited the methyltransferase 3–methyltransferase 14–Wilms’ tumor 1-associating protein (METTL3-METTL14-WTAP) methyltransferase complex to increase the level of the m6A modification on the ZO2 mRNA. This modification was recognized by YTH N(6)-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 2 (YTHDF2) to accelerate ZO2 mRNA decay. Although ZO2 expression was globally reduced, its preferential nuclear accumulation was increased, which promoted Snail expression and accelerated malignant progression. The METTL3 catalytic inhibitor STM2457 suppressed BC growth and lung metastasis by targeting the METTL3/RBM15/ZO2 axis, with no observable toxicity. CONCLUSIONS: RBM15 acts as an oncogenic driver in BC by facilitating the m6A-dependent degradation of ZO2 mRNA via the recruitment of the METTL3 complex and recognition by YTHDF2. Targeting this METTL3/RBM15/ZO2 axis with STM2457 represents a promising therapeutic strategy for BC.
G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) has been implicated in cancer, but the functional roles of its isoforms remain unresolved. Here, we characterize GPR35-long, an N-terminally extended epithelial isoform selectively enriched in colorectal cancer and cholangiocarcinoma. Mass spectrometry and immunohistochemistry confirmed GPR35-long protein expression in tumor cells. Functional analyses revealed that GPR35-long supports tumor-associated transcriptional programs, enhances cellular ATP production, and exhibits increased constitutive and ligand-induced beta-arrestin signaling. These phenotypes were selectively suppressed by the inverse agonist CID-2745687, identifying GPR35-long as a functionally distinct isoform with selective pharmacological sensitivity in tumor cells.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Letters published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Monitoring microglial activation mediators remains challenging in neurodegeneration. Few imaging studies track amyloid-β (Aβ)-linked microglial dynamics across a wide field of view with high spatiotemporal resolution. Leveraging the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), a pivotal Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker that enhances Aβ clearance while suppressing neuroinflammation, we developed a dual-modal probe, TREM2-ICG, by conjugating a TREM2-specific antibody with indocyanine green (ICG), an FDA-approved dye, for robust in vivo photoacoustic and near-infrared-II (NIR-II) fluorescence imaging. Multi-wavelength photoacoustic microscopy imaged AD pathology at 532 nm (hemoglobin, vasculature), 559 nm (Aβ probe AOI987), and 780 nm (TREM2-ICG for peri‑plaque microglia). Time-resolved NIR-II imaging (30 frames/sec) tracked Aβ-oligomer-induced microglial displacement at ∼50 µm resolution, showing a rapid chemotaxis phenomenon. Immunofluorescence-verified TREM2-microglia plaque engagement demonstrates AD pathogenesis. Overall, our multiscale photoacoustic-fluorescence imaging resolved cortex-wide Aβ-microglial interactions, combining wide-field, high-speed, and deep-penetration to overcome confocal depth and two-photon field of view limits. This enabled in vivo tracking of microglial responses to Aβ, revealing potential for investigating AD-specific mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors.
Chronic inflammation is a key driver of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Notably, anti-inflammatory therapies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing cardiac events. We previously reported that TREM2 (triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2) promotes foam cell formation in atherosclerosis. Elevated levels of soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) have been observed in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis. This study sought to investigate the pathological role of sTREM2 in the progression of atherosclerosis, elucidate its underlying mechanistic pathways, and propose potential targeted therapeutic interventions.Plasma sTREM2 levels were measured in patients with carotid atherosclerosis and in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice. To study the functional role of sTREM2, we administered recombinant sTREM2 to Apoe-/- mice and used macrophage-specific Hsp90ab1 knockout mice (Hsp90ab1Mac-KO). Mechanistic pathways were investigated using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and surface plasmon resonance imaging was used to identify sTREM2 antagonists.Plasma sTREM2 levels correlated with atherosclerotic burden in both humans and mice. Exogenous sTREM2 administration exacerbated plaque progression in Apoe-/- mice, an effect abolished in Hsp90ab1Mac-KO mice. Mechanistically, sTREM2 binds to HSP90β (heat shock protein 90 beta), enhancing its interaction with the IKKs (IκB kinase complex), thereby activating the IκBα/NF-κB P65 pathway. This activation potentiates monocyte adhesion and chemotaxis and enhances macrophage inflammatory activation signatures in atherosclerotic lesions-effects that were reversed on myeloid-specific Hsp90ab1 deletion. Additionally, we identified 3-bromopyruvate as a small-molecule antagonist that selectively disrupts the sTREM2/HSP90β interaction and attenuates atherosclerosis.sTREM2 promotes proatherogenic myeloid recruitment and macrophage inflammatory activation via HSP90β-dependent NF-κB activation. Genetic and pharmacological approaches establish the sTREM2/HSP90β axis as a druggable target, with 3-bromopyruvate demonstrating translational potential for atherosclerosis therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500791 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent degenerative joint disease with limited diagnostic biomarkers. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a key regulator of inflammation and bone metabolism, but its role in OA remains unclear.Plasma and synovial fluid samples were collected from patients with OA and patients with joint trauma serving as controls. Levels of TREM2 and IL-6 were measured using RT-qPCR and ELISA. Correlation analyses were conducted to assess relationships among TREM2, IL-6, and clinical parameters. The diagnostic value of TREM2 was evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Additionally, the role and regulatory mechanism of TREM2 were investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes.TREM2 levels were significantly elevated in both plasma and synovial fluid of patients with OA and showed positive correlations with IL-6, Kellgren-Lawrence score and body mass index (BMI). ROC analysis revealed AUCs of 0.880 for plasma TREM2 and 0.869 for synovial fluid TREM2, with superior performance compared to IL-6 in the same cohort. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed that TREM2 remained independently associated with OA after adjusting for confounders (OR = 28.29, P = 0.006). In vitro, LPS treatment upregulated TREM2 expression in chondrocytes, which was associated with changes in cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release and oxidative stress, with preliminary evidence suggesting involvement of the NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis-associated pathway.Elevated TREM2 in plasma and synovial fluid represents a promising exploratory biomarker for OA. In vitro findings suggest that TREM2 may modulate chondrocyte functions in association with NLRP3 inflammasome-associated molecular pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488212 is a review article
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the important pathogens influencing global swine industry. PRRSV infection promotes the secretion and production of soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) in plasma. Whether sTREM2 regulated PRRSV replication remains unknown. In this study, we expressed and purified sTREM2 exogenously, and found that sTREM2 restrained PRRSV replication in vitro. In terms of mechanism, sTREM2 could interact with PRRSV envelope protein GP2a, wherein S112/S116/T120 amino acid sites in sTREM2 were essential for their binding. The interaction between sTREM2 and PRRSV GP2a interfered PRRSV binding stage, thus inhibiting PRRSV replication. In addition, sTREM2 promoted the activation of NF-ĸB signaling pathway and elevated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferons, ultimately suppressing PRRSV replication. Our study demonstrated that sTREM2 possessed strong inhibitory effects against PRRSV and had the potential value for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder associated with amyloid aggregation, tau pathology, and neuroinflammation. In this study, an integrated computational workflow combining ADMET prediction, PASS-based activity screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations was employed to evaluate the interactions of oleuropein with five AD-related protein targets, including β-amyloid, tau, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), and complement protein C1q. ADMET and PASS analyses predicted pharmacokinetic properties and potential biological activities associated with neurodegenerative disease-related pathways. Docking analysis predicted favorable binding affinities across the investigated targets, with the strongest predicted interaction observed for the C1q protein (-7.5 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics (MD) trajectory analyses, including root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF), radius of gyration (Rg), dynamic cross-correlation matrix (DCCM), principal component analysis (PCA), and distance-based metrics, were used to evaluate the dynamic behavior of the protein-ligand complexes during the simulations. The computational analyses suggested relatively stable interactions for tau, C1q, and TREM2 complexes, whereas β-amyloid and ApoE4 exhibited comparatively higher conformational variability during portions of the simulations. These findings provide a preliminary computational assessment of oleuropein interactions with AD-related proteins and may support future experimental studies investigating its potential biological relevance in neurodegenerative disease models.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the mucosa, which significantly impairs patients' quality of life. Eucalyptol-Limonene-Pinene (ELP) is a plant-derived mucoactive agent used in respiratory diseases, including CRSwNP; however, its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate ELP's effect on CRSwNP and explore its mechanisms.Predicted targets and pathways from network pharmacology were validated in vitro using nasal epithelial cells (NECs) and single-cell suspensions from CRSwNP patients, and in vivo using Aspergillus oryzae protease/ovalbumin-induced mouse CRSwNP model. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, Western blot, Luminex, hematoxylin and eosin staining, Alcian blue-periodic acid-Schiff staining, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry were used to quantify inflammatory mediators and mucociliary changes.Network pharmacology revealed that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha, interleukin (IL)-2 are core targets and enriched in inflammation pathways. In vitro, ELP inhibited the overexpression of mucin 5AC induced by amphiregulin, hypoxia, IL-2 and IL-13 in NECs. ELP decreased expression of type 2 inflammatory mediators, arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase, C-C motif chemokine ligand 26, periostin and epithelial-derived alarmins thymic stromal lymphopoietin, IL-33 in NECs, reduced the concentrations of cytokines/chemokines and countered lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation in single-cell suspensions. In vivo, ELP reduced epithelial thickness, inflammatory infiltration, goblet cell hyperplasia and cilia damage.ELP reduced mucus hypersecretion and inflammatory mediators in vitro and in vivo in CRSwNP by specifically inhibiting EGFR-, hypoxia-, IL-2- and IL-13-mediated pathways, suppressing inflammatory responses, and alleviating ciliary damage, suggesting its potential therapeutic value.Copyright © 2026 The Korean Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Clinical Immunology • The Korean Academy of Pediatric Allergy and Respiratory Disease.
The malignant progression of bladder cancer is closely linked to the tumor microenvironment, yet the role of urine-derived stem cells (USCs) remains poorly understood. USCs were isolated from healthy individuals and bladder cancer patients, followed by multi-omic and functional characterization. The bladder cancer cell line T24 was used for in vitro co-culture and in vivo co-injection assays. Sustained exposure to tumor-derived factors (TNF-α, IL-6, and TGF-β) reprogrammed normal USCs (N-USCs) into tumor-associated USCs (T-USCs). This transition was marked by E-cadherin downregulation, vimentin upregulation, cell cycle arrest, and reduced adhesion, facilitating detachment and shedding of USCs into urine. Consequently, urine from tumor-bearing conditions showed increased USC counts and elevated CXCL2 levels. USC-derived CXCL2 activated the CXCR2 receptor on bladder cancer cells, triggering the ERK/β-catenin axis. This significantly upregulated stemness markers (CD44, ALDH1A1), promoting malignant progression. In a co-injection model, T-USCs and bladder cancer cells formed an organized stromal sheath that facilitated tumor invasion. In vivo, USCs drove tumor growth and microenvironment remodeling, effects suppressed by targeting the CXCL2/CXCR2/ERK axis. We propose a model in which hematogenous tumor factors induce urinary USC reprogramming, potentially establishing a CXCL2-enriched niche that fuels malignancy. These findings suggest a biologically plausible "tumor associated USCs-CXCL2-bladder cancer" circuit, providing insights into a putative blood-urine interactive regulatory axis and revealing a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is more common in certain geographic regions and populations and is frequently diagnosed at advanced stages, highlighting the importance of identifying factors associated with survival.Patients were selected from two previously conducted genome-wide association studies, resulting in a discovery cohort (n=314) and a validation cohort (n=135). Overall survival and disease-free survival were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for clinical covariates in both cohorts and a combined analysis of the data. Variants associated with survival in both cohorts (p<0.05) and showing consistent direction of effects were retained, and combined p-values are reported.The T allele of rs4671908, a variant located upstream of pleckstrin (PLEK) was linked to worse overall survival (hazard ratio=1.85, 95% confidence interval=1.48-2.32; p<10-7). The T allele of rs2238431, a variant located within adenylate cyclase 9 (ADCY9), was associated with poor disease-free survival (hazard ratio=1.73, 95% confidence interval=1.44-2.08; p<10-8). Both associations remained significant after Bonferroni correction. Functional annotation suggested that the T allele of rs4671908 was associated with increased PLEK expression and overlaps a predicted POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1)-binding site. The risky allele was more common in East Asian populations, consistent with the geographic distribution of NPC. The T allele of rs2238431 was associated with reduced expression of ADCY9.This study identified rs4671908 and rs2238431 as germline variants associated with survival outcomes in NPC and provides epidemiological evidence that may inform future prognostic stratification of high-incidence populations.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
To evaluate whether serum C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2) and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) predict early neurological deterioration (END) in penetrating artery disease (PAD)-type ischaemic stroke.This retrospective study included 146 PAD patients (June 2022-October 2024). Patients were stratified into END (n = 22) and non-END (n = 124) groups. Bioinformatics analysis using the GEO database and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis were performed. Serum CXCL2 and CXCL8 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Pearson correlation, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, and logistic regression analyses were performed, followed by nomogram construction.Bioinformatics analysis revealed CXCL2 and CXCL8 upregulation in cerebral infarction. END patients were older, had prolonged onset-to-admission times, higher admission National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale scores, and a higher branch atheromatous disease prevalence (all p < 0.05). END patients had elevated serum CXCL2 and CXCL8 levels (p < 0.05), which were positively correlated (r = 0.202, p = 0.015). ROC analysis indicated that the combination of CXCL2 and CXCL8 produced an area under the curve of 0.799 (95% CI: 0.720-0.878), outperforming individual markers. LASSO regression identified age, CXCL2, and CXCL8 as key variables. Multivariate analysis revealed age (OR = 1.140, 95% CI: 1.053-1.235, p = 0.001), CXCL2 (OR = 1.024, 95% CI: 1.006-1.043, p = 0.008), and CXCL8 (OR = 1.009, 95% CI: 1.003-1.016, p = 0.003) as independent END risk factors. The nomogram demonstrated excellent discrimination (training: 0.874; validation: 0.856) and good calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow p > 0.05).Serum CXCL2 and CXCL8 demonstrate potential as biomarkers for identifying END in acute PAD.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a prevalent bone disease characterized by reduced bone mass and increased fracture risk, in part due to impaired osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (BMSCs). Loss of AT-rich interactive domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) attenuates BMSC osteogenesis, but the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated.Human BMSCs were induced to undergo osteogenic or adipogenic differentiation. Lentiviral transduction was used to silence ARID2 and/or overexpress serine/threonine kinase 39 (STK39). Effects on BMSC fate were assessed by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR (qRT-PCR), MTT assay, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining, Alizarin Red S (ARS) staining, Oil Red O staining, and western blotting.ARID2 expression increased over time during osteogenic induction. ARID2 silencing reduced BMSC proliferation and osteogenic differentiation while favoring adipogenesis. Conversely, STK39 overexpression enhanced proliferation and osteogenic differentiation and attenuated nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling during osteogenic induction; these effects were reversed by ARID2 silencing.The STK39-ARID2 axis promotes osteogenic differentiation and suppresses adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs, at least in part via inhibition of NF-κB signaling. These findings highlight a potential molecular target for therapeutic strategies in OP.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in infants and toddlers, with limited treatment options and persistent neurological sequelae. We developed a multi-pathoanatomic lesion multi-insult (MuLMI) severe TBI model in piglets that replicates age-dependent damage patterns to the cortical ribbon observed in human patients with less injury in postnatal day (PND) 7 “infant” piglets and more extensive tissue damage in PND30 “toddler” piglets. Given that neuronal chloride homeostasis influences excitability, seizure susceptibility, and edema, we examined the developmental and injury-induced regulation of key cation-chloride cotransporters and modulators: NKCC1 (sodium-potassium-2-chloride cotransporter), KCC2 (potassium-chloride cotransporter), and the regulatory kinase SPAK, which are biomarkers of neuronal chloride concentrations. This study is the first to define the spatiotemporal expression and phosphorylation profiles of these proteins in the developing piglet brain. We found a perinatal shift in the ratio of KCC2:NKCC1 across the brain, driven primarily by protein abundance, rather than transcriptional levels. We hypothesized that toddler piglets would exhibit an increase in cortical NKCC1 and SPAK causing hyperexcitability and perhaps explaining their more severe, unilateral cortical damage. Severe TBI induced a transcriptional increase in Slc12a2 (Solute Carrier Family 12 Member 2) and Stk39 (Serine Threonine Kinase 39), and a decrease in Slc12a5 (Solute Carrier Family 12 Member 5) in toddler piglets, but not infant piglets. We further found that infant piglets, not toddler piglets, upregulated SPAK and Tyrosine Receptor Kinase B (TRKB) protein in cortex after TBI, with minimal changes in NKCC1 and KCC2. However, phosphorylated NKCC1 (pNKCC1) was significantly upregulated in surviving cortical neurons after TBI in infant piglets and was unchanged in toddlers, despite more severe injury. These findings suggest that cortical neuronal NKCC1 activation may play a role in post-traumatic excitability or resilience in the immature brain and identify NKCC1 and/or SPAK as a potential therapeutic target. In human tissue, the KCC2:NKCC1 ratio also increased postnatally, and TBI caused region and cell-type specific dysregulation of pNKCC1. Our results establish piglets as a valuable model for investigating age-specific mechanisms of pediatric TBI and for testing targeted interventions, particularly for infant populations where seizure control remains a major clinical challenge.
Epithelial dysfunction is a central driver of type 2 inflammation in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP). Although epigenetic mechanisms are known to regulate mucosal immunity, the specific role of histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7) in modulating the magnitude of epithelial type 2 responses remains unclear. We hypothesized that HDAC7 functions as an inducible checkpoint to restrain excessive inflammation.To explore the role of epithelial HDAC7 in restraining excessive inflammation in CRSwNP.Primary human nasal epithelial cells were exposed to inflammatory stimuli to identify HDAC7 inducers. Epithelial HDAC7 expression in patient tissues was correlated with inflammatory markers and remodeling indices. Mechanistic roles were assessed using lentiviral knockdown, transcriptome sequencing, and eosinophil chemotaxis assays.Interleukin (IL)-13 selectively induced epithelial HDAC7 expression. In clinical tissues, lower HDAC7 expression within the CRSwNP cohort correlated with severe type 2 inflammation and mucosal remodeling. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that HDAC7-low tissues demonstrated enriched type 2 pathways, whereas high expression aligned with TH1/TH17 signatures. In vitro, silencing HDAC7 amplified the broader IL-13-induced transcriptional program and specifically enhanced C-C motif chemokine ligand 26 (CCL26) production, promoting C-C chemokine receptor type 3-dependent eosinophil migration. Notably, this effect appeared specific to HDAC7 loss, as broad-spectrum HDAC inhibition with trichostatin A suppressed CCL26 and did not recapitulate the knockdown phenotype.HDAC7 appears to function as an inducible negative regulator in the nasal epithelium, attenuating IL-13-driven CCL26 production. Disruption of this feedback loop may contribute to exacerbated type 2 inflammation, suggesting epithelial HDAC7 as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for CRSwNP.Copyright © 2026 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cell interactions within the tumor microenvironment (TME) fundamentally reshape the immune landscape, influencing clinical phenotypes in colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), inference of copy number variations (inferCNV), and non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) to decipher the TME dynamics in 26 CRC patients, stratified by their T stages (T2, T3, T4a). Malignant cells, characterized via inferCNV, exhibited specific immune-related patterns in the most advanced T4a stage, identified through NMF. Genes involved in guiding chemotaxis showed either increasing or decreasing activity as the tumor stage progressed. Four candidate genes (CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3, and GDF15) were prioritized, with their elevated expression levels correlating with tumor invasion. Further analysis pinpointed C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2) as a critical factor. CXCL2 serves as a canonical ligand for atypical chemokine receptor 1 (ACKR1), and their interaction is vital for immune cells to move into inflammatory sites. In T4a CRC, CXCL2 derived from malignant cells acts on ACKR1 enriched at junctions of endothelial cells (ECs). Knockdown of either CXCL2 in LoVo cells or ACKR1 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) significantly inhibited cancer cell migration toward ECs. Collectively, these findings indicate that as CRC advances, increased secretion of CXCL2 from malignant cells stimulates ACKR1 on ECs, thereby promoting tumor invasion and metastasis. This study provides a framework for stage-specific interventions, particularly for locally advanced CRC, by disrupting ACKR1 on ECs within TME to impede metastasis and improve clinical outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Despite the proven efficacy of immunotherapy against malignancies, a large proportion of patients with HCC fail to benefit from these efficacious agents because of their overwhelmingly immunosuppressive microenvironment. Therefore, there is an urgent need to identify key genes and develop effective strategies for reshaping the HCC microenvironment. Here, a significant downregulation of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2) in HCC is identified due to gene copy number loss, which correlates with poor prognosis and suboptimal responsiveness to immunotherapy. Subsequently, it is found that CXCL2 can not only recruit neutrophils as expected, but also induce their polarization toward the antitumor type to curb HCC progression. Mechanistically, differing from the prevailing notion that CXCL2 primarily functions extracellularly as a chemokine, it is demonstrated that intracellular CXCL2 can bind to Y-Box Binding Protein 1 (YBX1) and prevent its nuclear translocation. Consequently, this reduces the transcription of sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 2 (SREBF2) and suppresses cholesterol biosynthesis, thereby remodeling HCC microenvironment and impeding HCC development. In summary, this study highlights the unconventional role of CXCL2 in regulating neutrophil polarization and immune responses in HCC, positioning it as a potential therapeutic target for HCC.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP), a prevalent form of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in schoolchildren, frequently results in persistent fever or complications in 15-25% of cases despite azithromycin treatment. This highlights the urgent need for novel biomarkers to identify high-risk cases. This study aims to investigate the predictive value of serum C-C motif chemokine ligand 26 (CCL26) and C-C chemokine receptor 3 (CCR3) levels for treatment prognosis in children with MPP receiving azithromycin therapy.Clinical data of 205 pediatric MPP patients treated in our hospital from February 2023 to February 2025 were collected. Serum levels of CCL26, CCR3, interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and D-dimer (DD) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), while Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) antibody titers were determined using passive agglutination. Pearson correlation analysis evaluated relationships between CCL26 and CCR3 and inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α). Logistic regression identified risk factors for poor prognosis, with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis assessing the predictive value of CCL26 and CCR3.Compared with healthy controls, MPP patients showed elevated serum CCL26, CCR3 and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6) both pre- and post-treatment (all P<0.05). These markers significantly decreased after therapy (all P<0.05). Pretreatment CCL26 and CCR3 levels positively correlated with inflammatory cytokines (P<0.05). Poor prognosis cases exhibited higher levels of CCL26, CCR3, TNF-α, IL-6, C-reactive protein (CRP), DD, MP antibody titers (≥1:160), fever duration (≥5 d), and peak temperature (≥38.5 °C) (P<0.05). Multivariate analysis identified MP antibody titer ≥1:160, elevated CCL26, CCR3, TNF-α, and IL-6 levels, fever ≥5 days, and temperature ≥38.5 °C as independent risk factors. The area under the curve (AUC) for CCL26 and CCR3 in predicting poor prognosis was 0.709 and 0.751, respectively, increasing to 0.798 when combined.Serum CCL26 and CCR3 levels decrease following azithromycin treatment and demonstrate significant associations with inflammatory markers and clinical outcomes, serving as reliable predictors for poor prognosis in MPP patients.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Carcinoid syndrome refers to the signs and symptoms a patient experiences secondary to a carcinoid tumor or another well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor, which secretes serotonin and other peptides that enter the bloodstream; only 10% of patients with carcinoid tumors experience carcinoid syndrome. Common findings include facial flushing, tachycardia, and shortness of breath. Carcinoid tumors usually originate in the gastrointestinal (G.I.) tract. They are slow growing but can metastasize to the liver, lymph nodes, and elsewhere. Primary or metastatic cutaneous carcinoid tumors present as pink, fast-growing dermal or subcutaneous nodules. The diagnostic workup includes a thorough history and physical examination of the entire body, including a urinary 24-hour 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and serum chromogranin A. Management of carcinoid syndrome initially includes the use of somatostatin analogs, diet, medication regulation, and clinical monitoring. More aggressive treatment, such as peptide receptor radionuclide therapy or everolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, may be required.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rectal neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) are uncommon neoplasms that are increasingly detected due to the widespread adoption of colorectal cancer screening programs. They typically present as small submucosal nodules, facilitating early diagnosis and minimally invasive treatment. We present the case of a 58-year-old woman with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus who underwent screening colonoscopy while asymptomatic. During the procedure, an 18-mm non-polypoid submucosal lesion was identified on the anterior rectal wall, 8 cm from the anal verge. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis demonstrated no evidence of regional or distant metastasis. Complete local excision was performed using transanal minimally invasive surgery (TAMIS) without complications. Histopathological examination revealed a well-differentiated grade 1 rectal NET staged as pT1bN0M0, with a Ki-67 proliferation index of 1%, positive immunohistochemical staining for chromogranin A, negative surgical margins, and no evidence of lymphovascular or perineural invasion. Follow-up imaging demonstrated no evidence of local recurrence or distant metastatic disease, and the patient remains under clinical and radiological surveillance. This case highlights the importance of colorectal cancer screening programs for the incidental detection of rare rectal NETs and supports TAMIS as a safe and effective treatment option for selected patients with localized disease.Copyright © 2026, Rodriguez Ortega et al.
Mixed urothelial carcinoma (UC) and small-cell carcinoma (SmCC) of the renal pelvis is a rare but clinically consequential malignancy in which recognition of the neuroendocrine component directly influences diagnosis and treatment. We compared insulinoma-associated protein 1 (INSM1) with traditional neuroendocrine markers and explored clinicopathological correlates of outcome in a retrospective cohort of mixed renal pelvic UC/SmCC.Twenty-seven consecutive patients with histologically confirmed mixed renal pelvic UC/SmCC were identified from the institutional pathology archive during a prespecified consecutive 5-year accrual window (January 2019 to December 2023). Paired SmCC and urothelial compartments were evaluated separately on 4-μm formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections for INSM1, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, CD56, CK7, GATA3, Ki-67, and p53, using a modified H-score (0-300). Paired marker positivity was compared with the McNemar test, paired quantitative differences with the Wilcoxon signed-rank test, and overall survival was modeled with Kaplan-Meier estimation and Cox proportional hazards regression.INSM1 showed the highest sensitivity for the SmCC compartment, with nuclear positivity in 26 of 27 cases (96.3%; 95% CI, 81.0-99.9%), compared with synaptophysin 59.3%, chromogranin A 18.5%, and CD56 85.2%; all paired UC components were INSM1-negative. INSM1 was significantly more sensitive than synaptophysin (P < 0.01) and chromogranin A (P < 0.001), whereas CD56 did not differ significantly from INSM1 (P = 0.375). CK7 and GATA3 were retained exclusively in the UC compartment, and the median Ki-67 index was markedly higher in SmCC than UC (76% vs 24%; P < 0.001). On univariable Cox analysis, advanced pT stage, nodal metastasis, predominant SmCC burden, and higher INSM1 H-score were adversely associated with overall survival, whereas adjuvant chemotherapy was associated with reduced mortality risk.INSM1 is a sensitive and compartment-specific marker for identification of the SmCC component and showed higher sensitivity than synaptophysin and chromogranin A in this cohort, while performing similarly to CD56. Combined with CK7 and GATA3, INSM1 helps delineate the urothelial and neuroendocrine lineages within a single biphasic tumor. Larger multi-institutional cohorts with molecular profiling are needed to validate these exploratory findings and to clarify whether quantitative INSM1 expression carries prognostic relevance.Copyright © 2026 Li, Cheng and Wu.
Objective: To investigate the clinicopathological features, immunophenotype, and molecular characteristics of sweat gland carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation (SCAND). Methods: Three cases of SCAND diagnosed at the Department of Pathology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China from June 2022 to June 2025 were collected. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining and immunohistochemistry (EnVision method) were performed to characterize morphologic and immunophenotypic features. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was utilized to explore their molecular pathological characteristics. Results: All three patients were male, aged 67, 63, and 48 years, respectively. The primary tumors presented as solitary nodules or masses located in the lower abdomen, anterior chest wall, or inguinal region, with a maximum diameter of 2.0, 1.3, and 1.8 cm, respectively. Histologically, the tumors were situated primarily within the dermis, invading the epidermis and subcutaneous tissue, with focal mucin production. The tumor cells were arranged in nests, cords, and sieve-like patterns, exhibiting mild to moderate atypia. The nuclei were round to oval with coarsely granular chromatin and relatively inconspicuous nucleoli, accompanied by eosinophilic cytoplasm. Mitotic figures were scarce. All cases were positive for CK7, GATA3, TRPS1, Ber-EP4, epithelial membrane antigen, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and the neuroendocrine markers of synaptophysin and chromogranin A. The tumors were negative for p40 and HER2. The Ki-67 proliferation index ranged from 2% to 30%. Multiple class Ⅲ and Ⅳ variants were identified by NGS analysis in cases 1 and 2. In case 3, a class Ⅱ variant, specifically an SF3B1 missense mutation, was identified along with multiple class Ⅲ and Ⅳ variants. Additionally, multiple germline variants were detected in all three cases, while none of them were classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic. The patients were followed up for 13, 37 and 155 months, respectively. Metastases were detected 6, 36, and 96 months after diagnosis. Case 2 showed local metastasis, while cases 1 and 3 developed multiple nodal and bone metastases. Conclusions: SCAND is a rare cutaneous adnexal neoplasm characterized by co-expression of sweat gland and neuroendocrine markers. Despite low-grade morphology, it follows a non-indolent clinical course warranting close clinical attention.
A pancreatic combined Grade 1 neuroendocrine tumour (NET) and ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) - meeting morphological criteria for both mixed neuroendocrine-non-neuroendocrine neoplasm (MiNEN) and collision tumour - is exceptionally rare. We report a 68-year-old female with multifocal pancreatic cystic lesions, main pancreatic duct dilatation, and elevated CA 19-9, with imaging features consistent with intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm. Following multidisciplinary review, total pancreatectomy with duodenectomy and Roux-en-Y reconstruction was performed. Histopathology revealed PDAC (65%) and a well-differentiated Grade 1 PanNET (35%), with the latter confirmed by diffuse positivity for Synaptophysin and Chromogranin A and Ki-67 < 1%. A co-existing simple mucinous cyst with high-grade dysplasia was also identified. Adjuvant XELOX chemotherapy was administered after the patient declined infusional FOLFOX. This case highlights the diagnostic challenge of distinguishing MiNEN from collision tumour in the absence of molecular clonality data, and adds to the sparse literature on combined pancreatic NET-PDAC neoplasms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd.
HPV18-positive cervical large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) is exceptionally rare. We report a 40-years-old woman with FIGO 2018 stage IVB LCNEC who progressed rapidly despite paclitaxel-carboplatin-bevacizumab plus pembrolizumab, followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy and later cytotoxic regimens. Biopsy showed chromogranin A and synaptophysin positivity, diffuse p16, and Ki-67%~80%. Comprehensive profiling revealed very low tumor mutational burden (TMB, 1.21/Mb), microsatellite stability, no homologous recombination deficiency, and minimal PD-L1 (~1%), consistent with a poorly immunogenic tumor microenvironment (TME). This profile may explain the limited effect of immune checkpoint inhibition in this histology. The case suggests that HPV or p16 positivity alone did not predict clinical benefit from pembrolizumab-based therapy in advanced cervical LCNEC, and supports careful biological assessment before treatment selection. These observations provide practical guidance for clinicians and support evaluation of alternative or investigational strategies for this aggressive tumor.© 2026 Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Carcinoid syndrome is an uncommon manifestation of metastatic neuroendocrine tumor (NET) and may present without classic flushing or bronchospasm. We describe a woman in her 50s with hypertension treated with hydrochlorothiazide who presented with confusion, severe hyponatremia with a serum sodium concentration of 114 mmol/L (reference range, 135-145 mmol/L), chronic watery diarrhea, bilateral leg edema, and 40-lb weight loss. Computed tomography (CT) revealed a calcified mesenteric mass and multiple hepatic lesions. Serum chromogranin A was 1434 ng/mL (SI: 1434 µg/L) (reference range, <100 ng/mL [SI: <100 µg/L]), and 24-hour urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was 108 mg/24 hours (SI: 565 µmol/24 hours) (reference range, <6 mg/24 hours [SI: <31 µmol/24 hours])-well above the threshold associated with carcinoid heart disease (CHD). Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated severe tricuspid regurgitation with retracted leaflets, consistent with CHD. Liver biopsy confirmed a well-differentiated grade 2 NET. Urine sodium <20 mmol/L and urine osmolality 188 mOsm/kg indicated volume depletion from gastrointestinal losses, aggravated by hydrochlorothiazide. Hydrochlorothiazide was discontinued; isotonic saline, octreotide, and furosemide improved hyponatremia, diarrhea, and edema. Chronic diarrhea with isolated right-sided valvulopathy should prompt evaluation for carcinoid syndrome even when electrolyte derangement dominates.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Paragangliomas are rare neuroendocrine tumors that arise from extra-adrenal chromaffin cells. While their occurrence in the urogenital tract is itself uncommon, involvement of the spermatic cord is exceptionally rare. Because of their nonspecific clinical presentation, these tumors are often misdiagnosed as more common inguinoscrotal lesions. Herein, we present the case of a 13-year-old male patient who presented with a gradually enlarging, non-tender inguinal mass. The lesion was surgically excised, and histopathological examination revealed a well-circumscribed tumor composed of polygonal cells arranged in the characteristic Zellballen pattern, showing minimal nuclear atypia and low mitotic activity. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis, with the tumor demonstrating diffuse positivity for synaptophysin and chromogranin A. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient remains disease-free at three years of follow-up. This case is particularly noteworthy given its occurrence in the pediatric age group and adds to the very few reported cases of spermatic cord paraganglioma in the literature. It highlights the importance of including this rare entity in the differential diagnosis of inguinoscrotal masses and reinforces the need for histopathological and immunohistochemical evaluation for definitive diagnosis. Given the potential for malignant behavior, complete surgical excision with long-term surveillance remains essential.Copyright © 2026, Pol et al.
Background/Objectives: Reliable biomarkers for longitudinal surveillance of neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) remain an unmet clinical need. Chromogranin A (CgA), the most widely used circulating biomarker, is limited by low sensitivity, substantial biologic variability, and poor concordance with radiologic progression. NETest2.0® is a blood-based multigene transcriptomic liquid biopsy designed to dynamically assess NET biologic activity. This study compared serial NETest2.0® measurements with CgA for monitoring disease progression in a real-world registry cohort. Methods: Patients with histologically confirmed NETs enrolled in the RegisterNET program (NCT02270567) who had paired blood samples and contemporaneous clinical assessment were included. NETest2.0® scores were derived from quantitative RT-PCR analysis of a 51-gene transcript panel and expressed on a 0-100 scale. Serum CgA levels were measured using standard clinical immunoassays. Imaging-based disease assessment was performed using CT, MRI, and/or 68Ga-somatostatin receptor PET/CT with RECIST 1.1 criteria applied where appropriate. Longitudinal percentage changes (Δ) between sequential measurements were evaluated using predefined NETest2.0® thresholds and compared with the conventional CgA threshold (>50%). NETest2.0 Δ thresholds of >0% and >5% were evaluated a priori: >0% as a high-sensitivity threshold capturing any upward transcriptomic drift, and >5% as a more conservative threshold intended to reduce minor biological or analytical fluctuation. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, operating characteristics, multivariable analysis (MVA), and logistic regression analysis (LRA) were performed. Results: A total of 191 patients were analyzed. Exploratory ROC analysis demonstrated superior discrimination for progression using serial NETest2.0® changes compared with changes in CgA (AUC: 0.893 vs. 0.538; p < 0.0001). In the primary surveillance analysis, NETest2.0® thresholds of >0% and >5% achieved AUCs of 0.860 (95% CI: 0.803-0.906) and 0.822 (95% CI: 0.760-0.873), respectively, both significantly superior to CgA (AUC: 0.553, 95% CI: 0.480-0.625; both p < 0.0001). NETest2.0® >0% demonstrated the highest sensitivity (86.4%), whereas NETest2.0® >5% achieved the optimal balance of sensitivity (70.5%), specificity (93.9%), and overall accuracy (88.5%). In multivariable and logistic regression analyses, changes in NETest2.0® were the strongest independent predictor of progression (all p < 0.0001; odds ratios: 52.99-61.26), whereas CgA did not significantly contribute to progression prediction. Conclusions: Serial NETest2.0® assessment significantly outperformed CgA for monitoring NET disease activity and progression. These findings support the integration of NETest2.0® into molecularly informed surveillance strategies to complement imaging and improve longitudinal monitoring of patients with NETs.
Inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), is associated with reduced vagus nerve activity and impaired barrier function. Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) shows preventive effects in acute colitis, but its impact on intestinal barrier integrity remains unclear. To assess this, C57BL/6 male mice received taVNS (10 V, 20 Hz, 500 µs, 10 min) prior to colitis induction. UC-like colitis was induced using 5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) for 120 h with daily taVNS, while CD-like colitis was induced by intrarectal dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS, 4 mg) in 30% ethanol with taVNS during induction and for 48 h. TaVNS reduced colonic proliferation in non-colitic mice in a homeostatic manner, as well as in DNBS-colitic mice, and enhanced differentiation. It decreased enteroendocrine cells in non-colitic conditions but not in DSS-colitic mice, and reduced tuft cells in DSS and DNBS groups. TaVNS increased MUC2 in DSS colitis and decreased TFF3 in DNBS controls. It decreased Lgr5+ stem cells in DSS controls but maintained them during DSS colitis, while HOPX+ stem cells decreased in non-colitic DSS conditions, and fetal-like stem cells remained unchanged. Disease activity index negatively correlated with chromogranin A. TaVNS prevented increased paracellular permeability in the distal colon of DSS-colitic mice, increased TEER in distal DSS controls and proximal colitic colon, and enhanced ion transport in the proximal colon under non-colitic DSS conditions. Overall, taVNS effects on epithelial composition and barrier function are context- and model-dependent.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease involving complex immune pathways. Natural compounds derived from Aloe vera are attracting increasing attention for their potential in the treatment of dermatological disorders.A virtual screening of 110 A. vera-derived phytoconstituents was performed against three key protein targets implicated in AD: interleukin-4 receptor alpha, Janus kinase 1, and phosphodiesterase 4D. The top-ranked compounds were further assessed using absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) properties to evaluate drug-likeness and safety profiles. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations over 100 ns were conducted to examine the structural stability of the selected ligand-protein complexes.Quercetin and kaempferol showed the highest binding affinities across all three targets. ADMET analysis confirmed their favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profiles. MD simulations revealed stable and compact protein-ligand interactions, supporting their potential as multitarget inhibitors of AD.Quercetin and kaempferol from A. vera emerge as promising multitarget lead candidates for AD treatment, particularly for topical therapeutic applications. These findings warrant further in vitro and in vivo validation to support their potential clinical translation.© 2026 Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42381622 is a review article
Cardiac ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a major contributor to morbidity following myocardial infarction. While PDE4D has been implicated in cerebral I/R injury, its role and regulatory mechanisms in the cardiac context remain unclear.PDE4D expression was analyzed using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Apoptosis was assessed by TUNEL staining, flow cytometry, and detection of caspase-3, Bax, and Bcl-2 levels. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of PDE4D was examined via methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, luciferase reporter assays, and RNA stability measurements. The interaction between IGF2BP1 and PDE4D was confirmed by RNA immunoprecipitation.PDE4D was significantly upregulated in I/R-injured myocardium and in H9c2 cardiomyocytes subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation. Knockdown of PDE4D reduced infarct size, suppressed apoptosis, and improved cell viability. METTL14 mediated m6A methylation at 2 conserved sites within PDE4D mRNA, thereby enhancing its RNA stability. Silencing METTL14 decreased PDE4D expression and reduced its transcript stability. IGF2BP1 recognized m6A-modified PDE4D and promoted its RNA stability; ablation of IGF2BP1 abolished the effects of METTL14. Overexpression of PDE4D reversed the cardioprotective effects resulting from METTL14 silencing.METTL14 stabilizes PDE4D mRNA through m6A methylation, which is recognized by IGF2BP1, thereby exacerbating cardiac I/R injury.Copyright © 2026. The Korean Society of Cardiology.
Macroautophagy/autophagy represents a promising therapeutic target in oncology, exhibiting context-dependent roles in tumor progression. Kinase inhibitors are a large group of anti-cancer drugs, and elucidating the regulatory effects of different kinase inhibitors on autophagy offers a valuable strategy to advance our understanding of autophagy regulation in cancer and develop innovative anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we developed a drug screening platform and performed high-content screening using a kinase inhibitor library. The screening identified PTK2/FAK (protein tyrosine kinase 2) inhibitors as potent autophagy inducers. Mechanistic investigations revealed that PTK2/FAK inhibition triggers rapid autophagic flux through a non-classical mechanism dependent on PTK2/FAK expression, which is associated with the spatial redistribution of ER exit sites (ERES). Further analysis demonstrated that PTK2/FAK inhibitor (FAKi)-induced ERES-associated autophagy is not contingent upon full PREB/SEC12 and SEC16 expression, but is sensitized to TMED9 expression level. Additionally, we identified AKAP13 as a novel FAKi-responsive protein that undergoes dephosphorylation upon FAKi treatment and contributes to TMED9-mediated ERES-associated autophagy. Given that ERES-associated autophagy is initiated through membrane contact between ERES and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), we further observed enhanced TMED9-ERGIC interactions following FAKi treatment. Furthermore, functional studies confirmed that FAKi-induced autophagy promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell survival both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our work unveils a previously unrecognized mechanism of FAKi-mediated autophagy induction and provides new insights for developing targeted therapies against PDAC.Abbreviations: AKAP13: A-kinase anchoring protein 13; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF: bafilomycin A1; ECM: extracellular matrix; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERES: endoplasmic reticulum exit sites; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; GSK: GSK2256098; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDAC: pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Canine oral cancers are difficult to manage due to complex biology and a lack of non-invasive biomarkers. Proteomic approaches, particularly gel-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GeLC-MS/MS), have been used on tissue and saliva, but serum remains obscure despite its clinical accessibility and ability to reflect systemic disease.This study evaluated GeLC-MS/MS for serum proteomic profiling in canine oral malignancies, compared to benign and healthy conditions.We analysed 62 serum samples from dogs with oral melanoma (OM, n = 28), oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC, n = 10), benign tumours (BN, n = 12) and controls (healthy/periodontitis, n = 12) using GeLC-MS/MS-based proteomics.Significant protein expression differences emerged across groups. In OM and OSCC, phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) was upregulated, while ornithine decarboxylase antizyme 3 (OAZ3), centriolar coiled-coil protein 110 (CCP110), non-specific serine/threonine protein kinase 8 (NEK8), receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase F (PTPRF) and interleukin 23 receptor (IL23R) were downregulated. These proteins are linked to critical pathways, including insulin signalling, insulin resistance, adherens junctions and cell cycle regulation, highlighting their roles in cancer progression and showing potential interactions with common chemotherapy drugs like doxorubicin, cisplatin and cyclophosphamide.This study demonstrates that GeLC-MS/MS-based serum proteomics can successfully identify candidate biomarkers for canine oral malignancies. The discovery of these protein signatures represents promising diagnostic and prognostic targets, with the potential to guide chemotherapeutic selection and improve clinical outcomes in dogs with oral cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Medicine and Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of neurological disability and death worldwide, and effective therapeutic agents targeting cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury remain urgently needed. α-Mangostin, a xanthone derivative isolated from mangosteen fruit, possesses neuroprotective activity. This study aimed to explore the neuroprotective effect of α-mangostin on oxygen-glucose deprivation and reperfusion (OGD/R)-stimulated human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hBMECs). Cell viability, apoptosis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) content were evaluated by CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry, and ROS assay kit, respectively. Expression of phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) was detected by qRT-PCR and western blot analysis. α-Mangostin targets were retrieved from SwissTargetPrediction and SEA databases and ischemic stroke-related targets were obtained from DisGeNet and GeneCards databases. A Venn diagram was used to identify overlapping targets. Targets of PDE4D in ischemic stroke were predicted using CTD database and subjected to KEGG pathway analysis. The changes in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway were examined by western blot analysis. Results showed that α-mangostin alleviated OGD/R-induced viability reduction and apoptosis in hBMECs. Moreover, α-mangostin abolished OGD/R-triggered inflammatory response and ROS generation in hBMECs. PDE4D was identified as the only intersecting target of α-mangostin against ischemic stroke. α-Mangostin inhibited PDE4D expression and PDE4D overexpression reversed the effects of α-mangostin on OGD/R-induced injury in hBMECs. KEGG analysis showed that targets of PDE4D were enriched in MAPK pathway. α-Mangostin inactivated the MAPK pathway by downregulating PDE4D expression. In conclusion, α-mangostin attenuates OGD/R-induced injury in hBMECs through inhibiting the MAPK pathway by downregulating PDE4D expression. These findings provide an experimental basis for further research on α‑mangostin in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The stria vascularis is a key structure in the inner ear responsible for generating and maintaining the endocochlear potential (EP), and its dysfunction is closely associated with various forms of hearing loss. The stria vascularis is composed of marginal cells, intermediate cells, and basal cells, among which marginal cells play a central role in the generation and maintenance of the EP. Therefore, establishing an in vitro primary culture model of marginal cells is essential for investigating the biological characteristics of the stria vascularis and its involvement in hearing loss-related disorders. In this study, we successfully isolated and cultured primary marginal cells from the stria vascularis of neonatal mice. Strial tissues were obtained by microdissection, digested with type II collagenase, and purified by differential plating to remove most fibroblasts, with cultured cells reaching over 80% confluence by day 7. Immunofluorescence staining demonstrated stable expression of cytokeratin 18 (CK18) and potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 (KCNQ1), confirming successful isolation, high purity, and preserved physiological function of marginal cells. Based on this model, in vitro oxidative stress and cellular senescence models were established using hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and D-galactose, respectively. Treated cells exhibited significantly increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) positivity, indicating high sensitivity of primary marginal cells to oxidative stress and senescence-inducing stimuli. Collectively, this study establishes a stable and reproducible system for the culture and modeling of mouse primary marginal cells, providing a reliable in vitro platform for investigating stria vascularis dysfunction and related mechanisms.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as key regulatory molecules involved in driving cancer progression. However, the specific functional roles of numerous lncRNAs in ovarian cancer (OC) remain largely underexplored. The present study aimed to elucidate the role and underlying mechanisms of potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 opposite strand/antisense transcript 1 (KCNQ1OT1) in OC progression. Bioinformatics prediction using the TargetScan and starBase databases revealed that both KCNQ1OT1 and kallikrein-related peptidase 10 (KLK10) harbor complementary binding sites for microRNA (miR)-140-5p. The direct interaction between miR-140-5p and KCNQ1OT1 or KLK10 was experimentally validated using miRNA pull-down assays. Analysis of GEO datasets (GSE66957 and GSE47841), followed by RT-qPCR validation in SKOV3 and IOSE80 cells, revealed that KCNQ1OT1 and KLK10 were markedly upregulated, whereas miR-140-5p was downregulated in OC compared with that in normal ovarian controls. CCK-8 and wound-healing assays demonstrated that silencing KCNQ1OT1 markedly suppressed OC cell proliferation and migration, effects that were reversed by miR-140-5p inhibition. Conversely, inhibition of miR-140-5p enhanced OC cell proliferation and migration, which were abrogated by KLK10 knockdown. Collectively, these findings identified a previously unrecognized regulatory axis in OC, in which KCNQ1OT1 promotes tumor cell proliferation and migration by modulating the miR-140-5p/KLK10 pathway. The present study advances the mechanistic understanding of lncRNA-mediated oncogenesis and provides preliminary evidence supporting a potential role of KCNQ1OT1 in OC progression.Copyright: © 2026 Duan et al.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) represents a complex interplay of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. In this study, we utilized whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 28 patients with obstructive CAD to identify rare variants that may influence clinical outcomes beyond conventional atherosclerotic risk. We examined 74 genes curated from the Genomics England PanelApp, focusing on familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), cardiac arrhythmias (CA), and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), ultimately detecting 8,251 variants. After applying a stringent filtering process with a population maximum allele frequency (PopMax AF) threshold of <0.1%, we identified 68 candidate variants across 23 genes. The majority were associated with CA (47/68, 69%), followed by PAH (12/68, 18%) and FH (9/68, 13%). Notably, 30 variants (44%) were novel, and 18 were categorized as high-impact frameshift mutations. The highest burden of candidate variants was found in the sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 10 (SCN10A), followed by the ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2), mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthetase 2 (SARS2), A-kinase anchoring protein 9 (AKAP9), and hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 4 (HCN4). Clinical evaluation revealed a pathogenic variant in the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and likely pathogenic variants in sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5 (SCN5A) and potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 (KCNQ1); additionally, nine other variants were predicted to be deleterious, including five novel SCN10A variants. Functional annotation using Gene Ontology (GO) and Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) highlighted mechanisms impacting cardiac structure, electrical conduction, and lipid homeostasis.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype that lacks effective targeted therapies and frequently develops resistance to paclitaxel, with the underlying mechanisms remaining incompletely understood. Clinically, elevated TRPS1 expression was significantly associated with poor pathological response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and reduced overall survival in TNBC patients. Mechanistically, we identified phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) as a direct transcriptional target of TRPS1 and showed that TRPS1-driven PDE4D upregulation promotes paclitaxel resistance by activating cAMP–PI3K–AKT survival signaling and destabilizing microtubules. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of PDE4D with roflumilast, an FDA-approved PDE4 inhibitor, restored cAMP signaling, suppressed AKT activation, improved microtubule stability, and resensitized TRPS1-high TNBC models to paclitaxel in vitro and in vivo. Together, these findings define the TRPS1–PDE4D axis as a previously unrecognized driver of paclitaxel resistance in TNBC, support TRPS1 as a potential predictive biomarker of treatment response, and suggest that repurposing roflumilast may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome paclitaxel resistance in TRPS1-overexpressing TNBC.
In the colonic mucosal tissues of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), the levels of resolvin D5 (RvD5), a specialized pro-resolving mediator, are significantly reduced and negatively correlate with disease severity. Whether RvD5 can ameliorate UC remain unclear. Here, we show that exogenous supplement of RvD5 remarkably reduces neutrophil infiltration within the colonic mucosal epithelial layers and alleviates dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis in mice. Adoptive transfer of neutrophils significantly attenuates the alleviation of RvD5 against colitis, indicating that inhibition of neutrophil infiltration plays a crucial role in the anti-colitis effect. Mechanistically, RvD5 activates GPR101 in colonic epithelial cells to selectively downregulate CXCL8 expression through inhibiting pSTAT1 expression and thereby suppressing neutrophil infiltration within colonic mucosal epithelial layer, and GPR101 knockdown attenuates the above-mentioned effect of RvD5. Based on molecular docking screening from natural product library, epimedin A1 is identified as a novel enhancer of RvD5 biosynthesis in M2 macrophages, which functions through allosteric inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX). Epimedin A1 significantly elevates RvD5 levels in colonic tissue, suppresses CXCL8 expression in colonic epithelial cells, and reduces mucosal epithelial neutrophil infiltration in colitis mice. In summary, RvD5 and its biosynthesis promoter epimedin A1 are promising as therapeutic agents of UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Retinal ganglion cells are susceptible to neurodegenerative conditions and their death drives common forms of irreversible vision loss. In mice, there are 46 transcriptionally unique retinal ganglion cell types that demonstrate different susceptibilities to degeneration. Recent transcriptional experiments defined a novel retinal ganglion cell type that survives particularly well and uniquely expresses high levels of the orphan G-protein-coupled receptor 88. Motivated to study this retinal ganglion cell type, we obtained GPR88-Cre transgenic mice to identify the novel well-surviving retinal ganglion cells and examine their survival and regenerative potential. Our experiments demonstrate that this unidentified retinal ganglion cell type is likely accordant with previously described ON-direction-selective retinal ganglion cells. Interestingly, we find that ON-direction-selective retinal ganglion cells are resilient, but demonstrate limited potential to regenerate their axons in response to well-characterized regenerative treatments. Studying the molecular properties of the ON-direction-selective retinal ganglion cells could unlock new therapeutics to preserve retinal ganglion cells in patients.
We have used long-read single molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing to fully characterize a ~12Mb genomic region on chromosome Xq24-q27, significantly linked to bipolar disorder (BD) in an extended family from a genetic sub-isolate. This family segregates BD in at least four generations with 24 affected individuals.We selected 16 family members for targeted sequencing. The selected individuals either carried the disease haplotype, were non-carriers of the disease haplotype, or served as married-in controls. We designed hybrid capture probes enriching for 5-9Kb fragments spanning the entire 12Mb region that were then sequenced to screen for candidate structural variants (SVs) that could explain the increased risk for BD in this extended family.Altogether, 201 variants were detected in the critically linked region. Although most of these represented common variants, three variants emerged that showed near-perfect segregation among all BD type I affected individuals. Two of the SVs were identified in or near genes belonging to the RNA Binding Motif Protein, X-Linked (RBMX) gene family-a 330bp Alu (subfamily AluYa5) deletion in intron 3 of the RBMX2 gene and an intergenic 27bp tandem repeat deletion between the RBMX and G protein-coupled receptor 101 (GPR101) genes. The third SV was a 50bp tandem repeat insertion in intron 1 of the Coagulation Factor IX (F9) gene.Among the three genetically linked SVs, additional evidence supported the Alu element deletion in RBMX2 as the leading candidate for contributing directly to the disease development of BD type I in this extended family.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33574795 is a review article
Non-syndromic pituitary gigantism (PG) is a very rare disease. Aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein (AIP) and G protein-coupled receptor 101 (GPR101) genetic abnormalities represent important etiologic causes of PG and may account for up to 40% of these cases. Here, we aimed to characterize the clinical and molecular findings and long-term outcomes in 18 patients (15 males, three females) with PG followed at a single tertiary center in Sao Paulo, Brazil.Genetic testing for AIP and GPR101 were performed by DNA sequencing, droplet digital PCR and array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH).Pathogenic variants in the AIP gene were detected in 25% of patients, including a novel variant in splicing regulatory sequences which was present in a sporadic male case. X-LAG due to GPR101 microduplication was diagnosed in two female patients (12.5%). Of interest, these patients had symptoms onset by age 5 and 9 years old and diagnosis at 5 and 15 years, respectively. X-LAG, but not AIP, patients had a significantly lower age of symptoms onset and diagnosis and a higher height Z-score when compared to non-X-LAG. No other differences in clinical features and/or treatment outcomes were observed among PG based on their genetic background.We characterize the clinical and molecular findings and long-term outcome of the largest single-center PG cohort described so far.
In addition to motor disability, another characteristic feature of Parkinson disease is the early appearance of psychiatric symptoms, including apathy, depression, anxiety and cognitive deficits; treatments for these symptoms are limited by the development of adverse effects such as impulse-control disorders. In this context, we investigated the orphan G protein-coupled receptor 88 (GPR88) as a novel therapeutic target.We used lentiviral-mediated expression of specifically designed microRNA to knock down Gpr88 in a translational male rat model of early Parkinson disease obtained by dopamine loss in the dorsolateral striatum as a result of 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. We evaluated the impact of Gpr88 knockdown on the Parkinson disease model using behavioural, immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies.Knockdown of Gpr88 in associative territories of the dorsal striatum efficiently reduced alterations in mood, motivation and cognition through modulation of the regulator of the G-protein signalling 4 and of the truncated splice variant of the FosB transcription factor. Knockdown of Gpr88 also reduced allostatic changes in striatal activity markers that may be related to patterns observed in patients and that provide support for an "overload" hypothesis for the etiology of the psychiatric symptoms of Parkinson disease.Behavioural tests assessing specific cognitive and motivational parameters are needed to further characterize the effects of the lesion and of Gpr88 knockdown in early-stage and advanced Parkinson disease models, presenting more extensive dopamine loss. Additional studies focusing on the direct and indirect striatal output pathways are also required, because little is known about the signalling pathways regulated by GPR88 in different striatal cell types.GPR88 may constitute a highly relevant target for the treatment of the psychiatric symptoms of Parkinson disease.© 2021 Joule Inc. or its licensors.
Lutetium Lu 177-based agents Lutathera (targeting SSTR in GEP-NETs) and Pluvicto (targeting PSMA in mCRPC) exhibited significant efficacy in clinical trials, yet real-world safety validation remains imperative.We performed disproportionality analysis on FAERS reports and applied network pharmacology to identify drug targets, construct protein-protein interaction networks, and elucidate adverse event mechanisms through KEGG pathway enrichment.Shared adverse reactions for both agents include pleural effusion (ROR 1.68, 95%CI: 1.03-2.74) and pulmonary embolism (ROR 1.06, 95%CI: 0.61-1.82). Lutathera shows higher risks of gastrointestinal toxicities such as intestinal obstruction (ROR 5.33, 95%CI: 3.82-7.43) and infection-related events like liver abscess (ROR 26.16, 95%CI: 15.73-43.51). Pluvicto is associated with subdural hematoma (ROR 6.91, 95%CI: 3.82-12.5) and loss of libido (ROR 16.29, 95%CI: 10.88-24.38). KEGG pathway enrichment analysis further delineates mechanistic divergence, revealing significant target enrichment in peptide GPCRs (-log10(P) = 62.44) and neuropeptide signaling pathway (-log10(P) = 23.63) for Lutathera versus predominant involvement of proteasome (-log10(P) = 80.59) and peptide ligand-binding receptors (-log10(P) = 22.84) for Pluvicto.This FAERS analysis characterizes agent-specific safety profiles, informing pharmacovigilance strategies. Mechanistic profiling of adverse drug reactions optimizes evidence-based treatment, enhancing medication safety and refining benefit-risk profiles in clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41347064 is a review article
The increasing demographic aging of society is a great challenge to the healthcare sector and raises the socio-economic burden. Therefore, elucidating the mechanisms of aging and developing safe effective anti-aging products to prolong people's healthy lifespan are paramount nowadays. Panax ginseng has been highly regarded since ancient times for its ability to enhance health and prolong life. However, its main active substances of anti-aging and their mechanisms are not fully understood. In this research, Caenorhabditis elegans was used as a model organism to explore and confirm the key active substances from Panax ginseng and the mechanisms that exert anti-aging effects. Various ginsenoside compounds were evaluated based on longevity, anti-stress, physiological function, etc. Ginsenoside Re, which has powerful anti-aging activity, was screened. In the follow-up trials, transcriptomics and RT-qPCR techniques were used to investigate the mechanism of Re in exerting its anti-aging properties. Differential genes were enriched in the Insulin/Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 Signaling (IIS) pathway, the neuropeptide signaling pathway, and lipid metabolism. A significant increase in the expression levels of daf-16, sgk-1, skn-1, hsf-1, hsp-16.2, sod-3, gst-4, fil-2, lips-11, cyp-35A4, and aex-2 genes, and a significant decrease in the expression levels of daf-2, age-1, and akt-2 genes were verified. These suggest that ginsenoside Re exerts its life-extending influence by regulating lipid metabolism and the IIS pathway.
KCNT1 encodes a sodium-activated potassium channel, and its variant can lead to refractory epilepsy. The resistance to antiseizure medication in KCNT1 variant-related epilepsy suggests the presence of complex gene regulation. Our goal is to clarify the pathogenicity of a KCNT1 variant associated with epilepsy.Here, we intended to characterize the pathogenicity of the Kcnt1-269 variant (c.805 G > A, c.807 G > C, p.G269S; corresponding to c.862 G > A, p.G288S in human) in vitro and in vivo, and to analyze the transcriptome of the rat cerebral cortex through RNA sequencing.Our study revealed that homozygous Kcnt1-269 variant rats showed excessive neuroexcitability in CA1 pyramidal neurons, including enhanced neuronal action potential amplitudes, decreased action potential thresholds, and increased neuronal firing numbers. Homozygous and heterozygous Kcnt1-269 variant rats had high frequency of evoked action potential under different step currents. The cumulative dose of pentetrazol required to induce epileptic seizures in homozygous Kcnt1-269 variant rats was significantly lower compared with wild-type rats. Transcriptome analysis of the cerebral cortex identified 190 upregulated and 149 downregulated genes in heterozygous Kcnt1-269 variant rats compared with wild-type rats. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that "nucleolus," "neuropeptide signaling pathway," "dendrite," and "protein binding" were the most prominent Gene Ontology terms, while "neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction" was one of the most significant Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes terms.Our findings elucidate the epileptogenicity of the Kcnt1-269 variant in rats and may provide new insights into the pathways associated with Kcnt1 variant-related epilepsy through transcriptome analysis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Circadian neurons form a complex neural network that generates circadian oscillations. How the circadian neural network transmits circadian signals to other brain regions, thereby regulating the activity patterns in fruit flies, is not well known. Using the FlyWire database, we identified a cluster of descending neurons, DNp27, which is densely connected with key circadian neurons and the visual circuit, projecting extensively across the brain. DNp27 receives excitatory inputs from the circadian neurons DN3s at night and photo-inhibitory signals predominantly during the day, resulting in calcium oscillations that peak in the early morning and dip at dusk. Experimental manipulation of DNp27 revealed its role in activity regulation: artificial activation of DNp27 decreased flies' activity, while ablation or silencing led to an advance in the morning anticipatory peak. Similar alterations in the morning peak were observed following pan-neuronal knockdown of either Trissin or TrissinR, suggesting the involvement of this neuropeptide signaling pathway in DNp27 function. Moreover, neural circuitry and connectivity analyses indicate that DNp27 may regulate circadian neurons via extra-clock electrical oscillators (xCEOs). Lastly, we found that DNp27 modulates arousal thresholds by inhibiting light-responsive activity in the central brain, thereby promoting sleep stability, particularly in the pre-dawn period. Together, these findings suggest that DNp27 plays a crucial role in maintaining stable sleep patterns.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Climate change and growing population and their strain on animal production are the impending challenges that the developing countries, like India, need to tackle in the coming days. This study aimed to detect and analyze the uncharacterized variation in the gene expression patterns with the change of condition, from thermoneutral to chronic hot-humid, in the Sahiwal cattle, one of the best breeds of milk-producing cattle in India, known for being heat-tolerant. Using RNA-Seq analysis on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), 4021 differentially expressed mRNAs (2772 upregulated, 1249 downregulated) and 1303 differentially expressed long non-coding RNAs (769 upregulated, 534 downregulated) were identified, with the thresholds of false discovery rate < 0.05 and|log2(fold change)| > 2. Significantly (p-adjusted < 0.05) overrepresented Gene Ontology (GO) terms, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Reactome pathways were analyzed, revealing upregulation of processes like pyruvate metabolic process, gluconeogenesis, ion transmembrane transport, neuropeptide signaling pathway, and animal organ development, with genes like SHH, GRK1, CHRM3, CAMK2A, and HSPB7 were upregulated, while translation and immune responses, with genes like RPS3, EEF1A1, TNF, BoLA-DRB3, and UBB were downregulated. Analysis of cis-mRNAs of DE-lncRNAs showed presence of both up- and down-regulated cis-mRNAs for both up- and down-regulated lncRNAs indicating existence of positive and negative regulation of mRNA expression by lncRNAs. Managemental nudges that decrease metabolic heat generation, like betaine and chromium supplementation, and increase heat dissipation, like microenvironment cooling, should be utilized. This study highlights the role of pyruvate metabolism and gluconeogenesis in coping up with heat stress and offers an improved understanding of the heat stress response of Sahiwal cattle along with the genes and pathways responsible for it.© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to International Society of Biometeorology.
Aging generally affects food consumption and energy metabolism. Since the feeding center is located in the hypothalamus, it is a major target for understanding the mechanism of age-related changes in eating behavior and metabolism. To obtain insight into the age-related changes in gene expression in the hypothalamus, we investigated genes whose expression changes with age in the hypothalamus. A DNA microanalysis was performed using hypothalamus samples obtained from young (aged 24 weeks) and old male mice (aged 138 weeks). Gene Ontology (GO) analysis was performed using the identified differentially expressed genes. We observed that the expression of 377 probe sets was significantly altered with aging (177 were upregulated and 200 were downregulated in old mice). As a result of the GO analysis of these probe sets, 16 GO terms, including the neuropeptide signaling pathway, were obtained. Intriguingly, although the food intake in old mice was lower than that in young mice, we found that several neuropeptide genes, such as agouti-related neuropeptide ( Agrp ), neuropeptide Y ( Npy ), and pro-melanin-concentrating hormone ( Pmch ), all of which promote food intake, were upregulated in old mice. In conclusion, this suggests that the gene expression pattern in the hypothalamus is regulated to promote food intake.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Yuanhu Zhitong Prescription (YZP) is a well-known traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula for neuropathic pain (NP) therapy with a satisfying clinical efficacy. However, the underlying pharmacological mechanism and its compatibility principle remain unclear.This study aims to investigate the analgesic and compatibility mechanisms of YZP on neuropathic pain (NP) at the gene and biological process levels.The chronic constriction injury (CCI) rats were intragastrically administrated with extracts of YZP, YH and BZ separately, and then mechanical hypersensitivity were measured to evaluate the analgesic effects between YH and BZ before and after compatibility. Then, RNA-seq and bioinformatics analyses were performed to elucidate the potential mechanisms underlying YZP's analgesia and compatibility. Finally, the expression levels and significant differences of key genes were analyzed.Behaviorally, both YZP and YH effectively alleviated mechanical allodynia in CCI rats, with YZP being superior to YH. In contrast, we did not observe an analgesic effect of BZ. Genetically, YZP, YH, and BZ reversed the expression levels of 52, 34, and 42 aberrant genes in the spinal cord of CCI rats, respectively. Mechanically, YZP was revealed to alleviate NP mainly by modulating the inflammatory response and neuropeptide signaling pathway, which are the dominant effective processes of YH. Interestingly, the effective targets of YZP were especially enriched in leukocyte activation and cytokine-mediated signaling pathways. Moreover, BZ was found to exert an adjunctive effect in enhancing the analgesic effect of YH by promoting skeletal muscle tissue regeneration and modulating calcium ion transport.YH, as the monarch drug, plays a dominant role in the analgesic effect of YZP that effectively relieves NP by inhibiting the spinal inflammation and neuropeptide signaling pathway. BZ, as the minister drug, not only synergistically enhances analgesic processes of YH but also helps to alleviate the accompanying symptoms of NP. Consequently, YZP exerted a more potent analgesic effect than YH and BZ alone. In conclusion, our findings offer new insights into understanding the pharmacological mechanism and compatibility principle of YZP, which may support its clinical application in NP therapy.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Unlike other poultry, parent pigeons produce "pigeon milk" in their crops to nurture their squabs, which is mainly controlled by prolactin (PRL). Exception for PRL, the pituitary gland may also release various other peptide and protein hormones. However, whether these hormones change during pigeon crop lactation and their potential physiological functions remain unclear. Here, to identify potential peptide or protein hormone genes that regulate crop lactation, we conducted transcriptome analysis of pigeon pituitary glands at 3 different breeding stages (the ceased stage-nonincubation and non-nurturing stage, the 11th d of the incubation, and the 1st d of the nurturing stage) using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Our analysis identified a total of 15,191 mRNAs and screened out 297 differentially expressed genes (DEG), including PRL, VIP, etc. The expression abundance of PRL mRNA on the 1st d of the nurturing stage was respectively 4.93 and 3.62 folds higher when compared to the ceased stage and the 11th d of the incubation stage. Additionally, the expression abundance of VIP is higher in the 1st d of the nurturing stage than in the ceased stage. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and Molecular Complex Detection (MCODE) analysis identified several vital DEGs (e.g., GHRHR, VIP, etc.), being closely linked with hormone and enriched in neuropeptide signaling pathway and response to the hormone. Expression pattern analysis revealed that these DEGs exhibited 4 distinct expression patterns (profile 10, 16, 18, 19). Genes in profile 10 and 19 presented a trend with the highest expression level on 1st d of the nurturing stage, and functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes are involved in neuropeptide hormone activity, receptor-ligand activity, and the extracellular matrix, etc. Taken together, being consistent with PRL, some genes encoding peptide and protein hormones (e.g., VIP) presented differentially expressed in different breeding stages. It suggests that these hormones may be involved in regulation of the crop lactation process or corresponding behavior in domestic pigeons. The results of this study help to gain new insights into the role of pituitary gland in regulating pigeon lactation.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the expression alterations of specific genes that occur after venous stroke, we identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between sham and damaged cortical tissues at 2 and 7 days after induction of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) model. The profiles of DEGs were analyzed using GO, KEGG, GSEA, and PPI, and the crucial gene was further verified by western blot and immunofluorescence. We found 969 and 883 DEGs at 2 and 7 days after CVST, respectively. A marked increase in biological-process categories, such as immune system process and inflammatory response, and a decrease in neuropeptide signaling pathway were observed both at 2 and 7 days post-CVST. The KEGG pathway was enriched to varying degrees on complement and coagulation cascades, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and multiple immune-inflammatory signaling pathways at 2 and 7 days post-CVST, separately. Furthermore, GSEA highlights the potential roles of the NOD-like receptor signaling pathway and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction in CVST. Importantly, numerous genes related to KEGG pathways above featured prominently in the PPI network analysis, with IL1b being one of the most conspicuous. These time-dependent alterations in gene profiles and enrichment pathways reveal the unique pathophysiological characteristics of CVST and indicate novel therapeutic targets for venous stroke. SIGNIFICANCE: Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is an underrated and potentially fatal cause of stroke with a reported mortality of 5-10% worldwide. Currently, in addition to anticoagulant and thrombolytic therapy, effective treatments targeting the injured brain parenchyma after CVST remain limited. Besides, accurate diagnostic markers are still sorely lacking. In the present study, we will detect the transcriptomic alterations of the cerebral cortex of mice post-CVST by RNA-sequencing, screen differentially expressed genes and abnormal pathways through bioinformatics methods, analyze the correlation of these signals and CVST pathology, and finally validate the key molecules through western blot and immunofluorescence assays. Collectively, the study aimed to offer a reference for the discovery of specific genes/pathway alterations in the damaged cortical tissues of CVST mice and further reveal the underlying pathogenesis, thereby providing evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of CVST.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Pulpitis is one of the most common oral inflammatory diseases. There are many limitations in the traditional methods of diagnosing pulpitis. By replacing new diagnostic ways based on biomarkers, it is possible to quickly and accurately identify this disease. Biological indicators have greatly helped not only in the screening of infectious diseases but also in early and appropriate treatment. In this research, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to pulpitis were analyzed, and prognostic biomarkers were introduced.In this in silico study, we applied the GSE77459 dataset as the gene expression profile of pulpitis. Web tool, GEO2R was used to separate up-regulated and down-regulated DEGs. |logFC|>2 and adjusted p-value < 0.05 was set as the cut-off criterion. For the pathway enrichment study of obtained genes, EnrichR was implemented. After constructing a protein‑protein interaction (PPI) network, hub genes that are involved in pulpitis were selected. Finally, functionally grouped networks by ClueGO software (v2.5.10) were generated.GEO2R analysis of the GSE77459 dataset showed 672 up-regulated genes and 239 down-regulated genes with GB_ACC code. Based on Cytoscape results, the 15 top hubba nodes were ranked including PTPRC, ITGAM, CCL2, ICAM1, MMP9, CXCL8, TLR2, CD86, CXCR4, IL1A, CD44, CCL3, ITGAX, CXCL10, and CCR7. Functionally grouped networks determined that these genes were mainly enriched in chemokine-mediated signaling pathway, morphogenesis of endothelium, and neuroinflammatory response.In our research, 15 genes were introduced as diagnostic biomarkers in pulpitis and their functionally grouped networks were constructed. However, the obtained results need to be validated using in vitro and in vivo methods.Copyright © 2025 European Oral Research.
Patients with sub-acute cerebral venous sinus thrombosis experience (SA.CVST) severe symptoms compared to two other venous sinus-related diseases, including chronic cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (C.CVST) and idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH).This study aimed to determine whether the different immune reactions in different venous sinuses are related.Stagnant blood in the cerebral venous sinuses was extracted by passing a microcatheter and CD14-positive cells were sorted by magnetic beads and subjected to RNA-seq sequencing.Compared to patients with IIH, 128 genes were significantly down-regulated and 373 genes were significantly up-regulated in the sub-acute CVST samples. The functions of these genes were mainly focused on "immune response", "T cell activation" and "plasma membrane". Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) showed T cell survival and activation-related function significantly unregulated in sub-acute CVST. On the other hand, there were 366 genes down-regulated in chronic CVST and 75 genes up-regulated in chronic CVST. In functional annotation, these differently expressed genes were enriched in the "extracellular region", "chemokine-mediated signaling pathway" and "immune response". GSEA analysis confirmed that chemokine-related functions were all up-regulated in sub-acute CVST and monocyte-macrophage adhesion functions were also significantly up-regulated.This study suggested the CD14-positive created an activated immune response in sub-acute CVST.Copyright © 2024 Chang, Song, Zhu, Zhang, Fu, Wang, Dong, Jiang, Mo and Zhang.
The complexity of delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) may require the simultaneous analysis of variant types of protein biomarkers to describe it more accurately. In this study, we analyzed for the first time the alterations of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteins in patients with aSAH by multi-targeted Olink proteomics, aiming to reveal the pathophysiology of DCI and provide insights into the diagnosis and treatment of aSAH.Six aSAH patients and six control patients were selected, and CSF samples were analyzed by Olink Proteomics (including 96-neurology panel and 96-inflammation panel) based on Proximity Extension Assay (PEA). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were acquired and bioinformatics analysis was performed.PCA analysis revealed better intra- and inter-group reproducibility of CSF samples in the control and aSAH groups. 23 neurology-related and 31 inflammation-relevant differential proteins were identified. In the neurology panel, compared to controls, the up-regulated proteins in the CSF of SAH patients predominantly included macrophage scavenger receptor 1 (MSR1), siglec-1, siglec-9, cathepsin C (CTSC), cathepsin S (CTSS), etc. Meanwhile, in the inflammation group, the incremental proteins mainly contained interleukin-6 (IL-6), MCP-1, CXCL10, CXCL-9, TRAIL, etc. Cluster analysis exhibited significant differences in differential proteins between the two groups. GO function enrichment analysis hinted that the differential proteins pertinent to neurology in the CSF of SAH patients were mainly involved in the regulation of defense response, vesicle-mediated transport and regulation of immune response; while the differential proteins related to inflammation were largely connected with the cellular response to chemokine, response to chemokine and chemokine-mediated signaling pathway. Additionally, in the neurology panel, KEGG enrichment analysis indicated that the differential proteins were significantly enriched in the phagosome, apoptosis and microRNAs in cancer pathway. And in the inflammation panel, the differential proteins were mainly enriched in the chemokine signaling pathway, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor and toll-like receptor signaling pathway.These identified differential proteins reveal unique pathophysiological characteristics secondary to aSAH. Further characterization of these proteins and aberrant pathways in future research could enable their application as potential therapeutic targets and biomarkers for DCI after aSAH.© 2024. The Author(s).
Myocardial infarction (MI) is one of the most lethal cardiovascular diseases. The loss of cardiomyocytes and the degradation of the extracellular matrix leads to high ventricular wall stress, which further drives the pathological thinning of the ventricular wall during MI. Injecting biomaterials to thicken the infarct ventricular wall provides mechanical support, thereby inhibiting the continued expansion of the heart. As an injectable biomaterial, alginate hydrogel has achieved exciting results in clinical trials, but further research needs to be conducted to determine whether it can improve cardiac function in addition to providing mechanical support. This study sought to explore these mechanisms in an animal model of MI.A MI model was established in male C57BL/6J mice by ligation of the proximal left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery. Intramyocardial injections (hydrogel or saline group) were performed in the proximal wall regions bordering the infarct area (with one 20-µL injection). Four weeks after MI, RNA sequencing revealed that 342 messenger RNAs (mRNAs) from the infarcted hearts were differentially expressed between the saline group and hydrogel group. We subsequently conducted a Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis to analyze the RNA sequencing data. In addition, we employed both western blotting and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) techniques to verify a number of genes that were differentially expressed and could potentially affect cardiac function after MI. Subsequently, we confirmed these findings through in vitro experiments.We found that compared with hydrogel treatment group, 250 mRNAs were upregulated and 92 mRNAs were downregulated in saline group (P<0.05). And by exploring the GO and KEGG signaling pathways as well as the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, we found that administration of alginate hydrogel modulated cardiomyocyte inflammation-associated proteins as well as chemokine-related proteins during the inflammatory response phase after MI. In addition, our analysis at both the protein and RNA level revealed that B2M was effective in improving cardiac function after MI in the hydrogel treatment group, which was consistent in the myocardium oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) injury model.We explored the transcriptome changes of infarcted hearts after alginate-hydrogel injection during the inflammatory response period. Our findings suggest that the injectable hydrogel directly alters the inflammatory response and the chemokine-mediated signaling pathway of cardiomyocytes, ultimately improving cardiac function.2024 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.
In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and extensive vaccination, it is important to explore the immune response of elderly adults to homologous and heterologous booster vaccines of COVID-19. At this point, we detected serum IgG antibodies and PBMC sample transcriptome profiles in 46 participants under 70 years old and 25 participants over 70 years old who received the third dose of the BBIBP-CorV and ZF2001 vaccines.On day 7, the antibody levels of people over 70 years old after the third dose of booster vaccine were lower than those of young people, and the transcriptional responses of innate and adaptive immunity were also weak. The age of the participants showed a significant negative correlation with functions related to T-cell differentiation and costimulation. Nevertheless, 28 days after the third dose, the IgG antibodies of elderly adults reached equivalence to those of younger adults, and immune-related transcriptional regulation was significantly improved. The age showed a significant positive correlation with functions related to "chemokine receptor binding", "chemokine activity", and "chemokine-mediated signaling pathway".Our results document that the response of elderly adults to the third dose of the vaccine was delayed, but still able to achieve comparable immune effects compared to younger adults, in regard to antibody responses as well as at the transcript level.© 2024. The Author(s).
Objective: Studies have revealed the alteration of chemokines in the tumour microenvironment in renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), which is closely related with immune infiltration and the prognosis of patients with KIRC. This research aims to comprehensively clarify the signature of chemokines in KIRC and the correlation between chemokines and immune infiltration in the TME of KIRC. Methods: The chemokine expression in KIRC were investigated by using multiple multiomics and bioinformatics tools. Hub-chemokines that were significantly related with the cancer stage and survival were identified. The role of hub-chemokines in the tumor microenvironment of KIRC was further assessed by using enrichment analysis, cancer-related pathway and immune infiltration analysis. Results: A total of 20 chemokines were significantly elevated in KIRC. Based on the correlation with KIRC stages and survival, 13 hub-chemokines were identified. Among the hub-chemokines, the high expression of CXCL2, CXCL5 and CXCL13 were related with worse survival of KIRC patients. The hub-chemokines were associated with the activation of multiple cancer-related signaling pathways. The functions of hub-chemokines were mainly enriched in chemokine-mediated signaling pathway, immunocytes chemotaxis and chemokine activity. CCL4, CCL5, CXCL9, CXCL10 and CXCL11 were related with various types immune infiltration such as CD8+T cell, neutrophil, B cell and dendritic cell. Using the hub-chemokine CXCL10, multiple immune checkpoints including LAG3, CTLA-4 and PD-1 were identified. Conclusion: Our research sheds light on the chemokines and their important role in promoting the tumor microenvironment of KIRC. The findings could provide more data about the prognosis prediction and treatment targets for KIRC.© The author(s).
Houttuynia cordata Thunb. (HC) is a traditional anti-pyretic herb that is classified as the lung meridian in traditional Chinese medicine. However, no articles have explored the main organs responsible for the anti-inflammatory activities of HC.The aim of the study was to investigate the meridian tropism theory of HC in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pyretic mice, as well as to identify the underlying mechanisms.Transgenic mice carrying the luciferase gene driven by nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) were intraperitoneally injected with LPS and orally administered standardized concentrated HC aqueous extract. The phytochemicals present in the HC extract were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography. In vivo and ex vivo luminescent imaging from transgenic mice was used to investigate the meridian tropism theory and anti-inflammatory effects of HC. Microarray analysis of gene expression patterns was used to elucidate the therapeutic mechanisms of HC.HC extract was found to contain phenolic acids, such as protocatechuic acid (4.52%) and chlorogenic acid (8.12%), as well as flavonoids like rutin (2.05%) and quercitrin (7.73%). The bioluminescent intensities induced by LPS in the heart, liver, respiratory system, and kidney were significantly suppressed by HC, while the maximal decrease (about 90% reduction) of induced luminescent intensity was observed in the upper respiratory tract. These data suggested that upper respiratory system might be the target for HC anti-inflammatory abilities. HC affected the processes involved in innate immunity, such as chemokine-mediated signaling pathway, inflammatory response, chemotaxis, neutrophil chemotaxis, and cellular response to interleukin-1 (IL-1). Moreover, HC significantly reduced the proportions of p65-stained cells and the amount of IL-1β in trachea tissues.Bioluminescent imaging coupled with gene expression profile was used to demonstrate the organ selectivity, anti-inflammatory effects, and therapeutic mechanisms of HC. Our data demonstrated for the first time that HC displayed lung meridian-guiding effects and exhibited great anti-inflammatory potential in the upper respiratory tract. The NF-κB and IL-1β pathways were associated with the anti-inflammatory mechanism of HC against LPS-provoked airway inflammation. Moreover, chlorogenic acid and quercitrin might be involved in the anti-inflammatory properties of HC.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neuropathic pain as a complex chronic disease that occurs after neurological injury, however the underlying mechanisms are not clarified in detail, hence therapeutic options are limited. The purpose of this study was to explore potential hub genes for neuropathic pain and evaluate the clinical application of these genes in predicting neuropathic pain.Differentially expressed analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to explore new neuropathic pain susceptibility modules and hub genes. KEGG and GO analyses was utilized to explore the potential role of these hub genes. Nomogram model and ROC curves was established to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of hub genes. Additionally, the correlation of IL-2 with immune infiltration was explored. Finally, a Mendelian randomization study was conducted to determine the causal effect of IL-2 on neuropathic pain based on genome-wide association studies.WGCNA was performed to establish the networks of gene co-expression, screen for the most relevant module, and screen for 440 overlapping WGCNA-derived key genes. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses demonstrated that the key genes were correlated with cytokine receptor binding, chemokine receptor binding, positive regulation of JAK-STAT cascade, chemokine-mediated signaling pathway, PI3K-AKT pathway and chemokine pathway. Through Cytoscape software, top ten up-regulated genes with high scores were IL2, SMELL, CCL4, CCR3, CXCL1, CCR1, HGF, CXCL2, GATA3, and CRP. In addition, nomogram model performed well in predicting neuropathic pain risk, and with the ROC curve, the model was showed to be effective in diagnosis. Finally, IL2 was selected and we observed that IL2 was causally associated with immune cell infiltrates in trigeminal neuralgia. In inverse variance weighting, we found that IL2 was associated with the risk of trigeminal neuralgia with an OR of 1.203 (95% CI = 1.004-1.443, p = 0.045).We constructed a WGCNA-based co-expression network and identified neuropathic pain-related hub genes, which may offer further insight into pre-symptomatic diagnostic approaches and may be useful for the study of molecular mechanisms for understanding neuropathic pain risk genes.Copyright © 2023 Zeng, Lai, Luo and Li.
To identify potential immune-related biomarkers, molecular mechanism, and therapeutic agents of intracranial aneurysms (IAs).We identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between IAs and control samples from GSE75436, GSE26969, GSE6551, and GSE13353 datasets. We used weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis to identify immune-related hub genes. We evaluated the expression of hub genes by using qRT-PCR analysis. Using miRNet, NetworkAnalyst, and DGIdb databases, we analyzed the regulatory networks and potential therapeutic agents targeting hub genes. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) logistic regression was performed to identify optimal biomarkers among hub genes. The diagnostic value was validated by external GSE15629 dataset.We identified 227 DEGs and 22 differentially infiltrating immune cells between IAs and control samples from GSE75436, GSE26969, GSE6551, and GSE13353 datasets. We further identified 41 differentially expressed immune-related genes (DEIRGs), which were primarily enriched in the chemokine-mediated signaling pathway, myeloid leukocyte migration, endocytic vesicle membrane, chemokine receptor binding, chemokine activity, and viral protein interactions with cytokines and their receptors. Among 41 DEIRGs, 10 hub genes including C3AR1, CD163, CCL4, CXCL8, CCL3, TLR2, TYROBP, C1QB, FCGR3A, and FCGR1A were identified with good diagnostic values (AUC >0.7). Hsa-mir-27a-3p and transcription factors, including YY1 and GATA2, were identified the primary regulators of hub genes. 92 potential therapeutic agents targeting hub genes were predicted. C3AR1 and CD163 were finally identified as the best diagnostic biomarkers using LASSO logistic regression (AUC = 0.994). The diagnostic value of C3AR1 and CD163 was validated by the external GSE15629 dataset (AUC = 0.914).This study revealed the importance of C3AR1 and CD163 in immune infiltration in IAs pathogenesis. Our finding provided a valuable reference for subsequent research on the potential targets for molecular mechanisms and intervention of IAs.© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Stroke is a major cause of mortality and morbidity and most acute strokes are ischemic. Evidence-based medicine has demonstrated the effectiveness of constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) in the recovery of motor function in patients after ischemic stroke, but the specific treatment mechanism remains unclear. Herein, our integrated transcriptomics and multiple enrichment analysis studies, including Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) studies show that CIMT conduction broadly curtails immune response, neutrophil chemotaxis, and chemokine-mediated signaling pathway, CCR chemokine receptor binding. Those suggest the potential effect of CIMT on neutrophils in ischemic mice brain parenchyma. Recent studies have found that accumulating granulocytes release extracellular web-like structures composed of DNA and proteins called neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), which destruct neurological function primarily by disrupting the blood-brain barrier and promoting thrombosis. However, the temporal and spatial distribution of neutrophils and their released NETs in parenchyma and their damaging effects on nerve cells remain unclear. Thus, utilizing immunofluorescence and flow cytometry, our analyses uncovered that NETs erode multiple regions such as primary motor cortex (M1), striatum (Str), nucleus of the vertical limb of the diagonal band (VDB), nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band (HDB) and medial septal nucleus (MS), and persist in the brain parenchyma for at least 14 days, while CIMT can reduce the content of NETs and chemokines CCL2 and CCL5 in M1. Intriguingly, CIMT failed to further reduce neurological deficits after inhibiting the NET formation by pharmacologic inhibition of peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4). Collectively, these results demonstrate that CIMT could alleviate cerebral ischemic injury induced locomotor deficits by modulating the activation of neutrophils. These data are expected to provide direct evidence for the expression of NETs in ischemic brain parenchyma and novel insights into the mechanisms of CIMT protecting against ischemic brain injury.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Egg production efficiency in poultry relies on the number of ovarian follicles selected for ovulation or atresia. Hens experience a gradual decline in reproductive efficiency as they age. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the decrease in small white follicles with age remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify genes and biological pathways regulating the recruitment of small white follicles across different production cycles. Hy-line W-36 laying hens were obtained from a commercial poultry farm in three different age groups (n=15/group): 37 weeks (peak laying phase) as a control, 67 weeks (intermediate laying phase), and 87 weeks (late laying phase). Small white follicles from the ovaries (n =15/group) were collected for transcriptomic analysis. Total RNA was isolated from small white follicles (n =5/group) and analyzed using RNA sequencing and qPCR. RNA-seq data were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), with a log2 fold change ≥ 2 for upregulated genes and ≤ -2 for downregulated genes (p-value < 0.05). This analysis revealed 118 DEGs in the 67-week group and 180 DEGs in the 87-week group. Key downregulated genes in the 67-week group include ATP6V1C1 and ATP6V0E1 (involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis), COX7C (regulates mitochondrial function and oxidative stress), and CIT (involved in cell division and proliferation). Key downregulated genes in the 87-week group are BCL9 (a co-activator in the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway), CLEC16A (involved in autophagy and mitophagy), and mTOR (involved in energy homeostasis, cell growth, proliferation, and mitochondrial function). Inhibitory pathways related to ovarian follicular recruitment include estrogen receptor signaling, adrenergic receptor signaling pathway, and serotonin receptor signaling in the 87-week group. Mitochondrial dysfunction was observed in both groups, and the CLEAR signaling pathway was activated in the 67-week group. This study reveals that mitochondrial dysfunction, hormone signaling pathways, and apoptosis contribute to reduced ovarian follicular recruitment in aging hens.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) presents significant health challenges due to its aggressive nature and poor prognosis from late-stage diagnosis. Despite these challenges, emerging therapies like immune checkpoint inhibitors offer hope. β1-adrenergic signaling has been implicated in T cell exhaustion, which weakens the immune response in ESCC. Blocking this pathway could restore T cell function. Recent advances in single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) have enabled deeper insights into tumor heterogeneity and the immune landscape, opening the door for personalized treatment strategies that may improve survival and reduce resistance to therapy.We combined scRNA-seq with bulk RNA analysis to explore adrenergic receptor signaling in ESCC, focusing on changes before and after neoadjuvant therapy. We identified ADRB1+ T cells through data analysis and experimental validation. Copy number variation (CNV) analysis detected malignant cells within scRNA-seq data, while intercellular interaction analysis examined communication between cell populations. Deconvolution of TCGA data revealed key immune populations, which were integrated into a prognostic model based on the adrenergic receptor signaling pathway and differentially expressed genes.The adrenergic receptor signaling pathway was found in various immune cells, including T cells. scRNA-seq analysis revealed increased ADRB1 expression in T cells after neoadjuvant therapy. Immunofluorescence confirmed colocalization of ADRB1 with T cells, and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) showed that ADRB1 expression was elevated alongside exhaustion markers, while immune function markers were reduced. CNV analysis highlighted malignant cells in the tumor microenvironment, and intercellular interaction analysis explored ADRB1+ T cells' role in immune support. Deconvolution of TCGA data identified ADRB1+ T cells, SPP1+ macrophages, and CD44+ malignant cells, all of which were prognostically significant. A prognostic model constructed from the intersection of the adrenergic receptor signaling pathway and differentially expressed genes following neoadjuvant therapy showed a significant prognostic effect.ADRB1 expression increases after neoadjuvant therapy in ESCC and correlates with poor prognosis. Our findings suggest ADRB1 as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for post-neoadjuvant immunotherapy.Copyright © 2025 Li, Xu, Ren, Zhang, Li and Liu.
Intestinal stem cells (ISCs) maintain epithelial homeostasis through continuous self-renewal and differentiation, but their regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Using a simplified culture system, we identify two novel pathways that synergistically enhance stem cell characteristics: antioxidant signaling through 2-phospho-L-ascorbic acid (pVc) and α2-adrenergic receptor (α2-AR) activation by dexmedetomidine (Dex). Mechanistic studies reveal that pVc promotes stem cell maintenance through Nrf2-mediated antioxidant responses, while α2-AR activation functions through suppression of cAMP signaling. In vivo administration of these compounds enhances intestinal epithelial renewal while maintaining proper stem cell positioning and identity. Notably, α2-AR activation promotes regeneration after radiation injury by enhancing proliferation of stem cells produced by Bmi1 + cells in the post-injury process, demonstrating therapeutic potential. These findings advance our understanding of ISC regulation and suggest new strategies for protecting intestinal integrity during injury or disease.
The current primary therapeutic approach for schizophrenia is antipsychotic medication, and antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia occurs in 40-80% of patients with schizophrenia. Aripiprazole, an atypical antipsychotic belonging to the quinolinone derivative class, can reduce the likelihood of developing hyperprolactinemia, but the pharmacological mechanisms of this reduction are unknown. This study aimed to explore the molecular mechanism of action of aripiprazole in treating hyperprolactinemia based on network pharmacology and molecular docking techniques. This study identified a total of 151 potential targets for aripiprazole from the DrugBank, TCMSP, BATMAN-TCM, TargetNet, and SwissTargetPrediction databases. Additionally, 71 hyperprolactinemia targets were obtained from the PharmGKB, DrugBank, TTD, GeneCards, OMIM, and DisGENET databases. Utilizing Venny 2.1.0 software, an intersection of 27 genes was identified between aripiprazole and hyperprolactinemia. To construct a common target protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, the common targets obtained from both sources were input into the STRING database. The resulting PPI network was then imported into Cytoscape 3.7.2 software, which identified eight core targets associated with aripiprazole's treatment of hyperprolactinemia. Subsequently, a PPI network was established for these targets. Enrichment analysis of the key targets was conducted using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes in the DAVID database. Additionally, molecular docking verification of the interaction between aripiprazole and the core targets was performed using AutoDock Vina software. Aripiprazole's intervention in hyperprolactinemia primarily targets the following core proteins: Solute Carrier Family 6 Member 3 (SLC6A3), monoamine oxidase (MAO-B), Dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2), 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 2A (HTR2A), 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 2C (HTR2C), cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6), Dopamine D1 receptor (DRD1), Dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4). These targets are predominantly involved in biological processes such as the adenylate cyclase-activating adrenergic receptor signaling pathway, G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway coupled to cyclic nucleotide second messenger, phospholipase C-activating G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway, chemical synaptic transmission, and response to xenobiotic stimulus. Primary enrichment occurs in signaling pathways such as the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and serotonergic synapse pathways. Molecular docking results demonstrate a favorable affinity between aripiprazole and the core target proteins MAO-B, DRD2, SLC6A3, HTR2C, HTR2A, CYP2D6, DRD4, and DRD1. Network pharmacology predicted potential targets and signaling pathways for aripiprazole's intervention in hyperprolactinemia, offering theoretical support and a reference basis for optimizing clinical strategies and drug development involving aripiprazole.© 2024. The Author(s).
Adipose tissue plays an important role in regulating body temperature and metabolism, with white adipocytes serving as storage units for energy. Recent research focused on the browning of white adipocytes (beige adipocytes), causing thermogenesis and lipolysis. The process of browning is linked to the activation of uncoupling protein (UCP) expression, which can be mediated by the β3 adrenergic receptor pathway. Transcriptional factors, such as peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and PPARγ coactivator 1 alpha, play vital roles in cell fate determination for fat cells. Beige adipocytes have metabolic therapeutic potential to combat diseases such as obesity, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia, owing to their significant impact on metabolic functions. However, the molecular mechanisms that cause the induction of browning are unclear. Therefore, research using animal models and primary culture is essential to provide an understanding of browning for further application in human metabolic studies. Pigs have physiological similarities to humans; hence, they are valuable models for research on adipose tissue. This study demonstrates the browning potential of pig white adipocytes through primary culture experiments. The results show that upregulation of UCP3 gene expression and fragmentation of lipid droplets into smaller particles occur due to isoproterenol stimulation, which activates beta-adrenergic receptor signaling. Furthermore, PPARγ and PGC-1α were found to activate the UCP3 promoter region, similar to that of UCP1. These findings suggest that pigs undergo metabolic changes that induce browning in white adipocytes, providing a promising approach for metabolic research with potential implications for human health. This study offers valuable insights into the mechanism of adipocyte browning using pig primary culture that can enhance our understanding of human metabolism, leading to cures for commonly occurring diseases.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a progressive disease that poses a significant threat to human health, particularly in aging individuals: Although sympathetic activation has been implicated in bone metabolism, its role in the development of OA related to aging remains poorly understood. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate how sympathetic regulation impacts aging-related OA through experiments conducted both in vivo and in vitro.To analyze the effect of sympathetic regulation on aging-related OA, we conducted experiments using various mouse models. These models included a natural aging model, a medial meniscus instability model, and a load-induced model, which were used to examine the involvement of sympathetic nerves. In order to evaluate the expression levels of β1-adrenergic receptor (Adrβ1) and sirtuin-6 (Sirt6) in chondrocytes of naturally aging OA mouse models, we performed assessments. Additionally, we investigated the influence of β1-adrenergic receptor knockout or treatment with a β1-adrenergic receptor blocker on the progression of OA in aging mice and detected exosome release and detected downstream signaling expression by inhibiting exosome release. Furthermore, we explored the impact of sympathetic depletion through tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) on OA progression in aging mice. Moreover, we studied the effects of norepinephrine(NE)-induced activation of the β1-adrenergic receptor signaling pathway on the release of exosomes and miR-125 from chondrocytes, subsequently affecting osteoblast differentiation in subchondral bone.Our findings demonstrated a significant increase in sympathetic activity, such as NE levels, in various mouse models of OA including natural aging, medial meniscus instability, and load-induced models. Notably, we observed alterations in the expression levels of β1-adrenergic receptor and Sirt6 in chondrocytes in OA mouse models associated with natural aging, leading to an improvement in the progression of OA. Critically, we found that the knockout of β1-adrenergic receptor or treatment with a β1-adrenergic receptor blocker attenuated OA progression in aging mice and the degraded cartilage explants produced more exosome than the nondegraded ones, Moreover, sympathetic depletion through TH was shown to ameliorate OA progression in aging mice. Additionally, we discovered that NE-induced activation of the β1-adrenergic receptor signaling pathway facilitated the release of exosomes and miR-125 from chondrocytes, promoting osteoblast differentiation in subchondral bone.In conclusion, our study highlights the role of sympathetic innervation in facilitating the transfer of exosomal miR-125 from osteoarthritic chondrocytes, ultimately disrupting subchondral bone homeostasis and exacerbating cartilage damage in aging mice. These findings provide valuable insights into the potential contribution of sympathetic regulation to the pathogenesis of aging-related OA.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.
As a commonly used antibacterial agent in daily consumer products, triclosan (TCS) has attracted significant attention due to its potential environmental risks. In this study, we investigated the toxic effects of TCS exposure (1.4 μM) on heart development in zebrafish embryos. Our findings revealed that TCS exposure caused significant cardiac dysfunction, characterized by pericardial edema, malformations in the heart structure, and a slow heart rate. Additionally, TCS exposure induced oxidative damage and abnormal apoptosis in heart cells through the up-regulation of β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR) signaling pathway genes (adrb1, adrb2a, arrb2b), similar to the effects induced by β-AR agonists. Notably, the adverse effects of TCS exposure were alleviated by β-AR antagonists. Using high-throughput transcriptome miRNA sequencing and targeted miRNA screening, we focused on miR-133b, which targets adrb1 and was down-regulated by TCS exposure, as a potential contributor to TCS-induced cardiotoxicity. Inhibition of miR-133b produced similar toxic effects as TCS exposure, while overexpression of miR-133b down-regulated the β-AR signaling pathway and rescued heart defects caused by TCS. In summary, our findings provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying the cardiotoxic effects of TCS. We suggest that targeting the β-AR pathway and miR-133b may be effective strategies for pharmacotherapy in cardiotoxicity induced by environmental pollutants such as TCS.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Previous studies have indicated that the adrenergic receptor signaling pathway plays a fundamental role in chronic stress-induced cancer metastasis. In this study, we investigated whether an ethanol extract of Perilla frutescens leaves (EPF) traditionally used to treat stress-related symptoms by moving Qi could regulate the adrenergic agonist-induced metastatic ability of cancer cells. Our results show that adrenergic agonists including norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (E), and isoproterenol (ISO) increased migration and invasion of MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells and Hep3B human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. However, such increases were completely abrogated by EPF treatment. E/NE induced downregulation of E-cadherin and upregulation of N-cadherin, Snail, and Slug. Such effects were clearly reversed by pretreatment with EPF, suggesting that the antimetastatic activity of EPF could be related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) regulation. EPF suppressed E/NE-stimulated Src phosphorylation. Inhibition of Src kinase activity with dasatinib completely suppressed the E/NE-induced EMT process. Transfecting MDA-MB-231 cells with constitutively activated Src (SrcY527F) diminished the antimigration effect of EPF. Taken together, our results demonstrate that EPF can suppress the adrenergic agonist-promoted metastatic ability of cancer cells by inhibiting Src-mediated EMT. This study provides basic evidence supporting the probable use of EPF to prevent metastasis in cancer patients, especially those under chronic stress.
Early-life social isolation induces emotional and cognitive dysregulation, such as increased aggression and anxiety, and decreases neuron excitability in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The noradrenergic system in the mPFC regulates emotion and cognitive function via α1 or α2A adrenergic receptors, depending on noradrenaline levels. However, social isolation-induced changes in the mPFC noradrenergic system have not been reported. Here, male Wistar rats received post-weaning social isolation for nine consecutive weeks and were administered behavioral tests (novel object recognition, elevated plus maze, aggression, and forced swimming, sequentially). Protein expression levels in the mPFC noradrenergic system (α1 and α2A adrenergic receptors, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dopamine-β-hydroxylase used as indices of noradrenaline synthesis and release) were examined through western blotting. Social isolation caused cognitive dysfunction, anxiety-like behavior, and aggression, but not behavioral despair. Socially-isolated rats exhibited increased protein levels of the α1 adrenergic receptor, tyrosine hydroxylase, and dopamine-β-hydroxylase in the mPFC; there was no significant difference between the groups in the α2A adrenergic receptor expression levels. Preferential activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor caused by high noradrenaline concentration in the mPFC may be involved in social isolation-induced emotional and cognitive regulation impairments. Targeting the α1 adrenergic receptor signaling pathway is a potential therapeutic strategy for psychiatric disorders with symptomatic features such as emotional and cognitive dysregulation.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chronic stress has been reported to stimulate the release of catecholamines, including norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E), which promote cancer progression by activating the adrenergic receptor (AR). Although previous studies showed that β2-AR mediated chronic stress-induced tumor growth and metastasis, the underlying mechanism has not been fully explored. In this study, we aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which β2-AR exerts a pro-metastatic function in hepatocarcinoma (HCC) cells and breast cancer (BC) cells. Our results showed that Hep3B human HCC cells and MDA-MB-231 human BC cells exhibited the highest ADRB2 expression among diverse HCC and BC cell lines. NE, E, and isoprenaline (ISO), adrenergic agonists commonly increased the migration and invasion of Hep3B cells and MDA-MB-231 cells. The phosphorylation level of Src was significantly increased by E/NE. Dasatinib, a Src kinase inhibitor, blocked E/NE-induced migration and invasion, indicating that AR agonists enhanced the mobility of cancer cells by activating Src. ADRB2 knockdown attenuated E/NE-induced Src phosphorylation, as well as the metastatic ability of cancer cells, suggesting the essential role of β2-AR. Taken together, our results demonstrate that chronic stress-released catecholamines promoted the migration and invasion of HCC cells and BC cells via β2-AR-mediated Src activation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36757901 is a review article
