Ovarian cancer therapy faces significant challenges, including late diagnosis, high recurrence rates, and chemoresistance. The long non-coding RNA GAS5 acts as a tumor suppressor and is downregulated in ovarian cancer, but the mechanism by which it regulates apoptosis remains unclear. This study aimed to reveal the molecular mechanism of GAS5-mediated apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells. We found that GAS5 expression was lower in ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines. Low GAS5 expression was related to worse prognosis. Functional experiments showed that increasing GAS5 expression promoted apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells. Mechanistically, increasing GAS5 raised the mRNA level of the Golgi protein-GOLGA8B. But it reduced the GOLGA8B protein level. Furthermore, GAS5 overexpression shortened the protein half-life and decreased the stability of GOLGA8B, suggesting the involvement of post-transcriptional regulation. Further investigation revealed that GAS5 inhibits O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT), thereby reducing O-GlcNAcylation of GOLGA8B.Ser58 was found to be the key modification site of GOLGA8B. Functionally, GOLGA8B was shown to activate the STAT3 signaling pathway.GAS5 inhibits STAT3 phosphorylation by downregulating GOLGA8B, thereby inducing cell apoptosis. In vivo animal experiments confirmed that GAS5 overexpression suppresses tumor growth. In summary, this study reveals that GAS5 regulates ovarian cancer cell apoptosis by modulating the O-GlcNAcylation of GOLGA8B, which in turn affects the STAT3 signaling pathway, providing a new potential therapeutic target for ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
<p>Introduction: Transgender identity is a complex and multifactorial condition shaped by the effects of environmental and cultural factors as well as its biological basis. Genes involved in neurodevelopment and neuroplasticity may contribute to brain sexual differentiation, and rare variants in these genes could play a role in gender diversity. This study aimed to enhance explanations for the genetic component of transgender identity.After the filtering process applied to the WES analysis data obtained from eight transgender men (TM), the gene list was generated. Previously reported genes were scanned in the gene list with a detailed literature review and data mining. Functional enrichment, protein classification, pathway, and genetic interaction network analysis were performed to determine the salient genes.A total of 30 variants were detected in 18 genes reported in the literature. The rs879121178 (GOLGA8J) variant, previously reported in 1 TW (transgender woman) and 1 TM, and the rs548940626 (PCDHA8) variant, previously reported in 1 TW, were present in two different individuals (individuals 5 and 6, respectively). In the functional enrichment analysis, the highest enrichment score in biological processes was detected in the cluster related to cell adhesion (enrichment score: 12.91) and the most enriched term was "homophilic cell adhesion via plasma membrane adhesion molecules" with 54 genes (p: 3.1E-11).Our study shows that rare variants in cell adhesion genes, previously reported in TW, are also prominent in TM. These findings may help guide further investigations into genes that could be relevant to neurodevelopmental pathways, including those involved in brain sexual differentiation. </p>.© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with disturbances in energy metabolism. This study aimed to construct a lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network through bioinformatics methods to explore energy metabolism-related genes in the pathogenesis of TBI.Data from datasets GSE171718, GSE131695, and GSE223245 obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus, were analyzed to identify differentially expressed (DE) genes. Regulatory relationships were investigated through miRDB, miRTarBase, and TargetScan, thereby forming a lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network. The Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB) was utilized to identify energy metabolism-related genes, and a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was established through the STRING database. Functional annotation and enrichment analysis were conducted using GO and KEGG. The TBI mouse model was established to detect the expression levels of GOLGA8B, ZNF367, and SMPD3 in brain tissues.SMPD3 emerged as the key DE gene linked to energy metabolism in TBI, demonstrating a negative correlation with miR-218-5p and being associated with moderate unconsciousness and female patients. The PPI network revealed SMPD3 interactions with proteins associated with cell death, sphingolipid metabolism, and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. In vivo, GOLGA8B, ZNF367, and SMPD3 mRNA levels were significantly lower in TBI mice.In summary, SMPD3 represents a crucial metabolic gene in the progression of TBI. It potentially provides a new therapeutic target for metabolic disorders caused by traumatic brain injury (TBI) and holds significant theoretical value for further research.© 2024 Cui et al.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39119688
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) represents the final stage of prostate cancer (PCa). Cabazitaxel, a taxane chemotherapy drug, is used in treating CRPC. However, patients with CRPC eventually develop resistance to cabazitaxel, and the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we aimed to investigate potential genetic alterations that may play a role in CRPC resistance to cabazitaxel. Using microarray data from the GSE158494 dataset, we identified ten critical genes (CXCL8, ITGB8, CLIP4, MAP1B, WIPI1, MMP13, CXCL1, C1S, GOLGA8B, and CXCL6) associated with CRPC cell resistance to cabazitaxel. The potential function of these key genes in PCa progression was analyzed using different databases, including Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and Chinese Prostate Cancer Genome and Epigenome Atlas (CPGEA). Our findings revealed altered expression of these genes in the development of PCa. Furthermore, CXCL1 and GOLGA8B were found to influence the disease-free survival (DFS) status of patients with PCa, with GOLGA8B affecting the overall prognosis in patients with PCa. Additionally, GOLGA8B expression was associated with the infiltration of various immune cells in PCa, and it was upregulated in clinical PCa and CRPC samples. Through CCK-8 assays, we established that GOLGA8B could influence the sensitivity of CRPC cells to cabazitaxel and docetaxel. In conclusion, we identified GOLGA8B as a crucial gene that influences PCa progression and contributes to CRPC resistance to cabazitaxel.© 2024. The Author(s).
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurological condition that affects social communication and causes repetitive behavior. Autistic children often have comorbidities such as epilepsy. Although the co-occurrence of epilepsy and ASD is frequent, the genetic basis for this association is not fully understood. Many cases of ASD and epilepsy remain unresolved without a molecular diagnosis. The purpose of this study was to determine the molecular diagnostic yield in two Saudi families with a single affected offspring with both ASD and epilepsy using whole-exome sequencing (WES).Pediatric patients were diagnosed by a pediatric psychiatrist and neurologist, and diagnosed according to the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM-V) criteria. WES was used to analyze the coding region of DNA from the two trios. Enrichment analysis was performed on the final list of genes.De novo variations were detected in eleven genes (two in ZBTB17 and FRG, and one each in CAD, CTNNA3, GILGA8J, CCZ1, CASKIN1, growth differentiation factor (GDF7), NBPF10, DUX4L4, and ZNF681). Variations in CTNNA3, GOLGA8J, CASKIN1, CCZ1, and NBPF10 genes were correlated to autism. In addition, similar studies found that CAD, CASKIN1, and GOLGA8J were candidate genes for epilepsy. FRG1 and DUX4 variations were associated with facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. The expression of ZBTB17 and GDF was high in nervous system, and variations in these genes might be correlated to autism and epilepsy.Not all the genes presumed to cause ASD and epilepsy in this study were previously identified, suggesting that more genes were suspected of being involved in ASD and epilepsy co-occurrence.Copyright: © International Journal of Health Sciences.
The expression levels of various genes involved in human spermatogenesis are influenced by microRNAs (miRNAs), specifically microRNA-23a/b-3p. While certain genes are essential for spermatogenesis and male germ cell function, the regulation of their expression remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether microRNA-23a/b-3p targets genes involved in spermatogenesis and the impact of this targeting on the expression levels of these genes in males with impaired fertility. In-silico prediction and dual-luciferase assays were used to determine the potential connections between microRNA-23a/b-3p overexpression and reduced expression levels of 16 target genes. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was conducted on 41 oligoasthenozoospermic men receiving infertility treatment and 41 age-matched normozoospermic individuals to verify the lower expression level of target genes. By employing dual-luciferase assays, microRNA-23a-3p was found to directly target eight genes, namely NOL4, SOX6, GOLGA6C, PCDHA9, G2E3, ZNF695, CEP41, and RGPD1, while microRNA-23b-3p directly targeted three genes, namely SOX6, GOLGA6C, and ZNF695. The intentional alteration of the microRNA-23a/b binding site within the 3' untranslated regions (3'UTRs) of the eight genes resulted in the loss of responsiveness to microRNA-23a/b-3p. This confirmed that NOL4, SOX6, GOLGA6C, PCDHA9, and CEP41 are direct targets for microRNA-23a-3p, while NOL4, SOX6, and PCDHA9 are direct targets for microRNA-23b-3p. The sperm samples of oligoasthenozoospermic men had lower expression levels of target genes than age-matched normozoospermic men. Correlation analysis indicated a positive correlation between basic semen parameters and lower expression levels of target genes. The study suggests that microRNA-23a/b-3p plays a significant role in spermatogenesis by controlling the expression of target genes linked to males with impaired fertility and has an impact on basic semen parameters.
The bidirectional relationship between sleep disturbances and depression is well documented, yet the biology of sleep is not fully understood. Mitochondria have become of interest not only because of the connection between sleep and metabolism but also because of mitochondria's involvement in the production of reactive oxygen species, which are largely scavenged during sleep.Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of eight accelerometry-derived sleep measures were performed across both the autosomal and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) among two severity levels of depression in UK Biobank participants. We calculated SNP heritability for each of the sleep measures. Linear regression was performed to test associations and mitochondrial haplogroups.Variants included in the GWAS accounted for moderate heritability of bedtime (19.6%, p = 4.75 × 10-7), sleep duration (16.6%, p = 8.58 × 10-6) and duration of longest sleep bout (22.6%, p = 4.64 × 10-4). No variants passed genome-wide significance in the autosomal genome. The top hit in the severe depression sample was rs145019802, near GOLGA8B, for sleep efficiency (p = 1.17 × 10-7), and the top hit in the broad depression sample was rs7100859, an intergenic SNP, and nap duration (p = 1.25 × 10-7). Top mtDNA loci were m.12633C > A of MT-ND5 with bedtime (p = 0.002) in the severe sample and m.16186C > T of the control region with nap duration (p = 0.002) in the broad sample.SNP heritability estimates support the involvement of common SNPs in specific sleep measures among depressed individuals. This is the first study to analyze mtDNA variance in sleep measures in depressed individuals. Our mtDNA findings, although nominally significant, provide preliminary suggestion that mitochondria are involved in sleep.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic exposure to hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) causes lung cancer in humans, however, the underlying mechanism has not been well understood. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) are commonly studied non-coding RNAs. miRNAs function mainly through interaction with the 3'-untranslated regions of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) to down-regulate gene expression. LncRNAs have been shown to function as competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) to sponge miRNAs and regulate gene expression. It is now well accepted that lncRNAs and miRNAs could function as oncogenes or tumor suppressors. Dysregulations of lncRNAs and miRNAs have been shown to play important roles in cancer initiation, progression, and prognosis. To explore the mechanism of Cr(VI) lung carcinogenesis, we performed lncRNA, mRNA, and miRNA microarray analysis using total RNAs from our previously established chronic Cr(VI) exposure malignantly transformed and passage-matched control human bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Based on the differentially expressed lncRNAs, miRNAs, and mRNAs between the control (BEAS-2B-Control) and Cr(VI)-transformed (BEAS-Cr(VI)) cells and by using the lncRNA-miRNA interaction and miRNA target prediction algorithms, we identified three oncogenic (HOTAIRM1/miR-182-5p/ERO1A, GOLGA8B/miR-30d-5p/RUNX2, and PDCD6IPP2/miR-23a-3p/HOXA1) and three tumor suppressive (ANXA2P1/miR-20b-5p/FAM241A (C4orf32), MIR99AHG/miR-218-5p/GPM6A, and SH3RF3-AS1/miR-34a-5p/HECW2) lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory axes. Moreover, the relevance of these three oncogenic and three tumor suppressive lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory axes in lung cancer was explored by analyzing publicly available human lung cancer omics datasets. It was found that the identified three oncogenic lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory axes (HOTAIRM1/miR-182-5p/ERO1A, GOLGA8B/miR-30d-5p/RUNX2, and PDCD6IPP2/miR-23a-3p/HOXA1) and the three tumor suppressive lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory axes (ANXA2P1/miR-20b-5p/FAM241A (C4orf32), MIR99AHG/miR-218-5p/GPM6A, and SH3RF3-AS1/miR-34a-5p/HECW2) have significant diagnostic and prognosis prediction values in human lung cancer. In addition, our recent studies showed that Cr(VI)-transformed cells display cancer stem cell (CSC)-like properties. Further bioinformatics analysis identified the oncogenic lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory axes as the potential regulators of cancer stemness. In summary, our comprehensive analysis of multiple platform omics datasets obtained from Cr(VI)-transformed human bronchial epithelial cells identified several oncogenic and tumor suppressive lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory axes, which may play important roles in Cr(VI) carcinogenesis and lung cancer in general.
Aims: The NOD-like receptor (NLR) family, caspase recruitment (CARD) domain containing 5 (NLRC5) was dysregulated in endometrial cancer (EC). However, the potential regulatory mechanisms of NLRC5 in EC remained unclear. We aimed to explore whether NLRC5 could regulate the programmed cell death protein ligand 1 (PD-L1) in EC. We also investigated the related molecular which led to the inactivation of NLRC5 in EC. Methods: The expressions of NLRC5 and PD-L1 in endometrium tissue microarray were detected by immunohistochemistry. Pearson's correlation analysis was performed to detect the expression correlation between NLRC5 and PD-L1. Immunofluorescence staining, western blotting, and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) were used to detect the role of NLRC5 in PD-L1 in EC cell lines. The somatic mutation in EC patients was detected by whole-exome sequencing (WGS). Results: NLRC5 was downregulated in the endometrium of EC patients when compared to those in the normal endometrium. The level of PD-L1 in the endometrium of EC patients was higher when compared to those in the normal endometrium. There was a negative expression correlation between NLRC5 and PD-L1. NLRC5 could promote the expression of PD-L1 in EC cell lines. The mutations of ANKRD20A2, C2orf42, ADGRB3, AVPR2, GOLGA6C, and IPPK may lead to the downregulation of NLRC5 in EC patients. Conclusion: NLRC5 could inhibit the activation of PD-L1 in EC. Mutations of ANKRD20A2, C2orf42, ADGRB3, AVPR2, GOLGA6C, and IPPK may lead to the downregulation of NLRC5 in EC patients. Future study should investigate the mechanism of NLRC5 in PD-L1, as well as the mechanism of ANKRD20A2, C2orf42, ADGRB3, AVPR2, GOLGA6C, and IPPK in NLRC5.
Despite efforts to eliminate Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) in India, it continues to be a public health issue due to the occurrence of relapse post AmBisome treatment. The role of host genetics in susceptibility of VL relapse is not clearly understood. Here we have performed whole exome sequencing (WES) on healthy, VL relapse and non-relapse individuals. Comparing the nonsynonymous single nucleotide variants (SNVs) among the VL group (n = 26) and healthy (n = 12) revealed 6 gene variants viz.: MTTP, ABCA4, CIB4, LRRIO1, NANOG, and GCNT4 with a significant correlation (P < 0.01) with VL susceptibility. Twelve variants viz.: EP300, MRS2, GOLGA8K, SCL37A2, HERC5, STIL, WDR4, MINDY4B, B3GNTL1, SAMD7, ATF7IP2 and OR56B4 correlated with VL relapse (n = 14) susceptibility. EP300, a histone acetyl-transferase, was found mutated in all the 14 relapse cases. The expression levels of CCL-2, CSF-1, IL-10, IL-6, PD-1 and CTLA-4 were found higher in the VL relapse cases and may be responsible for M2 macrophage polarization and T-cell exhaustion. Thus, individuals harbouring EP300 variants may have poor immune response leading to relapse.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP), the "silent epidemic" of our century, poses a significant challenge to public health, predominantly affecting postmenopausal women and the elderly. It evolves from mild symptoms to pronounced severity, stabilizing eventually. Unique among OP's characteristics is the altered metabolic profile of affected cells, particularly in pyrimidine metabolism (PyM), a crucial pathway for nucleotide turnover and pyrimidine decomposition. While metabolic adaptation is acknowledged as a therapeutic target in various diseases, the specific role of PyM genes (PyMGs) in OP's molecular response remains to be clarified.In pursuit of elucidating and authenticating PyMGs relevant to OP, we embarked on a comprehensive bioinformatics exploration. This entailed the integration of Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) with a curated list of 37 candidate PyMGs, followed by the examination of their biological functions and pathways via Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA). The Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) technique was harnessed to identify crucial hub genes. We evaluated the diagnostic prowess of five PyMGs in OP detection and explored their correlation with OP's clinical traits, further validating their expression profiles through independent datasets (GSE2208, GSE7158, GSE56815, and GSE35956).Our analytical rigor unveiled five PyMGs-IGKC, TMEM187, RPS11, IGLL3P, and GOLGA8N-with significant ties to OP. A deeper dive into their biological functions highlighted their roles in estrogen response modulation, cytosolic calcium ion concentration regulation, and GABAergic synaptic transmission. Remarkably, these PyMGs emerged as potent diagnostic biomarkers for OP, distinguishing affected individuals with substantial accuracy.This investigation brings to light five PyMGs intricately associated with OP, heralding new avenues for biomarker discovery and providing insights into its pathophysiological underpinnings. These findings not only deepen our comprehension of OP's complexity but also herald the advent of more refined diagnostic and therapeutic modalities.© 2024. The Author(s).
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a highly malignant neoplasm and characterized by desmoplastic matrix. The heterogeneity and crosstalk of tumor microenvironment remain incompletely understood.To address this gap, we performed Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) to identify and construct a cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs) infiltration biomarker. We also depicted the intercellular communication network and important receptor-ligand complexes using the single-cell transcriptomics analysis of tumor and Adjacent normal tissue.Through the intersection of TCGA DEGs and WGCNA module genes, 784 differential genes related to CAFs infiltration were obtained. After a series of regression analyses, the CAFs score was generated by integrating the expressions of EVA1A, APBA2, LRRTM4, GOLGA8M, BPIFB2, and their corresponding coefficients. In the TCGA-CHOL, GSE89748, and 107,943 cohorts, the high CAFs score group showed unfavorable survival prognosis (p < 0.001, p = 0.0074, p = 0.028, respectively). Additionally, a series of drugs have been predicted to be more sensitive to the high-risk group (p < 0.05). Subsequent to dimension reduction and clustering, thirteen clusters were identified to construct the single-cell atlas. Cell-cell interaction analysis unveiled significant enhancement of signal transduction in tumor tissues, particularly from fibroblasts to malignant cells via diverse pathways. Moreover, SCENIC analysis indicated that HOXA5, WT1, and LHX2 are fibroblast specific motifs.This study reveals the key role of fibroblasts - oncocytes interaction in the remodeling of the immunosuppressive microenvironment in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Subsequently, it may trigger cascade activation of downstream signaling pathways such as PI3K-AKT and Notch in tumor, thus initiating tumorigenesis. Targeted drugs aimed at disrupting fibroblasts-tumor cell interaction, along with associated enrichment pathways, show potential in mitigating the immunosuppressive microenvironment that facilitates tumor progression.© 2024. The Author(s).
Osteoporosis (OP), often referred to as the "silent disease of the twenty-first century," poses a significant public health concern due to its severity, chronic nature, and progressive course, predominantly affecting postmenopausal women and elderly individuals. The pathogenesis and progression of this disease have been associated with dysregulation in tumor metabolic pathways. Notably, the metabolic utilization of glutamine has emerged as a critical player in cancer biology. While metabolic reprogramming has been extensively studied in various malignancies and linked to clinical outcomes, its comprehensive investigation within the context of OP remains lacking.This study aimed to identify and validate potential glutamine metabolism genes (GlnMgs) associated with OP through comprehensive bioinformatics analysis. The identification of GlnMgs was achieved by integrating the weighted gene co-expression network analysis and a set of 28 candidate GlnMgs. Subsequently, the putative biological functions and pathways associated with GlnMgs were elucidated using gene set variation analysis. The LASSO method was employed to identify key hub genes, and the diagnostic efficacy of five selected GlnMgs in OP detection was assessed. Additionally, the relationship between hub GlnMgs and clinical characteristics was investigated. Finally, the expression levels of the five GlnMgs were validated using independent datasets (GSE2208, GSE7158, GSE56815, and GSE35956).Five GlnMgs, namely IGKC, TMEM187, RPS11, IGLL3P, and GOLGA8N, were identified in this study. To gain insights into their biological functions, particular emphasis was placed on synaptic transmission GABAergic, inward rectifier potassium channel activity, and the cytoplasmic side of the lysosomal membrane. Furthermore, the diagnostic potential of these five GlnMgs in distinguishing individuals with OP yielded promising results, indicating their efficacy as discriminative markers for OP.This study discovered five GlnMgs that are linked to OP. They shed light on potential new biomarkers for OP and tracking its progression.© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.
The epigenetic regulator protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is aberrantly overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and represents a promising therapeutic target. Currently reported PRMT5-targeting PROTAC degraders (MS4322 and MS115) are both derived from a tetrahydroisoquinoline scaffold. These compounds require treatment for more than five days to exert effective antiproliferative activities, and no in vivo antitumor efficacy has been reported. To address these limitations, we adopted the carbazole-based PRMT5 inhibitor PJ-68, which features a lower molecular weight and a more accessible linker attachment site. Herein, we reported a series of novel PRMT5 degraders with carbazole scaffold. The representative compound YZ-17 degraded PRMT5 (DC50 = 2.2 μM in HCC1806 and 3.3 μM in HCC1937 cells) and its adaptor protein MEP50 (DC50 = 2.0 μM and 2.9 μM, respectively) within 24 h. YZ-17 also suppressed PRMT5-mediated symmetric dimethylarginine (sDMA) modification and colony formation, induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest, and displayed favorable antiproliferative activities across several TNBC cell lines (IC50 = 2.6 - 3.7 μM). Importantly, YZ-17 showed in vivo efficacy in an HCC1806 xenograft model, achieving a tumor growth inhibition (TGI) of 44.12% at 30 mg/kg (i.p., every other day) without obvious toxicity. Collectively, YZ-17 represents a structurally novel PRMT5 degrader with rapid onset of action, effective in vitro and in vivo anti-TNBC activity, offering a distinct chemical tool for further functional studies of PRMT5.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Dialysis-related peritoneal fibrosis (PF) is a complication of peritoneal dialysis (PD) that leads to ultrafiltration failure and poor technique survival. Currently, no effective therapeutic strategies are available for PF. Protein Arginine Methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5), a major epigenetic regulator catalyzing symmetric dimethylation of arginine residues, has been implicated in fibrotic disorders. However, its role in PD-related PF remains entirely unexplored. In this study, we demonstrate aberrant PRMT5 overexpression in peritoneal samples from PD patients with ultrafiltration failure as well as in murine PF models, in which PRMT5 colocalized with activated fibroblasts and α-SMA-positive myofibroblasts. To further elucidate the specific role of PRMT5, we generated fibroblast-specific PRMT5 knockout mice and established two murine PF models that recapitulate the clinical phenotype. Genetic PRMT5 inhibition attenuated histopathological damage, extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition, angiogenesis and inflammatory infiltration induced by high-glucose PD fluid or chlorhexidine gluconate (CG), thereby improving peritoneal transport function. In vitro, we found genetic PRMT5 inhibition mitigated high-glucose-induced mesothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (MMT) and inflammatory cytokine secretion. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of PRMT5 using selective PRMT5 inhibitor EPZ015666 also exhibited therapeutic efficacy in vivo. Mechanistically, our data implicates a PRMT5 mediated inflammation-angiogenesis axis in PF progression. Collectively, our findings establish PRMT5 as a pivotal, druggable epigenetic regulator in dialysis-related PF and provide a compelling rationale for clinical development of PRMT5-targeted strategies to prevent PF.Copyright 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549137 is a review article
Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) is a promising therapeutic target in oncology. However, first-generation PRMT5 inhibitors failed in clinical trials due to dose-limiting hematologic toxicity, likely resulting from non-selective inhibition of PRMT5 in normal cells. PRMT5 synthetic lethal inhibitors, which selectively target the PRMT5-methylthioadenosine (MTA) complex in MTAP-deletion cancer cells, offer a strategy to improve the therapeutic index. We designed and synthesized a series of novel PRMT5 synthetic lethal inhibitors based on a 1,2-dihydroquinoxaline core. Among them ZC-A2 and (+)ZC-A5 exhibited potent inhibitory activity against the PRMT5-MTA complex, with IC₅₀ values of 0.88 ± 0.06 nM and 0.86 ± 0.15 nM, respectively. Both compounds demonstrated high selectivity, effectively suppressing symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA) levels in HCT116 MTAP-deleted cells (IC₅₀ = 3.94 ± 1.55 nM and 6.35 ± 0.67 nM, respectively) while showing minimal effect in HCT116 MTAP-wild-type cells. Additionally, (+)ZC-A5 exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic profiles with rapid oral absorption. These findings identify (+)ZC-A5 as a promising lead compound for the development of novel PRMT5-MTA complex inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) has emerged as a promising therapeutic target due to its critical roles in regulating fundamental cellular processes such as proliferation, migration, and differentiation. Although several PRMT5 inhibitors have been reported, but none have gained clinical approval. Herein, we describe the discovery of a novel series of benzo[4,5]thiazolo[3,2-a]pyrimidin-4-ones derivatives as MTA cooperative PRMT5 inhibitors. Compound 9u exhibited significant antiproliferative activity in MTAP-deleted HCT116 cancer cells, with an IC50 value of 13 nM, exhibiting 70-fold selectivity over MTAP wild type HCT116 cells. Furthermore, 9u displayed robust efficacy across diverse MTAP-deleted cancer cell lines, achieving IC50 values of <1.5-51 nM. Notably, it also showed favorable metabolic stability in both human and mouse liver microsomes. These findings establish a promising lead for the development of PRMT5-MTA inhibitors specifically targeting MTAP-deficient cancers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Homozygous deletion of 9p21, containing CDKN2A/B and MTAP (CMdel), underlies emerging therapeutic strategies including PRMT5/MAT2A inhibition. The clinicogenomic context and treatment outcomes of CMdel in NSCLC remain incompletely defined.We analyzed Tempus Lens records with paired DNA/RNA sequencing. After quality filtering, 16,947 patients were included in the primary dataset and 10,996 in the validation dataset, and stratified by deletion status (CMdel vs CMwt). Interferon status was defined by interferon-kappa (IFNK) expression (log2[TPM+1]) using the 25th percentile of CMwt as threshold. Immune composition was inferred by quanTIseq. First-line regimens were grouped as ICI-mono, ICI-chemo, chemotherapy, or TKI. Best response and time-to-next-treatment with risk-set adjustment were assessed.CMdel occurred in 11.7% (n=1,991) and 15% (n=1,676), and was enriched in mucinous histology, stage IV disease, and never-smokers. CMdel associated with EGFR, TERT, and SMARCA4 alterations, whereas CMwt associated with RB1, SETD2 and ARID2. >50% of CMdel tumors harbored targetable co-alterations, enriched in EGFR/ALK/RET and relatively depleted in KRAS. CMdel tumors exhibited lower PD-L1, mutation burden, and immune infiltration. TTNT did not differ by CM status for ICI-mono or TKI, but was shorter in CMdel for ICI-chemo and chemotherapy. Discordant and broad deletions were less common and had weaker TTNT association. IFNK-low expression marked immune-excluded subgroups with worse treatment outcomes.CDKN2A/MTAP loss defines a prevalent, genomically distinct NSCLC subset enriched in actionable drivers. CMdel associates with worse outcomes to ICI/chemotherapy-containing regimens. These findings highlight convergent biology at 9p21 and support biomarker-guided development of PRMT5/MAT2A inhibitors in MTAP-deleted NSCLC.
Ras GTPase-activating protein SH3 domain-binding protein 1 (G3BP1) has been shown to bind cytosolic nucleic acid sensors including retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) in innate immunity. As a scaffolding protein enhancing protein-protein and protein-RNA interactions during cellular stress response, we examine whether G3BP1 could bind additional innate immune signaling molecules and investigate the relevance and mechanisms underlying these interactions.To define G3BP1 function in dsRNA-triggered anti-viral signaling and identify additional interacting molecules, we generated siRNA- and CRISPER-Cas9-mediated G3BP1-knockdown and knockout HEK293T cells, conducted biochemical experiments in human and murine cells including co-immunoprecipitation, domain mutagenesis and mapping, as well as LC-MS/MS analyses to study protein post-translational modifications. We also performed p(I:C)-stimulation assays to measure interferon production, pharmacological inhibition studies to determine enzyme-substrate specificity, as well as confocal immunofluorescence microscopy to examine protein subcellular localization.Our study reveals a role for G3BP1 in binding TBK1 and IRF3, two important molecules in innate immune signaling leading to the production of IFN-β. Deficiency in G3BP1 reduces TBK1-IRF3 complex formation and affects IRF3 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and the production of IFN-β during p(I:C) stimulation while the phosphorylation of TBK1 was largely preserved. We further show that G3BP1 constitutively associates with IRF3 and recruits TBK1 upon p(I:C) stimulation. These findings suggest that G3BP1 acts as a scaffold to recruit activated TBK1 and facilitates its activation of IRF3. Domain mapping experiments indicated that the C-terminal RGG region of G3BP1 is critical for binding IRF3 and TBK1. LC-MS/MS analysis revealed human G3BP1 to be arginine-methylated at R435 and R460 residues upon p(I:C)-stimulation, and mutagenesis experiments indicated that R460 is required for its efficient binding of TBK1. We further show that the arginine methyltransferase PRMT5 associates with and promotes the symmetric arginine-dimethylation of G3BP1 and pharmacological inhibition of PRMT5 impaired G3BP1-TBK1 interaction.Together, our data indicate that G3BP1 could bind PRMT5, TBK1 and IRF3 and reveal G3BP1 as a signaling hub that constitutively binds IRF3 and is arginine-methylated by PRMT5 to recruit TBK1 for IRF3 phosphorylation and activation and the induction of interferon production during host antiviral response.Copyright © 2026 Song, Kim, Yam, Teo, Lim, Bi, Lim and Lam.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484672 is a review article
Circulating cell-free epigenetic and epitranscriptomic modifications (epimarks) are emerging as minimally invasive biomarkers for cancer detection and therapeutic monitoring. Their clinical utility in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), particularly in the context of EGFR-targeted therapies, remains to be fully established. Ten circulating epimarks encompassing cfRNA methylation, histone post-translational modifications on circulating nucleosomes, and cfDNA methylation were quantified in plasma samples from healthy donors and metastatic NSCLC patients with mutant or wild-type EGFR. Longitudinal analyses were performed in EGFR-mutant patients treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Functional relevance was assessed using in vitro and in ovo models of Osimertinib-sensitive and -resistant NSCLC cells combined with targeted epigenetic inhibitors. Distinct epimark signatures accurately discriminated healthy donors from NSCLC patients and distinguished EGFR-mutant from EGFR-wild-type tumors. cfRNA methylation marks (m1A, m6A, m5C, and m7G) showed excellent diagnostic performance, with a composite methyl-cfRNA score robustly distinguishing EGFR-mutant NSCLC. Disease progression under TKI therapy was characterized by increased m1A-cfRNA, H3K23Ac- and H4R3me2-circulating nucleosomes and decreased 5mC-cfDNA, with m1A-cfRNA alone reliably tracking progression. High m6A-cfRNA levels at diagnosis were strongly associated with shorter progression-free survival. Functionally, Osimertinib resistance promoted tumor growth and metastatic dissemination. Combination therapies targeting METTL3, KAT6A, or PRMT5 with Osimertinib reduced tumor burden and metastasis through miRNA-dependent regulation of histone acetylation and methylation. Circulating epimarks represent promosing diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers and provide a mechanistic basis for epigenetic combination therapies in EGFR-driven NSCLC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Defective endometrial decidualization is one major cause of female infertility, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we identified that protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) which was upregulated during decidualization and by progesterone stimulation, is markedly down-regulated in the endometria of patients with recurrent implantation failure (RIF), along with a global reduction of symmetric dimethylarginine (sDMA). Uterine stromal-specific ablation of Prmt5 in mouse severely impaired decidualization leading to infertility. A multi‑omics analysis in human endometrial stromal cells (EnSCs) revealed that PRMT5 promoted decidualization primarily by catalyzing sDMA at arginine 346 (R346) of the orphan nuclear receptor Nur77, which directs its proper chromatin occupancy. Targeting the PRMT5-Nur77 methylation axis, we designed a peptide, Pep‑Nur77-R346K, which rescued the decidualization of multiple preclinical models: PRMT5 deficient human EnSCs, both genetic knockout (Prmt5d/d) and pharmacologically inhibited mouse models, an estrogen deficient mouse model, and, more importantly, the primary RIF EnSCs. In a retrospective cohort of 114 participants, the correlated reductions of endometrial PRMT5/Nur77-R346me2s was confirmed, which demonstrated robust predictive value for pregnancy outcome. Our work establishes the PRMT5‑Nur77 methylation axis as a key regulator of endometrial receptivity, and highlights both a novel diagnostic biomarker and a peptide‑based therapeutic potential for fertility.
Longevity and stress resilience require precise coordination of gene expression programs across tissues. Here, we demonstrate that overexpression of the chromatin reader bet-1 specifically in neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans promotes organismal longevity and stress resistance via cell-nonautonomous signaling. Neuronal bet-1 elicits a neurotransmitter-dependent signal that activates the conserved stress-responsive transcription factor HSF-1 in the intestine, enhancing proteostasis, oxidative stress resistance, metabolic remodeling, and immune defense. Life span extension by neuronal bet-1 requires both hsf-1 and daf-16 in neurons but only requires hsf-1 in peripheral tissues. Using bulk RNA sequencing, we reveal distinct prolongevity pathways that include enhanced heat-shock response, proteostasis, increased actin stability, and resistance to pathogens, which likely together coordinate the prolongevity effects of neuronal bet-1 Our findings establish BET-1 as a potent nonautonomous regulator of aging and stress response, highlighting chromatin readers as upstream modulators of intertissue signaling and systemic resilience.© 2026 Dutta et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Cyclic peptides are promising modalities for targeting intracellular sites; however, cell-membrane permeability remains a key bottleneck, exacerbated by limited public data and the need for well-calibrated uncertainty. Instead of relying on data-eager complex deep learning architecture, we propose a monomer-aware decoupled global alignment kernel (MD-GAK), which couples chemically meaningful residue-residue similarity with sequence alignment while decoupling local matches from gap penalties. MD-GAK is a relatively simple kernel. To further demonstrate the robustness of our framework, we also introduce a variant, PMD-GAK, which incorporates a triangular positional prior. As we will show in the experimental section, PMD-GAK can offer additional advantages over MD-GAK, particularly in reducing calibration errors. Since our focus is on uncertainty estimation, we use Gaussian Processes as the predictive model, as both MD-GAK and PMD-GAK can be directly applied within this framework. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods through an extensive set of experiments, comparing our fully reproducible approach against state-of-the-art models, and show that it outperforms them across all metrics.Scientific contributionWe introduce monomer-aware decoupled global alignment kernels for Gaussian processes (MD-GAK and position-aware PMD-GAK) that align cyclic peptides at the sequence level using chemically rich monomer fingerprints and explicit positional priors, yielding positive-definite similarity measures tailored to permeability modeling. Compared with order-agnostic fingerprint methods, standard global-alignment kernels and state-of-the-art graph and language-model baselines, our alignment-aware GPs provide improved discrimination, probabilistic calibration and scaffold-level robustness under stringent, leakage-controlled cyclic-peptide permeability benchmarks.© 2026. The Author(s).
P4-ATPases are lipid flippases that maintain membrane phospholipid asymmetry by transporting specific phospholipids from the exoplasmic to the cytosolic leaflet, an essential process for membrane integrity, trafficking and signaling. Several P4-ATPases are tightly regulated by autoinhibitory N- and C-terminal extensions, yet the molecular basis of this regulation remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the autoinhibition mechanism of the human flippase ATP8B1 using trans-inhibition assays with synthetic peptides derived from its C-terminal tail. Using purified C-terminally truncated ATP8B1-CDC50A, we systematically assessed the inhibitory properties of peptides corresponding to distinct segments of the C-terminus. We show that the distal disordered region of the C-terminal tail significantly contributes to autoinhibition, likely through transient interactions with the cytosolic domains. We further identify a critical interaction between R1228 in the C-terminal tail and E219 in the A-domain, whose disruption markedly reduces inhibitory potency. In addition, we demonstrate that a minimal peptide spanning residues 1216-1228, which bridges the A- and N-domains in the autoinhibited conformation, is sufficient to inhibit ATPase activity. Together, these results refine the molecular description of ATP8B1 autoinhibition, open the way for structure-based activation strategies and provide insight into conserved regulatory mechanisms among P4-ATPases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 (RIC1), historically also known as BRIC 1 (benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis typr 1),is an autosomal recessive disorder presenting with intermittent episodes of cholestatic jaundice and caused by pathogenic variants of adenosine triphosphatase phospholipid transporting 8B1 (ATP8B1). Here, we describe two unusual RIC1-affected siblings, whose clinical courses and findings deviate from the classical RIC1 patients, emphasizing the potential adverse effects associated with recurrent cholestasis. Additionally, we have for the first time presented specific genetic, clinical and pathological evidence demonstrating that two novel compound heterozygous variants of ATP8B1 (c.749 T > C and c.3261 + 5G > A) had a significant effect on the expression of the ATP8B1 encoded protein, thereby contributing to cholestasis attacks.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wei, Liu, Lv, Ding, Guo, Hu and Ning.
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) affects 0.5-5.6 % of pregnancies and involves bile acid transport defects (ABCB11, ABCB4, ATP8B1). BAAT mutations classically cause neonatal familial hypercholanemia type 3 (FHCA3), with five previously identified pathogenic variants in the catalytic domains. We report a rare adult-onset homozygous BAAT missense mutation (c.1203G>T; p.Glu401Asp) in a 41-year-old Indian woman with third-trimester ICP, postpartum-persistent hypercholanemia, and severe hypertriglyceridemia. This novel BAAT substitution occurs at codon 401 (C-terminal, non-catalytic), yielding conflicting in silico predictions (CADD: 22.5 pathogenic vs. REVEL: 0.211 benign). However, classified as a Variant of Uncertain Significance, its homozygosity and phenotypic correlation support plausibility, pending family segregation, bile acid profiling, or functional assays. Proposedly unconjugated primary bile acids impair ileal FXR activation, thereby disrupting FGF19-SHP-mediated repression of SREBP-1c lipogenesis, a process compounded by insulin resistance. This case represents a rare adult BAAT-ICP association and BAAT-related FXR-SREBP dysregulation, expanding the low-GGT cholestasis spectrum per EASL guidelines. Glycocholic acid and FXR agonists may offer targeted therapies.© 2026 Indian National Association for Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC) is classically caused by biallelic pathogenic variants, yet monoallelic variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in PFIC-associated genes are increasingly identified in children with cholestasis, creating diagnostic uncertainty. We conducted a multicenter cohort study of children with liver disease and/or cholestasis harboring monoallelic VUS in ATP8B1, ABCB11, ABCB4, TJP2, or NR1H4. Clinical and longitudinal data were analyzed, and variant frequencies were compared with population data from gnomAD. Twenty-six children with 37 monoallelic PFIC-gene VUS met inclusion criteria, and multigenic variant burden was common (73.1%). PFIC-like biochemical patterns were observed in 42.3% but were frequently transient, and no patient met criteria for monogenic PFIC on longitudinal follow-up. Severe liver outcomes, including transplantation in two patients, occurred in a subset of patients with ABCB4 and/or ATP8B1 VUS and multigenic burden, along with competing clinical factors. Among 22 variants with population data, 11 (50%) demonstrated significant enrichment after multiple-testing correction, most commonly involving ABCB4. These findings suggest that monoallelic PFIC-associated variants currently classified as VUS are unlikely to represent monogenic disease drivers in isolation and may instead contribute within multigenic or susceptibility-based contexts. Population-level enrichment, particularly involving ABCB4, further supports careful phenotype-anchored, longitudinal interpretation in pediatric liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD) overlap clinically, pathologically and genetically, complicating interpretation of cross-disorder genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals.We analysed 322,963 UK Biobank participants with bidirectional time-varying Cox models, one-year and two-year lag analyses, and competing-risk sensitivity models to quantify AD-PD clinical co-occurrence. We then analysed European-ancestry AD, PD and LBD GWAS summary statistics using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), GCTA-mtCOJO/GSMR, MAGMA, stratified LDSC, brain eQTL/mQTL SMR with HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization for selected methylation probes. Conditional loci were compared with original GWAS loci to separate shared liability from retained disorder-predominant associations.PD was associated with subsequent AD (fully adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.94-2.65; P = 6.40E-25), and AD was associated with subsequent PD (HR 3.14, 95% CI 2.56-3.85; P = 2.10E-28). Lag and competing-risk sensitivity analyses remained concordant. LDSC estimated positive genetic correlations for AD-PD (rg = 0.20; P = 0.0086) and PD-LBD (rg = 0.61; P = 0.0005). Conditioning reduced genome-wide significant loci from 14 to 9 for AD, from 24 to 21 for PD and from 5 to 2 for LBD. Retained loci included AD signals near CR1, BIN1, CLU, SPI1, MS4A, PICALM, ABCA7 and APOE; PD signals near GBA, NUCKS1, TMEM163, STK39, GAK/TMEM175, BST1, SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT and RIT2; and LBD signals near SNCA/MMRN1 and APOE. MAGMA and S-LDSC highlighted amyloid, lipid, immune, synaptic-vesicle and brain-tissue enrichment patterns. Brain QTL analyses prioritized retained eQTL and mQTL signals, and colocalization supported shared PD-GWAS/mQTL signals at HLA-DRB5, ARHGAP27, CRHR1, MAPT and KANSL1.AD and PD show bidirectional clinical co-occurrence, whereas conditional genetic analyses retain a smaller set of disease-predominant loci and regulatory signals across AD, PD and LBD. These findings refine cross-disorder interpretation and nominate loci for independent genetic and functional validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Qiu and Hu.
SNARE-related genes (SRGs), which mediate membrane fusion events, play critical roles in the development and advancement of cancer. The aim of this research was to develop a prognostic signature based on SRGs for lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) and assess the biological functions of associated SRGs. Transcriptomic and clinical data for LUSC were obtained from public databases. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression generated a risk signature, which was analyzed for associations with clinicopathological features, immune microenvironment, and drug sensitivity. A nomogram was developed based on SRGs-derived signature. Biological function analysis was performed using RNA interference techniques, colony formation assays, transwell assays, and wound healing assays. Ten significantly prognostic SRGs were identified and employed to generate a risk score for LUSC. This signature categorized LUSC patients into the high- and low-risk cohorts, demonstrating notable variations in clinical-pathological features, immune infiltration patterns, gene expression profiles, and responses to drug sensitivity. The developed signature proved itself as an independent predictor of LUSC prognosis, exhibiting robust predictive power for survival outcomes. A nomogram model combining the signature with smoking history showed superior performance and clinical applicability. Knockdown of the bet1 golgi vesicular membrane trafficking protein (BET1) gene in LUSC cells significantly enhanced clonogenic capacity and promoted cancer cell migration and invasion. Our study substantiated the potential clinical significance of a risk signature derived from SRGs in LUSC' prognosis prediction. It provided novel insights into the interactions among SRGs, tumors, and immunity, potentially contributing to the advancement of precision medicine for LUSC.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Dietary betaine (BET) supplementation enhances production performance of dairy cows, improves ruminal fermentation, and increases efficiency of feed utilisation. However, the precise mechanism underlying betaine-mediated regulation of physiological functions in periparturient dairy goats remains unclear. Therefore, this study investigated the effects of betaine supplementation on apparent nutrient digestibility, production performance, serum physiological and biochemical parameters, antioxidant capacity, and immune function of periparturient Wendeng dairy goats. A total of 48 healthy primiparous Wendeng dairy goats at 130  days of gestation (BW, 43.93 ± 9.96  kg) were selected and divided into four groups, according to their initial BW using a randomised block design. Each group contained four replicates, with three goats per replicate. Goats in the control group (CG) were fed a basal diet, whereas those in the experimental groups received betaine for 6, 12, or 18 g/day per goat, designated as the BET1, BET2, or BET3 group, respectively. The experiment comprised a 7-day adaptation period followed by a 50-day experimental period. Throughout the postpartum period, DM intake, average daily milk production, and 4% fat-corrected milk production were significantly higher in the BET groups. The feed-to-milk ratio was also significantly lower in the BET groups than in the CG. In contrast, the apparent digestibility of ADL was lower in BET2 and BET3, and lactose percentage was higher in BET2. On the 1st day of the postpartum period, creatinine (CRE) content was significantly higher in BET3 than in other groups, while blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was lower in BET1. Total cholesterol was also lower in BET1 than in CG and BET2. In terms of antioxidant status, total antioxidant capacity was lower in BET3, whereas total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) was higher in BET2 and BET3. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) activity and malondialdehyde content were lower in BET1 and BET2. On the 35th day of the postpartum period, BW and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were lower in all BET groups compared to CG. The BUN/CRE ratio was reduced in BET2 and BET3. T-SOD levels remained higher in BET1 and BET3, but GSH-PX activity was lower in all BET groups. Therefore, betaine supplementation enhances milk-production performance, milk composition, antioxidant capacity, and immune function in periparturient dairy goats.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) prevents sister chromatids separation until all chromosomes are properly attached to spindle microtubules and bi-oriented. SAC controls the metaphase-to-anaphase transition by inhibiting the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C). A critical step in this process is the recruitment of the Mad1-Mad2 complex to unattached kinetochores mediated by the KBB pathway (KNL1-Bub3-Bub1) and the RZZ pathway (Rod-Zw10-Zwilch). Here, we show that hSpindly contributes to the regulation of Mad1-Mad2 recruitment through the RZZ pathway. We demonstrate that hSpindly is a dynamic protein that oligomerizes at unattached kinetochores, and we identify threonine 552 as a key residue controlling its mobility and function. A non-phosphorylatable mutant (T552A) displays reduced dynamics at kinetochores, impairs SAC signaling, and increases cellular resistance to antimitotic drugs. Altogether, our findings identify hSpindly as a dynamic regulator of SAC signaling and potential therapeutic target for overcoming resistance to mitotic inhibitors.© 2026 The Authors.
Short stature is a frequent reason for referral to pediatric endocrinology clinics, and its underlying cause often remains unclear. This study aimed to determine the diagnostic yield of targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) and to evaluate genotype-phenotype correlations in children with short stature.This retrospective observational study included 64 children (37 males, 27 females) with short stature (height < -2 SDS) who underwent targeted NGS using a 185-gene panel. Patients were divided into two groups: those with pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants and all remaining patients. Clinical and anthropometric characteristics were compared between groups.Genetic variants were identified in 31 patients (48.4 %), and pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in 18, corresponding to a diagnostic yield of 28.1 %. Variants were distributed across 25 genes, most frequently FLNB (n=3) and OBSL1 (n=2). Compared with others, patients with pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants had lower birth weight SDS (-1.69 ± 1.73 vs. -0.56 ± 1.08, p=0.046), higher consanguinity (50 % vs. 13 %, p=0.007), and a smaller difference between bone age and chronological age (p=0.031). No differences were found in height SDS, parental height, or target height.Targeted NGS provides a substantial diagnostic yield in children with short stature and reveals marked genetic heterogeneity. Clinical features such as consanguinity and lower birth weight may help identify patients with a higher likelihood of a genetic etiology. These findings support the integration of genetic testing into the diagnostic evaluation of selected patients with short stature.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Microtubules are cytoskeletal polymers that play essential roles in eukaryotic cells, including structural support, cell division, and intracellular transport. During intracellular transport, kinesin motor proteins move cargo along microtubule tracks via their processive stepping. Recent studies have shown that the kinesin-1 KIF5C can damage the microtubule lattice while stepping. Microtubule damage can be repaired through incorporation of new tubulin subunits, however, excessive lattice damage results in microtubule breakage and disassembly. To identify cellular factors involved in microtubule repair, we performed an siRNA screen targeting microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) known to regulate microtubule dynamics and stability. Based on the results, we investigated whether the end binding protein EB1 and cytoplasmic linker-associated protein 2 (CLASP2) contribute to repair of microtubule damage. To test this, we used a microtubule destruction assay in which damage was induced in microtubules gliding over surfaces coated with wild-type or mutant KIF5C proteins. Our findings suggest that CLASP2 directly facilitates microtubule repair, whereas EB1 does not. We further examined CLASP function using a microtubule repair assay and found that CLASP2 promotes repair by enhancing tubulin incorporation and reducing microtubule breakage. Together, these findings demonstrate that CLASP proteins play an important role in repairing and protecting against lattice damage caused by kinesin-1 motor activity. Our results further suggest that MAPs can directly regulate microtubule lattice integrity under mechanical stress generated by motor protein-driven intracellular transport.
The critically endangered Malayan pangolin (Manis javanica) exhibits distinctive physiological adaptations; nevertheless, its molecular mechanisms underlying development and reproduction remain inadequately characterized, thereby impeding effective conservation initiatives. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive transcriptomic analysis of six tissues (intestine, kidney, liver, lung, muscle, and spleen) derived from adult, fetal, and pregnant individuals. The fetal stage demonstrated the greatest abundance of stage-specific genes, which were predominantly enriched in developmental pathways such as epithelial organization and transmembrane signaling. Differential gene expression (DGE) analysis revealed that genes upregulated in adults were primarily associated with metabolic and immune functions, whereas those upregulated in fetuses were linked to developmental processes and cell cycle regulation. Co-expression network analysis identified critical hub genes, including GLDC in adults and NCAM1 in fetuses, that are implicated in stage-specific regulatory mechanisms. Additionally, extensive differential alternative splicing (DAS) events were observed, with exon skipping (SE) representing the most frequent splicing pattern. Integrative analyses suggested that DGE and DAS largely constitute independent regulatory layers; however, a subset of hub genes, such as OBSL1 and TNIP1, exhibited concurrent differential expression and splicing, indicating their potential central roles in coordinating developmental processes. This study presents a detailed transcriptomic atlas of Malayan pangolin development and pregnancy, providing candidate biomarker genes for evaluating reproductive health and developmental status, thereby informing future conservation strategies.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
The manchette is a transient microtubule (MT)-based structure that is vital for the correct shaping of sperm during spermiogenesis. Throughout spermiogenesis, the manchette retains structural integrity for several days, raising the question of how its MTs are regulated. Here, using cryo-electron tomography of manchettes isolated from rat testes, we find that manchette MT ends are structurally diverse. We show that the MT-binding protein CLASP2 is present throughout the manchette and likely regulates both MT ends. Using cryo-electron microscopy single particle analysis and super-resolution microscopy, we reveal that SPACA9 and MNMIP1 (SH3D21) bind to the seam of manchette MTs from the luminal side. SPACA9 binds to both α- and β-tubulin of protofilament 1 but does not interact directly with protofilament 13, while MNMIP1 binds directly to protofilament 13. MNMIP1 further extends and threads through the MT lattice at the seam. Our study reveals a novel seam MT inner protein complex with a unique binding mode, providing a plausible explanation for MT regulation that maintains manchette integrity over an extended period.© 2026. The Author(s).
The immune system has developed specialized mechanisms to recognize intracellular pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I-Related protein 1 (MR1) is a conserved nonclassical antigen presenting molecule that presents ligands derived from microbial riboflavin synthesis to Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells. While endosomal trafficking facilitates MR1 antigen presentation during Mtb infection, the exact mechanisms by which MR1 loading of Mtb-derived ligands occurs are not known. We found that trafficking through sorting endosomes mediates MR1 antigen presentation during Mtb infection. Sorting endosomes utilize trafficking proteins such as Syntaxin (Stx) 6, Stx12, Stx16 and VAMP4. Prior work demonstrates the importance of VAMP4 for MR1 presentation during Mtb infection; we have found that Stx12 and Stx16 are also important. Interference with Stx12 or Stx16 via siRNA-mediated knockdown reduces MR1 antigen presentation of Mtb. Using RFP-tagged constructs, we found Stx16 co-localized more with MR1 vesicles compared to Stx12 in MR1-GFP expressing airway epithelial cells. Stx12 and Stx16 blockade increase MR1 surface stabilization and total expression, indicating that impaired endosomal trafficking hinders MR1 internalization. Together, these findings support a role for sorting endosomes in the selective sampling of the intracellular environment and MR1-mediated recognition of Mtb-infected cells.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Newly made secretory and membrane proteins exit the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in COPII vesicles that form at specialised ER exit sites. These exit sites are typically near the early Golgi compartments that receive these vesicles. A key player in the delivery of vesicles to the early Golgi is p115 (also known as USO1), a homodimer with a folded head domain and a coiled-coil tail that is anchored to Golgi membranes. p115 has been shown to capture vesicles and to bind to SNARE proteins to promote membrane fusion. Here, we report that the head domain of human p115 can bind directly to Sec16A, a large scaffolding protein that organises ER sites and promotes COPII vesicle formation. Structural prediction and deletion mapping defined the region of interaction to a conserved motif in the unstructured N-terminal region of Sec16A, and mutations in p115 that block motif binding reduced the efficiency of secretion. This interaction could potentially allow a subset of p115 molecules to reach across from the early Golgi to ER exit sites to contribute to the large-scale organisation of the early secretory pathway.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Although aldehyde dehydrogenases 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1) has been extensively studied in cancer, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. This study was designed to characterize the expression pattern and functional roles of ALDH1A1 in HCC, and to further investigate its underlying molecular mechanisms using integrated proteomic analysis.This study performed a pan-cancer analysis of ALDH1A1 expression, followed by validation of its expression levels in HCC tissue samples and cell lines. The expression of ALDH1A1 was manipulated using small interfering RNAs and lentiviral vector in HCC cell lines. And then the proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumorigenicity of HCC cells were observed in vitro and in vivo. Quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling were conducted by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, with comprehensive analyses and key findings validated by experiments.ALDH1A1 was highly expressed in HCC tissues but exhibited notable expression heterogeneity among HCC cell lines. Functionally, ALDH1A1 promoted the proliferation, migration, and tumorigenicity of HCC cells, while suppressing apoptosis and modestly attenuates invasion. Quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses revealed that ALDH1A1 profoundly reshaped both protein expression and phosphorylation landscapes in HCC. Furthermore, we validated that ALDH1A1 positively regulates the expression of DMPK, PCMTD2, VAMP4, ARHGAP19, NOL4L, and ST7, while suppressing SLC31A1, DSTYK, CYP4F12, GPNMB expression. Rescue experiments indicated that ALDH1A1 may promote HCC via activating Rho family small GTPase. ALDH1A1 also significantly upregulated mTOR phosphorylation.ALDH1A1 acts as an oncogenic driver and regulatory hub in HCC.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Under hypoxic conditions, tumour cells engage in autophagic secretion of mitochondria to sustain energy balance and modulate the tumour microenvironment. However, the exact molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study used a combination of multivesicular bodies membrane proteomics and molecular interaction validation to demonstrate that hypoxia promotes mitophagy-dependent extracellular vesicles (EVs) secretion in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). This process promotes tumour-associated macrophages to adopt immunosuppressive phenotypes, reshaping the immune environment. Vesicle-associated membrane protein 4 (VAMP4) and syntaxin 8 (STX8) are key molecules involved in this secretion. Clinically, VAMP4/STX8 expressions are significantly higher in HNSCC than in normal tissues and correlate with prognosis, indicating their potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets. This study revealed the mitophagy-secretion axis that reshaped the tumour immune landscape, providing a theoretical basis for targeting soluble NSF attachment protein receptor-dependent EV release to enhance the therapeutic effect of HNSCC immunotherapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
3M syndrome is a rarely inherited autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in cullin-7 (CUL7), obscurin-like 1 (OBSL1), and coiled-coil domain containing protein 8 (CCDC8). It is associated with multiple dysmorphic features, including characteristic facial dysmorphism (a face that is triangular, full lips, frontal bossing, a nasal tip that is fleshy, long philtrum, protruding ears and macrocephaly), severe growth retardation prenatally and postnatally and normal intelligence. Although there are multiple skeletal manifestations of the syndrome, such as joint laxity, there is no mention of developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) to be associated with it anywhere in the literature. Therefore, we present the first case of bilateral DDH in a patient with 3M syndrome, which was managed similarly to other DDH cases with operative reduction, pelvic osteotomies, and femoral shortening, with a satisfactory outcome after 3 years of follow-up.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd.
Reef-building corals are increasingly threatened by the combined effects of global climate change and localized organic pollutants. However, the holistic impacts of co-exposure to ocean acidification (OA) and benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) on coral holobionts remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated the multi-level responses of the reef-building coral Porites lutea to short-term (7-day) exposure to OA (pH 7.80), BaP (10 µg/L), and their combination, by integrating physiological measurements with microbiome profiling (ITS2 and 16S rRNA). We found that combined stress was associated with a dysregulated response in Symbiodiniaceae, characterized by a significant increase in cell density without a parallel rise in chlorophyll content, suggesting a possible compensatory but inefficient proliferation response. Despite this, the dominant symbiont Cladocopium C15 remained stable. The bacterial diversity increased (e.g., enrichment of Ruegeria and Acanthopleuribacter, decline of Endozoicomonas), which may suggest enhanced functional redundancy, while the archaeal community was significantly restructured, most notably a marked decline of the putative obligate Nanoarchaeota-Halobacterota symbiosis. At the host level, combined stress was associated with suppressed antioxidant enzyme activities (SOD/POD) but upregulated genes related to protein folding (Hsp90) and calcium homeostasis (NCX1, VAMP4). These findings suggest a complex holobiont reconfiguration under combined stress, involving a stabilized core symbiont, altered microbiomes, and a shifted host defense strategy. Our study suggests that the ecological risk of combined OA and organic pollution may not be extrapolated from single-stressor responses, indicating the need to incorporate multi-stressor frameworks into coral reef risk assessments.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The precise neuromodulatory mechanisms underlying consciousness and its disorders, despite growing evidence in both animals and humans, remain poorly understood at the subcortical level. The basal ganglia, a key component of the cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop, are known to play a crucial role in mediating consciousness and behavioural responsiveness to the environment. Here, we aimed to present a comprehensive mapping of the distinct contributions of basal ganglia nuclei and their associated neurotransmitter systems in pharmacologically induced and pathological loss of responsiveness. We used functional MRI to provide a systematic investigation of 9 major nuclei (putamen, caudate, nucleus accumbens, globus pallidus external, globus pallidus internal, substantia nigra pars compacta, substantia nigra pars reticulata, ventral pallidus, and subthalamic nucleus) and their functional relationship with 19 major neurotransmitter systems in loss of responsiveness, in both healthy volunteers under propofol anaesthesia (n = 16) and patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC) (i.e. minimally conscious, unresponsive wakefulness syndrome) (n = 22). We found that in pharmacologically-induced loss of responsiveness, the functional connectivity changes of the putamen (Pu) correlated with the norepinephrine transporter (NET), and the globus pallidus external (GPe) with the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT); additionally, altered connectivity in the ventral pallidum (VeP) was associated with the norepinephrine transporter (NET). In contrast, with pathological-induced loss of responsiveness, we found that connectivity changes of the caudate were associated with the serotonin transporter (5-HTT), dopamine transporter (DAT), and GABAA receptor, and connectivity changes of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) were associated with the cannabinoid (CB1) receptor. Finally, we report that among all basal ganglia nuclei, a key dopamine-rich area of the basal ganglia-the substantia nigra-was found to have the largest DOC subgroup difference in functional connectivity, following stratification based on mental-imagery task responsiveness. Critically, we provide evidence that pharmacological and pathological loss of responsiveness involve distinct neurotransmitter system contributions across individual basal ganglia nuclei, offering a novel framework for targeted therapeutic interventions in patients with disorders of consciousness.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetically dominant neurodegenerative disorder characterized by several pathological mechanisms, including the disruption of brain cholesterol homeostasis. In several HD animal models, brain cholesterol biosynthesis and levels are reduced. Since circulating cholesterol cannot reach the brain, providing exogenous cholesterol has been shown to improve HD phenotypes. However, the methods used for cholesterol delivery were invasive and not easily transferable to clinical practice.Cholesterol-enriched liposomes were developed by using freeze-and-thaw methods and were administered to R6/2 mice through a single or repeated intranasal administrations. Deuterated-cholesterol was used to discriminate exogenous from endogenous cholesterol. Exogenous cholesterol accumulation and distribution, as well as the levels of cholesterol precursors and metabolites, were measured using mass spectrometry. Behavioral tests, real-time PCR analysis, and immunostaining of mutant HTT (muHTT) aggregates were performed to verify the therapeutic effects of liposomes. Plasma neurofilament levels were measured by Simoa-Quanterix assay.We developed and characterized freeze-and-thaw liposomes. Then, we demonstrate that the exogenous cholesterol can spread throughout the entire brain following intranasal administration of cholesterol-enriched liposomes. Furthermore, repeated intranasal treatments with liposomes result in a full restoration of cognitive decline, and delayed the onset of coordination and motor impairment as well as the loss of muscular strength in the early stages of the disease. Cholesterol supplementation also reduced the plasma level of neurofilament light chain and promoted the clearance of muHTT aggregates.The findings support the effectiveness of cholesterol supplementation as a therapeutic strategy for HD and indicate the translational potential of nose-to-brain cholesterol delivery.© 2026. The Author(s).
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the Huntingtin gene (HTT). While classically considered a disease of grey matter, recent imaging data have revealed presymptomatic abnormalities in white matter (WM) tracts. Here, we report lipid changes in glycerophospholipids and sphingolipids from enriched myelin extracts of three WM tracts (internal capsule (IC), dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC), corpus callosum (CC)) of HD and control donors. We found no difference in total lipid concentration between HD and control myelin. However, changes were observed at the lipid class level for the CC and dmPFC, with a reduction in the proportion of Hexosylceramides in HD myelin. When lipids were examined at a species level, there was a shift towards shorter glycerophospholipid fatty acid chain length in HD for all three regions, most notably in phosphatidylethanolamine species. This coincides with previous data showing a reduction in fatty acyl chain lengths in sphingolipid species in the caudate of the same donor cohort and suggests a widespread impact of HD on fatty acid metabolism in the brain.
Huntington's disease is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion in exon 1 of the huntingtin (HTT) gene, encoding an expanded polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin (HTT) protein. The pathogenic CAG repeat of HTT is unstable and undergoes progressive somatic expansion in specific brain cells and peripheral tissues throughout life. Genes involved in DNA mismatch repair pathways, which promote repeat expansion, have been identified as genetic modifiers of the disease. Consequently, the rate of CAG repeat expansion is a key determinant driving the age of onset and disease progression. As the CAG repeat expands, alternative processing of HTT pre-mRNA increasingly favours production of the HTT1a transcript, which encodes the highly pathogenic and aggregation-prone HTT1a protein. This process provides a mechanistic link between CAG repeat expansion and disease pathogenesis, as increased HTT1a production accelerates HTT aggregation and neuronal dysfunction. HTT1a has previously been detected in Huntington's disease mouse models by using immunoprecipitation coupled with western blotting, homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF) and Meso Scale Discovery (MSD) bioassays and immunohistochemistry. These approaches were developed using MW8, a neoepitope antibody that specifically recognizes the C-terminus of HTT1a. MW8 is a relatively weak antibody with limited detection sensitivity. To generate more robust HTT1a-specific reagents, two novel recombinant antibodies, 1B12 and 11G2, have been developed for evaluation. Using an allelic series of knock-in (HdhQ20, HdhQ50, HdhQ80, HdhQ111, CAG140 and zQ175) mice, alongside transgenic YAC128 and N171-82Q models, we extensively evaluated and compared the performance of MW8, 1B12 and 11G2. We demonstrate that 1B12 and 11G2 function as HTT1a-specific neoepitope antibodies by immunoprecipitation with western blotting and by immunohistochemistry. To enhance HTT1a detection using HTRF and MSD technology platforms, we further evaluated the performance of 1B12 and 11G2 in HTT bioassays using cortical lysates from zQ175 and YAC128 mice. In zQ175 mice, enhanced detection of aggregated HTT1a by HTRF and MSD revealed that HTT fragments longer than HTT1a can be incorporated into HTT1a-containing aggregates. The most sensitive assays were subsequently applied across the allelic series of knock-in mice to assess the effect of polyglutamine length on bioassay performance. For optimal sensitivity, we recommend the preferential use of 1B12 for HTRF assays and 11G2 for MSD assays. Collectively, these findings establish 1B12 and 11G2 as robust antibodies to reliably detect and track HTT1a pathology in vivo and promote the replacement of previously used MW8-based experimental approaches.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
This study aims to investigate the phototoxic effects of imperatorin(IMO) and its potential mechanisms of inducing skin photodamage and cellular senescence. A phototoxicity model was established on the dorsal skin of SD rats, which were randomly divided into a control group, an IMO group(0.8 mg·cm~(-2)), a long-wave ultraviolet A(UVA) group(10 J·cm~(-2)), and an IMO + UVA group. The rats were continuously observed for 72 h, and Draize skin scores were assessed. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was used to observe histopathological changes, and Verhoeff-Van Gieson(VVG) staining was utilized to evaluate changes in dermal elastic and collagen fibers. Human dermal fibroblasts(HDF) were cultured in vitro and divided into control, IMO, UVA(1 J·cm~(-2)), and groups of IMO with low, medium, and high doses(1, 2.5, and 5 μg·mL~(-1)) + UVA. The CCK-8 assay was used to assess the cell viability. Transcriptomics by RNA-seq was used to analyze the changes in gene expression. Real-time quantitative PCR(RT-qPCR) was used to detect the mRNA expressions of the top 10 senescence-associated genes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to detect the levels of senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) factors like matrix metalloproteinase-3(MMP-3), interleukin(IL)-6, and IL-8. Immunofluorescence was used to evaluate the senescence-associated heterochromatin foci(SAHF) markers like heterochromatin protein 1γ(HP1γ) and trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 9(H3K9me3). Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was performed to detect the senescent cells, and Western blot was used to detect the expression and localization of growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible alpha(GADD45A), G_2/M phase-specific cyclin B1(Cyclin B1), and cyclin-dependent kinase 1(CDK1) proteins. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the cell cycle. The siRNA was used to silence GADD45A gene to verify its function. In vivo results show that, compared to the control group, the IMO + UVA group has significantly higher skin damage scores, with stratum corneum loss, inflammatory cell infiltration, reduced collagen fiber density, and abnormal deposition of elastic fibers. In vitro results demonstrate that IMO + UVA significantly inhibits the cell viability of HDF(P&lt;0.05). RNA-seq and RT-qPCR verifications indicate that IMO + UVA significantly upregulate the expressions of senescence-associated genes, with GADD45A gene showing the most significant change. The IMO + UVA group also shows significant increases in SASP factor secretion, SA-β-gal activity, SAHF formation, and the proportion of cells in the G_2/M phase(P&lt;0.05). Western blot results demonstrate that IMO + UVA promote the expression of GADD45A protein and inhibit nuclear translocation of Cyclin B1, thereby reducing the kinase activity of the Cyclin B1-CDK1 complex. Silencing GADD45A gene effectively alleviates G_2/M phase arrest and cellular senescence phenotype. In summary, IMO in combination with UVA can induce photodamage to the skin and accelerate cellular senescence, and the mechanism may involve G_2/M phase arrest mediated by the activation of the GADD45A/Cyclin B1/CDK1 axis.
During early embryogenesis, gene expression relies on maternally loaded mRNAs whose translation is controlled by RNA binding proteins. Here, we identify a critical role for the cyclin B3-CDK1 complex, known for its function in mitosis, in driving early embryonic gene expression in C. elegans . The cyclin B3-CDK1 complex works by marking the RNA binding OMA proteins (OMA-1 and OMA-2) for degradation, which ensures the de-repression and translation of their target mRNAs. OMA protein degradation relies on cyclin B3's conserved phosphate-binding pocket, which promotes multi-site OMA phosphorylation and the generation of phospho-degrons. Notably, the phosphate-binding pocket of cyclin B3 does not substantially contribute to its mitotic roles, indicating that the mitotic and translational functions of the cyclin B3-CDK1 complex are separable. These findings establish that embryonic activation of the cyclin B3-CDK1 complex drives both mitotic divisions and mRNA de-repression, which ensures that cell division is coupled to the early gene expression program in development.
Transcriptional elongation undergoes extensive remodeling at mitotic entry, yet how elongation control is integrated into core cell-cycle kinase networks remains unclear. Here, we identify the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 as a direct substrate of the mitotic kinase CDK1 in mammalian cells. CDK1-dependent phosphorylation of METTL3 at Ser43 is sharply induced at mitotic entry and promotes m6A methylation of the noncoding RNA 7SK, resulting in release of positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) complex. This activation of the m6A/7SK/P-TEFb axis facilitates genome-wide clearance of RNA polymerase II and supports timely mitotic progression. Endogenous mutation of METTL3 Ser43 or disruption of 7SK methylation impairs elongation dynamics, delays mitotic exit, and increases chromosome missegregation. These findings integrate RNA methylation into the CDK1-driven mitotic program and reveal a mechanism by which transcriptional elongation is coordinated with chromosome segregation fidelity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent subtype of lung cancer and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Current targeted therapies are limited by acquired resistance, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic agents and targets. The aim of this study is to investigate the anti-tumor efficacy of oxypeucedanin (OPD) against LUAD and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.In vitro functional assays, bioinformatics prediction, molecular docking, and binding validation experiments were employed to identify the direct target of OPD. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, and proteomic analysis were used to delineate the downstream pathway. Genetic knockdown/ overexpression rescue experiments were performed, and in vivo efficacy was evaluated using patient-derived organoids and mouse xenograft models.OPD potently suppressed LUAD cell proliferation and induced apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, OPD directly bound to the motor protein KIF11 and promoted its ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation via the E3 ligase TRIM21. KIF11 degradation led to destabilization of its interacting partner, MCM2, consequently downregulating the CDK1/ Cyclin B1 complex and ultimately triggering G2/M phase cell cycle arrest.OPD functions as a novel molecular degrader of KIF11, exerting its anti-LUAD effects by promoting KIF11 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. These results highlight OPD as a promising therapeutic strategy for LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
To evaluate whether the spatial pattern of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)-related regional magnetic susceptibility alterations colocalizes with the normative distribution of neurotransmitter receptors and transporters.Regional magnetic susceptibility was assessed in 36 OSA patients and 30 screen-negative controls (SNC) using quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM). The spatial colocalization between OSA-related QSM alterations and the normative distribution of receptors/transporters was examined using PET-derived neurotransmitter maps included in NiSpace. Clinical correlates of colocalization strength were also explored.Compared with SNC, patients with OSA showed increased magnetic susceptibility in the left insula, left middle temporal gyrus, and left inferior temporal gyrus (all PFDR = 0.047), with similar trends in the right putamen and right transverse temporal gyrus that did not survive correction. These QSM alterations colocalized with the normative distribution of NMDA receptor (mean Rho = 0.177, PMeff = 0.001), Dopamine transporter (DAT) (mean Rho = 0.149, PMeff = 0.040), and 5-HTT (mean Rho = 0.153, PMeff = 0.040). The strength of colocalization with NMDA receptors, DAT, and 5-HTT was significantly associated with disease severity.This study provides convergent evidence linking OSA-related magnetic susceptibility alterations, consistent with iron-related changes, to the normative distribution of glutamatergic, serotonergic, and dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems. These spatial associations correlated with disease severity, highlighting the potential of spatial colocalization approaches for understanding neurochemical vulnerability in OSA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Although disrupted mitochondrial dynamics in neurons are closely linked to neurodegenerative diseases, far less is known about how mitochondrial dynamics are regulated in glia or whether glial mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to neurodegeneration. Here, we show that the R-SNARE protein VAMP7 regulates the untethering of mitochondria-lysosome contacts (MLCs) in adult fly glia. Glial-specific knockdown of VAMP7 leads to prolonged MLCs and mitochondrial elongation associated with altered fission/fusion dynamics. These VAMP7-deficient mitochondria exhibit hyperpolarized membrane potential, leading to increased reactive oxygen species production, lipid droplet accumulation, and dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Mechanistically, VAMP7 interacts with the GTPase-activating protein TBC1D15-17 to promote Rab7 GTP hydrolysis. Without VAMP7, TBC1D15-17 remains bound to Rab7 but fails to activate its hydrolysis, resulting in elevated GTP-bound Rab7 and impaired MLCs untethering. Consistently, expression of GTP-locked Rab7Q67L or GTPase-activating protein-dead TBC1D15-17ΔGAP phenocopies the mitochondrial defects, while GDP-bound Rab7T22N or wild-type TBC1D15-17 restores the MLC dynamics. Considering that SNARE proteins mediate membrane fusion, our results demonstrate a role for VAMP7 in glial mitochondrial dynamics via organelle contacts, impacting neuron survival in a non-cell-autonomous manner.
Cardiomyocyte-macrophage crosstalk is essential for post-infarction repair, with Galectin-9 (Gal-9) acting as a key immunoregulatory mediator. However, the mechanisms governing its expression and secretion remain unclear. Here, we show that hypoxia stabilizes HIF-1α in cardiomyocytes, driving Gal-9 expression. Pharmacological activation of HIF-1α with deferoxamine enhanced Gal-9 secretion, promoted macrophage polarization toward M2 phenotype, and improved cardiac function after myocardial infarction. These benefits were abrogated by HIF-1α inhibition or Gal-9 deletion, underscoring the HIF-1α-Gal-9 axis as a central regulator of cardiac healing. Mechanistically, Gal-9 secretion occurred via a TMED10-dependent, non-classical vesicular pathway. TMED10 interacted with Gal-9 through a glycan-independent interface to facilitate vesicle loading. Furthermore, Gal-9 underwent S-palmitoylation at Cys137, a modification required for membrane anchoring and secretion. ZDHHC3 was identified as the primary palmitoyl acyltransferase mediating this process; ZDHHC3 knockdown or Cys137 mutation markedly suppressed Gal-9 release. These findings define a novel regulatory network in which HIF-1α upregulates Gal-9, while TMED10 and ZDHHC3 coordinate its palmitoylation-dependent secretion. This pathway links hypoxic signaling to immune modulation, providing new mechanistic insight and therapeutic targets for post-infarction myocardial repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Angiopoietin-like 3 (ANGPTL3) and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) are key regulators of lipid homeostasis. We have previously shown that gene silencing of ANGPTL3 significantly induces PCSK9 expression in the human hepatoma cell line Huh7. Here, we investigated the biological significance of this regulation in the cultured human hepatoma cell line Huh7.We performed an RNA-seq analysis in Huh7 cells transfected with siRNA-ANGPTL3, siRNA-PCSK9, and double siRNA-ANGPTL3/PCSK9. Selected findings were assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and ELISA.Among 13,945 detected transcripts, 192 genes were differentially expressed after ANGPTL3 silencing, 88 after PCSK9 silencing, and 219 after combined ANGPTL3/PCSK9 silencing, compared with scramble-siRNA controls. When ANGPTL3 gene expression was silenced, we observed a compensatory induction in PCSK9 mRNA and protein expression. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that gene silencing of ANGPTL3 or both ANGPTL3/PCSK9 suppresses serpin family A member 1 (SERPINA1), which encodes α1-antitrypsin, and lectin mannose-binding 1 (LMAN1). These data were confirmed by Western blot and RT-PCR analysis. In addition, ANGPTL3-siRNA, alone or combined with PCSK9-siRNA, significantly increased FV and FVIII mRNA expression and secretion in conditioned medium.Our data identified SERPINA1 and LMAN1 as genes downregulated in response to ANGPTL3 silencing in Huh7 hepatoma cells, which was also associated with increased expression of FV and FVIII. Our study suggests a potential link between ANGPTL3 silencing and coagulation-related processes, extending the biological relevance of ANGPTL3 beyond lipid metabolism.
Plumage colour in domestic geese is an important economic trait and a selection target since the early days of domestication. In European domestic geese of greylag goose (Anser anser) origin, white plumage is known to be determined by two independent loci, one causing white spotting and another sex-linked dilution, together producing white plumage. Strong candidate genetic variants have been identified upstream of the EDNRB2, that is, LOC106047519 gene (endothelin receptor B-like) and within the sex-linked MLANA gene (melan-A). To confirm these candidate variants, we genotyped differently coloured European domestic goose breeds, wild greylag geese, Chinese domestic geese (derived from swan goose A. cygnoid) and European and Chinese domestic geese crossbreeds. One base pair deletion in the MLANA gene (NW_013185876.1: g.950868 C>-) was confirmed to cause sex-linked dilution, and thus autosexing (almost white gander and diluted grey goose). However, a genetic variant upstream of EDNRB2 (NW_013185915.1: g.775151 G>T) was not causative of saddleback pattern but strongly linked to it in European domestic geese. We sequenced the EDNRB2 gene and coding sequence of a neighbouring VAMP7 gene (vesicle-associated membrane protein 7) but found no genetic variation linked to colour. Additionally, we sequenced the coding sequence of TYRP1 (tyrosinase related protein 1), a candidate gene for buff colouration, but no variation linked to colour was found. Further, we genotyped a 14-bp insertion in exon 3 of the EDNRB2 gene, known to be causative of the white phenotype in the Chinese domestic goose, and identified it in one European domestic goose.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Our previous studies demonstrated that casein kinase 1α1 (CSNK1A1) was significantly upregulated in the endolymphatic sac of patients with Meniere's disease (MD). However, its specific role in the development of MD remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the effects of CSNK1A1 inhibition on alleviating hydrops, inflammation, and preserving audiovestibular function in a mouse model of endolymphatic hydrops (EH).Experimental animal study.Translational research laboratory.An EH model was induced in mice by postauricular lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection. CSNK1A1 localization in hair cells was visualized via immunofluorescence. To functionally interrogate CSNK1A1, mice received intraperitoneal injections of the CSNK1A1 inhibitor CSNK1-IN-2. Evaluations encompassed three key parameters: cochlear morphology (EH severity), auditory brainstem response (ABR) and vestibular evoked myogenic potential (VEMP, audiovestibular function), and immunofluorescence for CD45 and F4/80 (macrophage infiltration).In LPS-induced EH mice, CSNK1A1 expression was significantly upregulated in cochlear and vestibular hair cells. Pharmacological inhibition of CSNK1A1 markedly improved audiovestibular function, reducing ABR thresholds (all frequencies, P < .01) and attenuating VEMP latency prolongations (P < .0001), CSNK1A1 inhibition also reduced EH, decreasing the membrane length increase rate (P < .01), and decreased the infiltration of CD45+ and F4/80+ inflammatory macrophages in the cochlea and vestibule (P < .05).CSNK1A1 plays a role in attenuating LPS-induced inner ear injury, suggesting that its inhibition may represent a potential strategy for attenuating inflammation-associated cochleovestibular damage.© 2026 American Academy of Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery Foundation.
Hemophilia A, an X-linked bleeding disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the F8 gene, requires precise genetic diagnosis for optimal management. Conventional stepwise sequence and copy number variation (CNV) analyses are time-consuming and may leave some cases unresolved.To evaluate the effectiveness of combining next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based sequence and CNV analysis in a single step for resolving previously undiagnosed Hemophilia A cases and identifying differential diagnoses.A cohort of 578 male patients with Factor VIII deficiency was assessed. Initial analyses included intron 22/intron 1 inversion testing and/or F8 sequencing. Twenty-seven unresolved cases underwent a targeted 57-gene coagulopathy panel using NGS with CNV analysis; CNVs were confirmed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA).The integrated NGS approach resolved 19 of 27 unresolved cases, increasing the overall diagnostic yield from 95.3% to 98.6%. Ten CNVs in F8 (8 deletions, 2 duplications) were identified and confirmed by MLPA. Variants in VWF and LMAN1 genes led to diagnoses of von Willebrand disease (n = 6) and combined Factor V/VIII deficiency (n = 1). One F8 intronic variant was detected, while 8 cases remained unresolved by the NGS-based approach.Integrating NGS-based CNV analysis into genetic diagnostic workflows enables simultaneous detection of sequence variants and CNVs, improves diagnostic yield, and facilitates identification of related bleeding disorders. This streamlined approach supports adoption as a first-line test for mild/moderate Hemophilia A and a secondary test for severe cases.© 2026 The Author(s). International Journal of Laboratory Hematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ovarian cancer represents the most lethal gynecologic malignancy, with tumor metastasis being the primary contributor to patient mortality. EZH2, frequently overexpressed in various cancers, has been implicated in promoting metastatic progression through metabolic dysregulation. However, the mechanistic basis by which EZH2 reprograms cholesterol metabolism to facilitate ovarian cancer metastasis remains poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrated that EZH2 is highly expressed in both primary and metastatic ovarian cancer tissues, correlating positively with poor clinical prognosis. Genetic silencing of EZH2 significantly suppressed tumor proliferation and metastatic dissemination. Mechanistically, EZH2 overexpression activated the NF-κB-Rap1A signaling axis and orchestrated cholesterol metabolic reprogramming by activating SREBP2, while repressing TMED10, to promote ovarian cancer metastasis. Furthermore, we identified Napabucasin as a potent suppressor of EZH2/Rap1A axis and cholesterol metabolism. Notably, Napabucasin effectively inhibited ovarian cancer metastasis in vivo. Collectively, our findings elucidate a previously unrecognized mechanism by which EZH2 governs metastatic progression through cholesterol metabolic rewiring and propose Napabucasin as a promising therapeutic strategy for ovarian cancer, particularly in tumors with EZH2 hyperactivation.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND Retinopathy of prematurity is characterized by retinal vascular ischemia and hypoxia that lead to neovascularization, potentially causing retinal detachment and blindness. This study aimed to explore target genes involved in oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) through comprehensive single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data analysis. MATERIAL AND METHODS ScRNA-seq data of retinal tissues obtained from mice under normoxic and OIR conditions were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO; accession number GSE150703). A suite of bioinformatics tools was used for data processing, cell clustering, cell type annotation, differential gene expression analysis, gene set enrichment analysis, and protein-protein interaction network prediction to identify key hub genes associated with OIR. RESULTS Analysis of GSE150703 OIR mouse data identified 10 retinal cell types. These findings were supported by pathway enrichment analyses, including Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, which indicated significant upregulation of Hnrnpu, Vamp2, Ybx1, Ywhab, and Csnk1a1, and downregulation of Xist and mt-Co1, among others. Interacting proteins from protein-protein interaction network studies identified major hub genes involving Srsf1, Srsf11, Sf3b1, and Hnrnpu, among others. Moreover, the research explored how mutations of Chchd10 and Sf3b1 influence the development of the disease and downregulation of mitochondrial-associated genes, such as lncRNA-Xist, Ndufs5, and mt-Co1, which may provide further insight into their roles in the pathogenesis of OIR. CONCLUSIONS The single-cell data analysis suggests that Hnrnpu, Vamp2, Ybx1, Ywhab, Csnk1a1, Pfkp, Rho, Srsf1, Srsf11, Mt1, Tpr, Hnrnpc, Chchd10, Sf3b1, Xist, Ndufs5, and mt-Co1 may be potential target genes in OIR in retinopathy of prematurity.
The release of exosomes involves the fusion of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) with the plasma membrane (PM), a process driven by the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex. However, the specific SNARE complex mediating MVB-PM fusion and its regulatory mechanism remain unclear. Here, we show that Coronin-1a (Coro1a) increases extracellular vesicle (EV) biogenesis by promoting the assembly of the STX-12-SNAP-23-VAMP-7 SNARE complex independent of neddylation. Mechanistically, Coro1a activates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) to enhance SNAP-23 phosphorylation, thereby driving the recruitment of STX-12 and VAMP-7. Consequently, Coro1a-induced EV biogenesis is abolished by PKM2 inhibition or SNAP-23 silencing. Furthermore, Coro1a levels are elevated in lung tumor tissues and correlate with poor patient survival, suggesting that Coro1a-mediated enhancement of EV production contributes to tumor progression. Our data demonstrate that Coro1a facilitates EV biogenesis by promoting SNARE complex assembly during MVB and PM fusion.© 2026. The Author(s).
Although the endolysosome system is central to intracellular recycling, signal transduction, and intercellular communication via exocytosis, its role in immunoregulation remains incompletely defined. We recently identified that CD4+ T cell-specific depletion of BLOC1S1, a component of multiprotein complexes regulating endolysosomal biology, predisposes toward type 2 (Th2) immunity. We therefore hypothesized that the study of BLOC1S1-deficient CD4+ T cells would expand our understanding of endolysosomal dynamics in Th2 function. Here, we demonstrate that CD4+ T cell BLOC1S1 deficiency resulted in aberrant lysosomal distribution, accumulation of endosomal vesicles, and increased exocytosis, which collectively correlated with enhanced Th2 immune responses. The phenotype was associated with upregulation of key components of the exocytosis machinery, including RAB11 and VAMP7. Functional inhibition of these vesicle trafficking proteins following siRNA knockdown of RAB11 and VAMP7 significantly attenuated Th2 cytokine secretion in BLOC1S1-deficient CD4+ T cells, highlighting their essential role in exosome-mediated cytokine export. Furthermore, exosomes derived from BLOC1S1-deficient CD4+ T cells promoted Th2 polarization in recipient cells, indicating a mechanism of intracellular amplification. Together, these findings identify BLOC1S1 as a critical regulator of lysosomal dynamics and exocytic vesicle fusion, thereby linking intracellular trafficking mechanisms to Th2 immune regulation.
CDC42 is involved in multiple signaling pathways, including actin organization and polarity. We previously reported progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in inner ear hair cell (HC)-specific Cdc42-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox) mice. However, the phenotype was milder than expected, suggesting possible redundancy with other Rho-family GTPases. Thereafter, Takenouchi-Kosaki syndrome (TKS), caused by de novo CDC42 mutations and manifesting as SNHL, was reported, in which the p.Y64C mutation was speculated to be constitutively active. However, the relationship between CDC42 status and hearing phenotypes in TKS remains unclear. Using cell models, mouse models, and patient data, we propose that impaired and/or dysregulated cycling between GDP/inactive and GTP/active forms, through either loss-of-function or constitutive activation, can lead to SNHL. Furthermore, to test redundancy, we generated HC-specific Cdc42;RhoQ double-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox;RhoQflox/flox) mice, which revealed synergistic roles of CDC42 and RHOQ in cochlear HCs. Supporting this synergy, MDCK cells with CDC42 and RHOQ double knockdown showed greater phospho-cofilin, a key regulator of actin turnover, elevation than single knockdowns.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566502 is a review article
Mutations in the MEFV gene, which encodes pyrin, are associated with a spectrum of inflammatory conditions called pyrin-associated autoinflammatory diseases (PAADs). Of the 400 MEFV variants listed in the Infevers database, most are classified as variants of uncertain significance. Thus, genetic diagnosis of PAADs remains challenging, and the molecular mechanisms underlying pyrin activation remain poorly understood. Here, we used a cell-based pyroptosis assay to stratify 265 missense MEFV variants and identified previously uncharacterized pathogenic variants. We then characterized the interaction between the pyrin B30.2 domain and CDC42, a key regulator of pyrin intracellular trafficking and activation. We found that classical familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)-related variants bind tightly to CDC42 to induce pyrin hyperactivation, whereas certain non-FMF variants induce pyrin hyperactivation independently of CDC42, indicating involvement of multiple pathways in pyrin activation. Our approach provides a proof of concept for a genotype-first approach, which may advance our understanding of complex human diseases.
Heterozygous carboxyl-terminal variants in the RHO guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) CDC42 are known to cause severe autoinflammatory syndromes. Here, we identified a heterozygous amino-terminal p.T43I (Thr43→Ile) CDC42 variant in patients with autoinflammation and uncovered a molecular link between CDC42 and the inflammasome sensor pyrin, mutated in the hereditary autoinflammatory syndrome familial Mediterranean fever. We demonstrate that the region surrounding residue T43 of CDC42 interacts with the carboxyl-terminal B30.2 domain of pyrin and regulates its localization and activation. The p.T43I substitution strengthens the CDC42-pyrin interaction through additional van der Waals interactions, leading to increased pyrin inflammasome activation, as evidenced by increased ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase activating and recruitment domain) speck formation, enhanced pyroptosis, and excessive interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-18 production. These findings identify CDC42 as a pyrin ligand and provide critical insights into the role of the pyrin B30.2 domain in inflammasome activation, suggesting dual regulation of pyrin by two RHO family GTPases, RHOA and CDC42.
CDC42 is an evolutionarily conserved guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) regulating critical cellular and immune processes. Variants in CDC42 therefore cause a spectrum of developmental phenotypes, including hematological and immunological symptoms. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized autoinflammatory condition caused by CDC42Met45→Leu(M45L). We confirm the pathogenicity of CDC42M45L given that it promotes pyrin inflammasome activation, consistent with highly elevated circulating interleukin-18 (IL-18) in all affected individuals. Coimmunoprecipitation demonstrates that CDC42 interacts with the PYD and B30.2 domains of pyrin. The B30.2 interaction is greatly enhanced by CDC42M45L. Models show that CDC42 methionine-45 sits in a hydrophobic cleft of the pyrin B30.2 domain, and substitution with a negatively charged residue prevents colocalization between CDC42 and pyrin. This study supports a model whereby CDC42 nucleates pyrin via the B30.2 domain, after which a threshold is reached to liberate the PYD for inflammasome activation. Blocking the inflammasome-associated cytokine IL-1 was therapeutically effective when tested against this autoinflammatory CDC42M45L endotype.
The epidermis is a stratified epithelium in which keratinocytes differentiate as they move from basal to suprabasal layers, a process during which tissue integrity relies on the coordinated remodeling of intercellular junctions and the cytoskeleton. Unlike simple epithelia, which form a continuous zonula adherens, suprabasal cells in the epidermis lack a canonical junction belt, with E-cadherin-based junctions distributed across the entire cell surface, highlighting distinct regulatory mechanisms that remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the CDC42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor FGD1, mutated in Aarskog-Scott syndrome, as a regulator of suprabasal junction architecture. Using stratified human keratinocytes and quantitative imaging, we show that loss of FGD1 induces elongated radial actin bundles and tortuous, tension-associated adherens junctions resembling the stress fiber-anchored discontinuous (focal) adherens junctions described in endothelial cells. These defects are accompanied by altered tissue mechanics. Inhibition of ROCK or myosin II restores junction organization, demonstrating that FGD1 restrains actomyosin contractility to promote suprabasal junction maturation. Several disease-associated FGD1 variants fail to rescue these defects. Together, our findings identify FGD1 as a regulator of suprabasal junction maturation.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Phosphoprotein phosphatase 1 (PP1) forms holoenzymes composed of a catalytic subunit (PP1c) and one or two of over 200 regulatory subunits (PP1Rs). Humans express four conserved PP1c isoforms: PP1cα, PP1cβ/δ, and splice variants PP1cγ1 and PP1cγ2. To systematically characterize PP1c isoform-specific interactions, we employed mass spectrometry to identify PP1cα, PP1cβ, and PP1cγ interacting proteins, determine their isoform specificity, and assess and quantify their abundance within the PP1 holoenzyme pool. Our data shows that PP1c forms hundreds of dimeric and trimeric holoenzymes, but the 10 most abundant PP1Rs make up 74% of PP1 holoenzymes, and they are highly uniform among PP1c isoforms. A key exception are myosin phosphatase N-terminal element (MyPhoNE)-containing PP1Rs, which form abundant holoenzyme complexes exclusively with PP1cβ. To define the determinants of MYPT1-PP1cβ specificity, we systematically assessed the contributions of MYPT1-PP1cβ interactions. First, we generated PP1cβ-PP1cγ chimeras and PP1cβ Tyr 305/Tyr307 point mutations to test the contribution of the PP1 C-terminal residues, and secondly, we used PP1cβ Thr197Gln (T197Q) mutation to test the effect of the MYPT1:MyPhoNE-specific interaction. Using genome editing, we demonstrate that PP1cβ T197Q-expressing cells exhibit altered PP1 holoenzyme composition and phosphorylation signaling, including increased phosphorylation of the Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) activation loop. Our studies further the understanding of the PP1c isoform-specific preference and demonstrate how a single amino acid change can alter PP1 holoenzyme composition and phosphorylation signaling, potentially explaining how recently discovered PP1cβ clinical variants impact PP1 biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Therapeutic resistance remains a major challenge in cancer treatment, driven by compensatory signaling and stress response pathways that sustain tumor survival. Topoisomerase IIβ-binding protein 1 (TopBP1), a multifunctional scaffold protein with nine BRCT domains, integrates replication stress signaling with oncogenic networks and is frequently overexpressed in aggressive cancers. Its BRCT7/8 domains mediate critical interactions with E2F1, mutant p53, MIZ1, PLK1, and CIP2A, making TopBP1-BRCT7/8 an attractive therapeutic target. Using docking-guided screening and structure-activity relationship-driven optimization, we developed CS18 as a potent and selective BRCT7/8 inhibitor that disrupts oncogenic TopBP1 complexes without interfering with DNA replication. CS18 suppresses MYC transcriptional programs, restores E2F1-mediated apoptosis, and induces mitotic catastrophe. It exhibits broad-spectrum anticancer activity and synergizes with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors in multiple cancer types and enhances osimertinib sensitivity in EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. CS18 demonstrates efficacy in patient-derived breast cancer xenografts and overcomes osimertinib resistance in refractory NSCLC in vivo. These findings establish CS18 as a chemically distinct TopBP1 inhibitor with translational potential to overcome therapeutic resistance and advance precision oncology.
Class I PI3Kβ is critical in controlling platelet activation and preserving thrombus stability under high shear. PI3Kβ is unique among class I phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) in being activated by Rho-family GTPases Rac and Cdc42, positioning it as a potential key link between Rho-family GTPases and platelet signaling. Here, we combined pharmacological inhibition with genetic approaches to define a direct Rho-PI3Kβ signaling axis in mouse platelets. Platelets from knockin mice carrying two point mutations within the Rho-binding domain (RBD) of the PI3Kβ catalytic subunit p110β exhibited impaired GPVI-mediated platelet signaling, functional responses, and spreading on fibrinogen. Pharmacological inhibition with the PI3Kβ-selective inhibitor AZD6482 demonstrated that these responses largely depend on the p110β RBD. Inhibition of Rac/Cdc42 in wild-type platelets phenocopied the knockin defects, supporting a direct role for Rho GTPases in PI3Kβ activation. Conversely, Rac activation was impaired in RBD-mutant and AZD6482-treated platelets, revealing a Rac-PI3Kβ feedback loop that amplifies GPVI-dependent platelet activation.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Giardia duodenalis (G. duodenalis) represents a prevalent zoonotic protozoan pathogen responsible for diarrheal disorders across human and animal hosts. To date, no licensed effective vaccines have been developed against giardiasis, and the emergence of drug resistance progressively impairs the efficacy of conventional clinical chemotherapy. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from G. duodenalis (GEVs) exert pivotal functions in mediating parasite immune evasion as well as the initiation of host inflammatory cascades; nevertheless, the molecular regulatory circuits underlying GEV biosynthesis and secretion remain poorly defined. Previous bioinformatic predictions implicate Rab1a in vesicular trafficking within G. duodenalis, whereas its concrete biological contribution to GEV secretion has not been experimentally validated. The present work was designed to screen microRNAs (miRNAs) targeting Rab1a and further elucidate their modulatory effects on GEVs biogenesis. GEVs were purified from G. duodenalis WB-strain trophozoites, and their identity was verified via transmission electron microscopy (TEM), nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA, modal diameter: 164.7 nm), plus Western blot detection of classic extracellular vesicle biomarker proteins. High-throughput miRNA sequencing was subsequently conducted to filter candidate miRNAs capable of interacting with the Rab1a 3' untranslated region (3'UTR), from which miR-375, miR-133, and miR-999 were shortlisted as prospective regulatory molecules. Functional verification revealed that only miR-375 robustly repressed Rab1a expression at both mRNA and protein abundances. Dual-luciferase reporter assays further authenticated the direct physical interaction between miR-375 and the Rab1a 3'UTR. Consistently, ectopic overexpression of miR-375 resulted in a prominent decline in cellular GEV secretion. In summary, our experimental data corroborate that endogenous G. duodenalis miR-375 suppresses Rab1a expression at the post-transcriptional level to constrain downstream GEV release. The newly characterized miR-375-Rab1a-GEVs regulatory axis deepens our mechanistic understanding of post-transcriptional modulation governing vesicle formation in G. duodenalis.Copyright © 2026 Shaoxiong Liu et al. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The mechanisms linking Golgi function to stress adaptation and senescence remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) subunit COG7 as a non-redundant determinant of Golgi integrity and stress adaptation in Arabidopsis thaliana. Functional disruption of COG7 reduces Golgi size, enhances Rapid Stress Response Element (RSRE)-dependent stress signaling, and accelerates dark-induced senescence. Complementation analyses reveal functional specialization within the COG complex, as only COG3, COG5, and COG6 partially restore stress signaling and senescence phenotypes. At the molecular level, cog7 exhibits altered glycosylation, increased ubiquitination, and elevated autophagy. However, disruption of glycosylation pathways or dark-induced candidate glycosyltransferases does not affect RSRE activation, proteostasis-associated responses, or senescence progression, indicating that glycosylation changes are downstream consequences rather than drivers of the stress phenotype. Similarly, CAMTA3-dependent RSRE activation is genetically separable from senescence and proteostasis pathways. Together, these findings show that Golgi dysfunction generates multiple parallel outputs rather than a single linear stress pathway and establish COG7 as a central regulator linking Golgi integrity to stress signaling, proteostasis, and senescence during dark-induced stress.© 2026 Society for Experimental Biology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Deer antler is the only mammalian organ capable of periodic complete regeneration. Its astonishing growth rate-reaching several centimeters per day-provides a unique model for research in tissue regeneration and developmental biology. This rapid growth relies on the protective and signaling functions of the skin, as well as the vigorous proliferation and differentiation capacity of mesenchymal cells. Although previous studies have identified some key factors involved in antler growth, systematically comparing the transcriptomic profiles of these two core tissues (skin and mesenchyme) to identify candidate genes regulating their synergistic growth is crucial for deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying this "ultra-fast" growth.The Illumina NovaSeq 6000 sequencing platform was used to perform transcriptome sequencing on the antler tissues of the Cervus elaphus xanthopygus (Dongbei red deer) with a growth period of approximately 60 days. Bioinformatics methods were used to identify the transcriptional expression of genes in the antler tissues, and the expression levels of some genes were tested by fluorescence quantitative PCR.A total of 109.82 Gb of transcriptome data was generated from the skin and mesenchymal tissues of antlers, and 40,023 transcripts were obtained. There were 3,530 genes with differential expression between the skin and the mesenchymal tissues of antlers. Genes with upregulated expression levels in the mesenchymal layer were enriched in phosphate-containing compound metabolic processes and multiple biological processes related to bone development such as skeletal system development, cartilage development, regulation of ossification, and enamel mineralization. Among the genes enriched in the cancer pathway and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, those that may play an important role in the rapid growth process of deer antlers were screened, including MDM2, RPS6KB1, CASP3, BMP4, PTCH1, SOX-6, YWHAZ, and HSP90B1.The discovery of these genes provides a reference for a further in-depth understanding of the mechanism of the rapid growth of antlers.©2026 Bi et al.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is highly heterogeneous and develops due to the accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in various aspects of CRC, such as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), proliferation, migration, and metastasis. However, the complex mechanisms involved remain incompletely understood. This study identifies CRC-related differentially expressed miRNAs (with a focus on miR- 34c-5p), verifies its target, and explores the regulatory mechanism of halofuginone (HF) in CRC via the miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis.MiRNA sequencing (miRNA-Seq) identified differentially expressed miRNAs, which were verified by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). miR-34c-5p expression was detected in HCT-15 cells and normal human primary colon epithelial cells; its effects on CRC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were assessed in vitro and in vivo. Target prediction combined with dual-luciferase reporter assays validated the direct target of miR-34c-5p. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to analyse MAP2K1 expression in clinical samples and its correlation with the severity of precancerous lesions. The effect of HF on CRC via the miR-34c- 5p/MAP2K1 axis was examined in vitro and in vivo.MiR-34c-5p was downregulated in HCT-15 cells compared with normal human primary colon epithelial cells and inhibited the malignant behaviours of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo. MAP2K1 was confirmed as the direct target of miR-34c-5p. MAP2K1 expression was positively correlated with the severity of colorectal precancerous lesions. HF suppressed CRC progression by regulating the miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis in vitro and in vivo.This study reveals that miR-34c-5p targets MAP2K1 to suppress colorectal cancer progression. HF upregulates miR-34c-5p and downregulates MAP2K1, exerting antitumour effects. The miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis serves as a promising therapeutic target for CRC.Taken together, our study revealed that the miR-34c-5p/MAP2K1 axis is involved in the development and progression of human CRC and may provide novel insights into the prevention and treatment of CRC. This work also provides a brief overview of several recently issued patents.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42507757 is a review article
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) remains difficult to treat in a substantial minority of patients, despite the established first-line use of exposure and response prevention, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and pharmacological augmentation. This treatment gap has encouraged renewed interest in biological axes that sit outside a narrow monoamine-centered model. In this study, we asked whether transcriptional genetic signals for OCD show enrichment in cellular maintenance pathways motivated by nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-associated aging biology and whether any such pathways outperform a curated antidepressant-related gene comparator. Using OCD transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)-derived gene-level Z statistics and an absolute Z-score ranking framework, ten NMN-motivated Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway expansions were compared against AntiDep_Genes. The strongest and most defensible finding in the OCD analysis was selective enrichment of KEGG_AUTOPHAGY_ANIMAL. Autophagy nominally outperformed the antidepressant comparator in the primary head-to-head test, with normalized enrichment score (NES) = 1.166, p = 0.041979, and difference in normalized enrichment score (dNES) = +0.2097. The signal persisted after removal of overlapping antidepressant-related genes, with cleaned NES = 1.1784 and p = 0.042479, and the autophagy set also showed a higher absolute Z-score distribution than AntiDep_Genes by Mann-Whitney U testing, p = 0.04717. Leading-edge overlap with the antidepressant comparator was minimal, limited to mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR). The OCD autophagy signal was driven by a mixture of core autophagy machinery and upstream signaling genes, including MAPK3, MAP1LC3A, PPP2CB, MAP2K1, GORASP2, BAD, ATG2A, ATG10, MAPK8, and CALCOCO2. This pattern suggests a signaling-execution module rather than a simple enrichment of canonical ATG genes alone. The result is biologically consistent with recent OCD genetic findings implicating cortical and hippocampal excitatory neurons and D1/D2 striatal medium spiny neurons, which are cell types with high synaptic and metabolic demands. These findings are best viewed as hypothesis-generating. They do not support NMN, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) precursors, or autophagy modulators as OCD treatments, but they do identify autophagy and mitochondrial quality-control biology as plausible targets for future functional and stratification studies. The autophagy enrichment was nominally significant in the primary analysis but did not survive Benjamini-Hochberg false-discovery rate correction across the ten tested pathways (false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p = 0.41979); the findings should therefore be considered hypothesis-generating.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Miliaria profunda is due to duct obstruction and rupture below the epidermis, with dermal sweat leakage associated and a variable inflammatory reaction. A rare but distinct presentation of miliaria profunda in infants is named giant centrifugal miliaria profunda (GCMP), showing centrifugal expansion of large, annular plaques. On histology, GCMP shows hyperkeratosis with ortho- and parakeratosis, and acanthosis with foci of intercellular edema. Acrosyringia are distended with obstruction by eosinophilic plugs of ortho-parakeratotic material. Dermal ducts appear dilated and show squamous metaplasia. A periductal and peri-eccrine variable inflammatory infiltrate contains neutrophils and often granulomatous inflammation is identified. We report two cases of GCMP, one of them associated with an MAP2K1 germinal RASopathy.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ischemic stroke is a life-threatening cerebrovascular disease characterized by focal injury to the central nervous system. Jiajian Shuyu Pills (JJSYP), a modified traditional Chinese medicine formulation derived from Shuyu Pills, consist of multiple herbs, including Rhizoma Dioscoreae, Polygonum multiflorum Thunb, Rehmannia glutinosa Libosch, Codonopsis pilosula (Franch.) Nannf, Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz, Poria cocos (Schw.) Wolf, Paeonia lactiflora Pall, Angelica sinensis (Oliv.) Diels, Ligusticum chuanxiong Hort, Eucommia ulmoides Oliv, Polygala tenuifolia Willd, Acorus tatarinowii Schott, Lycium barbarum L, and Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill. JJSYP show therapeutic potential for ischemic stroke; however, their bioactive components and molecular mechanisms remain insufficiently defined.This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of JJSYP against cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms through comprehensive multi-omics integration, thereby providing a scientific basis for the clinical application of JJSYP and the development of novel therapeutic strategies for CIRI.A systematic, multi-step experimental strategy was employed. The protective effects of JJSYP against CIRI-induced neurological deficits were evaluated in a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAO/R) mouse model, in which mice underwent 1 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 24 h of reperfusion. And proteomic analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed proteins and predict the signaling pathways involved in the anti-CIRI effects of JJSYP. Then, the bioactive components of JJSYP were identified through chemical profiling combined with network pharmacology. Untargeted metabolomics was used to characterize changes in metabolic profiles, and a "component-target-metabolite-pathway" network was constructed to clarify their potential associations. Finally, molecular biological experiments and lipidomic analysis were conducted to validate the anti-CIRI mechanisms of JJSYP.In vivo experiments showed that JJSYP significantly alleviated cerebral tissue injury and improved neurological function in CIRI mice. Proteomic analysis indicated that JJSYP may mitigate CIRI primarily by regulating the Hippo signaling pathway, which is closely associated with cell survival, proliferation, and apoptosis. Integrated network pharmacology and metabolomics analyses identified six core JJSYP components that potentially modulate seven key targets and regulate six critical CIRI-related metabolic pathways. Validation experiments further confirmed that JJSYP modulated Hippo signaling-related proteins, including p-YAP/YAP, SOX2, and YWHAZ, and improved lipid peroxidation- and ferroptosis-related markers, such as 4-HNE, ACSL4, and PLA2G2A, suggesting that JJSYP may exert anti-CIRI effects by regulating Hippo signaling and the lipid metabolism-ferroptosis axis.This is the first study to systematically investigate the potential anti-CIRI mechanisms of JJSYP through multi-omics analysis. The findings preliminarily suggest that JJSYP alleviates CIRI by modulating the Hippo signaling pathway and the lipid metabolism-ferroptosis axis. This study provides preclinical scientific evidence for the therapeutic effects of JJSYP and offers a feasible strategy for elucidating the mechanisms of traditional Chinese medicine formulas, thereby facilitating their modernization and internationalization.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480244 is a review article
Cardiogenic shock secondary to acute myocardial infarction (AMI-CS) prohibitively impacts survival. This prospective study aimed to discover and internally verify candidate serum protein biomarkers and evaluate their potential prognostic value for 30-day mortality in AMI-CS patients.AMI-CS patients were consecutively enrolled into discovery (n = 30) and verification (n = 60) cohorts. Candidate biomarkers were screened using Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry, analyzed via differential abundance and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and verified via targeted Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM). Boruta feature selection for five machine learning algorithms were embedded within a rigorous nested cross-validation scheme. Incremental prognostic value over clinical predictors was evaluated using Cox regression and metrics including the integrated discrimination improvement (IDI).DIA proteomics identified 216 proteins differentially abundant between 30-day survivors and non-survivors, and WGCNA defined an outcome-associated module linked to shock severity and enriched for oxidative stress and energy metabolism. During PRM verification, leakage-free nested cross-validation random forest model selected a seven-protein panel (YWHAZ, QDPR, MDH2, FAH, PSMA1, FABP5, and AHCY), which achieved a mean area under the ROC curve of 0.82 (95% CI: 0.69-0.95) for 30-day mortality. Incorporating this panel significantly enhanced the IDI of the SCAI model (IDI 0.143, P = 0.016) and the IABP-SHOCK II model (0.138, P = 0.034), which remained independent after adjusting for core clinical confounders.This exploratory study identifies a seven-protein candidate panel with potential value for early short-term risk stratification in AMI-CS patients. Large-scale multi-center external validation is strictly warranted to confirm its real-world clinical utility.© 2026. The Author(s).
Approximately one-third of all human proteins transit through the secretory pathway, where the Golgi apparatus orchestrates protein modification, sorting, and distribution through highly selective vesicle budding and fusion events. Central to these processes are the Complexes Associated with Tethering Containing Helical Rods (CATCHR), multisubunit tethering complexes that coordinate vesicle docking and fusion through interactions with coiled-coil tethers (CCTs), Rab GTPases, SNAREs, and Sec1/Munc18 (SM) proteins and other trafficking factors. To define the molecular organization of Golgi CATCHR complexes, we generated the first comprehensive proximity-interaction map of the COG, GARP, and EARP tethering complexes using functional, near-endogenously expressed TurboID-tagged subunits. Comparative proximity proteomics revealed that each CATCHR complex assembles a distinct trafficking module composed of characteristic CCTs, Rab-associated proteins, SNAREs, and SM proteins, establishing a system-level framework for the spatial organization of Golgi and endosomal membrane trafficking. The COG complex preferentially associated with Golgi CCTs and the STX5-SCFD1 fusion machinery, GARP with CCDC186, and STX16-VPS45 pathway, and EARP with GRIPAP1, the VPS33B-VIPAS39 (CHEVI) complex, and RAB11-dependent recycling machinery. Beyond validating known interactions, our study identifies CCDC186 as a vesicle tether, establishes WWOX as a previously unrecognized regulator of Golgi homeostasis and glycosylation, and provides evidence that Golgi CATCHR complexes function as central organizing hubs that assemble specialized trafficking modules to coordinate vesicle tethering and membrane fusion.
Neuromuscular disorders (NMDs) affect approximately 1 in 1,000 individuals and are clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Despite advances in genomic diagnostics, many cases remain unsolved after initial sequencing. Bioinformatic reanalysis approaches provide opportunities to identify missed variants and establish novel disease genes.Preexisting next-generation sequencing datasets from 101 undiagnosed NMD families were reanalyzed using the RD-Connect Genome-Phenome Analysis Platform. The data comprised clinical exome sequencing (45 families), whole exome sequencing (31 families), and whole genome sequencing (25 families). Variant prioritization incorporated population frequency, Human Phenotype Ontology terms, in silico predictions, and genotype-phenotype correlation.Reanalysis identified causative variants in 17 out of 101 previously unsolved families (16.83% diagnostic yield). Eight cases harbored coding variants in known NMD genes (RYR1, AGRN, SCN4A, TTN, MYH2, GOLGA2) consistent with the observed phenotype. In five cases, intronic variants in known NMD genes (COL6A3, SGCA, DOK7, DYSF, CHRND) were considered causative following in silico predictions and careful correlation with the phenotype. One case had an extended phenotype (PTPN11), and one case had a dual diagnosis (MYH2, KIF21A). A novel ATP2A2 missense variant was identified in two unrelated families, establishing ATP2A2 as a new NMD gene.Research-based reanalysis of preexisting NGS data improved diagnostic yield of previously unsolved cases consistent with previous literature, reinforcing the utility of in-depth, phenotype-driven reanalysis with expert review. Our study provided 17 families with unsolved NMDs with a diagnosis after having waited for a decade. This supports the routine reanalysis of unsolved NGS data, highlighting its potential to reclassify variants of unknown significance and reveal novel genes and pathomechanisms in NMDs.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Natural killer (NK) cells frequently exhibit an exhausted state, which facilitates immune escape of circulating tumor cells (CTCs). However, the underlying mechanisms of NK cell dysfunction remain elusive. In this study, we identified a novel immune evasion mechanism whereby tumor cells deliver Vimentin to NK cells via NKp46-dependent trogocytosis, thereby impairing NK cell cytotoxicity. We observed the expression of nonendogenous proteins in NK cells isolated from CTCs from oral cancer patients but not in those from nondetectable patients. High-throughput proteomic analysis, flow cytometry, and confocal microscopy revealed that vimentin, a protein that is not endogenously expressed in NK cells, was significantly enriched in NK cells via NKp46-dependent trogocytosis. The tail domain of trogocytosed vimentin competed with CDC42 for binding to ARHGEF7 and inhibited its exchange activity. This disruption impaired CDC42-mediated actin polymerization, thus suppressing NK cell cytotoxicity. By delivering vimentin to NK cells, CTCs can suppress and evade attacks from NK cells. Crucially, pharmacological inhibition of vimentin trogocytosis increased the efficacy of NK cells in clearing CTCs in vivo and that of NK cell-based adoptive immunotherapies. Clinically, the frequency of vimentin (+) NK cells is correlated with the CTC burden and tumor recurrence in cancer patients. Our study reveals that trogocytosis acts as a conduit for the tumor-induced exhaustion of NK cells and proposes targeting Vimentin transfer as a therapeutic strategy to counteract tumor recurrence.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Alternative polyadenylation (APA) is an important mechanism of cellular stress response mediated in part by the cleavage factor Im (CFIm) complex. However, the spatiotemporal dynamics and regulatory activity of the mammalian CFIm complex during stress remain poorly understood. In this study, we determined the effect of moderate hyperosmotic stress on CFIm localization and APA profiles in HEK293 cells. Using a dual-normalization strategy that included 18S rRNA- and a CDS-based ratiometric qPCR, we identified a significant shift toward proximal polyadenylation sites (PAS) in the established CFIm targets, NUDT21 (encoding CFIm25) and DICER1. Notably, these APA dynamics displayed distinct kinetic profiles influenced by the metabolic environment: While the NUDT21 L-3'UTR/CDS ratio recovered to baseline by Day 4, DICER1 exhibited a serum-dependent response, showing a progressive decline under low-serum conditions but recovering under high-serum conditions. Crucially, these alterations were absent in non-target multi-PAS genes such as GOLGA2 and preceded any substantial reduction in total mRNA abundance, suggesting these effects represent a targeted regulatory event rather than a nonspecific byproduct of transcriptional decline. Mechanistically, hyperosmotic stress triggers a transient, coordinated redistribution of CFIm25 and CFIm68 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, while total cellular protein concentrations remain stable. We propose that this spatial shift creates a 'stoichiometric bottleneck' within the nuclear CFIm pool, effectively limiting the processing of distal PAS. This 'stoichiometric stress response' offers a robust mechanistic framework linking subnuclear protein reorganization to the rapid reprogramming of the 3'UTR landscape, providing new insights into how cells modulate gene expression potential during osmotic adaptation.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are central signaling molecules in many biological processes by inducing oxidative modifications of protein cysteine residues, including S-glutathionylation. Increasing evidence supports that ROS contribute to cancer progression via promoting cancer cell migration, invasion, and metastasis. Nevertheless, the protein targets of S-glutathionylation that regulate cancer cell motility remain ill-defined. In this study, we report on the redox regulation of ARHGEF7, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor highly expressed in metastatic cancer cells, that plays a major role in regulating cell migration. Our data demonstrates that ARHGEF7 is selectively glutathionylated at the highly conserved C312 residue in its PH domain, which is implicated in regulating its enzymatic activity. Breast cancer cell lines showed increased cell migration and invasion upon glutathionylation of ARHGEF7 at C312 in response to both oxidative stress and epidermal growth factor (EGF). Mechanistically, upon C312 glutathionylation, ARHGEF7 exhibited significantly enhanced binding to Rac1 and increased Rac1 recruitment to the cell membrane and lamellipodia. ARHGEF7 S-glutathionylation also increased its enzymatic rate of GDP-GTP nucleotide exchange, resulting in Rac1 activation. Consequently, ARHGEF7 C312 S-glutathionylation induced Rac1-PAK1 activation and their downstream pathways, including LIMK1 and MEK1, thereby enhancing migration and invasion. Our data reveal a new redox player in cell migration, with its potential implications for ROS-induced cancer progression.
The term CASM describes a process in which MAP1LC3B/LC3B and other Atg8-family proteins are covalently ligated to lipids in damaged endomembranes. While CASM is commonly described as a cytoprotective response to multiple types of membrane damage, how CASM helps cells maintain homeostasis is still unclear. Here, we show that CASM maintains Golgi apparatus architecture following the loss of TRIM46, a ubiquitin ligase with roles in microtubule organization. TRIM46 deficient cells were notable for enhanced TFEB-driven lysosomal biogenesis and Golgi ribbon fragmentation, with colocalization of the trans-Golgi marker TGOLN2 and the Atg8-family proteins LC3B and GABARAP. Further studies revealed that the Golgi Atg8ylation seen in TRIM46 knockout cells was not degradative and mechanistically resembled CASM. Genetic inhibition of CASM in TRIM46 deficient cells reduced TFEB activation and exacerbated the Golgi morphology defects, suggesting that CASM contributes to Golgi repair. Accordingly, Golgi reformation after drug-induced fragmentation was impaired upon knockdown of CASM genes. Together, these studies identify lysosomal biogenesis and CASM as coordinated features of a Golgi damage response, with CASM acting to preserve Golgi integrity.Abbreviations: AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase); ATG3 (autophagy related 3); ATG5 (autophagy related 5); ATG7 (autophagy related 7); ATG12 (autophagy related 12); ATG13 (autophagy related 13); ATG16L1 (autophagy related 16 like 1); BECN1 (beclin 1); CASM, conjugation of Atg8 to single membranes; GABARAP (GABA type A receptor-associated protein); GABARAPL1 (GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1); GABARAPL2 (GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2); GOLGA2 (golgin A2); HT (HaloTag); HL (HaloTag ligand); MAP1LC3A/LC3A (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha); MAP1LC3B/LC3B (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta); MAP1LC3C/LC3C (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 gamma); MTORC1 (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1); PE (phosphatidylethanolamine); PIK3C3/VPS34 (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3); PS (phosphatidylserine); TECPR1 (tectonin beta-propellor repeat containing 1); SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1); TFEB (transcription factor EB); TFE3 (transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3); TGOLN2 (trans-golgi network protein 2); TRIM46 (tripartite motif containing 46); ULK1 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1); ULK2 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 2): VAIL (V-ATPase-ATG16L1 induced LC3 lipidation).
Colorectal cancer still causes many cancer deaths, and patient outcomes differ a lot. The tumor microenvironment can shape tumor growth and treatment response. Autophagy is a cell recycling process linked to tumor survival and immune control, but its cell-type pattern in colorectal cancer tissue and its clinical meaning are not clear. We mapped autophagy activity across cell types, defined autophagy-based subtypes, and tested their value for risk stratification.Single-cell RNA sequencing data from colorectal cancer tumor tissues were integrated to evaluate autophagy activity across malignant, stromal, and immune cell populations. Subsequently, autophagy-related genes were curated from multiple public databases and analyzed in bulk transcriptomic cohorts obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas and The Gene Expression Omnibus. Additionally, unsupervised consensus clustering was applied to define autophagy-based molecular subtypes. Multiple machine learning algorithms were evaluated to construct an autophagy-related prognostic model, and feature importance was assessed using explainable modeling approaches. Furthermore, immune microenvironment characteristics, genomic alterations, and stemness features were systematically analyzed. Key genes were further validated in clinical colorectal cancer specimens and through in vitro functional experiments.Autophagy activity varied across the tumor microenvironment. Malignant and stromal cells showed higher autophagy levels than immune cells. High-autophagy tumors showed stronger tumor-stroma interactions, weaker immune communication, and an immune-suppressive microenvironment. Using 47 prognostic autophagy-related genes, we identified four subtypes with different overall survival, genomic alteration patterns, stemness signatures, and immune landscapes. The prognostic model performed well across independent cohorts. GOLGA2 (Golgi autoantigen, golgin subfamily A member 2) was the top risk gene and was upregulated in tumor tissues. Functional assays showed that GOLGA2 promotes HCT116 cell proliferation and migration.Autophagy is closely tied to an immune-suppressive tumor microenvironment in colorectal cancer. The autophagy-based subtypes and prognostic model support patient risk stratification. Furthermore, GOLGA2 was a top-ranked gene in the signature and showed tumor-promoting effects in vitro, so it may warrant further study as a potential target.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Teng, Zhou, Liu and Guo.
Endothelial cells promote thrombosis and hemostasis through the secretion of von Willebrand Factor (VWF) from their secretory granules-the Weibel-Palade bodies (WPBs). In response to specific stimuli, dynamic actin nucleation and remodeling of the cytoskeleton facilitates the expulsion of ultra-large VWF multimers to elevate plasma VWF and to form a platform for platelet capture and thrombus formation. P21 activated kinase 2 (PAK2) is a crucial regulator of the actin cytoskeleton and is essential for VWF secretion in response to secretagogues which utilize actomyosin mediated exocytosis. Here, we characterize the role of β-PAK-interacting exchange factor (β-PIX) in WPB exocytosis. Inhibition of β-PIX function prevents dynamic cytoskeletal remodeling resulting in reduced VWF secretion. Depletion of β-PIX using siRNA reduced the number of WPB fusion events, prolonged the time taken for GFP-VWF to be secreted post-fusion and delayed kinetics of the exocytic actomyosin ring. Use of full length and truncated β-PIX demonstrated that the PAK interacting and GEF domain mediate cytoskeletal remodeling whereas only the full-length construct could rescue VWF secretion. β-PIX regulates both septin ring formation and cofilin mediated actin remodeling during actomyosin ring function. These data identify β-PIX as a regulator of endothelial exocytosis through supporting actomyosin-mediated expulsion of VWF.
Ferroptosis, characterized by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has emerged as a pivotal cell death pathway in various diseases, yet its regulation during viral infection remains elusive. Here, we reveal that Newcastle disease virus (NDV) exploits the Golgi apparatus as a central hub to orchestrate ferroptotic cell death in tumor cells. NDV infection provokes robust Golgi stress and Golgiphagy, leading to the selective degradation of ARF1 (ARF GTPase 1), a GA-resident regulator of redox homeostasis, which in turn triggers a cascade of reactive oxygen species accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and ferroptosis. Mechanistically, we show that this process is dependent on the activation of the Golgi stress response and macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome pathway. Importantly, inhibition of Golgi stress by exogenous spermine not only alleviates NDV-induced ferroptosis, but also demonstrates antiviral and cytoprotective effects, underscoring the translational potential of targeting the Golgi stress axis. Our findings uncover a previously unappreciated axis of virus-host interaction centering on Golgi stress and ferroptosis and suggest that modulation of organelle-specific stress responses represents a promising therapeutic strategy in both antiviral and cancer contexts.Abbreviations: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ARF1: ARF GTPase 1; ARF4: ARF GTPase 4; ATG7: autophagy related 7; BFA: brefeldin A; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CHX: cycloheximide; CQ: chloroquine; CREB3: cAMP responsive element binding protein 3; DFO: deferoxamine; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; Fe2+: ferrous ions, GA: Golgi apparatus; GOLGA2/GM130: golgin A2; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; GSR: Golgi stress response; HCMV: human cytomegalovirus; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; Lip-1: Liproxstatin-1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MDA: malondialdehyde; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NDV: Newcastle disease virus; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; PUFA: polyunsaturated fatty acid; ROS: reactive oxygen species; Rot: rotenone; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; SERPINH1/HSP47: serpin family H member 1; TFE3: transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; WT: wild-type.
During the development of sepsis, aberrant dendritic cell (DC) pyroptosis results in a significant decrease in the numbers of DCs and immune dysfunction. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating DC pyroptosis in sepsis remain unclear. Emerging evidence indicates that RETREG1/FAM134B (reticulophagy regulator 1) is involved in the regulation of programmed cell death to maintain cell viability. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the potential role and regulatory pathways of RETREG1 in DC death during sepsis. We found that the upregulation of RETREG1 upon septic challenge was intimately associated with the maintenance of immune function. Depletion of RETREG1 in DC significantly aggravated DC pyroptosis and sepsis-induced immune dysfunction by activating the CASP3 (caspase 3)-GSDME (gasdermin E) signaling pathway. Mechanistically, defective RETREG1 expression inhibited autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), resulting in abnormal activation of STING1 (stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1), which further induced CASP3-GSDME-dependent pyroptosis. Genetic downregulation of Tmed9 prevented the activation of STING1 and GSDME-mediated pyroptosis by disturbing ERGIC structure. These results suggest a novel RETREG1-based protective mechanism against DC-mediated immune impairment during sepsis. Genetic or pharmacological modulation of RETREG1 May represent a promising therapeutic strategy for treating sepsis-induced immune suppression.Abbreviations: 7-AAD: 7-aminoactinomycin D; ANXA5/annexin V: annexin A5; ARF1: ARF GTPase 1; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; CALCOCO1: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 1; CASP1: caspase 1; cC3: cleaved CASP3; CCDC50: coiled-coil domain containing 50; CD274/PD-L1: CD274 molecule; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CLP: cecal ligation and puncture; DC: dendritic cell; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DEPs: differently expressed proteins; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC: endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; GO: Gene Ontology; GOLGA2/GM130: golgin A2; GSDMD: gasdermin D; GSDME: gasdermin E; GSEA: Gene set enrichment analysis; IFN-I: type I interferon; IKK: IκB kinase; IL2: interleukin 2; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ITGAX/Cd11c: integrin subunit alpha X; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LMAN1/ERGIC53: lectin, mannose binding 1; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K7/TAK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; NFKB/NFκB: nuclear factor kappa B; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCD: programmed cell death; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RETREG1/FAM134B: reticulophagy regulator 1; SAMHD1: SAM and HD domain containing deoxynucleoside triphosphate triphosphohydrolase 1; SEC62: SEC62 preprotein translocation factor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STEEP1: STING1 ER exit protein 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TGFB/TGFβ: transforming growth factor beta; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; TLR4: toll like receptor 4; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; Tregs: regulatory T cells; VAP: VAMP associated protein.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438055 is a review article
As a critical prenatal screening tool, ultrasound (US) heavily depends on operator experience, leading to both challenging and rare fetal malformation diagnoses as well as diagnostic variability. Thus, developing an automated fetal anomaly detection system can reduce operator variability and expedite clinical analysis. Currently, most existing methods perform independent image-based predictions on different planes and use simple pooling strategies for case-level prediction, disregarding inter-image correlations. Although multi-instance learning (MIL) can model inter-image correlations, it suffers from attention dispersion as the number of images per case increases, limiting the model's ability to capture spatial and morphological differences across anomaly categories. To address these limitations, we propose FAA-Net for diagnosing fetal abdominal anomalies. (1) We introduce a Mixture of View Experts module that captures spatial features from specialized sub-expert networks. (2) We develop an LLM-Enhanced Feature Selection module that mines the rich medical knowledge embedded in LLMs to select diagnostically relevant images, enabling the model to better focus and capture category-specific patterns. (3) A simple attention mechanism is used to capture inter-image spatial and morphological correlations. Extensively validated on a multi-center prenatal fetal abdominal ultrasound dataset containing 2,732 cases (77,833 images across 5 categories) and the public TMED-2 dataset, our proposed FAA-Net outperforms state-of-the-art competitors. Code is available at: Github.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease with significant genetic heterogeneity. While large-scale studies have characterized its genetic architecture in European populations, the genetic basis of ALS in the Chinese population remains under-explored.To address this gap, we conducted a comprehensive genetic analysis on a cohort of 40 Chinese individuals (32 ALS patients and 8 controls) using whole genome sequencing. We employed the Phenotype-Covariate Genetic Correlation method to estimate SNP-based heritability on the liability scale and utilized LDAK-KVIK for gene-based association analysis. Our analysis revealed a SNP-based heritability (h2SNP) of approximately 25.1% in this Chinese cohort, with a positive correlation between minor allele frequency and heritability, highlighting the substantial contribution of common variants. Gene-based analysis prioritized candidate risk genes, including MIB1, TMED2, and DOC2B, which implicate ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation and intracellular vesicle trafficking in ALS pathogenesis. In risk prediction models, the BOLT-LMM approach achieved a robust mean Area Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.883.This study provides the first comprehensive estimate of SNP-based heritability in a sequenced Chinese ALS cohort and supports the "polygenic background" hypothesis. The identification of candidate risk genes and the preliminary validation of polygenic risk scoring highlight the potential for future genetic stratification in Chinese patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42385108
Cervical cancer continues to pose a considerable challenge to global health, necessitating innovative approaches for improved diagnostics and personalized treatment strategies. Prior investigations have suggested that plasma proteins may play a role in the pathogenesis of cervical cancer; however, these studies do not confirm a causal relationship. To address this gap, conducted a large-scale Mendelian randomization (MR) study of the plasma proteome.We performed a two-sample bidirectional Mendelian randomization analysis involving 4,907 plasma proteins, utilizing publicly accessible genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics, to examine the causal association between the plasma proteome and the risk of cervical cancer. Analytical methods included inverse variance weighting (IVW), weighted median, MR-Egger regression, and simple and weighted models. Additionally, we performed sensitivity analyses to evaluate heterogeneity and horizontal pleiotropy through Cochran's Q test, MR-Egger intercept, MR-PRESSO test, and leave-one-out analysis. We also applied false discovery rate (FDR) correction to the results of all IVW methods to identify the plasma proteins most strongly associated with cervical cancer. Finally, we enriched the most relevant plasma protein genes using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses and GeneMANIA to identify disease-related pathways.According to the IVW method, seven plasma proteins are significantly associated with cervical cancer risk (P < 0.05). Specifically, six proteins demonstrated protective factors: DEFB135 (OR = 0.201, 95% CI = 0.082-0.492, P < 0.001), FGL2 (OR = 0.104, 95% CI = 0.032-0.338, P < 0.001), FTMT (OR = 0.612, 95% CI = 0.465-0.804, P < 0.001), PDIA4 (OR = 0.088, 95% CI = 0.026-0.295, P < 0.001), SPHK2 (OR = 0.102, 95% CI = 0.030-0.350, P < 0.001), and TMED2 (OR = 0.045, 95% CI = 0.008-0.246, P < 0.001). In contrast, RACGAP1 (OR = 1.755, 95% CI = 1.286-2.395, P < 0.001) was identified as a risk factor. Reverse MR analysis revealed no significant evidence of reverse causation (P > 0.05) between cervical cancer and these plasma proteins. Functional enrichment analysis identified several biologically relevant pathways potentially involved in cervical cancer pathogenesis, including the establishment of organelle localization, regulation of oxidoreductase activity, Ferroptosis, and Porphyrin metabolism.These findings suggest that DEFB135, FGL2, FTMT, PDIA4, SPHK2, and TMED2 may protect against cervical cancer, while RACGAP1 may represent a potential risk factor. The identified tumor markers provide mechanistic insights into the molecular basis of cervical cancer and warrant further investigation in functional studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Identifying disease-modifying drug targets is crucial for developing effective Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatments.We present a deep contrastive learning framework for cell type-specific AD-associated genes identification (alzCL). alzCL creates cell-type-specific representations of genes by integrating human brain single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data with the human protein-protein interactome, thereby capturing both genetic signatures and functional features.By integrating human brain snRNA-seq data, alzCL outperforms the state-of-the-art models by 18% to 24% in area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Via alzCL, we computationally identified 16, 164, and 221 AD-associated genes across astrocytes, microglia, and inhibitory neurons, respectively. Top prioritized genes (e.g., MAP3K5, P2RX4, and PRKD1) are significantly enriched in multiple AD-associated inflammatory and other pathobiological pathways. By integrating drug-target interaction data with alzCL-predicted AD-associated genes, we identified potential repurposable drugs for AD, including selonsertib and paroxetine.AlzCL offers a deep contrastive learning framework for discovery of disease-associated genes and drug targets in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Genomic instability in high-grade serous tubo-ovarian carcinoma (HGSTOC) can generate fusion genes with potential roles in tumor evolution and clinical relevance. HGSTOCs commonly disseminate prior to diagnosis, but most studies analyze only one tumor sample per patient, limiting understanding of fusion gene dynamics. Here, RNA sequencing was performed on 108 tumor samples from multiple intra‑abdominal sites in 23 patients. A consensus approach involving three fusion callers identified 170 high-confidence fusion genes present in all samples from each patient, most of which were non‑recurrent and not in-frame. Protein kinases were significantly enriched among fusion partners, and commonly retained intact catalytic domains. Several of the kinase fusion genes may have oncogenic relevance, including AKAP8L::BRD4 (recurrent in three patients), GPBP1L1::MKNK1, SPAG16::ERBB4, UGP2::MAPK4, and STRN3::PRKD1. Four fusions involved homologous recombination-related genes, including FUT10::SPIDR, RAD54B::VIRMA, RAD54L::PLXNA2, and SMARCAD1::BOD1L1. Integration of these fusion genes with other somatic alterations in homologous recombination-related genes, deficiency signatures, and germline BRCA1/2 variants increased the involvement of the homologous recombination pathway to 15 HGSTOCs (65%). Overall, HGSTOC has a heterogeneous fusion gene landscape, and multi-site sampling with consensus calling offers a robust strategy for resolving fusion profiles.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BackgroundPreclinical studies suggest β2-adrenergic receptor agonists may exert neuroprotective effects, but evidence in human populations is limited.ObjectiveTo examine the association between β2-adrenergic receptor agonist use and cognitive performance in older adults.MethodsThis retrospective cohort study linked Dutch pharmacy dispensing records (IADB.nl) with Lifelines cohort data. Participants aged ≥50 years with ≥1 prescription for β2-adrenergic receptor agonists or reference medications (COPD/cardiovascular) within 365 days prior to baseline cognitive testing were included. Cognitive function was assessed using the Cogstate Brief Battery. Linear mixed models adjusted for demographic, clinical, and lifestyle factors evaluated longitudinal changes.ResultsA total of 3179 participants were included (249 β2-adrenergic receptor agonist users, 2930 reference). The exposed group was younger (mean age 58.6 ± 7.4 years versus 63.7 ± 9 years) and included a higher proportion of females (68.2% versus 58.6%) compared with the referent group. At baseline, groups were similar in most cognitive domains, except for slightly higher attention (COG2) scores in the reference group (p = 0.010). Over time, psychomotor speed (COG1), attention (COG2), and visual learning (COG4) remained stable across groups. Working memory (COG3) declined significantly in both groups, with a steeper decline in the reference cohort (p = 0.048).ConclusionsIn this exploratory cohort study, β2-adrenergic receptor agonist use was not associated with broad cognitive benefits, though a modest attenuation of working memory decline was observed. These results highlight the need for larger, prospective studies to clarify whether specific subgroups or drug formulations may offer cognitive advantages.
Cullin7 (CUL7) mediates cancer progression across multiple cancer types through its regulatory role in protein ubiquitination. However, the biological function and molecular mechanisms underlying CUL7 in colon cancer remain poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that high CUL7 expression correlates with poor prognosis in patients. Ablation of CUL7 inhibited cell proliferation and migration in colon cancer cells, whereas CUL7 overexpression exhibited oncogenic properties. Moreover, Cul7-deplete mice exhibit a lower level of tumor growth. Mechanistically, CUL7 interacts with Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1) and catalyzes K29- and K48-linked polyubiquitination to promote its proteasomal degradation, which is crucial for NRF2 signaling. This leads to the decline of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and promotion of cancer growth. Importantly, the C-terminus of CUL7 is a crucial for governing KEAP1 stability and orchestrating antioxidant defense and cell growth. Clinical analysis identifies an inverse correlation between CUL7 and KEAP1 expression, and a positive correlation between CUL7 and NRF2 levels in human colon cancer. Our findings indicate that CUL7 mediates NRF2 signaling through promoting the KEAP1 ubiquitination, a mechanism that is integral to colon cancer progression. Collectively, these results establish CUL7 as a potential therapeutic target for colon cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
The FOXG1 transcription factor is a crucial regulator of embryonic brain development. Pathogenic FOXG1 variants cause FOXG1 syndrome. Although structural variants in the non-coding region downstream of FOXG1 have been reported in 38 individuals with similar characteristics, the regulatory pathomechanisms remain unknown. Here, we identify two non-coding structural variants in individuals with FOXG1 syndrome-like features, allowing us to delineate a ~ 124 kb commonly affected regulatory region. Using epigenomic profiling and in vivo enhancer assays, we characterize and validate regulatory elements within the commonly affected regulatory region and wider FOXG1 TAD. We see strong activation of previously validated forebrain enhancers, and identify an enhancer cluster and progenitor-specific enhancer region that are strongly activated during forebrain-directed neural progenitor cell differentiation, a process in which FOXG1 is an important regulator. Perturbation of these elements results in varying degrees of reduced FOXG1 transcription in forebrain neural progenitor cells and in population shifts within these cells, while removal of the TAD boundary leads to aberrant expression of the neighbouring PRKD1 gene. Our findings characterize enhancer and architectural elements essential for proper FOXG1 transcription during neurodevelopment, therefore improving variant interpretation in this region.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565395 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multisystemic disorder that manifests through motor and non-motor symptoms. Motor dysfunction results from the degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Increasing evidence suggests that synapse dysfunction precedes neuronal loss by years. Still, early synaptic alterations in PD remain poorly understood. Here, we integrate literature meta-analysis and multi-omics with biochemical, imaging, and electrophysiological measurements in Lrrk2 mouse models and human iPSC-derived neurons lacking LRRK2. We demonstrate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activates LRRK2 in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and primary mouse neurons, reshaping the LRRK2 interactome toward a network of actin cytoskeleton-related proteins. Gene-ontology analyses of both literature-curated LRRK2 interactors and phospho-proteome from striatal tissues with elevated LRRK2 activity highlight synapse-actin remodeling as major affected pathways. We further observed that loss of LRRK2 impairs BDNF signaling and alters postsynaptic density architecture. Young Lrrk2 knockout mice display structural alterations in dendritic protrusions, a phenotype that normalizes with age. In human iPSC-derived neurons, LRRK2 knockout affects maturation and BDNF-dependent regulation of spontaneous synaptic activity. Taken together, our study discloses a critical role of LRRK2 in BDNF-dependent synaptic modulation and identifies the synaptic actin cytoskeleton as a convergent site of LRRK2-associated pathophysiological processes in PD.© 2024, Tombesi et al.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is characterized by hepatocellular lipid overload, hepatic inflammation, and fibrotic remodeling. Impaired lipid droplet clearance and fatty acid oxidation (FAO) contribute to MASH progression, yet the molecular regulators coordinating these processes remain insufficiently defined.This study aimed to investigate whether and how Rab30 regulates hepatic lipid homeostasis and to develop a Rab30-related pharmacological intervention strategy for MASH.A diet-induced MASH model was established in mice. Hepatocyte-specific Rab30 overexpression or knockdown was achieved using viral vectors. Potential curculigoside A (CA)-Rab30 engagement was assessed using complementary computational prediction and target-engagement approaches. CA was evaluated in vitro and in vivo for pharmacological efficacy. Palmitic acid-treated hepatocytes were used to examine cell viability, oxidative stress, lipid metabolism, autophagy, and senescence.Rab30 protein abundance declined progressively in hepatocytes during diet-induced MASH development. Hepatocyte-specific Rab30 overexpression attenuated liver injury, steatosis, inflammation, and fibrogenesis in diet-induced MASH mice. In stressed hepatocytes, Rab30 overexpression reduced oxidative stress and senescence-associated changes. Mechanistically, Rab30 promoted autophagy-dependent lipid droplet clearance and FAO. CA showed potential engagement with Rab30, preserved Rab30 protein abundance under metabolic stress, and protected hepatocytes from lipometabolic dysfunction, oxidative stress, and senescence. In vivo, CA ameliorated diet-induced MASH pathology, and this effect was substantially weakened by hepatocellular Rab30 knockdown.This study identifies Rab30 as an important regulator of hepatic lipid homeostasis by coordinating autophagy-dependent lipid droplet clearance and FAO, and supports CA as a pharmacological Rab30 protein stabilizer with potential for MASH intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Mitophagy is vital for preventing cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (CI/R) injury. Naringin, a flavanone glycoside, reduces CI/R injury by blocking harmful mitophagy induced by peroxynitrite (ONOO⁻). Our earlier studies identified that mitochondrial calcium (mtCa2+) efflux stabilizes mitochondrial endosymbiosis and initiates protective mitophagy. However, it is unclear whether and how naringin inhibits harmful mitophagy in association with mtCa2+.This study aimed to examine the influence of the S-nitrosylated dynamin-related protein 1 (SNO-DRP1)/leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)/mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) pathway on harmful mitophagy, which is inhibited by naringin in CI/R injury.To validate the hypotheses, a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) model in rats and oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced PC12 cells were used to investigate the effects of naringin. Specifically, linsidomine hydrochloride (SIN-1) was used to enhance SNO-DRP1, whereas spermine (Spm) was used to activate MCU. Mitochondrial fragmentation was assessed by measuring the average mitochondrial diameter via transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and evaluating the protein levels of mitofusin 1 (MFN1) and dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) through western blotting (WB). The SNO-DRP1 formation was determined by a biotin switch assay. The extent of SNO-DRP1-mediated excessive mitophagy was examined by quantifying the number of autophagosomes using TEM and assessing the colocalization of translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane complex subunit 20 (TOMM20)-DRP1-3-NT and 3-NT-DRP1-LC3 via immunofluorescence (IF). The interaction between SNO-DRP1 and LRRK2 was confirmed using co-immunoprecipitation and IF colocalization. MtCa2+ overload induced by MCU was evaluated by analyzing MCU protein levels, measuring mtCa2+ fluorescence intensity following Rhod-2 AM treatment, and assessing the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. The mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial DNA release were used to evaluate the mitochondrial endosymbiosis failure.Naringin exhibited a dose-dependent protective effect against CI/R injury in rats subjected to the tMCAO/R model. It effectively reduced mitochondrial fragmentation and SNO-DRP1-mediated mitophagy, attenuated the interaction between SNO-DRP1 and LRRK2, and decreased the protein level of MCU in the penumbra region of the cortex. SIN-1 and Spm counteracted the neuronal protection of naringin in OGD/R-induced PC12 cells. They also mitigated the impact of naringin on mitochondrial fragmentation, harmful mitophagy, and MCU-mediated mtCa2+ overload and mitochondrial endosymbiosis disruption. Notably, only SIN-1 reversed naringin's suppression of SNO-DRP1 formation and its interaction with LRRK2 in vitro.This study demonstrates that naringin reduces ONOO⁻-caused harmful mitophagy in CI/R injury by blocking the SNO-DRP1/LRRK2/MCU pathway, which helps prevent mitochondrial fragmentation and preserve mitochondrial endosymbiosis. This pathway may be among the mechanisms by which naringin exerts its protective effects.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
The A2 β-casein variant has gained considerable interest in the dairy industry due to proposed health related benefits, leading to an increasing frequency of the A2A2 genotype in dairy herds. Although the A1/A2 substitution in the β-casein gene (CSN2) does not directly affect gene regulation, previous transcriptomic studies have reported differences in mRNA isoform expression between A1A1 and A2A2 cows. Therefore, the objective of this study was to identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in A1A1 and A2A2 β-casein groups of cows using milk fat globule (MFG) RNA-seq data and to evaluate their predicted functional consequences. RNA sequencing was performed on MFG samples obtained from 14 lactating Holstein cows (A1A1, n = 7; A2A2, n = 7). Variants were classified according to their predicted effects as amino acid changing (AAC) variants, splice site effect (SSE) variants, or variants presenting both consequences. Additionally, variant data were integrated with previously reported mRNA isoform expression results, and only variants located in genes showing expression levels ≥ 0.2 FPKM were retained for further analysis. Candidate RNA-seq-derived variants differing between A1A1 and A2A2 β-casein genotype groups were identified in genes involved in mammary gland function and lactation, including mitochondrial function, lipid metabolism, vesicle trafficking and secretion, and RNA processing. Among the prioritised genes, A1A1 cows showed a greater representation of SNVs located in genes involved in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (NDUFV2, NDUFAB1, COX7A2 and ATP5PF), while additional SNVs were identified in lipid metabolism-related genes (ACSL1, ATP10A and MFGE8). In contrast, A2A2 cows showed a greater representation of SNVs located in genes involved in lipid metabolism (LPIN1, FASN, SPTLC2 and ATP11B) and vesicle trafficking and secretion (SEC31A, LRRK2, DBNL, EIPR1 and ABCG2). Overall, these findings provide additional insight into the molecular differences detected between A1A1 and A2A2 groups of cows. Although the predicted functional consequences of the identified variants are currently based on in silico analyses, the novel SNVs reported here constitute a valuable resource for future studies investigating the biological consequences associated with selection for the A2A2 β-casein genotype in Holstein dairy cattle.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Opioid dependence is a complex disorder influenced by multiple factors, including aging and genetic factors. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This in silico study integrated transcriptomic profiling, transcriptomic aging clock modeling, and GWAS analysis of brain samples to investigate molecular mechanisms associated with opioid dependence. One-hundred sixty-one DEGs were identified, including 147 upregulated and 14 downregulated genes in individuals with opioid dependence, which are involved in immune and inflammatory pathways (TNF signaling pathway). Network centrality analysis highlighted CCL2, CD44, THBS1, TIMP1, CD163, IL6, IL1B, and MYC as potential hub genes. FAM174B was downregulated in older individuals with opioid dependence, whereas ZNF256 was upregulated in younger individuals. A transcriptomic aging clock showed moderate predictive performance (r=0.686, MAE=5.16) and revealed significant differences in age-prediction residuals between younger and older groups, suggesting altered age-related transcriptional states in opioid dependence. Two genes (PHYH and LUCAT1) were strongly associated with age-prediction residuals. An analysis of six GWAS studies identified 223 SNP associations, including genome-wide significant variants in ADGRV1, OPRM1, CNIH3, RGMA, GPRIN3, GAPDHP15, SRP72P1, and CTCF-DT genes implicated in neuronal signaling and opioid pharmacology. Together, these findings highlight immune pathways, neuronal signaling, and aging-related molecular processes as key components of opioid dependence.
To explore how vacuolar protein sorting 35 (VPS35) regulates astrocytic inflammation, impairs retinal endothelial function and drives early diabetic retinopathy (DR) neurovascular lesions in diabetic mouse model.A streptozotocin (STZ)-induced C57BL/6J diabetic mouse model was established. Retinal tissues were collected from 0 to 12wk after successful induction of diabetes. Protein expression levels of VPS35, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and vascular endothelium-associated proteins were assessed by Western blotting (WB). The interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation. Vascular leakage and astrocyte activation were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography and retinal flat-mount immunofluorescence staining. Primary astrocytes were cultured in vitro and subjected to high-glucose stimulation or VPS35 knockdown. Cell activation, expression of glutamate transport-associated proteins, and inflammatory cytokine expression were examined. Supernatant fluid from the primary astrocytes was applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to assess cell migration, proliferation, and tube formation capacity. The expression of proteins related to the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was also evaluated.In diabetic mice, retinal VPS35 protein expression exhibited a progressive decline beginning at 4wk post-diabetes onset, whereas GFAP protein expression increased significantly. By 8wk, marked astrocyte activation was observed, accompanied by retinal microvascular leakage and a reduction in vascular area. In vivo and in vitro experiments further confirmed that under high-glucose conditions, retinal VPS35 and EAAT2 protein levels were markedly decreased, while GFAP and LRRK2 protein levels were significantly elevated. Co-immunoprecipitation verified the physical interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 in astrocytes. Finally, in vitro experiments demonstrated that both high-glucose stimulation and VPS35 knockdown led to astrocyte activation, upregulation of inflammatory cytokine expression, downregulation of EAAT2 and AMPA receptor subunit GLUA2, and upregulation of LRRK2. Treatment of HUVECs with supernatant fluid from these astrocytes enhanced cell migration but significantly inhibited cell proliferation and tube formation. WB analysis revealed markedly increased levels of NF-κB and phosphorylated NF-κB in the treated HUVECs.During early DR in mice model, decreased retinal VPS35 protein expression induces astrocyte-mediated inflammatory responses and glutamate transport dysfunction. Through the interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2, paracrine inflammatory cytokines subsequently activate the NF-κB signaling pathway in vascular endothelial cells, leading to endothelial dysfunction and further driving DR-associated neurovascular injury. This study provides novel insights into the pathogenesis of DR and highlights the potential of VPS35 as a target for early intervention in DR.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is established for levodopa-responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), but the outcomes of DBS in rare genetic early-onset parkinsonism remain incompletely defined. While its efficacy is documented in monogenic forms of parkinsonism (e.g., LRRK2, Parkin, PINK1, and SNCA), clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of DBS in carriers of the SYNJ1 mutation remain scarce.We report two patients with SYNJ1-related early-onset parkinsonism treated with bilateral DBS and place their outcomes in a single-center gene-listed EOPD DBS cohort. Case 1 carried a novel homozygous SYNJ1 c.1969A > G (p. Thr657Ala) missense variant and 46, XY disorder of sex development; GPi-DBS enabled the levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) reduction from 775 to 300 mg/day, with improved dyskinesia and sleep, although motor fluctuations and neuropsychiatric symptoms persisted. Case 2 carried a SYNJ1 c.1627 + 13 T > A intronic variant; subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) reduced the LEDD from 955 to 605 mg/day and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-III) score from 51 to 32 at 1.5-year follow-up. In the contextual cohort, the median LEDD reduction after DBS was 35.2%. These observations support DBS as a feasible symptomatic strategy in selected genetic early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) while emphasizing genotype-specific uncertainty.These cases illustrate heterogeneous clinical responses to DBS in patients with early-onset parkinsonism carrying SYNJ1 variants. DBS may provide symptomatic benefit in carefully selected patients, but the small sample size and variant-level uncertainty preclude conclusions regarding genotype-specific efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Chen, Xu, Huang, Zhou and Zheng.
Variants in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, yet how these variants alter immune cell function remains unclear. Because LRRK2 is activated by lysosomal damage in macrophages, we investigated how the pathogenic G2019S variant affects macrophage responses to lysosomal damage. Here, we show that LRRK2 G2019S has an effect during lysosomal damage through kinase-dependent and kinase-independent mechanisms. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that lysosomal damage induces selective rewiring of LRRK2-dependent Rab GTPase phosphorylation, characterised by increased Rab12 phosphorylation and reduced Rab35 phosphorylation without global kinase hyperactivation. Strikingly, LRRK2 G2019S macrophages showed increased susceptibility to apoptosis following lysosomal damage. This increase in cell death occurred independently of the kinase activity, indicating a distinct kinase-independent role of LRRK2 in regulating cell survival. We generated isogenic induced pluripotent stem cells from patients carrying the LRRK2 G2019S variant and confirmed that LRRK2 G2019S macrophages are more susceptible to cell death in a kinase-independent manner. Together, our findings support a model in which the LRRK2 G2019S variant selectively changes the phosphorylation of Rab GTPases in macrophages and increases cell death after lysosomal damage in macrophages.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are a leading contributor to developing familial and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Most PD-causing LRRK2 mutations increase the kinase activity, leading to increased phosphorylation of Rab GTPases, disrupting vesicular trafficking, cytoskeletal dynamics, and autophagy. Under homeostatic conditions, the bulk of WT and PD-mutant LRRK2 is found in the cellular cytosol. However, exogenously expressed LRRK2 can form microtubule-associated filaments that have been shown to affect molecular transport along microtubules in vitro. While the physiological relevance of microtubule binding has not been established yet, inhibitors being designed and tested as therapeutics have been shown to either promote or prevent filament formation of LRRK2. In this study, we examine the localization and resulting molecular organization of hyperactive LRRK2-I2020T, a common PD mutant, in HEK 293FT cells treated with type I (MLi-2) or type II (GZD-824) kinase inhibitors. Treatment with a type I kinase inhibitor results in extensive LRRK2-I2020T decoration around microtubules and microtubule bundling. Stabilization of LRRK2-I2020T filaments by type I inhibitor treatment allowed us to build a full-length closed-kinase model of LRRK2-I2020T in its cellular environment. Conversely, treatment with a type II inhibitor resulted in minimal microtubule decoration by LRRK2-I2020T compared to type I inhibitor-treated cells. This study provides a structural framework for understanding how type I and type II kinase inhibitors differentially modulate LRRK2 filament formation, demonstrating that type I inhibitor treatment promotes a distinct filament architecture, whereas such assemblies are not observed with type II inhibitors.© 2026, Basiashvili et al.
Substantial unexplained heritability remains for pathogenic inherited retinal disease (IRD) variants. Application of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) could help identify causal genes in rare diseases.To leverage a GWAS for the discovery of IRD-associated genes.This GWAS analysis was combined with replication of findings in 2 independent IRD cohorts. The study was conducted from January 2024 to December 2025 in a multicenter setting through FinnGen, 100 000 Genomes Project, and the National Health Service Genomic Medicine Service combined with clinical cohort from the Oulu University Hospital. Using IRD criteria from the International Classification of Diseases, 9th and 10th Revisions, 540 individuals with IRD and 473 945 control individuals were identified in the FinnGen study. For validation of FinnGen results, 49 patients were recruited from Oulu University Hospital. Results were further validated in 2 individuals identified from the UK cohort.The GWAS and proteomics analysis were performed in the FinnGen cohort. Sanger and whole-genome sequencing and RNA approaches were used in a clinical IRD cohort to validate pathogenicity of the identified XXYLT1 variant.This GWAS identified 13 recessive loci reaching genome-wide significance (defined as P < 5 × 10-8). Of these, 4 (near or within XXYLT1, ANKRD10, DYM, and CBLN4) had not been associated with IRD, including the XXYLT1 c.505-1G>C founder variant. This variant was further genotyped in the clinical replication cohort, leading to identification of 5 more homozygous individuals from 4 families. The phenotype was consistent with a cone-rod or macular dystrophy, with visual deterioration, cystoid macular edema and/or schisislike macular abnormalities. The effect of the XXYLT1 c.505-1G>C variant was further investigated using RNA sequencing and complementary DNA amplicon sequencing, demonstrating exon 2 skipping and a loss-of-function effect. These findings were replicated in an independent population identifying 2 patients from the UK harboring a homozygous XXYLT1 c.766G>A, p.(Glu256Lys) missense variant.This GWAS identified an association between XXYLT1 and IRD. These results affirm that GWAS in a founder population can be used as a potential tool for the discovery of rare mendelian disease genes and that XXYLT1 should be considered in clinical IRD gene panels.
TANGO2 deficiency disorder (TDD) is a rare genetic disease caused by mutations in the TANGO2 gene, characterized by prominent neurological symptoms. However, the pathological mechanisms underlying TANGO2 loss-of-function in neurologic symptoms remain unknown. Here, we generated constitutive and cell-type-specific Tango2 knockout mouse models to examine TANGO2's role in the central nervous system (CNS). Behavioral analyses revealed that both constitutive and oligodendrocyte-specific deletion of Tango2 recapitulate the motor deficits associated with individuals with TDD. Morphological quantifications further showed that Tango2 deletion led to robust cerebellar myelin loss and an increase in synapse number in the cerebellar cortex. In addition, transcriptional analysis and lipidomic profiling demonstrated that Tango2 deletion downregulated key processes involved in phospholipid metabolism. Significantly, vitamin B5 supplementation alleviated motor deficits and cerebellar myelin defects in Tango2 knockout mice. Overall, our findings establish that TANGO2 is essential for maintaining normal motor behaviors by regulating lipid metabolism in oligodendroglia.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Lactation traits are important indicators for evaluating the production performance of dairy cows and the economic efficiency of dairy production. Identifying potential regulatory genes is essential for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying lactation and facilitating molecular breeding. This study aimed to identify candidate genes and regulatory pathways potentially associated with lactation traits in dairy cows by integrating transcriptome expression profiles of primary bovine mammary epithelial cells (BMECs) from eight Holstein cows with lactation phenotypic data. A gene co-expression network was constructed using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Co-expression modules associated with lactation traits were identified, and candidate genes were further screened by integrating gene significance, module membership, functional enrichment analysis, random forest analysis, gene-phenotype association analysis, single-gene gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), ROC curve analysis, and tissue expression profiling. Four co-expression modules, namely MEdarkturquoise, MEsteelblue, MEbrown, and MEskyblue3, were significantly associated with lactation traits (p < 0.05). Genes in these modules were mainly enriched in biological processes and pathways related to ribosome biogenesis, protein translation, the cell cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, which may be involved in lactation regulation. Through multi-strategy cross-screening, four candidate genes were ultimately identified. MDM2 was associated with daily milk yield (DYM), RPL37A with total milk solids (TMS), and SLC25A25 and CCNE2 with milk fat percentage (MFP) and fat-to-protein percentage ratio (FPP). Reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) validation showed that MDM2 and RPL37A were relatively highly expressed in mammary tissue, suggesting that they may be involved in lactation-related biological processes in dairy cows. These findings provide potential candidate regulators and theoretical support for further studies on the molecular mechanisms of lactation traits; however, their functional roles require further validation through in vitro and in vivo experiments.
TRAPP complexes are master regulators of membrane trafficking. TRAPPs are targeted to different locales by pathway-specific subunits decorating a core hetero-heptamer to build TRAPPII (Golgi exit) and TRAPPIII (autophagosomes and ER-Golgi trafficking). Metazoan and Arabidopsis TRAPPIII have three components, TRAPPC11/12/13 absent from budding yeast. We studied TRAPPC11/12/13 in the related ascomycete Aspergillus nidulans, where TRAPPC11 and TRAPPC12 localize to pre-autophagosomes and their ablation impairs autophagy. Two stable subcomplexes containing Tca17TRAPPC2L coexist: one includes the TRAPPII-specific subunits Trs120/Trs130/Trs65 whereas the other contains the TRAPPIII-specific subunits TRAPPC11/12/13. Both are recruited to core TRAPP by Tca17TRAPPC2L, which therefore plays a crucial role by determining the physiological role of TRAPP. TRAPPIII also exists in two versions, TRAPPIIIa and TRAPPIIIb, both containing Trs85TRAPPC8, but only TRAPPIIIb containing TRAPPC11/12/13, which target TRAPPIII to autophagy. This study might help characterize potentially pathogenic mutations affecting human TRAPPC11/12/13, facilitating assessment of their functional consequences in a genetically amenable ascomycete.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
TANGO2 deficiency disorder is an ultra-rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by life-threatening metabolic crises with rhabdomyolysis and cardiac arrhythmias. Patients with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are at increased risk when a pathogenic variant occurs in the remaining allele, yet this dual diagnosis remains underrecognized as clinicians often attribute all manifestations to the primary genetic condition. We report a case of a child with confirmed 22q11.2 deletion syndrome in whom a coexisting variant in the TANGO2 gene was diagnosed at the age of 5 after first metabolic crisis with rhabdomyolysis.A girl with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome diagnosed in infancy exhibited global developmental delay and chronic excessive sleepiness attributed to her established diagnosis. At age 5, she experienced her first metabolic crisis during pneumonia with severe rhabdomyolysis (creatine kinase >100,000 U/L), features inconsistent with isolated 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. Two additional metabolic crises occurred at age 7 before exome sequencing revealed a hemizygous TANGO2 variant c.536G>A, confirming TANGO2 deficiency. A previously unreported hemizygous missense variant c.536G>A (p.Gly138Glu) in the TANGO2 gene (NM_152906.7) was identified and verified by NGS-based deep amplicon sequencing and Sanger direct sequencing; segregation analysis confirmed paternal inheritance with the maternal allele deleted within the 22q11.2 region. Following diagnosis, B-vitamin supplementation, coenzyme Q10, L-carnitine, and gastrostomy tube placement were initiated to ensure consistent hydration and prevent prolonged periods without nutrition, a known crisis trigger. The patient achieved 4 years of crisis-free stability with reduced daytime sleepiness. At age 11, she remains stable without further crises.This case demonstrates that exome sequencing should be pursued early when atypical features emerge in patients with established genetic diagnoses. The sustained crisis-free period following gastrostomy placement supports proactive nutritional intervention in TANGO2 patients with feeding difficulties. Clinicians must recognize that microdeletion syndrome patients can harbor variants unmasking additional autosomal recessive conditions requiring distinct management.© 2026. The Author(s).
TANGO2 deficiency disorder (TDD), caused by homozygous large deletions in TANGO2, is associated with impaired fatty acid oxidation and metabolic crises that frequently trigger QT prolongation and arrhythmias. The objective was to study the mechanisms responsible for QT prolongation and arrhythmogenesis in TDD.CRISPR/Cas9 were used to generate human induced pluripotent stem cell cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) carrying a TANGO2 exon 3-9 deletion (TANGO2-/-). Bioenergetic function (mitochondrial oxygen consumption rate, intracellular ATP/ADP ratio) and action potentials (APs) were studied under glucose- or palmitate-fueled conditions.This study reports a TDD clinical case of QT prolongation and arrhythmia that responded favorably to L-type calcium channel (LTCC) inhibition with verapamil or vitamin B-complex supplementation. The mechanisms underlying clinical presentations and therapeutic responses were investigated using TANGO2-/- hiPSC-CMs. In glucose-containing medium, the bioenergetic function was comparable between control and TANGO2-/- hiPSC-CMs. In contrast, using palmitate as energy substrate triggered a profound reduction in cellular ATP production rate and decreased ATP/ADP ratios in TANGO2-/- hiPSC-CMs, exacerbated by 24-hour fasting. This crisis was prevented by 2-week treatment with vitamins B5 and B9. During the crisis, TANGO2-/- hiPSC-CMs exhibited AP prolongation, prevented by intracellular delivery of Mg-ATP or creatine kinase. LTCC inhibition with verapamil prevented AP prolongation by normalizing ATP/ADP ratios and intracellular Ca mishandling. Importantly, the metabolic crisis upregulated TRPM4, an ATP- and Ca-regulated channel. TRPM4 siRNA knockdown or pharmacological block prevented AP prolongation without rescuing the energetic deficit of TANGO2-/- hiPSC-CMs.These findings suggest a mechanistic link between ATP deficiency, TRPM4 activation, and AP prolongation in TDD. Targeting TRPM4 therapeutically may help prevent QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias in TDD crisis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
To analyze the clinical phenotype and genetic etiology of patients with Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome (DMC syndrome).A child with DMC syndrome diagnosed at Shanghai Children's Medical Center, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University in August 2020 was selected as study subject. A retrospective analysis was carried out to collect the proband's clinical data. Peripheral blood samples was collected from the proband and his parents. Following extraction of genomic DNA, whole exome sequencing (WES) was carried out. Candidate variants were validated within the family by Sanger sequencing. Pathogenicity of candidate variants was rated based on guidelines from the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the center (Ethics No.: SCMCIRB-K2023024-1).The proband, a 5-year-and-7-month-old girl, presented with short stature (height: -5.5 s) and intellectual disability. Physical examination revealed microcephaly (head circumference: -3.5 s), coarse facial features, long philtrum, pigeon chest, and brachydactyly of both hands. Laboratory findings revealed normal serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) levels (168 ng/mL). Imaging analysis demonstrated dysplasia of corpus callosum and spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia in the proband. WES revealed that she has harbored compound heterozygous variants of the DYM gene, namely c.312-313del (p.His104Glnfs*29) and c.1274A>T (p.Tyr425Phe). Both variants were unreported previously and inherited from her parents who were phenotypically normal. Based on guidelines from the ACMG, the DYM gene variant c.312-313del (p.His104Glnfs*29) was classified as pathogenic (PVS1+PM2_Supporting+PP3+PP4_supporting), while the c.1274A>T (p.Tyr425Phe) variant was classified as likely pathogenic (PM2_Supporting+PP3+PP1+PP4_supporting). By following the pre-set literature search strategy, a total of 20 articles were included, which involved a total of 73 cases of DYM gene variants leading to DMC syndrome. Among these, only one family case was documented in China. Together with proband from this study, a total of 74 DMC syndrome patients due DYM gene variants were included for a comprehensive analysis of clinical phenotypes and genetic characteristics. The age at the time of reporting ranged from 1 to 60 years. The main clinical manifestations included intellectual disability, short stature, and spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia, followed by microcephaly and coarse facial features. By genetic testing, c.1877delA variant was the most common mutation at the nucleotide level.The c.312-313del/c.1274A>T compound heterozygous variants of the DYM gene probably underlay the pathogenesis of DMC syndrome in this proband. Above finding has expanded the mutational and phenotypic spectra of the DMC syndrome.
The Golgi apparatus plays a key role in innate immune signaling, but its exact role in depression-related neuroinflammation remains unclear. The role of Dymeclin (DYM), a Golgi structural protein, in stress-related psychiatric disorders needs further clarification. This study aims to investigate whether DYM participates in the development of chronic stress-induced depression by regulating Golgi function. A mouse depression model was developed with chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), followed by a rescue experiment using stereotactic injection of DYM-overexpressing lentiviruses into the hippocampus. Depression-associated behaviors, hippocampal metabolites, Golgi apparatus function, and inflammatory markers were examined using mass spectrometry, immunofluorescence, electron microscopy, and immunoprecipitation techniques. Overexpression of DYM mitigated depressive-like behaviors induced by CUMS in mice. Additionally, it enhanced the structural integrity of the Golgi apparatus, suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activation, reduced levels of central and peripheral inflammatory factors, and partially ameliorated hippocampal metabolic disturbances. In vitro experiments further confirmed that DYM overexpression inhibited LPS-induced NLRP3 upregulation and inflammatory factor release in microglia. This study reveals that chronic stress causes depressive-like behaviors by reducing hippocampal DYM expression, leading to Golgi dysfunction and triggering NLRP3 inflammasome-related neuroinflammation and metabolic issues.This finding broadens the traditional framework of depression research, which has primarily focused on neurons and monoamine neurotransmitters, by underscoring the pivotal role of Golgi organelle homeostasis in mediating the interactions among stress, neuro-immune, and metabolic processes. Our research indicates that targeting the DYM/Golgi pathway could offer new treatment strategies and a theoretical foundation for reducing depression-related neuroinflammation and metabolic issues. Drugs targeting the structural stability of the Golgi apparatus may serve as potential candidates for novel antidepressants in the future.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background and Clinical Significance: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy R18 is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that may present with both muscular and hepatic involvement, potentially leading to diagnostic confusion. Longitudinal MRI data documenting this disease from childhood remain scarce. Case Presentation: We report a female patient with disease onset that occurred at 8 years of age, initially presenting with elevated liver enzymes and decreased ceruloplasmin levels, which raised suspicion of Wilson's disease. Genetic testing confirmed TRAPPC11 mutation. Serial MRI scans of the thigh muscles over a six-year period demonstrated progressive fatty infiltration, predominantly affecting the adductor magnus and posterior thigh muscles, with relative sparing of the gracilis and anterior compartment muscles. Conclusions: This case highlights that limb-girdle muscular dystrophy R18 can clinically mimic Wilson disease. Longitudinal muscle MRI offers valuable diagnostic insights and reveals a characteristic pattern of muscle involvement.
TANGO2 deficiency disorder (TDD) is a rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by recurrent metabolic crises, rhabdomyolysis, encephalopathy, seizures, intellectual disability, and life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias.Here, we describe 16 affected individuals from 10 consanguineous Palestinian families harboring a shared homozygous missense variant in TANGO2 (NM_152906.7:c.443T > G; NP_690870.3:p.(Leu148Trp)). Exome sequencing identified the variant in three probands and targeted Sanger sequencing confirmed segregation in all remaining families. The variant is absent from population databases and is predicted to be deleterious by multiple in silico tools. Microsatellite marker analysis was performed using five short tandem repeat (STR) markers spanning the TANGO2 locus.Clinical presentation was heterogeneous, including developmental delay, recurrent encephalopathy, rhabdomyolysis, seizures, and cardiac involvement. Microsatellite marker analysis revealed a conserved ancestral haplotype flanking the TANGO2 locus in all genotyped affected individuals, supporting a founder effect in this population. Supportive management including coenzyme Q10 and B-complex vitamins (B-100) was commonly used; consistent with prior reports, some families described reduced frequency and/or severity of spells following supplementation.These findings provide strong clinical, genetic, and haplotype evidence supporting reclassification of the TANGO2 p.(Leu148Trp) variant as likely pathogenic and highlight the importance of early molecular diagnosis and targeted screening strategies in high-consanguinity populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Though inhibiting the RBPJ transcription complex reduces PD-L1 expression and alleviates T cell dysfunction in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the tumor immunomodulatory function of RBPJ in T cells is unclear. This study used patient-derived xenograft models to illustrate the role of RBPJ disruption in clinical outcomes and sensitivity to immunotherapy. Immunoprecipitation was performed to identify whether HUWE1 is the E3 ubiquitin ligase for RBPJ. CUT&Tag, ChIP-/ATAC-qPCR, flow cytometry, and CyTOF were used to investigate the molecular mechanism of how RBPJ regulated the function of HCC-infiltrating T cells. Mice with conditional knockout or knock-in of Huwe1 or Rbpj in T cells were used to evaluate their role in the tumor growth. Furthermore, virtual screening, molecular dynamics simulation, immunoprecipitation, and DNA pull-down assays revealed the role of acarbose in RBPJ transcription complex. Our study found that RBPJ expression rose in exhausted T cells, aggravating their exhaustion. Mechanistically, HUWE1 facilitated the K341 ubiquitination of RBPJ through K48 linkage. RBPJ contributed to T cell exhaustion by enhancing the transcription of exhaustion-related genes as a transcription factor, recruiting RUVBL1 to elevate H3K4me3 levels on the promoters of exhaustion-related genes or H3K27ac on their enhancers, and induced the transcription of the KMT2C, thereby increasing H3K4me1 levels on the enhancers of exhaustion-related genes. Furthermore, acarbose-induced damage in the RBPJ transcriptional complex indicated that targeting T cell exhaustion may be a promising HCC treatment. Collectively, our research results indicated that inhibiting the RBPJ in T cells changed the tumor microenvironment from "cold" to "hot".© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a major global health challenge, underscoring the urgent need for effective therapeutic strategies. Ferritinophagy-driven ferroptosis has recently emerged as a promising anticancer approach; however, potent pharmacological inducers and their modes of action remain largely unexplored.This study aimed to investigate whether Tanshinone I (Tan I), a bioactive diterpenoid quinone, exerts antitumor effects against GC via ferritinophagy-dependent ferroptosis and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.Ferroptosis induction was evaluated using pharmacological rescue assays, flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Mechanistic investigations were conducted through quantitative proteomics, immunofluorescence staining, immunoblotting, and analyses of protein stability and ubiquitination. Target identification and validation were employed using limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry, cellular thermal shift assay, drug affinity responsive target stability, computational modeling, co-immunoprecipitation, and genetic manipulation. The antitumor efficacy of Tan I was further evaluated in orthotopic and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models.Tan I was identified as a potent inducer of ferroptosis and ferritinophagy in GC cells, as demonstrated by increased labile ferrous iron and lipid reactive oxygen species, characteristic mitochondrial abnormalities, and partial reversal of Tan I-induced cytotoxicity by ferroptosis inhibitors. Mechanistically, Tan I disrupted the interaction between the E3 ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 and the ferritinophagy cargo receptor NCOA4, thereby attenuating HUWE1-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NCOA4. Stabilization of NCOA4 enhanced ferritin turnover, resulting in iron overload, lipid peroxidation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately ferroptotic cell death. Notably, HUWE1 knockdown mimicked the key ferroptotic phenotypes induced by Tan I, whereas HUWE1 overexpression or NCOA4 knockdown mitigated these effects. Importantly, Tan I significantly suppressed tumor growth in both orthotopic and PDX models at well-tolerated doses while concomitantly activating ferritinophagy- and ferroptosis-associated markers in vivo.By targeting the HUWE1-NCOA4 axis, Tan I induced ferritinophagy-dependent ferroptosis and exerted potent antitumor activity against GC, highlighting its potential as a lead compound for ferroptosis-based cancer therapies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
To characterize the clinical phenotypes and identify the genetic etiology in four unrelated families affected by Turner-type X-linked intellectual disability (XLID).Peripheral blood samples were collected from four probands and their parents. Genomic DNA was extracted, and a comprehensive genetic analysis was performed using trio-based Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) combined with low-pass Copy Number Variation sequencing (CNV-seq). Candidate variants were subsequently validated via Sanger sequencing.Genetic analysis identified distinct variants in the HUWE1 across the four families. Specifically, four distinct HUWE1 variants were identified across the families: a hemizygous c.10034 > T (p.Lys3345Met) in Family 1; a heterozygous c.9209G > A (p.Arg3070His) in Family 2; a heterozygous c.12688T > C (p.Phe4230Leu) in Family 3; and a hemizygous c.9070G > A (p.Ala3024Thr) in Family 4. In accordance with ACMG guidelines, the novel variants in Families 1, 3, and 4 were classified as "Likely Pathogenic" (PS2 + PM2_Supporting + PP2 + PP3). In contrast, the previously reported variant in Family 2 was categorized as "Pathogenic" based on the criteria PS2 + PM2_Supporting + PM5 + PP2 + PP3_Moderate. All probands were clinically diagnosed with Turner-type XLID.This study expands the pathogenic variant spectrum of HUWE1 and provides novel molecular evidence for the clinical diagnosis of Turner-type XLID. These findings are of significant value for genetic counseling, carrier screening, and prenatal diagnosis for the affected families.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
KIF21A, a member of the Kinesin-4 family of motor proteins, is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics and intracellular transport, with emerging evidence suggesting its potential role in cancer progression. In this study, we performed an integrative analysis of over 3825 human phosphoproteomics studies to characterize site-specific phosphorylation of KIF21A. Three predominant phosphosites were identified in KIF21A (S853, S1212, and S1239) with the highest detection frequency across phosphoproteomics studies, and were analyzed for co-regulation patterns to identify potential kinase associations and functional networks. Phosphosite S853 showed a strong association with cytoskeletal organization and cortical microtubule stabilization complexes (CMSCs) components, including KANK1 (S186), PHLDB2 (S513, S42) and CLASP1 (S600, S572, S646), indicating its role in cytoskeletal organization. Upstream kinase analysis identified potential regulators, such as PAK2, RPS6KA1/A3, RPS6KB1, CHEK1/2 and CDK18/16 with site-specific variability in their associations with KIF21A predominant sites. Interestingly, phosphosite-specific correlation analysis between KIF21A and candidate kinases revealed that the KIF21A S1239 phosphosite exhibited tumor-specific correlations with CDK18 across multiple cancer types. Functional enrichment revealed that co-regulated phosphoproteins were involved in cytoskeleton regulation, cell cycle regulation, and carcinogenesis. Pan-cancer analysis demonstrated dysregulated expression of KIF21A in multiple tumor types, with stage-associated upregulation in selected cancers. Gene-level validation further supported these findings, showing consistent positive correlations between KIF21A and key regulators such as CTNND1 and PTK2, as well as other cytoskeleton and cancer-associated genes. Overall, this study highlights site-specific phosphorylation as a key regulatory mechanism of KIF21A and suggests its involvement in cytoskeleton-associated signaling networks in cancer.
Phenanthrene (PHE) is a common marine pollutant, but whether it induces autophagy-related responses in bivalves and how such responses contribute to cellular adaptation under pollutant stress remain incompletely understood. Here, using multimodal imaging, ultrastructural analysis, proteomics, and gene-expression assays, we found evidence consistent with the engagement of an E3 ubiquitin ligase-NF-κB-autophagy regulatory axis in hemocytes of the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas following phenanthrene exposure. Confocal laser scanning microscopy, Cyto-ID flow-cytometry screening, and transmission electron microscopy revealed increased autophagy-related signals and the presence of autophagic vesicle-like structures in PHE-exposed hemocytes. The proteomics results showed that protein levels of HUWE1, TRIM36, and ATG7 were significantly upregulated. The expression of axis-related genes was significantly upregulated after PHE exposure, while CAPE-mediated inhibition of NF-κB attenuated the PHE-associated induction of LC3 and p62/SQSTM1 transcripts, supporting the involvement of NF-κB signaling in the autophagy-related transcriptional response. Similar upregulation of axis-related transcripts in RAW264.7 macrophages supported a comparable direction of transcriptional response, but did not establish conserved pathway activation or causality. Together with changes in hemocyte number, apoptosis rate, phagocytic capacity, and ROS levels, these findings are consistent with a cellular adaptation response under PHE stress. This study provides integrated evidence for autophagy-associated stress responses in Pacific oysters exposed to phenanthrene and offers a mechanistic framework for future validation of pollutant tolerance in marine bivalves.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The HECT-type E3 ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 is a critical regulator of protein homeostasis, genome stability, and neurodevelopment. Variants in HUWE1 are linked to X-linked intellectual disability (XLID), yet a significant number of HUWE1 variants are noncatalytic, leaving their disease mechanisms unresolved. Here, we identify an AMBRA1-RMC1-HUWE1 signaling axis that directs HUWE1-mediated ubiquitination to mitochondria to regulate neural development. In zebrafish, noncatalytic HUWE1 variants found in XLID patients (M375I, G660R, and H669Q) recapitulate key neurodevelopmental deficits, including impaired brain growth and motor neuron defects. Global ubiquitin profiling reveals that these variants selectively disrupt the ubiquitination of mitochondrial proteins without affecting nuclear substrates. Mechanistically, AMBRA1 acts as a mitochondrial scaffold that recruits RMC1, enabling HUWE1 localization to mitochondria through direct interaction with RMC1. Disruption of this recruitment by disease-associated HUWE1 variants prevents mitochondrial targeting and impairs mitochondrial substrate ubiquitination. Notably, Urolithin A treatment ameliorates neurodevelopmental phenotypes in HUWE1-deficient zebrafish. Together, our findings define an AMBRA1-organized mitochondrial recruitment pathway in which RMC1 links HUWE1 to mitochondria, explain noncatalytic HUWE1-associated XLID, and suggest mitochondrial quality-control enhancement as a potential therapeutic strategy.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs) are rare metabolic diseases characterized by clinical heterogeneity, yet the molecular basis for their tissue-specific manifestations remains poorly understood. Because affected tissues are rarely accessible for biopsy, the baseline transcriptional and regulatory landscape of CDG-causative genes in healthy human tissues offers a valuable, complementary perspective on tissue vulnerability. Here, we performed an in silico study of the expression, allelic regulation, expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), and associations with immune cell compositions of 12 CDG-causative genes across healthy human tissues using multi-omics datasets from the Adult GTEx project. The selected panel includes the most prevalent multisystem CDGs (PMM2-, ALG6-, ALG1-, SLC35A2-, ALG13-, SRD5A3-, MAN1B1-, DPAGT1-CDG), three immune-relevant CDGs classified as inborn errors of immunity (MOGS-, PGM3-, VPS13B-CDG), and the autosomal recessive form of GNE-CDG (GNE-CDG (ar); GNE myopathy) as a tissue-restricted contrast. CDG-causative genes were broadly but heterogeneously expressed, with substantial inter-individual variation. Tissues frequently affected in the corresponding disorders did not consistently display the highest baseline gene expression, underscoring that higher gene expression alone is a poor indicator of tissue susceptibility. Allele-specific analyses revealed five distinct allelic expression patterns across individuals and identified tissue-specific deviations from balanced biallelic expression for several genes, most notably SRD5A3, PGM3, VPS13B, and GNE. Tissue-specific eQTLs affecting CDG genes were frequently located in intronic enhancers of unrelated genes or intergenic regions, revealing a complex, predominantly distal regulatory architecture. Several eQTLs overlapped GWAS Catalog traits and ClinVar entries relevant to the corresponding CDG phenotypes, including PMM2 eQTLs associated with reduced PMM2 gene levels. Finally, correlations between CDG-causative gene expression and immune cell composition recapitulated known immune phenotypes from blood and suggested additional tissue-dependent roles for glycosylation in immune modulation, that warrant functional validation. Together, these findings demonstrate that CDG-causative genes operate within diverse transcriptional, allelic, and regulatory contexts across human tissues. Our in silico framework provides an interpretable candidates and foundational reference for interpreting tissue vulnerability in CDG and underscore the need for global analyses to fully understand organ-specific disease mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Inhibition of PARPs is a key strategy to treat tumours with defects in homologous recombination (HR), including those with mutations in the tumour suppressor gene BRCA2. PARP inhibitors generate replication stress, creating a dependence on HR to repair the resulting DNA damage. However, the DNA lesions generated upon PARP inhibition that impede replication fork progression and trigger a requirement for BRCA2 in cell survival are poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that elevated levels of G-quadruplex (G4) DNA structures is a determinant of genome instability and PARP inhibitor toxicity, while suppressing these structures results in PARP inhibitor resistance. The HUWE1-associated stress response protein HAPSTR1 and BRCA2 function in parallel pathways to PARP1/PARP2 to suppress G4 levels during S-phase. Mechanistically, PARP1/PARP2 disruption in HAPSTR1 or BRCA2-deficient cells leads to G4-replication conflicts, ssDNA gaps, replication-associated DNA damage and genome instability. HAPSTR1 turnover is regulated through HUWE1-dependent proteasome degradation. As such, HUWE1 disruption results in elevated HAPSTR1 and suppression of elevated G4 levels in BRCA2-deficient cells, resulting in PARP inhibitor resistance. Together, these data identify G4 structures as a determinant of PARP inhibitor toxicity, while the HAPSTR1/HUWE1 axis is essential to suppress these structures and confer PARP inhibitor resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
The mechanism related to docetaxel resistance in PCa has not been fully elucidated, and in-depth study of the specific mechanism of docetaxel resistance in PCa is of great clinical significance for the treatment of PCa.We explored the expression level of PIGL and HUWE1 using TCGA database and our clinical sample. CCK8 assay, Transwell assay, colony formation assay, wound-healing assay were used to explore the role of HUWE1/PIGL. Ubiquitination assay and Co-immunoprecipitation assay were used to investigate the molecular mechanism.We found that both the mRNA and protein of PIGL is highly expressed in prostate cancer (PCa) and associated with poor prognosis. The protein rather than mRNA of PIGL is highly expressed in docetaxel-resistant PCa and associated with prognosis in patients receiving docetaxel-based chemotherapy. High expression level of PIGL promotes the proliferation, migration, invasion, and docetaxel resistance of PCa cells in vitro. Mass spectrometry after immunoprecipitation identified HUWE1 as a binding protein of PIGL. The protein of HUWE1 is lowly expressed in docetaxel-resistant PCa and associated with prognosis in patients receiving docetaxel-based chemotherapy. HUWE1 might be served as the E3 ubiquitin ligase of PIGL and negatively regulated the expression of PIGL protein rather than mRNA. The knockdown of HUWE1 could promote the docetaxel resistance of PCa and could be rescued by PIGL silencing.These findings emphasized the vital role of PIGL in the progression and docetaxel resistance of PCa and the effect of the E3 ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 on regulating the protein expression of PIGL.Copyright © 2026 Gao, Lin, Zhang, Yi, Ke, Zhu, Kang and Wei.
Recent studies suggest that copy number variants (CNVs) may contribute to the missing heritability of complex diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias (ADRD). We performed a CNV analysis using genotyping data (Axiom 815 K Spanish biobank array) from the GR@ACE/DEGESCO dementia dataset (n = 20,067) of the Spanish population. Applying PennCNV and extensive quality control, 8275 controls and 7818 dementia cases were selected for gene-level case/control associations. We identified 43,833 CNVs with deletions (47%) and duplications (53%). No genome-wide significant associations were found, but nominal associations were observed in PKP3-SIGIRR and FBRSL1 loci. CNVs in 2970 genes were exclusive to dementia cases and enriched in vascular-related pathways. Notable findings included 14q11.2 duplication and VPS13B deletions in ADRD cases, the latter confirmed by optical genome mapping. Our findings suggest potential novel genes associated with ADRD in the Spanish population. However, the limited resolution of array-based technologies in detecting CNVs warrants further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuroblastoma (NB), the most prevalent extracranial solid tumor in children, exhibits high mortality. This study investigated the function and underlying mechanisms of HACE1 in NB pathogenesis. NB tumor tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues were collected, and human NB cell lines SK-N-AS and SK-N-BE2 were used. Cell migration and invasion capacities were evaluated using wound healing and Transwell assays. Cell apoptosis was measured using TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-end Labeling staining. The HACE1 in vivo function was validated using a xenograft mouse model. The results demonstrated that HACE1 expression was downregulated in NB tissues compared with normal tissues. HACE1 overexpression suppressed chemoresistance, migration, and invasion in NB cells; mechanistically, HACE1 bound to PKN1 and promoted its destabilization. The effects of HACE1 knockdown were reversed by the co-knockdown of PKN1. Furthermore, PKN1 bound to and phosphorylated PA2G4 at the T261 residue. Functional assays demonstrated that overexpression of wild-type (WT) PA2G4 promoted cell migration, invasion, and chemoresistance, which were attenuated by the T261A mutation (a non-phosphorylation mimic) but further potentiated by the T261E mutation (a phosphorylation mimic). PKN1 overexpression enhanced the oncogenic functions of WT PA2G4 but not those of the T261A mutant. Finally, the anti-tumor effect of HACE1 was confirmed in vivo. Collectively, this study demonstrates that HACE1 suppresses NB cell migration, invasion, and chemoresistance by destabilizing PKN1, thereby preventing PKN1 from phosphorylating and activating PA2G4. Our findings elucidate a novel HACE1/PKN1/PA2G4 signaling axis in NB progression, expanding the understanding of NB pathogenesis and highlighting the axis's potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42185686 is a review article
Emerging evidence suggests that GRIP and coiled-coil domain-containing two enriched small extracellular vesicles (sEV-GCC2) may serve as diagnostic biomarkers of early-stage lung adenocarcinomas. However, the roles of these molecules remain unclear. This study evaluated the diagnostic and prognostic potential of sEV-GCC2 for detecting early-stage lung adenocarcinoma and its tumourigenic role in vitro and in vivo. This retrospective multicentre study analyzed 470 plasma samples (320 lung adenocarcinoma patients, 150 controls; mean follow-up: 34.7 ± 24.0 months) across five institutions. Size-exclusion chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to measure sEV-GCC2 levels, whereas immunohistochemistry was used to confirm GCC2 expression in tumour tissues. Functional studies were performed using the PC9 and H1650 lung adenocarcinoma cell lines in vitro and the corresponding PC9-based preclinical models in vivo to evaluate the tumour-related effects of sEV-GCC2. Patients exhibited significantly elevated sEV-GCC2 levels compared to controls (area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve [AUC]: 0.904, P < 0.001), with similar results in stage TisN0-T1miN0 disease (AUC: 0.781, P < 0.001). sEV-GCC2 levels were associated with the pathological TNM stage and tumour location. Higher sEV-GCC2 levels were correlated with poorer recurrence-free survival (RFS), overall survival and recurrence rates, even in patients with stage 0-IA1 disease. Functional studies have revealed that sEV-GCC2, but not GCC2-deficient sEVs, promote cancer cell proliferation, tumour growth and lymph node metastasis in vitro and in vivo. These findings highlight the diagnostic and prognostic potential of sEV-GCC2 and its tumourigenic role in early-stage lung adenocarcinoma. This study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04529915).© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial inflammation and joint destruction. Abnormal T-cell ubiquitination has been implicated in RA pathogenesis, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear.Transcriptomic data from RA blood and synovial tissue were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Ubiquitination-related module genes were obtained using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and their overlap with DEGs yielded blood-synovial ubiquitination-related genes (BS-UGs). Single-cell datasets were used to extract T-cell marker genes, and intersection analysis identified T-cell-specific ubiquitination genes (BS-TUGs). Machine learning algorithms (SVM-RFE and Boruta) screened key BS-TUGs. Immune infiltration, transcription factor (TF) regulation, and master regulators were explored. Finally, two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to assess causal relationships between key genes and RA.A total of 521 BS-UGs and 21 candidate BS-TUGs were identified, from which six key genes (DOCK10, DGKA, NOP58, JAK3, GCC2, ANO9) were selected. These genes exhibited significant immune-cell correlations and were regulated by multiple TFs. MR analysis demonstrated a positive causal association between NOP58 (OR = 1.074, p = 0.001) and RA, and a negative association between GCC2 (OR = 0.928, p < 0.001) and RA, without heterogeneity or pleiotropy.Integrative dual-omics and MR analyses identified key ubiquitination-related T-cell genes driving RA pathogenesis. NOP58 and GCC2 represent potential causal biomarkers and therapeutic targets, offering novel insights into immune regulation and precision intervention in RA.Copyright © 2026 He, Zhao and Meng.
HACE1 (HECT domain and ankyrin repeat containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1) is an antioxidant gene that plays a key role in activating antioxidant pathways to maintain cellular homeostasis. Recent studies suggest that the antioxidant gene HACE1 may be a potential therapeutic target for age-related degenerative diseases. However, its role in intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) has not been reported in any study. To clarify the role of HACE1 in IDD, we performed in vivo and in vitro basal experiments. The MRI results indicated that the degeneration grade of intervertebral discs in old rats was significantly higher compared to that in juvenile rats. Additionally, the expression of HACE1 in the degenerated intervertebral discs of aged rats was reduced. In cellular experiments, HACE1 overexpression could restore IL-1β-induced apoptosis, mitochondrial damage and iron overload. In animal experiments, HACE1 activated antioxidant signaling pathways, attenuated oxidative stress, and increased the expression of ECM and anti-ferroptosis proteins. In summary, HACE1 alleviates the progression of IDD by inhibiting oxidative stress and ferroptosis in nucleus pulposus cells. Its protective effect may be related to the activation of the Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway. In conclusion, our results support that the antioxidant gene HACE1 could serve as a novel potential target for treating IDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41673897 is a review article
Pterygium syndrome is a common eye disease that often leads to vision loss and even blindness. There is increasing evidence that miRNAs play a key role in the progression of pterygium, but the function of miR-381-3p in pterygium has not been studied. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effect of miR-381-3p on the progression of pterygium and to elucidate its potential molecular mechanisms. Human pterygium fibroblasts (HPFs) were isolated from clinical pterygium tissues. The expression of key genes and proteins was detected via RT-qPCR and western blotting. Cell proliferation was detected by CCK-8 and scratch assay, while cell invasion was examined by Transwell assay. Protein interactions were investigated by coimmunoprecipitation. First, we found that the expression level of miR-381-3p was significantly reduced in pterygium tissues. Second, we found that the overexpression of miR-381-3p in HPFs inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion abilities of HPFs while inducing cell apoptosis. In addition, in pterygium tissue, the expression of MCPIP1 was downregulated, and the expression of HACE1 and TRIP12 was upregulated. Importantly, MCPIP1 interference partially attenuated the positive effects of miR-381-3p overexpression described above, and miR-381-3p could target HACE1, while HACE1 could bind to TRIP12. Mechanistic studies revealed that miR-381-3p inhibited the binding of HACE1 to TRIP12 through the inhibition of HACE1 expression, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of MCPIP1 and improving the progression of pterygium. Our study highlights the powerful potential of miR-381-3p in improving the progression of pterygium, laying the foundation for the development of new intervention targets for related diseases.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Environmental toxicants, including chlorinated solvents present in contaminated water sources, can modify human DNA methylation (DNAm), an epigenetic mechanism that underlies biological plasticity in response to environmental perturbations. Given the relevance of these epigenetic mechanisms, this study examines the DNAm profiles of communities near Bussi sul Tirino (Abruzzo, Italy), an area declared a Site of National Interest (SNI) in 2008 due to extensive environmental contamination, including chlorinated solvents. The aim was to determine whether long-standing groundwater contamination is associated with changes in DNAm variability. Specifically, buccal swabs were collected from 61 volunteers classified into high (HLE) and low (LLE) exposure groups based on proximity to contaminated water sources. Subsequently, bisulfite sequencing (MiSeq, Illumina) was used to assess DNAm in repetitive elements, while genome-wide DNAm and genotyping were performed on a subset of 32 individuals using Illumina MethylationEPIC and HumanOmniExpress 720k BeadChips, respectively. Genome-wide analysis identified differentially methylated positions enriched in genes related to embryonic/cellular development, nervous system development, and immune function. In particular, the strongest association was observed at cg04879348 (GCC2 gene; p = 6.52 ×10-5), previously linked to organochlorine exposure in a group of workers diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. Importantly, the HLE group displayed reduced DNAm variability, potentially reflecting environmental pressure on epigenetic regulation, and a trend toward LINE-1 hypomethylation, suggesting genomic instability. However, no differences were found in epimutation load and epigenetic aging in the oral tissue of this group. In conclusion, this study provides novel evidence that past long-term environmental contamination exposure can shape DNAm profiles in exposed populations, highlighting the relevance of epigenetic markers in environmental health research.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Programmed ribosomal frameshifting is a process where a proportion of ribosomes change their reading frame on an mRNA. While frameshifting is commonly used by viruses, very few phylogenetically conserved examples are known in nuclear encoded genes. Here, we report a +1 frameshifting event during decoding of the human gene PLEKHM2 that provides access to a second internally overlapping ORF. The new carboxyl-terminal domain of this frameshift protein forms an α helix, which relieves PLEKHM2 from autoinhibition and allows it to move to the tips of cells without activation by ARL8. Reintroducing both the canonically translated and frameshifted protein are necessary to restore normal contractile function of PLEKHM2 knockout cardiomyocytes, demonstrating the necessity of frameshifting for normal cardiac activity.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.628608.].Copyright © 2025 Yu, Liang, Wu, Huang, Zheng, Zheng and Chen.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) remains a lethal malignancy with limited prognostic tools for guiding immunotherapy. Tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) play a critical role in EAC prognosis and treatment response.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and bulk transcriptome data from TCGA and GEO databases. TIIC-specific RNAs were identified via tissue specificity index calculation combined with machine learning feature selection. Twenty machine learning algorithms were benchmarked to construct an optimal TIIC signature score (TIIC-Score) based on the comprehensive C-index. Immunotherapy response, genomic mutation, and copy number variation were analyzed. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) were performed to explore genetic associations. Core prognostic TIIC-related genes were functionally validated in esophageal cancer cell lines through loss-of-function assays.The TIIC-Score demonstrated robust prognostic value for 1-, 2-, and 3-year overall survival across multiple cohorts, outperforming 22 published models. High TIIC-Score was associated with poor survival and increased chromosomal instability. Mutation profiling revealed high frequencies of TP53 (78.2%), TTN (48.7%), and SYNE1 (30.8%). MR analysis identified a significant association between gastro-oesophageal reflux and EAC risk at SNP rs8130507. Functionally, CCNI was upregulated in esophageal cancer cells, and its knockdown suppressed malignant phenotypes while promoting apoptosis, supporting its pro-tumorigenic role.The TIIC-Score provides a novel prognostic framework for EAC that effectively stratifies patient risk and may help identify individuals most likely to benefit from immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Endometriosis (EMS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are both chronic inflammatory disorders with overlapping clinical features, suggesting a potentially shared etiology. Although epidemiological studies have reported an association between the two conditions, the genetic basis of this relationship remains poorly understood. This study is aimed at characterizing the shared genetic architecture of EMS and IBD, identify pleiotropic loci implicated in both conditions, and explore the potential causal relationships and underlying biological mechanisms.We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary statistics to investigate the genetic relationship between EMS and IBD. Linkage-disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlation. The PLACO method was applied to identify pleiotropic loci, which were further evaluated by Bayesian colocalization. Functional implications were assessed using MAGMA gene-set analysis, tissue enrichment analysis, and functional annotation. Bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to examine causal inference, accompanied by leave-one-out sensitivity analyses and statistical power calculations.A statistically significant but modest positive genetic correlation was observed between EMS and IBD (rg = 0.0957, p = 0.0042). Twenty-four genomic loci showed evidence of pleiotropic effects, and six of these carried strong evidence of a shared causal variant (posterior probability: PP.H4 > 0.7), including loci at 2p23.3 (ADCY3/DNAJC27), 4q12, 5q23.3, 7p15.2, 11q13.1 (CCDC88B), and 1q22. Functional analyses consistently implicated eight pleiotropic genes across multiple platforms: ADCY3, CCDC88B, GREB1, NOD2, RSPO3, SYNE1, THADA, and TRAIP. Pathway enrichment highlighted "positive regulation of gene expression" as a key shared mechanism (p < 0.05). Tissue-specific analyses revealed strong signals in whole blood, spleen, and colon, consistent with the immunoinflammatory etiology of both diseases. Bidirectional MR did not support a causal relationship in either direction (IBD on EMS: OR = 1.007, 95% CI: 0.986-1.028, p = 0.543; EMS on IBD: OR = 1.054, 95% CI: 0.991-1.122, p = 0.092). Leave-one-out analyses confirmed that no single variant drove these estimates, and power analysis indicated adequate power to detect moderate causal effects.The findings provide evidence for a shared, albeit modest, and genetic basis between EMS and IBD that is likely mediated through immune regulation, hormonal signaling, and tissue repair. The absence of significant causal effects in MR suggests that the observed comorbidity reflects common genetic susceptibility rather than a direct causal link. These results offer new insight into the mechanisms underlying the co-occurrence of the two conditions and may inform future investigation of shared therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Xinyue Cui et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Spectrin Repeat-Containing Nuclear Envelope Protein 1 (SYNE1) is important gene for maintaining neuronal structure and function, particularly in the cerebellum, the brain region responsible for coordinating movement. The genetic mutation in SYNE1 gene, which encodes Nesprin-1 protein leads to autosomal recessive form of spinocerebellar Ataxia OMIM (608441). This cerebellar dysfunction causes progressive balance and coordination problems, including reflexes and cognitive impairment. To understand genetic mutations in SYNE1 gene that are linked with Autosomal Recessive Spinocerebellar Ataxia type 8 (SCAR8) and Autosomal Recessive Cerebellar Ataxia type 1 (ARCA1).The study was done in the Center of Excellence in Genomic Medicine and Research (CEGMR) during 2023-2024. Firstly, Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) was carried out to identify the mutation, followed by Sanger sequencing to validate the WES results.WES identified a novel homozygous stop-gained variant, NM_182961.3:c.352C>T (p.Arg118Ter), in the SYNE1 gene in a 32-year-old Saudi patient. This alteration was associated with progressive cerebellar atrophy, impaired fine motor skills, muscular weakness, and speech and learning deficits. The variant was independently confirmed by Sanger sequencing.The patient's phenotype was consistent with previously reported ARCA1 and SCAR8. To our knowledge and based on the currently available literature, this may represent the first reported Saudi family with a SYNE1 mutation associated with these conditions. This finding advances the genetic and molecular characterization of these rare disorders, highlights the utility of molecular diagnostics, and supports the establishment of a local database of disease-associated variants to improve diagnosis, management, and future research in the Saudi population.Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
Investigate FBXW8 expression levels in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), its biological roles and prognostic significance.Based on the analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus databases, the expression level of FBXW8 was investigated. The results were verified in clinical samples using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Functional experiments (Cell Counting Kit-8, wound healing, and Transwell) were conducted on Huh7 and MHCC-97 H cells. Immune infiltration and methylation status were also evaluated.FBXW8 was significantly overexpressed in HCC tissues across multiple cohorts (TCGA, GSE25097, GSE54236; all p < 0.001), with consistent validation by qPCR and IHC in clinical specimens. Elevated FBXW8 expression correlated with aggressive clinicopathological characteristics, specifically, advanced tumor-node-metastasis staging, poor histological grade, and higher alpha-fetoprotein levels (all p < 0.05). High FBXW8 expression was associated with worse overall survival (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.52, p = 0.024), with Progression-free interval (HR = 1.45, p = 0.013) also adversely affected. Receiver operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that FBXW8 had diagnostic value. The areas under the curve in the TCGA, GSE25097 and GSE54236 datasets were 0.875, 0.837 and 0.716, respectively. The in vitro functional experiments demonstrated that FBXW8 overexpression promoted cell proliferation, migration, and invasion (all p < 0.05). The FBXW8 expression was positively correlated with T helper cells (r = 0.342), while it was negatively correlated with dendritic cells (r = - 0.379). Promoter hypermethylation of FBXW8 was observed in HCC, with three CpG sites associated with prognosis.FBXW8 functions as a prognostic biomarker and promotes HCC progression, indicating its therapeutic potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
SYNE1 encodes nesprin-1, a nuclear envelope protein involved in cytoskeletal linkage, nuclear positioning, and neuromuscular integrity. Biallelic SYNE1 variants cause a broad spectrum ranging from cerebellar ataxia to arthrogryposis multiplex congenita and motor neuron disease-like phenotypes. Distinguishing these entities can be difficult when subtle distal contractures coexist with neurogenic electrophysiological findings.A 22-year-old woman born to consanguineous parents presented with bilateral intrinsic hand muscle wasting, impaired fine motor performance, and mild gait difficulty. Examination showed distal hand atrophy, mild weakness of the abductor pollicis brevis and first dorsal interosseous muscles, brisk deep tendon reflexes, preserved sensation, and mild distal finger contractures. Sensory nerve conduction studies were normal. Motor studies showed reduced compound muscle action potential amplitude in the right abductor pollicis brevis and borderline-low amplitude on the left. Needle electromyography showed widespread chronic neurogenic motor unit changes affecting the upper and lower extremities, with active denervation most evident in the bilateral abductor pollicis brevis muscles. Genioglossus examination was normal. SMN1 deletion testing and selected familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis gene testing were negative. Whole exome sequencing identified a homozygous truncating SYNE1 variant, NM_182961.4:c.21009G > A; p.(Trp7003Ter). Segregation analysis confirmed heterozygous carrier status in both parents and two unaffected siblings. At 24-month follow-up, weakness, atrophy, contractures, reflex pattern, and functional status remained clinically stable, without bulbar, cerebellar, sensory, or clinically evident respiratory involvement.This case supports classification as a SYNE1-related motor neuron disease-like phenotype with mild distal contractures rather than an isolated arthrogryposis multiplex congenita type 3 (AMC3) phenotype. The case also supports including SYNE1 in genetic testing panels for young patients with unexplained motor neuron disease-like presentations, particularly when consanguinity, normal sensory conduction, and subtle distal contractures coexist.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the genetic etiology of fetal postural anomalies using whole-exome sequencing (WES) and elucidate the genotype-phenotype correlation between prenatal sonographic findings and molecular signatures.A retrospective single-center cohort study was conducted at the Center of Medical Genetics, Hubei Maternal and Child Health Hospital between September 2020 and August 2025. The study enrolled 100 fetuses with prenatal ultrasound-confirmed postural anomalies, including fixed abnormal hand positioning, persistent limb contractures, clubfeet, or lower-limb deformities. All cases first underwent chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) or copy-number variation sequencing (CNV-seq). WES was subsequently performed on fetuses with normal CMA/ CNV-seq results.Among the 100 fetuses, 12 (12.0%, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 6.4%-20.0%) pathogenic chromosomal abnormalities were identified by CMA/CNV-seq. WES was performed on the remaining 88 fetuses, yielding a molecular diagnosis in 17 (19.3%, 95% CI: 11.7%-29.1%) cases. The combined sequential testing strategy (CMA/CNV-seq followed by WES) achieved an overall diagnostic yield of 29.0% (95% CI: 20.4%-38.9%). Notably, no monogenic pathogenic variants were identified in fetuses with truly isolated postural anomalies; the diagnostic yield was significantly higher in cases with additional limb or extra-skeletal malformations. The 17 positive cases involved 26 distinct variants across 16 genes, with recurrent variants in FGFR2 and NEK1 (two cases each). While SOX9 is frequently implicated in other cohorts, it was absent in our study; instead, COL1A1 and DYNC2H1 emerged as the most frequently shared genes.WES provides a substantial incremental yield (19.3%, 95% CI: 11.7%-29.1%) in fetuses with negative results on CMA/CNV-seq. WES should be prioritized for fetuses with postural anomalies co-occurring with extra-skeletal defects, as isolated postural anomalies demonstrate a negligible monogenic risk. Our findings expand the genetic spectrum of fetal postural anomalies and inform precision genetic counseling and obstetric management, emphasizing phenotype-driven testing algorithms.© 2026 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are critical effector molecules in sterile inflammation, yet the molecular mechanisms by which xenobiotic chemical exposures trigger NETosis remain poorly defined. Here, using phenolic preservatives present in all FDA-approved insulin formulations as a discovery platform, we show that these compounds induce NETosis in primary human neutrophils (34.3 ± 5.0% vs. 2.8 ± 0.9% for preservative-free insulin; p < 0.001) via a mechanism distinct from canonical PKC- and calcium-dependent pathways. Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (n = 6 donors) reveals that preservatives prompt coordinated dephosphorylation of SYNE1 (nesprin-1) at Ser8724 and Ser8727 (log₂FC = -4.41 and -4.01, respectively; both q-value < 0.0001), disrupting LINC complex-mediated nuclear-cytoskeletal anchoring, through a phosphatase-dependent pathway distinct from canonical PKC- and calcium-dependent NETosis. In a porcine subcutaneous catheter model, preservative-containing formulations drive progressive NET accumulation, neutrophil infiltration, and early fibrotic changes over 7 days, whereas removing preservatives reduces the histological inflammation score by 40% (P < 0.001). These findings establish phenolic preservatives as non-pathogen triggers of NETosis, identify disruption of the SYNE1-LINC complex as the underlying mechanism, and demonstrate that preservative-free formulations lessen device-related inflammation, offering a translatable strategy for safer implantable drug delivery systems.
Mechanosensitive nuclear signaling contributes to myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury, but the substrates and mechanisms of NUAK1 (AMPK-related kinase 5) remain unclear. We investigated whether NUAK1 regulates SYNE1 (Nesprin-1)/linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton-dependent nuclear gating of YAP1 (Yes-associated protein 1) during hypoxia/reoxygenation and ischemia-reperfusion injury.We integrated quantitative phosphoproteomics, biochemical assays, phosphosite-mutant analyses, subcellular fractionation, atomic force microscopy, and genetic or pharmacological NUAK1 inhibition in neonatal mouse ventricular myocytes and mouse models of ischemia-reperfusion injury to define the NUAK1-SYNE1-YAP1 axis.Quantitative phosphoproteomics identified a conserved NUAK1-dependent phosphorylation site in Nesprin1-α2/SYNE1 (S434; S8284 in nesprin-1 giant), and biochemical assays supported direct SYNE1 phosphorylation by NUAK1. NUAK1 inhibition reduced apoptotic signaling and SYNE1 stability, enhanced YAP1 nuclear localization, and altered nuclear YAP1 dynamics. SYNE1 phosphosite-mutant and fractionation analyses indicated that NUAK1-SYNE1 restrains stress-induced YAP1 nuclear accumulation. Atomic force microscopy linked this pathway to nuclear mechanical remodeling. In mouse models of ischemia-reperfusion injury, NUAK1 inhibition reduced acute myocardial damage and improved remodeling indices.NUAK1-dependent SYNE1 phosphorylation shapes nuclear mechanosignaling during ischemic stress. NUAK1 downregulation promotes cardiomyocyte YAP1 nuclear activity and attenuates injury responses.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the most prevalent cardiomyopathy and a leading cause of heart failure worldwide. Midkine (MDK), a conserved heparin-binding growth factor with antiapoptotic, proangiogenic, anti-infective, and proinflammatory functions, has been implicated in inflammatory and fibrotic diseases. Its specific roles and mechanisms in DCM pathogenesis remain unclear.A doxorubicin (DOX)-induced mouse model and DOX-treated HL-1 cardiomyocytes were used to investigate the effects of MDK on DCM progression. Myocardial injury and fibrosis were evaluated using hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Picrosirius Red (PSR), and Masson's trichrome staining. MDK and Neurexin-1 (NRXN1) localization in cardiac tissues was assessed through immunofluorescence. Cell viability, apoptosis, and surface area were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, TUNEL, and Actin-Red staining. mRNA and protein levels were quantified by RT-qPCR and western blotting.MDK expression was significantly elevated in both DOX-induced DCM and HL-1 cells. Exogenous MDK administration aggravated myocardial injury, interstitial fibrosis, and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in vivo, and reduced cell viability while increasing apoptosis and cell surface in vitro. Mechanistically, MDK markedly enhanced DOX-induced upregulation of NRXN1, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, NLRP3, ANP, BNP, NEU1, cleaved caspase-1/caspase-1, cleaved IL-1β, cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3; while attenuating DOX-induced downregulation of NRG1, NEXN, and SYNE1 in vivo and in vitro.MDK promotes DCM-associated heart failure through NRXN1 upregulation and enhanced inflammatory responses, highlighting itself as a potential therapeutic target for DCM.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Pristionchus pacificus ASER-specific Ppa-gcy-22 .3 and Ppa-gcy-22 .5 paralogs differ in their regulatory dependencies despite sharing an upstream terminal selector machinery. P. pacificus gcy-22.3 expression is sensitive to Ppa-die-1 and Ppa-cog-1 perturbation, while Ppa-gcy-22 .5 is largely independent of these canonical ASE laterality regulators. Both paralogs require the miRNA, Ppa-miR-8345 , for repression in ASEL; loss of Ppa-miR-8345 produces a complete ASEL-to-ASER conversion, in contrast to the hybrid ASEL/ASER states caused by Ppa-die-1 or Ppa-cog-1 mutation alone. These findings indicate Ppa-miR-8345 acts through additional regulatory outputs beyond the die-1 / cog-1 feedback loop, revealing gene-by-gene rewiring of terminal differentiation programs.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) are a group of inherited metabolic diseases rapidly growing due to the discovery of new subtypes. As with many genetic conditions, their diagnosis can be challenging, impairing proper patient care and causing additional suffering to patients and their families. We have developed an N-glycomics strategy that can provide insightful information towards diagnosing CDG type II (CDG-II). N-glycans released from the plasma of healthy individuals were labeled with deuterated iodomethane, mixed with samples from known or suspected CDG-II individuals, which were derivatized with standard iodomethane, and analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. After identification, relative quantification of 65 glycans was performed, revealing considerable alterations in the N-glycome of several patients. Notably, reduced fucosylation was observed in patients with FUT8-CDG and SLC35C1-CDG. Additionally, individuals with mutations in the MAN1B1 gene exhibited increased amounts of hybrid and oligomannosidic structures, whereas patients with the Golgi homeostasis disorders COG1-CDG and ATP6V0A2-CDG presented marked increases in hypogalactosylated and hyposialylated structures. Multivariate statistical analysis indicated two undiagnosed patients with alterations similar to ATP6V0A2-CDG patients and another two with a profile similar to MAN1B1-CDG patients. Genetic sequencing (targeted gene panel or whole exome sequencing) of these undiagnosed patients revealed variants in the corresponding genes, confirming the diagnosis obtained from the N-glycomics analysis. Our results demonstrate how the analysis of total plasma N-glycans can be used to identify metabolic disorders and diagnose conditions based on their molecular effects on the glycoproteome.
This study aimed to systematically characterize the genomic alteration landscape of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4K) and phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinase (PIPK) family genes in solid tumors, assess the correlation of these alterations with patient clinical outcomes and the tumor immune microenvironment, and explore their potential as novel biomarkers or therapeutic targets.A retrospective analysis was conducted on whole-exome sequencing data from a cohort of 2,144 Chinese patients encompassing 18 solid tumor types. Genomic and transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pan-cancer project were integrated to perform survival analysis, correlating genomic alterations, gene expression levels, and patient overall survival. Associations between these gene alterations and tumor mutational burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), and levels of tumor-infiltrating immune cells were also evaluated.We identified PI4K/PIPK alterations in 10.5% of 2,144 patients, with PIP4K2C amplification reaching 48%. While PI4K2B amplification and overexpression are consistently associated with poor prognosis in COAD, family-wide effects were highly heterogeneous across cancers. Alterations significantly correlated with higher TMB and MSI-H, and multi-omics analysis revealed tissue-specific immune landscapes, highlighting the family's potential for risk stratification and immunotherapy.This study provides the first systematic delineation of the genomic alteration landscape of PI4K and PIPK families at a pan-cancer scale within a Chinese population. It identifies PI4K2B as an amplification-driven prognostic biomarker in colorectal cancer, with potential clinical value analogous to HER2. These findings illuminate the significant roles of these kinases in cancer and provide novel insights for future precision oncology strategies.
To identify rare and common copy number variants (CNVs) associated with strabismus and amblyopia.Case-control association study using structural variant calls from short-read whole-genome sequencing from the All of Us Research Program, including 1224 adults with strabismus, 564 with amblyopia (152 with both), and controls (95,175 for strabismus; 95,319 for amblyopia). Autosomal CNVs were identified using the GATK-SV pipeline. After instituting quality control measures, CNVs present in ≥20 affected individuals were divided into rare (<1% population frequency) and common (>1% population frequency). CNVs were manually verified in Integrative Genomics Viewer. In an independent analysis, we examined three intergenic duplications previously associated with strabismus to assess whether the findings could be replicated.One rare and three common CNVs were associated with amblyopia: a rare intronic deletion in MDGA2, an intronic duplication in CAMK2D, and intronic deletions in COG1 and KMT2C. Three rare and 2 common CNVs were associated with strabismus: rare intronic deletions in PCDH15, GTF2H1, and NKAIN3, a common intronic deletion in TRANK1, and a common intronic duplication in GRK5. Implicated genes predominantly affect neuronal and synaptic function, including modulation of postsynaptic potential, retrograde transport, glutaminergic synaptic transmission, and calcium-mediated signaling. GRK5 interacts with CXCR4, a chemokine receptor critical for axon guidance of the oculomotor nerve. The previously identified chr4 duplication was also significantly associated with strabismus in the AoURP dataset, replicating previous findings.CNVs are an additional source of genetic risk for strabismus and amblyopia and highlight synaptic and neurodevelopmental pathways as central to etiology.
Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases (PI4Ks) are crucial enzymes in lipid signaling responsible for generating phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PI4P). Although the ATP-binding site of PI4Ks has been extensively studied, the structural characterization of their natural substrate, phosphatidylinositol (PI), bound to the enzyme remains elusive. In this study, we synthesized novel non-hydrolyzable Michaelis-Menten transition state mimetics in which the ADP molecule is covalently linked to inositol-4-phosphate or simple phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate via a methylene or ethylene bridge. During our synthesis efforts, we successfully addressed the significantly limited reactivity at position 4 of inositols by utilizing P(III) phosphorus reagents, which proved crucial for the synthesis of these mimetics. For the simplest ADP-C-4PI analogue, we obtained a crystal structure of PI4K2B, which can be used to understand how these phospholipids are phosphorylated on membrane surfaces.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
High pathogenicity avian influenza (HPAI) devastates the poultry industry worldwide due to its rapid spread, severe pathology, and high mortality in chickens. Why some infected birds survive while others die remains poorly understood. Here, we tracked early host transcriptomic responses (8-72 hours post-inoculation [hpi]) in the nasal turbinates and lungs of chickens infected with H7N1 HPAI virus. Chickens were classified as resilient or susceptible based on clinical signs, histopathological lesions, viral antigen detection, and viral shedding. Resilient chickens showed a distinct early transcriptional profile characterized by differential expression of genes related to MAPK signaling (CAV1), cell adhesion (ITGB1, PARVA), immune response (RELA), and antiviral response pathways (BID, CASP1, RAB2B). Critically, transcriptomic profiles of resilient birds differed markedly not only from susceptible birds but also from controls, consistent with viral exposure and an active host response. Our results suggest that the nasal mucosa is an important site in which early host responses are associated with divergent disease outcomes following HPAI viral infection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is critical for preventing disease progression. Blood platelets have emerged as a useful peripheral source for AD diagnosis. However, the identification of proteomics-based platelet biomarkers of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD in relation to amyloid β (Aβ) deposition remains largely unexplored. In this study, we compared four groups from 18 participants: subjective memory impairment (SMI, n = 4) as cognitive normal controls, MCI without Aβ deposition (MCI-A(+), n = 5), MCI with Aβ deposition (MCI-A(-), n = 5), and AD (n = 4). We conducted in-depth platelet protein profiling using high-throughput LC-MS/MS with tandem mass tag labeling. Among the total 4,524 proteins detected, we identified both unique and overlapping differentially expressed proteins in MCI-A(+), MCI-A(-), and AD compared with SMI. Hierarchical clustering analysis revealed seven distinct patterns of proteomic alterations across groups. Functional network and gene ontology enrichment analyses indicated that each cluster was associated with specific processes, including platelet activation, AD, and apoptotic signaling pathways. Notably, upregulated proteins in MCI-A(-) and AD were linked to endomembrane system organization. Furthermore, we quantified the relative abundance of multiple protein candidates that were significantly altered in MCI-A(-) and AD compared with SMI and MCI-A(+). Our findings highlight several platelet proteins-ATP6V0C, AP4B1, RAB2B, PSMD9, FKBP1B, and mTOR-as potential molecular targets for predicting AD at the stage of MCI with Aβ deposition, providing new insights into amyloid-related neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD)1 and Parkinson's disease and related disorders (PDRD)2 have substantial genetic contributions, yet the role of rare damaging coding variants remains incompletely characterized at population scale3-6. We performed gene-based burden testing of rare loss-of-function and deleterious missense variants using whole-genome sequencing data from large population biobanks combined with disease-specific sequencing cohorts, leveraging proxy phenotypes to maximize statistical power for late-onset neurodegenerative diseases7. We confirmed rare variant burden in established ADRD genes (ABCA7, PSEN1, ADAM10, ATP8B4, GRN, SORL1, TREM2, SHARPIN) and PDRD genes (GBA1, LRRK2). We additionally identified novel associations in ADRD (IMPA2, PMM2, SYNE1, CHRNA4, FCGR1A) and PDRD (ANKRD27, CCL7, USP19, SKP1, KANSL3). The strongest signal was observed for ANKRD27, where damaging variants clustered within domains mediating interactions with Rab GTPases and retromer components. Our results demonstrate the power of population-scale sequencing combined with proxy phenotypes to identify rare coding risk genes for neurodegenerative diseases.
BACKGROUND: Liver steatosis, fibroinflammation, and iron overload, are growing global health concerns, yet the genetic architecture and causal pathways linking liver pathology to systemic disease remain incompletely understood. METHODS: We analysed MRI-derived liver traits—corrected T1 (cT1), proton density fat fraction (PDFF), and liver iron—in 37,626 UK Biobank participants. Genome-wide (GWAS), transcriptome-wide (TWAS), and cis-protein Mendelian randomisation (cis-MR) analyses were used to identify genes and proteins influencing these traits. We applied two-sample MR to assess bidirectional causal relationships with metabolic and vascular traits and used Multi-Trait Analysis of GWAS (MTAG) to enhance discovery by leveraging genetic correlations. RESULTS: GWAS identified 18 loci for cT1, 15 for PDFF, and 5 for liver iron, including six not previously reported. TWAS, cis-MR, and proteome-wide analyses prioritised genes (e.g., FADS1, GPAM, MBOAT7, RAD51C) and proteins (e.g., RAB2B, GPN1, GSTM4) with putative mechanistic roles. Fine-mapping refined several signals (GSTM1, TMPRSS6) to single-variant credible sets. Cell-type enrichment revealed distinct tissue contributions: hepatocytes and intestinal mucosa for cT1, adipose tissue for PDFF, and gastrointestinal tissues for liver iron. MR suggested causal effects of higher liver PDFF and cT1 on obesity-related traits, and inverse genetic associations between liver iron and coronary artery disease. MTAG identified seven additional loci (three for cT1, four for PDFF) not previously reported. CONCLUSIONS: This integrative imaging-genetics study reveals 13 potentially novel genes and several protein candidates implicated in hepatic steatosis, inflammation, and iron homeostasis. These findings enhance understanding of liver disease biology and may help identify new targets for early detection or treatment. IMPACT AND IMPLICATION: This large imaging-genetics study in over 37,000 people identifies genetic and protein factors linked to liver fat, fibroinflammation, and iron levels. It shows that higher liver fat and inflammation are associated with increased cardiometabolic risk, while higher liver iron appears inversely linked to risk of heart disease. These findings highlight molecular targets such as FADS1, FUT2, TMC4, RAB2B, and GPN1, which could inform future efforts to improve early detection or treatment of liver disease and its complications in people with obesity or metabolic syndrome.
The armadillo repeat protein ARMH3 regulates the activity and localization of the Golgi resident lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 4 kinase IIIβ (PI4KB) and the Golgi-specific brefeldin A-resistance guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GBF1) that activates Arf1. ARMH3 localizes to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) via the GTPase Arl5. We used hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and AI-enabled modeling to define the interfaces of ARMH3 with its binding partners Arl5, PI4KB, and GBF1. The ARMH3-Arl5 interface was determined to consist of regions near the N and C termini of ARMH3, with Arl5 binding causing allosteric conformational changes in ARMH3 located at a shared PI4KB/GBF1 interface. ARMH3 binds to PI4KB and GBF1 at this shared competitive interface, with GBF1 binding to ARMH3 through a disordered loop we have named the ARMH3-binding region (ABR). Both GBF1 and PI4KB can form ternary complexes with ARMH3-Arl5. The ARMH3 interfaces in PI4KB and GBF1 contain phosphosites, with the phosphomimetic mutation of GBF1 blocking complex formation. These findings provide new insights into the role of ARMH3 as a master coordinator of GTPase and phosphoinositide signaling at the Golgi/TGN.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BackgroundMicroglia play a central role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, yet it remains unclear whether microglia-related gene expression changes contribute causally to disease risk or reflect downstream responses to neurodegeneration.ObjectiveThis study aimed to systematically identify microglia-expressed genes with genetically regulated expression associated with AD risk and to characterize their functional relevance through integrative genomic analyses.MethodsWe compiled 2454 microglia-associated genes from four transcriptomic studies and five expression databases. Using brain cis-eQTL data from PsychENCODE (n = 1387), we performed summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and HEIDI tests with AD GWAS data (111,326 cases, 677,663 controls). Significant SMR signals (FDR < 0.05) were evaluated using Bayesian colocalization. Regulatory context was assessed via overlap with PU.1-associated chromatin features, and differential expression was examined using single-nucleus RNA-seq from AD brains.ResultsSMR identified 16 genes whose genetically predicted expression was associated with AD risk (FDR < 0.05), including TSPAN14 (OR = 1.10, 95% CI: 1.07-1.13) and GRN (OR = 0.90, 0.86-0.95). Colocalization supported shared causal variants at eight loci (PPH4 > 0.8; e.g., BLNK, SIGLEC11, CASS4). Most prioritized genes overlapped with PU.1-associated regulatory regions. Single-nucleus RNA-seq confirmed dysregulation of several candidates (e.g., USP6NL, MS4A4A) in AD microglia.ConclusionsWe identify microglia-expressed genes with genetic evidence consistent with a potential causal role in AD. These genes are enriched in microglia-specific regulatory elements and exhibit transcriptional alterations in AD, highlighting microglial pathways as potential therapeutic targets.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are pivotal signals that trigger the transition from seed dormancy to germination, yet the molecular link between ROS and transcriptional regulation has remained unclear. Here, we uncover a redox-dependent mechanism focusing on the transcription factor G-box binding factor 1 (GBF1) and its chaperone GBF1-interacting protein 1 (GIP1). We show that GBF1 undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) to form condensates that enhance target DNA binding and repress the transcription of the germination-promoting gene Cathepsin B-like protease 3 (CathB3). Both the prion-like domain and the bZIP dimerization domain are indispensable for GBF1 condensation and DNA binding. GIP1 colocalizes with GBF1 and functions as a molecular chaperone that fine-tunes condensate size and liquidity, thereby enhancing GBF1's DNA-binding and repressive capacity. Oxidation of GIP1 by ROS burst during germination abolishes its chaperone activity, leading to aberrant, less dynamic GBF1 condensates and consequent derepression of CathB3, which promotes germination. This work identifies a ROS-sensitive chaperone-condensate axis as a key molecular gatekeeper of seed germination, revealing how redox signals are translated into developmental decisions through the material properties of transcriptional condensates.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signaling drives cancer and is a validated therapeutic target. Modulators of RTK signaling can reveal mechanisms of oncogenesis and offer new therapeutic targets. Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) is a Golgi-localized oncoprotein that promotes signaling downstream of mTOR. Here, examination of RTK signaling indicated that GOLPH3 acted at the level of the RTK and increased all downstream signaling. We found that GOLPH3 enhanced the delivery of RTKs to the plasma membrane. This role was shared with its binding partner myosin 18A (MYO18A) and depended on the interaction of GOLPH3 with MYO18A. The GOLPH3-MYO18A complex at the Golgi apparatus was required and rate-limiting for RTK signaling across the cell types and receptors assessed. Our findings provide insight into the relationship between the function of GOLPH3 at the Golgi and its role as a cancer driver, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in cancer.
Cell-matrix adhesion regulates membrane trafficking, Golgi organization, and function. Altered Golgi organization in cancer cells may influence trafficking and cargo processing. A simple screen revealed distinct, adhesion-dependent differences in Golgi organization across breast (MDAMB231 versus MCF7) and lung (A549 versus CaLu1) cancer cell lines. To identify regulators driving these differences, we performed an in silico analysis of differentially expressed genes in the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia dataset, integrating Golgi-associated functions from interaction networks and literature. This analysis highlighted AXL as a putative Golgi regulator. AXL is prominently localized to the Golgi and is displaced upon inhibition with R428, which disrupts Golgi organization. AXL knockdown also does the same. AXL-mediated regulation of the Golgi is adhesion dependent. Mechanistically, AXL controls Arf1 activation through an AMPK-GBF1 pathway. Targeting of AMPK activation thus significantly reverses R428-mediated Golgi disorganization. Loss of adhesion promotes AMPK and reduces Arf1 activity, displacing AXL and Arf1 from the Golgi, driving its disorganization. This impacts Golgi-associated functions, tubulin acetylation in MDAMB231 cells, and cell-surface glycosylation in A549 cells. Together, our findings identify an adhesion-AXL-AMPK-GBF1-Arf1 pathway governing Golgi organization and function in cancer cells.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Brain gliomas are among the tumors with the worst prognosis, and their incidence is increasing. Postoperative temozolomide-based chemoradiotherapy for grades 3 and 4 gliomas extended overall survival (OS) by approximately two months. An increasing number of clinical trials are investigating molecular-based therapy. Recent studies have demonstrated the involvement of Golgi apparatus proteins, including MYO18A (myosin-18A), in processes associated with abnormal proliferation, migration, apoptosis evasion, and angiogenesis promotion. The aim of this study was to investigate whether MYO18A has prognostic value in patients treated for brain gliomas.The research material in the work included tumor samples taken during neurosurgery and blood samples from 45 patients treated for brain gliomas with grade of 1 to 4 according to WHO, which were used to determine the expression of MYO18A mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid). Expression of MYO18A was presented as fold changes in RQ (relative quantification) mRNA levels.This study showed higher MYO18A values in patients diagnosed with grade G4 glioma among those with a shorter progression-free survival (PFS) time and those living shorter than the group average. However, statistically significant differences were achieved only for PFS for the MYO18A RQ feature (PFS = 4.64, SD = 2.16 vs. PFS = 15.83 and SD = 7.27, p = 0.0231). Also, a positive correlation was demonstrated between tumor volume and MYO18A expression.The level of expression of MYO18A can be considered a prognostic factor for PFS in patients treated for G4 gliomas, because higher MYO18A expression was associated with earlier recurrence.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Despite the identification of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) genes and neuropathological alterations, AD displays complex genetic heterogeneity and molecular pathogenesis that warrant further investigation. GBF1 (Golgi brefeldin A resistant guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1) regulates protein trafficking, and genetic variants of GBF1 are associated with axonal neuropathy, intelligence, and cognitive function.We sought to identify GBF1 neuropathological and molecular alterations using human post mortem brains, 5XFAD mouse brains, and FAD cells, as well as two family-based datasets (total sample size of 2522) to explore candidate GBF1 variants associated with AD.GBF1 revealed neuropathological alterations in association with amyloid plaques. Genetic analysis identified GBF1 suggestive variants associated with AD. Downregulation of GBF1 retarded amyloid beta (Aβ) protein precursor maturation and reduced levels of Aβ proteins.Collectively, GBF1 reveals neuropathological alterations in AD, and may lead to AD by a pathogenic mechanism altering Aβ levels and amyloid deposition in the brain.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Rhotekin (RTKN), a Rho GTPase effector, promotes the development of malignancies, including breast, gastric, and colon cancers, by enhancing cell proliferation and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. Despite its oncogenic role, the phosphoregulatory network of RTKN remains largely unexplored, with no experimental evidence on its upstream kinases and functional phosphosites. To characterize RTKN-associated phosphorylation dynamics, PubMed-indexed studies were systematically retrieved using predefined MeSH terms to compile large-scale cellular phosphoproteomics datasets. Analysis of 618 quantitative profiling and 179 differential abundance datasets identified 27 Class-I phosphosites in RTKN. Among these, five sites-Ser106, Ser220, Ser520, Ser529, and Ser543 were consistently observed across multiple datasets, suggesting them as predominant sites with potential functional significance. Structural mapping of predominant sites onto the AlphaFold2-predicted model indicated that these sites are located in accessible regions, highlighting their potential susceptibility to kinase-mediated regulation. As these sites represent understudied phosphosites, a robust strategy was employed to identify their functional role by assessing co-regulated phosphosites on other proteins (PsOPs). ACIN1_Ser243, CTNNA1_Ser641, and SHROOM2_Ser1036 were among the top positively co-regulated PsOPs, whereas MICALL1_Ser644, PRP4K_Ser366, and MYO18A_Ser1970 were negatively co-regulated. PsOPs were mainly involved in apoptosis, cell growth, motility, and cytoskeletal reorganization, suggesting potential functional convergence with RTKN. Additionally, phosphorylation at RTKN Ser520 and Ser543 co-occurred across multiple datasets. Moreover, TRPM7 and PAK4 were identified as predicted upstream kinases phosphorylating RTKN at Ser220 and Ser520. Pathway analysis showed involvement of co-regulated proteins in cancer-associated signaling pathways. These findings provide a foundation for future research to elucidate the phosphosite-specific role of RTKN in cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Genome-wide studies in late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) have uncovered many risk loci, yet identifying the causal genes and clarifying how these genetic signals connect to molecular and cellular mechanisms relevant to AD pathogenesis in vivo remains challenging.Using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model to identify LOAD-associated genes that drive neurodegenerative processes, we focused on 14 understudied genes and their homologs: ABI3/abi-1, B4GALT3/bre-4, CCDC6/T09B9.4, CLPTM1 (two homologs C36B7.6 and R166.2), CNN2/cpn-2, DMWD/wdr-20, ECHDC3/ech-2, MADD/aex-3, NCK2/nck-1, RABEP1/rabn-5, RIN3/rin-1, SLC39A13/zipt-13, TRAM1/tram-1, and USP6NL/tbc-17. We knocked down these genes by RNAi and quantified lifespan, aging-associated degeneration of two neuron classes, PVD and PLM, and associative learning and short-term memory.Lifespan was unaffected by most knockdowns, and only nck-1 and tbc-17 shortened lifespan. Across neuronal assays, multiple homologs modulated aging with clear neuron-class selectivity. Knockdown of aex-3, C36B7.6, cpn-2, ech-2, rabn-5, rin-1, T09B9.4, and zipt-13 attenuated late-life PVD degeneration, whereas R166.2 and tram-1 accelerated early PVD aging. Only two genes affected PLM aging: R166.2 knockdown exacerbated degeneration, while tbc-17 knockdown attenuated it despite its lifespan-shortening effect. In PLM neurons, tbc-17 knockdown, targeting a Rab GTPase-activating protein, also preserved mitochondrial architecture during early aging and shifted heat stress-induced mitochondrial remodeling toward a pattern consistent with improved quality control. In behavioral assays, ech-2 knockdown, targeting an enoyl-CoA-hydratase, enhanced short-term memory during early stages of aging. To further assess how LOAD-linked genes interact with Aβ-driven neurodegeneration, we developed a model that combines the PVD aging assay with a background expressing human Aβ1-42 pan-neuronally. In this model, Aβ expression accelerated age-dependent PVD degeneration, whereas ech-2 knockdown abolished this Aβ-induced effect.Our findings show that conserved homologs of several understudied LOAD risk genes causally modulate neuronal aging in vivo in a neuron-class-selective manner, often dissociable from organismal longevity. This C. elegans framework translates human genetic associations into quantitative, aging-linked neuronal phenotypes, and our results further emphasize early endosomal and lipid-related processes as key pathways that warrant functional testing in neuronal aging. This study also provides a tractable platform to prioritize targets for cross-species validation and to test synergy with established LOAD risk genes.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a critical early driver of endothelial injury in atherogenesis. Natural plant-derived products targeting mitochondrial quality control represent a promising therapeutic approach, yet their mechanisms in oxidized LDL (ox-LDL)-induced endothelial damage remain underexplored.We evaluated ethanolic extracts from Rosmarinus officinalis, Cynara cardunculus, and Myrtus communis on ox-LDL-induced mitochondrial damage in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Cell viability (MTT), proliferation (acridine orange staining), and mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm; Rhodamine 6G) were assessed across therapeutic-equivalent concentrations (×0.1-×100). In a pathophysiologically relevant ox-LDL model (80 μg/mL, 48 h), RT-qPCR analyzed expression of genes regulating mitochondrial dynamics (DRP1, FIS1, MFF, MFN2, OPA1), mitophagy (PINK1, PARKIN, FUNDC1, OPTN, SQSTM1/p62), and antioxidant defense (CAT).All three extracts preserved Δψm and mitochondrial network architecture in healthy HUVECs in a dose-dependent manner. In the ox-LDL model, extracts reversed the pro-fission transcriptional shift by downregulating DRP1, FIS1, and MFF while restoring MFN2 and OPA1 expression (p < 0.05-0.001). C. cardunculus robustly upregulated PINK1 and PARKIN, indicating enhanced ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy, whereas R. officinalis and M. communis preferentially increased FUNDC1 and OPTN, suggesting receptor-mediated clearance pathways. Extract treatment concurrently upregulated endogenous antioxidant enzymes (CAT), suppressed pro-inflammatory MAPK8 (JNK).Polyphenol-rich herbal extracts protect endothelial cells from ox-LDL-induced injury by rebalancing mitochondrial fission/fusion dynamics, activating complementary mitophagy pathways, and fortifying antioxidant defenses. These findings support the potential of standardized herbal formulations as targeted adjunctive strategies for early atherosclerosis prevention through mitochondrial quality control.© 2026 Dzampaeva and Saveljev.
Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander (NHPI) individuals are an underrepresented population with a disproportionate burden of ESKD. Many NHPI individuals are of multiple races, yet studies frequently aggregate them into other racial and ethnic groups, masking important differences in outcomes.We conducted a retrospective cohort study of all adult, kidney-only, waitlisted candidates in the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) dataset (December 2014 - December 2022) comparing NHPI individuals, including multiracial individuals with NHPI ancestry, with White and other racial and ethnic groups on their waitlist and transplant outcomes. Waiting time to transplantation was assessed using competing risk analyses, accounting for waitlist removal. Death-censored graft survival and transplant survival were assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards model.Among 313,033 candidates, 1800 were of NHPI ancestry (1521 single race, 279 multiracial). NHPI candidates were younger, had higher body mass index, and were more likely to have diabetes. Most were listed in OPTN regions 5 (50%) and 6 (25%). Compared to White and other racial and ethnic groups, NHPI candidates were more likely to be inactive on the waitlist (NHPI candidates: 19% vs. White candidates: 12%; P<0.001). Taking into account the competing risk of waitlist removal, NHPI had longer waiting time to transplant (estimated time to transplant 50% of the waitlisted NHPI candidates: 9.9 [8.5, 12.3] years vs. waitlisted White candidates: 5.7 [5.7, 5.8] years; P<0.001), and one the lowest rates of being transplanted (cause-specific HR 0.60 [0.55, 0.65], P<0.001 in reference to White candidates). Once transplanted, NHPI recipients had similar graft and patient survival compared with White recipients.NHPI individuals demonstrated unique demographic and geographic characteristics associated with reduced transplant access but comparable post-transplant outcomes. Further work is needed to improve transplant access in this unique and underrepresented population.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
The Loess Plateau is a principal dryland winter wheat production region in China, where unreasonable sowing rate and fertilization management limit yield and quality. A two-factor split-plot experiment was conducted during 2019-2021 with three sowing rates (150 kg ha-1, 180 kg ha-1, 210 kg ha-1) and three fertilization type (CK, OPT, OPT-N). Increasing sowing rate to 210 kg ha-1 significantly improved population tiller, secondary root number, and canopy structure. OPT reduced N input by > 50% but maintained plant growth and delayed leaf senescence. The 180 kg ha-1 rate enhanced canopy light interception at anthesis, while 210 kg ha-1 better sustained post-anthesis chlorophyll content, net photosynthetic rate, and stomatal conductance. Compared with OPT, OPT-N markedly restricted root growth, photosynthesis, and matter accumulation. 210 kg ha-1 + OPT significantly increased 1000-grain weight by 5-11%, grain yield by 1.7-3.7%, total starch by 1.91-5.22%, and flour processing quality. The interaction significantly regulated growth, photosynthesis, yield, and quality. This study demonstrates that 210 kg ha-1 + OPT realizes synchronous improvements in yield, quality, and resource efficiency under reduced N input, providing a green cultivation model for dryland wheat.© 2026. The Author(s).
Selective lipophagy requires cargo recognition and recruitment of autophagy receptors to lipid droplets (LDs), yet the molecular mechanisms that couple LDs to the core autophagy machinery remain poorly defined. Here, we identified the small GTPase RAB18 (RAB18, member RAS oncogene family) as an upstream initiator of lipophagy that directly recruited the macroautophagy/autophagy receptor OPTN (optineurin) to LDs in osteoblasts. Lipid stress induced RAB18 activation and its localization to LDs, where RAB18 engaged OPTN enabling OPTN-LC3 bridging and lysosomal degradation of LDs. Loss of either RAB18 or OPTN impaired lipophagic flux, resulting in lipid accumulation and defective osteogenic differentiation, whereas OPTN overexpression partially rescued RAB18 deficiency, supporting a hierarchical RAB18-OPTN pathway. Thus, while OPTN acted as a critical effector downstream of RAB18, it did not feed back to promote RAB18 recruitment. In vivo, perturbation of this axis compromised bone regeneration under hyperlipidemic conditions. Together, these findings establish RAB18-dependent recruitment of OPTN as a molecular mechanism for selective lipophagy and reveal lipophagy as a critical metabolic adaptation that sustains osteoblast function during lipid stress.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ALP: alkaline phosphatase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CC domain 1: coiled-coil domain 1; CCK-8: cell counting Kit-8 kit; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; KD: knockdown; LDs: lipid droplets; Micro-CT: microscopic computerized tomography; OE: overexpression; OPTN: optineurin; qRT-PCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; RAB18: RAB18, member RAS oncogene family; ROI: region of interest; SD: standard deviations; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; WB: western blot.
Donation-after-circulatory-death (DCD) lung transplantation expands access for waitlisted patients, but uncertainty regarding donor progression may lead centers to decline offers using refusal code 753 ("DCD donor neurological function / not expected to arrest"). We sought to characterize the disposition of these donors and center practices in their allocation.Using national registry match-run data from January 2021 through June 2024 linked with Organ Procurement and Transplant Network (OPTN) transplant data, we identified DCD donors from whom lung offers were generated. Donors declined at least once with code 753 were classified as not expected to progress (NEP). Donor progression, organ procurement, and post-transplant survival were compared with standard DCD (S-DCD) donors.Among 6,140 NEP donors, 3,687 (60.0%) progressed to circulatory death and had at least one organ procured. Among progressed NEP donors, lungs were recovered from 908 donors (24.6%), and 670 donors ultimately yielded at least one transplanted lung. Post-transplant survival did not differ between linked recipients of NEP and S-DCD lungs (log-rank p=0.15).Many DCD donors declined using code 753 ultimately progressed after withdrawal of life-sustaining therapy with lungs recovered in only a minority of these cases. The uncertainty surrounding donor progression may restrict access to DCD lung transplantation for waitlisted patients. Standardized DCD assessment, donor management, and policy guidance may help centers manage uncertainty when fielding DCD offers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Peripheral factors that systemically regulate amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have remained elusive-until now. Here, by integrating population-scale epidemiology with mechanistic dissection, we identify platelet factor 4 (PF4) as the central driver of a circulating neuroprotective axis that restores proteostasis and rescues ALS. In a prospective cohort of >500 000 UK Biobank participants, platelet indices were strongly associated with ALS risk, and serum PF4 levels were significantly reduced in ALS patients. Systemic administration of recombinant PF4 in hSOD1G93A mice produced dramatic therapeutic effects: extended survival, preserved motor function, attenuated neuroinflammation, and reduced neuromuscular junction denervation. Remarkably, this efficacy appears pathology-selective-robust in SOD1-driven models but shows no observable effect in TDP-43 or C9orf72 ALS models. Mechanistically, PF4 achieves what few molecules can: it engages the cell surface receptor LRP1 to activate the TBK1-OPTN signaling axis, restoring impaired autophagic flux through a PINK1/Parkin-independent pathway requiring ATG7, establishing a previously unrecognized peripheral platelet-autophagy-neuron axis that facilitates the co-clearance of pathological SOD1 aggregates and damaged mitochondria. This study unveils PF4 as a first-in-class circulating autophagy regulator with therapeutic potential in ALS. Beyond identifying a candidate biomarker and drug lead, it reveals that systemic factors can directly engage central proteostatic machinery-opening a new frontier for ALS therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) and the neuroinflammatory disease, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). The HTLV-1 Tax regulatory protein plays a critical role in HTLV-1 persistence and pathogenesis; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that Tax dynamically regulates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and membrane potential to trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. Tax is recruited to damaged mitochondria through its interaction with the IKK regulatory subunit IKBKG/NEMO and directly engages the ubiquitin-dependent PINK1-PRKN/parkin pathway to induce mitophagy. Tax also recruits autophagy receptors CALCOCO2/NDP52 and SQSTM1/p62 to damaged mitochondria to induce mitophagy. Furthermore, Tax requires PRKN to limit the extent of CGAS-STING1 activation and suppress type I interferon (IFN) induction. HTLV-1-transformed T-cell lines and PBMCs from HAM/TSP patients exhibit hallmarks of chronic mitophagy, and inhibition of PRKN in HTLV-1-transformed cell lines downregulates p19 Gag expression and induces cell death. Collectively, our findings suggest that Tax manipulation of the PINK1-PRKN mitophagy pathway represents a new HTLV-1 immune evasion strategy important for maintaining viral gene expression and cell survival.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATLL: adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DOX: doxycycline; GFP: green fluorescent protein; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; HAM/TSP: HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; HTLV-1: Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1; IFN: interferon; IkB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: IkB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MT-CO2: mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase II; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; OPTN: optineurin; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qRT-PCR: quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction; RFP: red fluorescence protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SAR: selective autophagy receptor; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; Ub: ubiquitin; VCL: vinculin; WT: wild-type.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42468869
Pancreas transplantation in the United States has declined over the past 20 years, in part because restrictive donor selection practices, particularly around obesity, contribute to high organ turndown rates. This retrospective study used data from the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) to assess whether donor body mass index (BMI) affects outcomes after primary simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation. The analysis included 9519 adult recipients transplanted from 2010 through 2022. Donors were categorized by BMI as underweight, normal weight, overweight, or obese. Kaplan-Meier analysis, Cox proportional hazards models, and restricted cubic spline modeling were used to compare outcomes across groups. Donor BMI was not associated with significant differences in one- or three-year patient survival or death-censored pancreas and kidney graft survival, and multivariable Cox regression analysis found donor BMI to not be an independent predictor of graft loss. Instead, factors associated with one-year graft failure included donor age over 45 years, cerebrovascular accident as the cause of death, and cold ischemia time longer than 12 h. These findings indicate that carefully selected pancreata from donors with higher BMI can achieve outcomes comparable to those from normal-weight donors, supporting reconsideration of BMI-based exclusion criteria to expand the donor pool and increase pancreas transplantation rates.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background: During the COVID-19 pandemic, uncertainty regarding the safety of kidneys from COVID-19-positive donors led to a reduction in kidney transplants and increased organ non-use in the United States. This study aims to evaluate whether donor COVID-19 positivity is associated with one-year post-transplant estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) among kidney transplant recipients. Methods: This retrospective cohort study used data from the United States Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) 2020-2024. Donor COVID-19 status was determined by the SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid amplification technique (NAT) and antibody test results. The main outcome was recipients' one-year eGFR, estimated by the CKD-EPI 2021 formula. Linear regression models were used to compare the mean one-year eGFR among donor COVID-19 groups, adjusted by inverse probability of treatment weights. Interaction terms of donor acute kidney injury status and race were assessed to evaluate effect modification. Results: Among 38,199 included kidney transplant recipients, 1090 (2.9%) received kidneys from donors with active COVID-19 infection, 423 (1.1%) from donors with resolved infection, and 36,686 (96.0%) from COVID-19-negative donors. After weighting and adjustment, there was no significant difference in one-year eGFR for recipients of kidneys from donors with active COVID-19 (mean difference, 0.05 [95% CI, -1.08 to 1.18]) or resolved infection (mean difference, -0.27 [95% CI, -2.19 to 1.64]) compared with COVID-19-negative donors. Neither donor AKI nor donor race modified the association between donor COVID-19 status and one-year eGFR. Conclusions: This study suggests that kidneys from COVID-19-positive donors may be a viable option without compromising short-term allograft function as measured by 1-year eGFR.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525158 is a review article
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is an oncogenic gammaherpesvirus that is associated with several human malignancies, and primary infection by KSHV can activate both DNA and RNA sensing pathways. Host innate immunity is a rapid, first-line defense against foreign pathogens, where pattern recognition receptors detect virus-associated antigens and activate the type I interferon response to prime the cell to an antiviral state to limit viral infections. However, viruses such as gammaherpesviruses, have evolved mechanisms to co-opt host factors to antagonize these pathways to promote persistent infection. The cellular vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family is a trio of serine/threonine kinases, VRK1, VRK2 and VRK3, named for their homology to the vaccinia virus B1 kinase. The VRKs are involved in many cellular processes, including nuclear envelope assembly during mitosis and the DNA damage response. However, the role of the VRKs in KSHV infection and innate immunity has not previously been explored. We found that VRK3 is upregulated in response to KSHV primary infection of endothelial cells. VRK3 is also upregulated during KSHV reactivation from latency. Knockdown of VRK3 limited KSHV primary infection and lytic reactivation and resulted in increased activation of TBK1 and IRF3 and subsequent upregulation of interferon stimulated genes. Overexpression of VRK3 reversed this phenotype. Furthermore, we are also the first to demonstrate that VRK3 is a negative regulator of the interferon response even in the absence of viral infection. Collectively, our data highlight the importance of the host factor, VRK3, as a novel suppressor of the type I interferon response during the KSHV viral lifecycle.Copyright: © 2026 Yu, Damania. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Heterochromatin marked by histone H3 lysine 9 di- or trimethylation (H3K9me2/3) underpins transcriptional silencing and nuclear organization, yet its full complement of associated proteins remains incompletely defined. Here, we apply ChromID proximity labelling with the mouse HP1β chromodomains to map the H3K9me3-proximal proteome in Caenorhabditis elegans, recovering known heterochromatin factors alongside previously uncharacterized candidates. We pursued one such candidate, the vaccinia-related kinase VRK-1, because of its established but poorly understood links to chromatin organization. Intriguingly, VRK-1 dynamically relocates from a broad nuclear distribution to the nuclear periphery upon azide or heat stress. Following these stresses, bulk chromatin exhibits similarly increased peripheral enrichment and apparent compaction, as assessed by radial fluorescence profiles. Although VRK-1 is not necessary for stress-induced chromatin reorganization, decompaction and repositioning of chromatin away from the nuclear envelope during recovery requires VRK-1. VRK-1 depletion leads to persistent perinuclear chromatin retention and compromises post-stress survival. Furthermore, loss of VRK-1 catalytic activity results in over-retention of chromatin at the nuclear periphery under normal growth conditions; this phenotype can be reversed by depletion of a key VRK-1 substrate at the nuclear envelope BAF-1. Our findings identify VRK-1 as a key regulator that controls the interaction of chromatin with the nuclear lamina through regulation of BAF-1.
Hereditary motor neuropathies (HMN) represent a heterogeneous group of disorders with wide clinical and genetic variability. Despite advances in molecular diagnostics, approximately 50% of cases remain genetically unresolved, particularly those where distinguishing length-dependent motor neuropathy from motor neuron disorder with disproportionate segmental involvement is a challenge. Variants in the VRK1 gene, originally described in association with pontocerebellar hypoplasia, are now known to produce a broad clinical spectrum, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, dHMN, and less frequently, spastic paraplegia.This study's aim was to characterize the clinical presentation, electrophysiological findings, and muscle MRI patterns associated with VRK1-related motor neuron disease in a cohort of nine patients from five unrelated families.Five unrelated families with inherited motor neuropathy were investigated using next-generation sequencing techniques, including targeted gene panels or whole-exome sequencing, with subsequent confirmation by Sanger sequencing. A total of nine affected individuals underwent detailed clinical evaluation, nerve conduction studies (NCS), electromyography (EMG), and whole-body muscle MRI (wbMRI).Nine affected individuals carrying biallelic VRK1 variants were evaluated. In most cases (66%), symptom onset occurred during the first decade of life. All patients presented with gradually progressive distal muscle weakness. Mean Medical Research Council (MRC) scores were 2.8 for ankle dorsiflexion and 1.9 for plantar flexion. Sensory nerve conduction studies were normal in all individuals evaluated (8/9), although mild sensory complaints were reported in four patients. Muscle cramps were observed in two-thirds of the cohort, while fasciculations were uncommon (11%). EMG findings consistently demonstrated a neurogenic pattern with predominant distal involvement, and evidence of both acute and chronic denervation was present in four patients. Whole-body muscle MRI, available for all patients, revealed a consistent pattern of fatty infiltration predominantly affecting posterior muscle compartments, with minimal STIR signal changes. Brain and spinal imaging, performed in all individuals, showed no abnormalities.Biallelic mutations in VRK1 are associated with a recognizable form of motor neuron disease characterized by features of dHMN combined with upper motor neuron involvement, along with a distinctive posterior-predominant pattern on muscle MRI. Identifying this phenotype, a known presentation of VRK1-related disorders, highlights the importance of targeted genetic testing in unresolved cases of hereditary motor neuropathy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of the Peripheral Nervous System published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Peripheral Nerve Society.
Senescence-related transcriptional programs and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) are implicated in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) progression and therapy resistance. However, the single-cell distribution, functional heterogeneity, and clinical relevance of EMT-associated senescence-like programs remain incompletely defined.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 10 treatment-naive PDAC tumors with bulk transcriptomic profiles from TCGA-PAAD and an independent validation cohort. Senescence-related transcriptional activity was estimated using ssGSEA based on a curated CellAge gene set. EMT-like tumor cell subclusters were identified by unsupervised clustering after marker-based annotation, and differentiation trajectories were reconstructed using pseudotemporal analysis. A senescence-related gene signature was established for molecular subtyping and prognostic modeling. Drug sensitivity was explored using GDSC-based prediction and connectivity mapping.scRNA-seq analysis suggested that EMT-like tumor cells carried relatively high senescence-related transcriptional scores within the PDAC tumor microenvironment. Subclustering revealed five distinct EMT-like subsets, among which KRT19⁺ and UBE2C⁺ subsets showed high senescence-related scores, VMP1⁺ and NFE4⁺ subsets showed intermediate scores, and the MZB1⁺ subset showed low scores. Pseudotemporal ordering suggested an association between senescence-related transcriptional activity and EMT-like progression, but did not establish causality. Twelve senescence-related genes stratified patients into two subtypes (SubA and SubB). SubB patients exhibited poorer overall survival (median OS 17.0 vs. 34.8 months, log-rank P = 0.04) and an immune-excluded phenotype characterized by CD8 + T-cell depletion and reduced stromal/immune scores, despite evidence of altered tumor antigenicity. A refined 5-gene risk score (CDK1, FOXM1, NDRG1, PAK4, TPX2) showed moderate prognostic performance. Experimental validation supported up-regulation trends for the five model genes in PDAC, with statistically significant overexpression observed for NDRG1, PAK4, and TPX2 in the small validation cohort. TPX2 expression was positively associated with P16 expression. UMAP-based mapping revealed subcluster-specific enrichment of model genes. Drug-response prediction revealed distinct predicted IC₅₀ profiles between high- and low-risk patients, while CMap analysis nominated negatively connected compounds that may reverse the high-risk transcriptional signature.EMT-like tumor subclusters with elevated senescence-related transcriptional activity may be associated with PDAC aggressiveness and therapy-related phenotypes. The molecular subtypes and 5-gene signature provide a hypothesis-generating framework for prognosis prediction and therapy selection. Prospective validation and functional experiments are required before clinical application or senescence-targeted treatment recommendations can be made.© 2026. The Author(s).
The main objective of this study is to investigate the dysregulated expression, clinical relevance, and underlying mechanisms of COG8 in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and other human malignancies.We assembled multi-cohort microarray and RNA sequencing data for tumor and non-tumor controls from global repositories including ArrayExpress, Gene Expression Omnibus, The Cancer Genome Atlas, and Genotype-Tissue Expression. COG8 protein expression in LUAD was evaluated using immunohistochemical staining. Differential expression was assessed using standardized mean difference (SMD) for pooled effects and Wilcoxon rank-sum tests for individual datasets. Clinical relevance of COG8 was examined using receiver operating characteristic analyses and Cox/Kaplan-Meier survival analyses. Correlation between COG8 expression and tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability, neoantigen count, and TIMER scores was evaluated using Spearman's rank correlation. Gene set enrichment analysis was conducted to explore the potential signaling pathways associated with COG8 across tumor types.COG8 mRNA was higher in LUAD compared to the control group (SMD = 0.29, 95% CI: 0.12-0.46, p < 0.05), consistent with COG8 protein levels by immunohistochemistry (p < 0.05). Elevated mRNA expression was associated with longer overall survival in LUAD (p < 0.05) and showed moderate discrimination between LUAD and controls (AUC = 0.72). COG8 mRNA was also overexpressed in 11 additional cancer types (p < 0.05). Higher COG8 expression was linked to worse prognosis in seven cancers (HR > 1; p < 0.05) and to improved overall and/or disease-specific survival in four cancers (HR < 1; p < 0.05). In certain cancers, COG8 expression correlated with tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability, neoantigen count, and immune infiltration levels (p < 0.05). COG8 may impact signaling pathways such as cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction.COG8 exhibits aberrant expression in LUAD and eleven other human malignancies, holding clinical significance as a predictive and prognostic biomarker.© 2026. The Author(s).
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) frequently exhibits metastatic progression and develops an immunosuppressive microenvironment. However, the tumor cell-intrinsic factors contributing to metastasis-associated immune remodeling remain incompletely understood. Here, we integrated two independent single-cell RNA-seq cohorts (GSE243933 and GSE181919) to compare primary and metastatic HNSCC ecosystems and identified vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1) as a malignant cell-intrinsic gene consistently upregulated across metastatic contexts. In TCGA-HNSCC and two GEO cohorts (GSE65858 and GSE117973), high VMP1 expression was associated with poor prognosis and enrichment of invasion-related programs, including epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and TNFα/NF-κB signaling, and was also associated with decreased CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration and impaired effector features. In an independent HNSCC tissue cohort, immunohistochemistry confirmed elevated VMP1 protein expression in tumors and its association with advanced clinicopathological features and unfavorable survival. Functionally, gain- and loss-of-function experiments in SCC25 and CAL27 cells showed that VMP1 enhances proliferation, migration, and invasion, accompanied by EMT-like marker switching, increased RelA/p65 phosphorylation, and elevated PD-L1 expression. Collectively, VMP1 identifies a metastasis-associated tumor-intrinsic factor associated with invasive progression and reduced CD8⁺ T-cell activity. The concomitant NF-κB activation and PD-L1 induction support a potential VMP1-associated NF-κB/PD-L1 link that may contribute to the association between invasion-related programs and immune modulation. These findings support the potential biomarker relevance of VMP1 and provide a rationale for further mechanistic and clinical investigation in HNSCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Normal heart contraction requires synchronized calcium ion (Ca2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), traditionally attributed to ryanodine receptor 2 (RyR2). Here, we identify vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1) as a previously unrecognized SR Ca2+ release channel essential for postnatal cardiac function. VMP1 expression is up-regulated in cardiomyocytes after birth, and its genetic deletion causes severe arrhythmias, dilated cardiomyopathy, and sudden cardiac death. Mechanistically, VMP1 loss results in increased SR Ca2+ content and aberrant cardiac action potentials. Single-channel electrophysiology reveals that VMP1 forms a Ca2+-regulated Ca2+ channel, which senses luminal Ca2+ via aspartic acid 272. Notably, VMP1 expression is elevated in human heart failure, suggesting a pathophysiological role. These findings establish VMP1 as a critical component of the cardiac Ca2+ release machinery and uncover its involvement in heart failure.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions caused by the loss-of-function mutations in one of three CCM genes, CCM1 (KRIT1), CCM2, and CCM3 (PDCD10), or gain-of-function mutation in MAP3K3, which encodes MEKK3. Loss of function in CCM genes leads to pathological activation of MEKK3 signaling. Genetic reduction of MAP3K3 gene dosage or pharmacological inhibition of MEKK3 suppresses CCM formation in mouse models, establishing MEKK3 as a promising therapeutic target for CCM.In silico screening was performed to identify candidate MEKK3 inhibitors. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated using a mouse CCM model with brain endothelial cell specific deletion of Ccm3 (Ccm3BECKO). Drug effects were assessed by micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), gene expression analysis, and survival studies.We identified rebastinib as a potent inhibitor of MEKK3 kinase activity that suppresses upregulation of MEKK3 downstream target genes induced by CCM2 or CCM3 knockdown. Rebastinib exhibited lower cytotoxicity than ponatinib. Administration of rebastinib either at the stage of CCM lesion initiation or after lesion establishment significantly reduced lesion formation and growth in both the cerebrum and cerebellum of Ccm3BECKO mice. Rebastinib treatment also decreased expression of the MEKK3 downstream transcription factors Klf2 in brain endothelial cells. Importantly, treatment initiated after lesion establishment significantly prolonged the lifespan of Ccm3BECKO mice.These findings demonstrate that oral administration of rebastinib effectively suppresses CCM lesion formation and progression and extends survival in a model mouse of CCM, supporting MEKK3 inhibition as a viable therapeutic strategy for CCM disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We recently demonstrated that the endoplasmic reticulum export of proTGFα is tightly gated and that proteostasis factors, including the intramembrane protease RHBDL4, can promote its release by an unknown mechanism. While investigating a potential link between RHBDL4-regulated p24/TMED family proteins and proTGFα trafficking, we uncovered an RHBDL4-independent pathway in which the cargo receptor TMED9 induces unconventional protein secretion (UcPS) of ectopically expressed proTGFα. This pathway selectively requires GRASP65, but not the closely related GRASP55, and depends on components of the autophagic machinery and the ESCRT-associated protein ALIX, consistent with a Golgi-bypass secretion route. TMED9- and GRASP65-induced proTGFα secretion is insensitive to Brefeldin A treatment and involves trafficking through pre-Golgi compartments. Although largely based on overexpression systems, our findings identify a previously unrecognized UcPS mechanism and provide insight into alternative protein trafficking pathways that may be exploited under conditions of proteostasis stress and in pathological contexts such as cancer and inflammation. At present, our data establish the existence of a TMED9/GRASP65-dependent Golgi-bypass trafficking route under conditions of ectopic cargo expression, whereas its endogenous physiological relevance remains to be established.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Familial cerebral cavernous malformation (FCCM) is a hereditary vascular disorder associated with pathogenic variants of KRIT1 (CCM1), CCM2, and PDCD10 (CCM3). Among these, PDCD10-related FCCM is considered the most severe subtype and is characterized by early onset, multiple lesions, frequent brainstem involvement, and an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. Brainstem symptoms may be the initial manifestations. However, isolated oculomotor nerve palsy in childhood is rare. We report the case of a 17-month-old girl with normal developmental milestones who developed mild right ptosis, strabismus, and impaired adduction and upward gaze of the right eye at nine months of age. There was no family history of seizures or intracranial hemorrhage. Computed tomography of the head revealed multiple intracranial calcifications. Susceptibility-weighted angiography (SWAN) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs), and follow-up MRI one year later demonstrated new lesions, including pontine involvement. Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition (FIESTA) revealed hemorrhagic changes adjacent to the right oculomotor nerve within the interpeduncular cistern, suggesting that the partial oculomotor nerve palsy was associated with focal hemorrhagic involvement. Genetic analysis revealed the presence of a novel PDCD10 variant. This case highlights that PDCD10-related FCCM may initially present with isolated cranial neuropathy during childhood and subsequently show rapid radiological progression. Careful longitudinal follow-up is required because of the risk of future neurological deterioration.Copyright © 2026, Murakami et al.
This study investigates the impact of rapamycin and propranolol on cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs). Employing an unbiased transcriptomic analysis, we aimed to comprehensively elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying these drug effects. Mouse Brain Microvascular Endothelial Cells (mBMEC) deficient in Ccm3 were treated with propranolol or rapamycin and were analysed by RNA-seq and immunofluorescence. While propranolol shows limited efficacy in modulating the CCM transcriptomic phenotype in mBMEC, rapamycin demonstrates a significant impact. Rapamycin partially reverses gene expression changes induced by Ccm3 deficiency, restoring KLF2/4-dependent genes like Nos3, Adamts1, and Thbs1. Notably, we observed a reduction in KLF2 protein levels in Ccm3 KO cells treated with rapamycin. We also sought to determine whether rapamycin, especially in combination with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor lapatinib, which induces proapoptotic gene expression in Ccm3-deficient endothelium, can reduce lesion volume even after lesion growth has occurred. Ccm3iEC mice in which cavernoma development had been induced were treated with rapamycin alone or combined with lapatinib, assessing lesion volume using micro-CT imaging. Notably, a combination of rapamycin and lapatinib effectively reduces lesion volume in a chronic CCM model. In summary, our work reveals a mechanism by which rapamycin modulates Ccm3 KO endothelial cells and identifies rapamycin plus lapatinib as a possible combination therapy for cavernomas.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the predominant type of lung cancer, is characterized by high invasiveness and significant mortality. Despite its clinical impact, the molecular mechanisms driving its pathogenesis and progression remain poorly understood. This study demonstrates that TMED9 is overexpressed in NSCLC and showed using multiple independent sample sets that its expression level is significantly associated with poor patient prognosis. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments revealed that TMED9 promotes proliferation, invasion, and migration of NSCLC cells in vitro and significantly accelerates tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, TMED9 interacts with ATG9A and recruits USP5 to facilitate the deubiquitination and stabilization of ATG9A, thereby activating autophagy and driving malignant progression. Notably, genetic depletion of TMED9 enhances the sensitivity of NSCLC cells to osimertinib. Collectively, these findings identify the TMED9-USP5-ATG9A signaling axis as a critical driver of NSCLC malignancy, highlighting TMED9 as a promising therapeutic target.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular abnormalities characterized by clusters of dilated capillaries. They are most associated with loss-of-function mutations in three genes (Ccm1, Ccm2, and Pdcd10/Ccm3). In capillary endothelial cells, mutations activate the Rho-associated coiled-coil-containing protein kinase (ROCK), leading to non-heme iron deposition and lesion formation, thereby contributing to CCM pathophysiology. To address this, ROCK inhibitors are being explored as potential stabilizing therapies in CCM. By reviewing the existing literature, this study aims to provide a descriptive evaluation of their effects on non-heme iron deposition and lesion formation in murine models. This systematic review followed the PRISMA 2020 guideline and was registered in PROSPERO (CRD420251048073). PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and Scopus were searched from inception to 2 February 2026. Eligible studies included in vivo murine CCM models with mutations in the Ccm1, Ccm2, and Pdcd10/Ccm3 genes. Studies had to evaluate direct ROCK inhibitors, such as fasudil and BA-1049, or indirect modulators of the RhoA/ROCK pathway, such as statins, regardless of dosage, route, or duration, and provide molecular evidence of RhoA/ROCK pathway modulation. The primary outcome was lesion burden, and the secondary outcomes included non-heme iron deposition and ROCK activity. Systematic searches identified 389 records, of which 4 studies were included, demonstrating that fasudil, a ROCK inhibitor, consistently reduced non-heme iron deposition and lesion burden in preclinical CCM models in mice. In Ccm1+/-Msh2-/- mice, fasudil reduced non-heme iron deposition and stage 2 lesions; in Ccm2+/-Msh2-/- mice, fasudil reduced non-heme iron deposition and lesion burden. One study demonstrated that BA-1049 caused a dose-dependent reduction in non-heme iron deposition and lesion burden. Studies have shown that ROCK pathway modulation reduces non-heme iron deposition and lesion burden. Further clinical investigations involving patients with CCM are essential to verify whether these experimental benefits can be reproduced in clinical settings.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Macroautophagy/autophagy represents a promising therapeutic target in oncology, exhibiting context-dependent roles in tumor progression. Kinase inhibitors are a large group of anti-cancer drugs, and elucidating the regulatory effects of different kinase inhibitors on autophagy offers a valuable strategy to advance our understanding of autophagy regulation in cancer and develop innovative anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we developed a drug screening platform and performed high-content screening using a kinase inhibitor library. The screening identified PTK2/FAK (protein tyrosine kinase 2) inhibitors as potent autophagy inducers. Mechanistic investigations revealed that PTK2/FAK inhibition triggers rapid autophagic flux through a non-classical mechanism dependent on PTK2/FAK expression, which is associated with the spatial redistribution of ER exit sites (ERES). Further analysis demonstrated that PTK2/FAK inhibitor (FAKi)-induced ERES-associated autophagy is not contingent upon full PREB/SEC12 and SEC16 expression, but is sensitized to TMED9 expression level. Additionally, we identified AKAP13 as a novel FAKi-responsive protein that undergoes dephosphorylation upon FAKi treatment and contributes to TMED9-mediated ERES-associated autophagy. Given that ERES-associated autophagy is initiated through membrane contact between ERES and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), we further observed enhanced TMED9-ERGIC interactions following FAKi treatment. Furthermore, functional studies confirmed that FAKi-induced autophagy promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell survival both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our work unveils a previously unrecognized mechanism of FAKi-mediated autophagy induction and provides new insights for developing targeted therapies against PDAC.Abbreviations: AKAP13: A-kinase anchoring protein 13; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF: bafilomycin A1; ECM: extracellular matrix; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERES: endoplasmic reticulum exit sites; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; GSK: GSK2256098; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDAC: pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) are angiographically occult vascular anomalies of the brain, characterized by dilated capillaries, increased vascular permeability, and loss of endothelial junctional protein complexes. Loss-of-function mutations in one of the three genes, namely KRIT1/CCM1, CCM2, and PDCD10/CCM3, have been associated with the disease pathogenesis, although the contribution of other genetic determinants besides CCM genes has been recently identified. Despite recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanism of the disease, the current lack of therapies and its unpredictable clinical behavior represent a significant challenge in the identification of diagnostic biomarkers. ADGRL4/ETLD1 (epidermal growth factor, latrophilin and seven transmembrane domain-containing protein 1), a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) protein is a known biomarker of angiogenesis and inflammation, and it has been suggested to be a key therapeutic target for stroke and high-grade gliomas. However, the relevance of ELTD1 in CCM pathogenesis remains unexplored.Through different analyses, including whole RNA transcriptome, immunohistochemistry, and real-time PCR, conducted in human CCM patients, cellular and animal models, herein we show the association between CCM disease and ELTD1.The whole RNA transcriptome approaches demonstrated ELTD1 is differentially expressed, and gene expression analysis revealed it is significantly upregulated in surgically resected tissue and plasma samples from CCMs, and clinical correlation analysis showed that increased ELTD1 associates with the presence of Focal Neurological Deficits in patients. Immuno-expression showed a strong ELTD1 immunoreactivity in endothelial cells lining affected lesions. According to these elevated levels of ELTD1 in human patients, we also showed a robust increase in the expression level of ELTD1 in cellular and animal models of CCM disease.Taken together, our results demonstrate for the first time ELTD1 involvement in CCM pathogenesis, and its tight link with CCM genes. Thanks to this putative new prognostic biomarker, future clinical studies in larger patient cohorts will aim at improving the CCM disease management and risk stratification in patients, as well as placing the basis for targeted therapeutic strategies in CCM.© 2026. The Author(s).
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) plays a central role in protein homeostasis by facilitating the folding, modification, and quality control of secretory and membrane proteins. Disruption of ER function results in protein misfolding and ER stress, which activate the unfolded protein response (UPR). While the three canonical UPR branches, inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), have been extensively studied, the mechanisms that coordinate their activities and ultimately dictate survival or death remain poorly understood. Transmembrane P24 trafficking protein 9 (TMED9), a cargo receptor that cycles between the ER and Golgi, has been implicated in protein quality control under pathological conditions, but its physiological role in ER proteostasis and UPR signaling is unclear.The ER stress response was studied in cellular human models including normal epithelial cells and patient-derived pediatric glioma cultures. To define the regulatory mechanisms dictating TMED9 expression, quantitative Reverse Transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), luciferase reporter assay, and western blotting were employed. To elucidate TMED9 function, loss-of-function approaches, including clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-Cas9-mediated knockout and small interfering RNA knockdown were used in combination with RNA-seq and live imaging. Protein stability was tested by pulse-chase experiments, ubiquitination, and degradation analyses. To study the implications of TMED9 activation, we screened curated gene expression datasets from the European Molecular Biology Laboratory- European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI) Expression Atlas and employed live-cell imaging-based assays and functional assays (cell viability, apoptosis, migration, and self-renewal).Our study uncovers a physiological role for TMED9 in ER proteostasis and UPR signaling. We show that, under ER stress, TMED9 expression is transcriptionally induced by the IRE1-spliced X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1s) pathway via a conserved unfolded protein response element (UPRE)-like element in its promoter. Removal of TMED9 selectively impairs ATF6 activation without altering IRE1 or PERK signaling, resulting in increased sensitivity to ER stress-induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, we identify TMED9 as a stress-induced stabilizer of ATF6 that prevents its ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation. Functionally, TMED9 regulation is exploited by tumor cells, which sustain IRE1-XBP1s activity to upregulate TMED9, thereby enhancing survival under ER stress conditions.Collectively, our findings establish TMED9 as a critical regulator of ER stress adaptation. TMED9 emerges as a molecular mediator that links IRE1-dependent transcriptional response to ATF6 stabilization, ultimately supporting increased secretory demand under stress conditions and in cancer development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysosome dysfunction has been widely implicated in many models of neurodegeneration, but much less is understood of its involvement during brain development in health and disease. Hereditary spastic paraplegia caused by mutations in the SPG11 gene is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by lysosome dysfunction, which also presents neurodevelopmental alterations. Using knockout mouse and cortical organoid models derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, we show that lysosome dysfunction caused by SPG11 mutations decreases the proliferation of neural progenitor cells at early stages of cortical development. At the cellular level, SPG11 mutations cause accumulation of calcium in lysosomes, which reduces proliferation of neural progenitor cells and diminishes apical tight junctions. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that these phenotypes in SPG11 organoids are caused by hypoactivation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling. The latter is a consequence of lysosomal recruitment of the enzyme PI4K2A (phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha) resulting in higher levels of its product PI(4)P (phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate), a described regulator of the mTOR pathway. Pharmacological modulation of the function of the lysosomal calcium channel TRPML1 successfully corrected all developmental phenotypes in cortical organoids, highlighting the critical role of lysosomal calcium in signaling during the early phase of cortical development.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301317
Acyl-CoA binding domain containing protein 3 (ACBD3) is a Golgi protein implicated in multiple cellular processes. However, its function in negative-strand RNA virus infection and innate immune responses remains poorly understood. Here, we identify ACBD3 as a novel positive regulator of host defense that potently inhibits vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) replication in HeLa cells with ACBD3 overexpression or knockdown. Mechanistically, our investigation unveils a previously unknown ACBD3-TRIM21-MAVS axis. Co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry analysis reveals that ACBD3 interacts with the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21, and this interaction is crucial for stabilizing the mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (MAVS). During VSV infection, ACBD3 enhances TRIM21 protein levels, thereby promoting MAVS accumulation and facilitating the activation of type I interferon signaling. Collectively, our findings elucidate a novel mechanism by which ACBD3 sustains innate immunity via TRIM21 to restrict VSV replication, providing a potential therapeutic target and strategy for combating negative-strand RNA viruses.
Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cpn) is an obligate intracellular parasitic pathogen that replicates inside a membrane-bound vacuole termed the inclusion. This compartment is modified by chlamydial inclusion membrane proteins (Incs), which interact with host proteins to facilitate chlamydial development and pathogenicity. Among these, Cpn0308 localizes specifically to the inclusion membrane. Our previous study demonstrated that exogenously expressed Cpn0308 can interact with host protein ACBD3; here, we demonstrate this interaction during actual Cpn infection using endogenous proteins. This interplay proved critical for Cpn development, as ACBD3 knockout in HeLa cells led to significantly smaller inclusions, delayed transition from elementary bodies (EBs) to reticulate bodies (RBs), and reduced bacterial copy numbers. Mechanistically, the Cpn0308-ACBD3 interaction facilitates the recruitment of Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase 3β (PI4KB) to the inclusion vicinity. This recruitment enhances the production and localization of Phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) within Cpn-infected HeLa cells. Conversely, PI4KB and PI4P levels were markedly diminished in Cpn-infected ACBD3-knockout cells, whereas their expression remained unchanged in uninfected knockout cells. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of PI4KB with PIK93 impaired PI4P synthesis and suppressed Cpn replication. In conclusion, we propose a mechanism wherein the Cpn inclusion membrane protein Cpn0308 engages host ACBD3 to recruit PI4KB around the inclusion, which subsequently catalyzes PI4P production, thereby promoting the development and progression of C. pneumoniae infection.
We report a mechanism linking an intronic ABO splicing mutation to weak A antigen expression. A two-base deletion in intron 1 (c.28 + 2_28 + 3delTG) disrupts canonical splicing, causing aberrant extension of the cytoplasmic tail of the A-type glycosyltransferase (GTA), a key biological macromolecule responsible for blood group biosynthesis. Integration of long-read sequencing, splicing assays, and molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the mutation spares the catalytic domain but alters tail conformation, disrupting its interaction with the Coat Protein Complex I (COPI) adaptors, Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) and Golgi phosphoprotein 3-like (GOLPH3L). Consequently, GTA recycling is predicted to be blocked, leading to protein mislocalization and reduced A antigen levels. Mechanistically, by occluding the critical L-X-X-(R/K) motif and perturbing tail electrostatics, the mutation is predicted to abrogate productive engagement of GTA with the COPI-GOLPH3/GOLPH3L retrieval machinery. This work establishes protein mislocalization as a cause of ABO weak phenotypes and provides a framework for understanding how noncoding variants can dysregulate the function of glycosyltransferases through spatial control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sheep production contributes to a secure and diverse food and fibre supply in the United States, with growing ethnic diversity strengthening demand. Katahdin is a composite hair-type sheep breed developed in the United States that has become the most popular breed in many regions of the country and the first one to have genomic selection implemented in its breeding program. Therefore, the main objectives of this study were to estimate variance components of reproductive traits, including number of lambs born (NLB), number of lambs weaned (NLW), age at first lambing (AFL), and interval from first to second lambing (LI), in Katahdin sheep using the AIREML method and the single-step Genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (ssGBLUP) approach, and to identify genomic regions and candidate genes associated with these traits. The datasets used consisted of 127,536 animals in the pedigree, phenotypic records of 56,128 parities from 24,067 ewes, and genomic data from 10,032 animals with 30,308 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) after quality control. Analyses were performed using the BLUPF90 family of programs. We observed low heritability estimates for all studied traits (0.09 ± 0.00 for NLB, 0.08 ± 0.00 for NLW, 0.09 ± 0.01 for AFL, and 0.08 ± 0.01 for LI). The genetic correlations between the traits ranged from 0.17 ± 0.02 (AFL and LI) to 0.79 ± 0.02 (NLB and NLW). All traits were found to be highly polygenic with all 14 significant SNP on eight (OAR) chromosomes (3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, and 15) having small effects on the total variability on the traits. These SNP were located near or within 18 candidate genes: four genes associated with NLB (AAK1, GFPT1, SLC23A2, and GDAP1), four with NLW (ARHGAP18, TTLL2, UNC93A, and GPR31), six with AFL (NAP1L5, FAM13A, HS3ST1, CCDC181, NME7, and BLZF1), and four with LI (TAF4, CDH4, CADM1, and SEL1L). These candidate genes have been previously associated with fertility, embryonic development, growth, disease resistance, and climatic adaptation traits. Our findings indicate that fertility and reproduction traits in Katahdin sheep can be improved through direct genetic selection. Genetic improvement for these traits will benefit from genomic selection as more accurate estimates of breeding values for selection candidates can be obtained at a younger age. Although the studied traits are influenced by a complex interplay of genetic and environmental factors, the candidate genes identified enabled a better understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying reproductive performance in Katahdin sheep.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Animal Breeding and Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gemcitabine resistance remains a significant problem in cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) treatment. The present study aimed to identify novel molecular targets associated with gemcitabine resistance in CCA using integrated bioinformatics, molecular docking, and experimental validation. Commonly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified based on three public transcriptomic datasets (GSE116118, GSE208659, and GSE140077) from stable gemcitabine-resistant cancer cell lines. Expression levels of selected upregulated genes were validated in Thai patients with CCA using the GEO datasets. Further validation was performed using real-time PCR on parental and gemcitabine-resistant CCA cell lines (KKU-213A/KKU-100 and KKU-213A-GemR/KKU-100-GemR). The 3D structure of the candidate protein was modeled using AlphaFold3 and refined by molecular dynamics simulations. Druggable pockets were predicted using CavityPlus. Virtual screening of 5,396 drug-repurposing compounds was performed using AutoDock Vina to identify potential inhibitors of the candidate protein. In total, 14 DEGs were commonly upregulated in three datasets from stable gemcitabine-resistant cancer cell lines. A total of six genes, including RAB1B, JAG1, PACS1, ANKS6, SF3B4, and RTKN2, were significantly elevated in CCA tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues. Reverse transcription-quatitative PCR confirmed that RTKN2 was significantly overexpressed in two stable gemcitabine-resistant CCA cell lines, KKU-213A-GemR and KKU-100-GemR. Pathway analysis of RTKN2-associated genes revealed enrichment in mitochondrial and metabolic processes, including suppression of the TP53-regulated metabolic pathway. Molecular docking analysis identified several candidate compounds with strong binding affinities to RTKN2 (-10.49 to -11.47 kcal/mol), including NKP608, tegatrabetan, umbralisib, vepdegestrant, and MK-3207. RTKN2 was identified as a novel and druggable molecular target potentially contributing to gemcitabine resistance in CCA. Targeting RTKN2 may offer a promising approach to overcome chemoresistance and improve outcomes for patients with CCA.Copyright: © 2026 Kidoikhammouan et al.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common type of lung cancer and seriously threatens the lives of many people worldwide. The difficulty in early diagnosis of lung cancer has always been a difficulty in lung cancer treatment, and basic leucine zipper nuclear factor 1 (BLZF1) has been shown to promote the occurrence and development of various cancers. This study used 505 LUAD patients in TCGA (TCGA dataset) and 60 LUAD patients in Yunnan Cancer Hospital (Clinical dataset) as research subjects to explore the role of BLZF1 in LUAD. The study found that the expression levels of mRNA and protein of the BLZF1 gene in cancer tissues were significantly higher than those in para-cancer tissues in the TCGA dataset and clinical dataset (P < 0.001). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves analysis found that the AUC value of BLZF1 was 0.759 (95% CI = 0.7049-0.8140, P < 0.0001) in the TCGA dataset, and the AUC value was 0.9985 (95% CI = 0.9954-1.0000, P < 0.0001) in the clinical dataset. Moreover, the BLZF1 gene expression level in the two data sets was significantly correlated with the patient's T stage, and survival analysis showed that high BLZF1 gene expression levels were associated with decreased recurrence-free survival (RFS) (HR = 1.510, 95% Cl = 1.095-2.083, P = 0.012) and overall survival (OS) (HR = 1.472, 95% Cl = 1.099-1.973, P = 0.010). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) and enrichment analysis showed that the BLZF1 gene was closely associated with biological processes such as Golgi function, vesicle transport and cell membrane system maintenance. The expression correlation of BLZF1 with glycolysis-related genes indicated that BLZF1 may play a role in LUAD by participating in the sugar metabolism pathway. In addition, this study downregulated the expression of BLZF1 by small interfering RNA (si-BLZF1), and downregulation of BLZF1 expression significantly inhibited the proliferation, cloning, migration and invasion of LUAD cells. Therefore, BLZF1 may be involved in the occurrence and development of lung adenocarcinoma, which can be a potential diagnostic biomarker in clinical practice.© 2026. The Author(s).
TBC1 domain-containing kinase (TBCK; MIM #616900) is implicated in autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorders with hypotonia and developmental delay. TBCK regulates mTOR signaling, lysosomal activity, and intracellular trafficking, but the full spectrum of pathogenic variants remains poorly understood. We investigated a consanguineous Iranian family with psychomotor delay. Whole exome sequencing (WES) identified a candidate TBCK variant, confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Functional studies were performed using amniotic fluid-derived cell culture, Western blotting, protein structural modeling, and molecular docking analyses. A novel homozygous frameshift variant, TBCK (NM_001163435.3): c.1969dupT (p.Cys657Leufs*17), was detected and absent from population databases. Clinically, the proband presented with severe developmental delay, hypotonia, seizures, and facial dysmorphism, and died at 9 months. Western blotting showed a significant decrease in TBCK expression (p < 0.007). Structural analysis of a theoretically modeled truncated protein indicated C-terminal truncation with loss of critical domains, while in silico docking demonstrated reduced binding affinity between mutant TBCK and Rab1B, suggesting impaired Rab-mediated trafficking. This study reports a novel pathogenic TBCK variant associated with severe neurodevelopmental delay, contributing to the clinical and molecular spectrum of TBCK syndrome. Our findings underscore the importance of genetic testing in rare neurodevelopmental disorders and provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying TBCK dysfunction.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The small GTPase Rab1 is found in all eukaryotes and acts in both ER-to-Golgi transport and autophagy. Several Rab1 effectors and regulators have been identified, but the mechanisms by which Rab1 orchestrates these distinct processes remain incompletely understood. We apply MitoID, a proximity biotinylation approach, to expand the interactome of human Rab1A and Rab1B. We identify new interactors among known membrane traffic and autophagy machinery, as well as previously uncharacterized proteins. One striking set of interactors are the cargo receptors for selective autophagy, indicating a broader role for Rab1 in autophagy than previously supposed. Two cargo receptor interactions are validated in vitro, with the Rab1-binding site in optineurin being required for mitophagy in vivo. We also find an interaction between Rab1 and the dynein adaptor FHIP2A that can only be detected in the presence of membranes. This explains the recruitment of dynein to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment and demonstrates that conventional methods can miss a subset of effectors of small GTPases.© 2026 van Vliet et al.
Stroke remains the second leading cause of death and disability globally, yet the contribution of depressive disorders and psychological stress to stroke outcomes is often overlooked. Emerging evidence suggests that mitochondrial dysfunction may mediate this relationship. So this study aims to investigate the potential causal role of mental stress in exacerbating ischemic brain injury and identify mitochondrial proteins that contribute to this interaction. In the study, the chronic restraint stress (CRS) model was applied, and mice were subjected to 45 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) followed by 24 h or 48 h of reperfusion. Translocator protein (TSPO) antagonist PK11195 was injected intraperitoneally every day during CRS. Brain injury was determined by infarct volumes, cell apoptosis, Fas expression, release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Protein expression was analyzed by Western blot. In SH-SY5Y cells, cell viability was assessed after oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R). Mitochondrial function was assessed after transfecting a TSPO overexpression vector (pLV-TSPO) or treated with PK11195. The results shown that CRS induced depressive-like behaviors and increased brain injury after stroke in association with impaired mitochondrial function. TSPO was elevated by CRS, and TSPO induced voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) phosphorylation through interaction with acyl-CoA binding domain containing 3 (ACBD3), which was reversed by PK11195. In SH-SY5Y cells, TSPO overexpression led to mitochondrial dysfunction, which was reversed by PK11195. In conclusion, the study supports a central role for TSPO in linking mental stress to adverse stroke outcomes and points to its potential as a therapeutic target for cerebrovascular health.© 2025. The Author(s).
Temperature sensitivity has gained considerable attention in the era of precision medicine. This trait has long been used to identify cold-heat patterns (C-HPs), a diagnostic framework in Traditional Korean Medicine that categorizes individuals based on their thermal responses. C-HP helps understand an individual's inherent physical characteristics, which have been shown to be highly heritable and thus shaped by genetic factors. However, genetic markers that are significantly associated with this trait remain scarce. To address this gap, we aimed to identify candidate single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) based on previous genomewide association studies (GWASs) of related traits.Given the limited research directly addressing C-HP, we incorporated genetic studies related to traits such as "Cold" or "Heat," as well as thyroid hormone, which plays a key role in thermogenesis through the activation of various metabolic pathways. After selecting the SNPs reported in previous GWAS from the GWAS Catalog (EMBL-EBI), we validated these findings using 90 Korean patients reporting C-HP, with statistical significance assessed through residual permutations. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed using the GO Biological Process 2023 dataset to identify the pathways associated with C-HP. Furthermore, we compared our findings with control traits in order to confirm that the observed associations were specific to C-HP-related traits rather than random correlations. Principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted on candidate SNPs from the 1000 Genomes reference dataset to illustrate the ethnic variation for C-HP across five populations.Of 63 GWAS, we selected 548 SNPs for validation. Ultimately, 20 candidate SNPs associated with heat patterns and 19 candidate SNPs associated with cold patterns were identified. Of the heat-pattern SNPs, 18 were linked to thyroid hormone traits, with key SNPs including rs12409301 (CAPZB) and rs12855 (CDKN2C). For the cold-pattern trait, 16 SNPs were associated with thyroid hormones such as rs622474 (PDE4B) and rs11204752 (GOLPH3L). GSEA confirmed notable enrichment in vascular processes for the heat pattern and mitochondrial organization for the cold pattern. The most significant pathway was vascular smooth muscle cell development (p value = 1.28 × 10-5) in the heat pattern. The clear ethnic differences in C-HP were observed in the PCA of 1000 Genomes populations where East Asian and African populations formed distinct, well-separated clusters.Our study suggested a total of 39 candidate SNPs as genetic markers for C-HP that are plausible in the context of temperature sensitivity. We hope that our findings will provide a valuable basis for further biological research and potential clinical applications of C-HP.Copyright © 2025 Seogyun Jeong and Sanghun Lee. Genetics Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Glioblastoma is the most aggressive primary brain tumor in adults. Resistance of glioblastoma to the standard chemotherapy agent temozolomide (TMZ) correlates with the expression of the DNA repair enzyme O6-Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). Additionally, tumor initiation and recurrence are associated with a subpopulation of glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs) which exhibit self-renewal properties, multipotency, and resistance to both chemotherapy and radiotherapy. To identify novel molecular biomarkers and therapeutic targets, we investigated the possible role of the oncoprotein Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) in glioblastoma. GOLPH3 is overexpressed in many solid tumors and confers resistance to DNA-damaging chemotherapeutic agents. Its overexpression is also associated with poor prognosis in a variety of cancers, including glioblastoma. Here, we show that GOLPH3 knockdown in U87MG glioblastoma cells inhibits cell proliferation, promotes senescence and induces striking cellular and molecular changes toward a neuron-like phenotype. We analyzed the constitutive expression of GOLPH3, MGMT and mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling proteins in U87MG cells and in three GSCs representative of the three glioblastoma molecular subtypes. Our results suggest that these glioblastoma cell models may exhibit distinct responses to mTOR inhibition and TMZ. Finally, we show that GOLPH3 depletion reduces the activity of both mTOR complex 1 and 2 leading to decreased phosphorylation of their respective downstream targets S6K and Akt in both U87MG cells and the BT379 GSCs subtype. Our findings identify a potential therapeutic vulnerability that can be exploited to develop patient-tailored treatments in glioblastoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening syndrome with high mortality, characterized by alveolar epithelial barrier disruption and excessive inflammatory injury. The epithelial glycocalyx, a layer critical for barrier integrity, undergoes shedding during ALI. However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study investigates the role of Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) in glycocalyx-mediated barrier dysfunction in ALI.A Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI model was established in MLE-12 cells and C57BL/6 mice. Bioinformatics analysis of the GSE18341 dataset was performed to identify differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways. GOLPH3 was silenced or overexpressed to determine its function, and the MEK inhibitor U0126 was used for rescue experiments. Glycocalyx integrity, tight junction proteins, and ERK/MMP pathway mediators were analyzed by western blotting, immunofluorescence, transmission electron microscopy, and ELISA.LPS markedly reduced MLE-12 cell viability, disrupted tight junction protein expression, and induced glycocalyx damage. Bioinformatic analysis identified GOLPH3 as a potential regulator of LPS-induced ALI. GOLPH3 expression positively correlated with MAPK/ERK pathway and MMP2/9-associated biological processes and was elevated in both LPS-treated cells and mouse lung tissues. GOLPH3 knockdown attenuated LPS-induced ERK activation, MMP2/9 upregulation, inflammatory cytokine release, glycocalyx shedding, and barrier disruption. Conversely, GOLPH3 overexpression exacerbated these effects, which were reversed by U0126.GOLPH3 is a critical mediator of LPS-induced ALI. GOLPH3 promotes alveolar epithelial glycocalyx shedding and barrier disruption by activating the ERK-MMP2/9 axis, highlighting GOLPH3 as a potential therapeutic target for ALI that warrants further in vivo validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Establishment of canine acanthomatous ameloblastoma (CAA) cell lines has profound importance in pre-clinical in vitro testing. The goal of this study was to develop, authenticate, and characterize three CAA cell lines. Cell lines were developed with standard cell culture techniques from dogs with naturally occurring CAA. Each cell line was authenticated as canine with a validated PCR panel. Epithelial cell origin was confirmed with pan-CK flow cytometry. Next generation DNA and RNA sequencing characterized features of the cell lines and compared them to the parent tumor. We confirmed that all cell lines maintained mutations seen in the parent tumors including a missense HRAS mutation and RTK-RAS pathway upregulation across all samples. Other common mutations (2/3 cell lines and their parent tumors) included ADGRA3, DNAH7, F10, KIAA1671, OGFR, SLC6A17, SNX7, SPTBN5, TENM4, and YEATS2. We compared the transcriptional profiles from our parent tumors and established cell lines to historical transcriptomic analysis of CAA and healthy gingiva. We confirmed the same canonical CAA molecular features of primary tumors across studies with distinct clustering from healthy gingiva. Further, we documented that the cell lines maintained upregulated genes that are seen within in vivo CAA across both studies including upregulated GPC4 and ETV5 as well as gene sets associated with the presence of epithelial-mesenchymal transformation, KRAS, Pi3K-AKT signaling, and hedgehog signaling pathways. Thorough characterization of the mutational and transcriptional profiles of the established cell lines, especially in context to how they differ from the parent tumors, sets the platform for translational in vitro testing.Copyright: © 2026 Goldschmidt et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Persistent FLAIR hyperintense vessels (FHV) after endovascular thrombectomy (EVT) may reflect residual impaired perfusion, collateral dysfunction, or no-reflow physiology despite macrovascular treatment. We evaluated whether post-EVT FHV presence was associated with cognitive-attentional impairment and discharge functional outcome in patients with ICA, M1, or M2 occlusions treated with EVT.This retrospective cohort study included patients with acute ischemic stroke due to ICA, M1, or M2 occlusion who underwent EVT and posttreatment MRI. FHV was assessed on posttreatment FLAIR using the NIH-FHV score and dichotomized as absent (score 0) versus present (score >0). Final infarct volume was measured on follow-up DWI. Primary outcomes were Cog-4, a summed NIHSS-derived score used as a rapid proxy for early poststroke cognitive-attentional dysfunction, and discharge modified Rankin Scale (mRS). Multivariable linear regression was used for Cog-4, and ordinal logistic regression was used for discharge mRS, adjusting for follow-up DWI infarct volume, age, admission NIHSS, ASPECTS, intravenous thrombolysis, successful reperfusion, and occlusion laterality.Among 212 patients in the complete-covariate cohort, 71 were FHV positive and 141 were FHV negative. FHV-positive patients had higher follow-up DWI infarct volume, lower successful reperfusion rates, worse Cog-4 scores, and less favorable discharge mRS distributions. In adjusted analyses, FHV presence was independently associated with higher Cog-4 score (β = 0.97; 95% CI, 0.36-1.57; P = .002) and worse discharge mRS (OR = 1.79; 95% CI, 1.03-3.12; P = .04). In secondary analyses, increasing NIH-FHV score was also associated with higher Cog-4 score (β = 0.42 per 1-point increase; 95% CI, 0.23-0.62; P < .001) and worse discharge mRS (OR = 1.24 per 1-point increase; 95% CI, 1.04-1.48; P = .02).Post-EVT FHV presence and greater NIH-FHV burden were associated with worse Cog-4 performance, used here as a rapid proxy for early poststroke cognitive-attentional dysfunction, and worse discharge disability after ICA/M1/M2 EVT. These findings suggest that persistent FHV may provide outcome-relevant posttreatment MRI information beyond final infarct volume and angiographic reperfusion.© 2026 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.
Reduced sperm count, impaired motility, and abnormal morphology are characteristics of oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT). Genetic factors play an important role in spermatogenic failure, but the molecular basis of OAT is still not fully understood. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) was performed in 17 infertile men with normal karyotypes and no Y-chromosome microdeletions, including 10 patients with azoospermia and 7 with OAT. Among the OAT group, three patients carrying prioritized rare variants with potential relevance to spermatogenesis were selected for detailed analysis and presentation in the current study. Variants were called using DeepVariant, and they were annotated by Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor (VEP). Variants were prioritized based on low allele frequency (< 1% in gnomAD), predicted functional impact, relevance to spermatogenesis, and consistency with a recessive inheritance model. Candidate variants were validated by Sanger sequencing and inspection of BAM files. Structural protein modeling and characterization of mutation-induced changes in molecular interactions were also performed using SWISS-MODEL and AlphaFold. We identified a hemizygous splice donor variant (c.*4 + 1G > T) in SSX1 and a missense variant (c.1190 A > G) in CPNE1 in one patient with OAT. SSX1 is a testis-expressed gene, while CPNE1 encodes a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein. In another patient, a stop-gained variant (c.790 C > T) in SPTBN5 was identified, which encodes a spectrin beta chain protein. This study identifies rare candidate variants in SSX1, CPNE1, and SPTBN5 that may potentially be associated with the molecular basis of OAT. These findings provide preliminary evidence supporting further investigation of these genes in OAT and support the application of WGS in unresolved male infertility.© 2026. The Author(s).
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are highly cytotoxic lesions repaired primarily by homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), with alternative end joining (alt-EJ) and single-strand annealing (SSA) functioning as backup. Repair pathway choice is governed by DNA end resection, suppressing NHEJ and committing repair to homology-based processes. Using pharmacological inhibition and protein depletion approaches in irradiated human cells, we show that PLK1 alone controls resection in S-phase-irradiated cells, while PLK1 and PLK3 act redundantly in G2-phase-irradiated cells. This cell-cycle-dependent regulation operates through a mechanism distinct from SCFSKP2-APC/CCDH1-mediated CtIP level modulation. These findings establish PLK1 and PLK3 as cell-cycle-dependent regulators of DSB repair pathway choice, advancing our understanding of how cell-cycle progression is coupled to repair decisions through differential PLK activity.© 2026 The Author(s).
Prostate adenocarcinoma (PRAD) is one of the cancers that threaten the health of male, but its progression mechanism remains unclear. Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) is aberrantly expressed in many cancers, but its role in PRAD progression remains unknown. This paper aims to study the function of GOLPH3 in PRAD.The online database was used to analyze the expression level of GOLPH3 transcriptome, and the expression level of GOLPH3 protein in PRAD tissues and cells was detected by western blotting. PC-3 and LNCaP cells were selected to construct the GOLPH3 overexpression PRAD cells. CCK8 assay, EdU staining, colony formation assay, and a nude mouse xenograft model were used to evaluate the proliferation of PRAD cells. Glucose metabolism activity was determined by lactate release, intracellular glucose level, oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR).Online public database analysis showed that the expression level of GOLPH3 transcriptome in tumor tissues was significantly higher than that in normal tissues of PRAD patients. And western blotting analysis suggested that GOLPH3 protein expression was elevated in PRAD tissues and cells. Results of CCK8 assay, EdU staining, colony formation assay and nude mouse xenograft analysis showed that GOLPH3 overexpression strongly promoted PRAD cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, GOLPH3 overexpression significantly increased the levels of lactate release and intracellular glucose levels by PRAD cells, and increased glucose metabolism-related enzyme activity, including HK, GPI, PGK, LDHA, and G6PD. Mechanistically, GOLPH3 overexpression markedly increased the p-AKT/AKT and p-mTOR/mTOR ratios, and LY294002 reduced cell proliferation and glucose metabolism levels elevated by GOLPH3 overexpression.GOLPH3, which is overexpressed in PRAD, may enhance glucose metabolic activity in PRAD cells in association with activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, thereby supporting PRAD cell proliferation. These findings provide basic mechanistic evidence for the role of GOLPH3 in PRAD cell metabolism, but further clinical studies are required to determine its prognostic or therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Polo-like kinases (PLKs) are a family of closely related serine/threonine kinases responsible for regulating cell cycle processes and proliferation. While PLK1 inhibitors have led to clinical candidates for oncology, the biological function of other PLKs is relatively unknown, in part, because there is a dearth of selective tool compounds. Herein we report the parallel medicinal chemistry (PMC) and structure-assisted discovery of potent and selective PLK3 inhibitors with favorable drug-like properties. We employed computational tools to reveal subtly different pharmacophore features within homologous binding sites of PLKs. These preferences were then exploited via a PMC approach starting from in-house high-throughput screening hits, resulting in selective chemical probes that help elucidate the complexities of PLK biology. Further, by profiling compounds with a spectrum of PLK selectivities, our work demonstrates the relationship between inhibition of specific PLK isoforms and resulting toxicities.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Guidelines recommend cognitive screening post-stroke, but there is no consensus on approach. Given the dynamic nature of cognition following stroke, acute screening should both detect prevalent issues (diagnosis) and predict persisting problems (prognosis). We describe the diagnostic and prognostic utility of brief cognitive screening tools.Patients were screened on admission with stroke using 12 modified screening tests: 10 and 4 question Abbreviated Mental Test, Cog-4, Clock Drawing test (CDT), Cognitive Impairment Test, informal bedside assessment, General Practitioner Assessment of Cognition, Minicog, Short Form Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Six-Item Screener (SIS), Harmonised Vascular Cognitive Impairment battery and 4-A's Test. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value were calculated against a Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition adjudicated reference standard of neurocognitive disorders. Test accuracy was compared using area under the receiver operator characteristic curves.Of 335 patients, 54 (16.1%) had pre-stroke neurocognitive disorder, 79 (23.6%) had 18-month neurocognitive disorder. Ten of 12 screening tests were more specific than sensitive. Informal bedside assessment had highest specificity (96%), but low sensitivity (9%); CDT had highest sensitivity (80%) but low specificity (33%). Negative predictive value ranged from 77% to 87%, PPV ranged from 27% to 54%. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curve ranged 0.53 (informal bedside assessment) to 0.69 (SIS).In the acute setting, where the intention of screening is often to triage those who need further assessment, the pattern of high specificity at the expense of sensitivity is the opposite of what is desired.Brief cognitive screening tools, used in isolation, may not be suitable for assessment in acute stroke settings.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Stroke Organisation.
Genetic susceptibility to prostate cancer (PCa) varies across populations, yet East Asian men remain underrepresented in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). This study aimed to identify genetic variants associated with PCa in a Taiwanese cohort and to explore their potential biological relevance using integrative annotation approaches.We analyzed 961 PCa patients and 3792 age-matched controls from the Taiwan Biobank. Genotyping and imputation were performed using the Taiwan Biobank 2.0 array and the 1000 Genomes East Asian reference panel. Association testing was conducted using logistic regression adjusted for age and population structure. Gene-based analysis using Multi-marker Analysis of GenoMic Annotation (MAGMA), functional annotation using HaploReg, and prostate tissue cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) and splicing QTL (sQTL) evaluation using the Genotype-Tissue Expression project (GTEx) were performed to explore functional relevance.We identified 371 genome-wide significant variants and 47 independent risk loci, including established regions (8q24.21, ZNF365, NCOR2, and PRKCB) as well as loci not previously reported in major GWAS (CCDC36, RAB6B, TTLL3, and PARD3B). MAGMA analysis identified 80 PCa-associated genes, and pathway analysis highlighted sphingolipid metabolism and leukocyte transendothelial migration. Integrative annotation indicated that several variants are located in regulatory elements and are associated with prostate-specific eQTL and sQTL effects. Additional analyses showed that several variants were associated with clinical indicators of disease aggressiveness, and age-stratified sensitivity analyses demonstrated consistent associations across age groups. Sensitivity analyses using alternative modeling approaches yielded comparable results.This study identifies both established and putatively novel genetic loci associated with PCa in a Taiwanese cohort and provides functional insights through integrative annotation. These findings contribute to understanding the genetic architecture of PCa in East Asian populations and highlight candidate loci that require independent validation in future studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Investigation of in utero, tissue-specific molecular pathways contributing to prenatal programming of childhood-onset asthma is needed to develop effective, targeted prevention strategies. We aimed to examine the relationship between predicted gene expression in placenta and childhood-onset asthma and to compare relationships between childhood- and adult-onset asthma. Asthma genome-wide association study published summary statistics were obtained from the UK Biobank and published placental gene expression quantitative trait loci were obtained from the Rhode Island Child Health Study. We used S-PrediXcan to evaluate and compare associations between placental predicted gene expression and childhood- and adult-onset asthma and to determine whether signals were placenta-specific. Among 8,038 tested placental predicted expression-asthma associations, we identified 56 (0.7%) genes only significantly associated with childhood-onset asthma, 12 (0.1%) genes only significantly associated with adult-onset asthma, and 18 (0.2%) shared genes. Predicted expression of several genes (ACTL9, AMN, C9orf38, C11orf30, CTSE, EFCAB13, EIF4E1B, FN1, GLS2, IL6, IVL, LZIC, MAN2A2, MEGT1, RACGAP1, SMAD6, SPATA5, TMEM25, VTI1B, WDR19) was not significantly associated with childhood- or adult-onset asthma in any non-placental tissue, suggesting that the associations may be placenta-specific. This study identified alterations in predicted expression of placental genes associated with transcriptional pathways critical to the development of asthma. We identified unique and shared pathways, particularly related to immune regulation, associated with childhood- and adult-onset. This expands our understanding of the fetal origins of asthma, highlights the placenta as an informative tissue in understanding asthma pathogenesis, and identifies target genes to prioritize for future functional studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Malaria, caused by Plasmodium parasites, remains a global health crisis, necessitating novel therapeutic strategies targeting host-parasite interactions. During liver-stage infection, parasites exploit host vesicular trafficking machinery, particularly SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) proteins that mediate membrane fusion. Using a CRISPR/Cas9 knockout system in HeLa cells combined with advanced microscopy of Plasmodium berghei-infected HeLa cells, we identified specific endolysosomal SNAREs including Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 7 (VAMP7), Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 8 (VAMP8), Vesicle Transport Through Interaction With T-SNAREs 1B (Vti1B), and Syntaxin 7 (Stx7) to be recruited to the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) with distinct temporal profiles. This demonstrates the parasite's precise manipulation of host endolysosomal trafficking pathways. VAMP7 and Vti1B were localized to the PVM within 30 min post-infection, suggesting potential roles during invasion, while VAMP8 and Stx7 appeared later around 24 h post infection (hpi), coinciding with increased nutrient acquisition. Single gene deletions showed minimal impact, but combinatorial knockouts (KO) revealed critical redundancy. VAMP7-VAMP8 as well as VAMP7-Vti1B double KO significantly reduced parasite infection and growth, with Vti1B playing a dominant role. Triple KO phenotypes mirrored VAMP7-Vti1B disruption, underscoring Vti1B's dominant role. SNARE depletion also impaired the lysosome-PVM association and LAMP1 positive vesicle recruitment. Our findings indicate Plasmodium hijacks a coordinated host SNARE network to fuse lysosomes with the PVM for nutrient uptake. Targeting Vti1B-containing complexes disrupts this pathway without host cell toxicity, offering a promising host-directed antimalarial approach.
Absence of the endosomal SNAREs vti1a and vti1b results in perinatal death and severe neuronal phenotypes in mice, while lack of one of these proteins results in minor phenotypes. Proteomic differences were investigated to obtain a deeper insight into processes in which vti1a and vti1b are involved. Here we applied a bottom-up shotgun proteomic approach to investigate the differences in wild-type, double heterozygous (DHET), vti1a-/- vti1b-/- double knockout (DKO), vti1a-/- knockout and vti1b-/- knockout cerebral cortices. Single deletions did not affect protein levels significantly. A total of 1725 proteins were detected of which 69 were less abundant and 191 proteins were more abundant in DKO cortices. Many less abundant proteins belonged to cellular components and reactome pathways synapse, synaptic vesicle cycle, vesicle mediated transport, L1CAM interaction, and cholesterol biosynthesis in pathway enrichment analysis. More abundant proteins were enriched in cellular components and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)-pathways such as spliceosome, ribosome, carbon metabolism, and ribonucleoprotein complex. Immunoblotting validated reduced expression levels of the tested synaptic vesicle proteins as well as increased amounts of lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (Lpcat1) and neuron-specific gene 2 (Nsg2), which is involved in postsynaptic AMPA-receptor recycling. These data indicate that the synapse and cell adhesion were strongly affected in DKO brains. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: Distinct populations of neurons and glia cells are generated and organize into layers during brain development. Neurons develop an elaborate morphology to transmit information via axons and synapses to dendrites in receiving neurons. These neurites form via several specialized pathways of vesicle secretion and endocytosis. Fusion between these membranes requires members of the SNARE protein family. Double knockouts of the endosomal SNAREs vti1a and vti1b (DKO) result in perinatal lethality in mice with massive defects in the brain. In this study we compared the proteome of DKO brain cortices with double heterozygous controls to obtain insights into the molecular alterations and affected pathways. DKO brains contained lower amounts of synaptic proteins and proteins involved in cell adhesion, membrane trafficking and cholesterol biosynthesis. Several proteins of spliceosomes, ribosomes and carbon metabolism were more abundant in DKO brains, which may be a consequence of the reduced amounts of synaptic proteins or a shift in cell populations. Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (Lpcat1) and neuron-specific gene 2 (Nsg2), which is involved in α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) recycling, were confirmed to be more abundant by Western blotting. These data point to defects in trafficking especially in the synapse and in cell adhesion, which is required for neurite outgrowth.© 2026 The Author(s). PROTEOMICS published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The Qb-SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment receptor) Vti1a and Vti1b participate in membrane fusion in the endosomal system of mammalian cells and are partially redundant. While double deficiency of Vti1a-/-Vti1b-/- (DKO) is perinatal lethal, double heterozygous Vti1a+/-Vti1b+/- (DHET) mice presented no phenotypic alterations when compared to wild-type mice. To investigate the physiological role of these proteins, this study focused on the analysis of embryonic DKO versus DHET mice. The size and weight of E18.5 DKO embryos were significantly lower when compared with those of DHET littermates and wild-type embryos. Furthermore, we observed alterations in skeletal development of DKO embryos, mainly in the front limbs, ribs, clavicles and sternum. A lumbar vertebra was missing in DKO embryos and the palate was not closed in 50% of these embryos.Copyright: © 2026 Schmücker et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) represents a crucial global public health concern, yet its molecular mechanisms underlying CRC are not completely comprehended. This study utilizes Mendelian randomization (MR) in conjunction with comprehensive transcriptome profiling to discover crucial genetic markers associated with CRC.Using CRC datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), R software analyzed differentially expressed (DEGs). eQTLs served as instrumental variables (IVs) to identify CRC genes by means of two-sample MR methods. Key CRC genes were found by intersecting DEGs with genome-wide association study (GWAS) data. The causal impacts of these intersecting genes were analyzed using Summary-data-based Mendelian Randomization (SMR). In order to validate the gene-disease associations, the GSE39582 dataset was employed, along with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques. Subsequent studies defined the roles of these genes in the CRC pathophysiology, incorporating functional enrichment, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), TISCH, and immune cell infiltration analyses.MR, TCGA and SMR identified three key genes-MCM6, RAB6B, and CDC25B-that are closely linked to CRC. These genes play vital roles in activities like mitotic DNA replication and cell cycle regulation. Moreover, findings from CIBERSORT analysis showed a unique immune cell pattern in CRC, underscoring the importance of immune mechanisms in the development of this disease. MR results are confirmed by a cohort and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assessments.Three critical CRC-affecting genes were identified, offering new molecular insights and potential research and treatment directions.© 2025. The Author(s).
The Tumor microenvironment (TME) plays a crucial role in colorectal cancer (CRC) prognosis and treatment response. However, comprehensive understandings of TME-related immune subtypes and their mechanisms for precision medicine remain insufficient. This study aims to identify immune subtypes in CRC, develop a prognostic model, and explore the role of microbial diversity in tumor progression.Multi-omics data and non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) were used to classify CRC into immune subtypes. Differentially expressed TME-related genes were identified, and a prognostic risk model was developed using Cox and LASSO regression. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) assessed cellular interactions and gene set variations. Microbiome profiling was integrated to evaluate the impact of microbial diversity on CRC progression and immune modulation. Key findings were validated using immunohistochemistry, external datasets, and qPCR in patient-derived organoids.Four TME-related immune subtypes were identified: immune-exhausted C1 (poor prognosis, high immune infiltration), immune-activated C2/C3 (better prognosis), and immune-desert C4 (worst prognosis). A risk model based on genes (SOX9, CLEC10A, RAB15, RAB6B, PCOLCE2, FUT1) stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups. High-risk groups exhibited increased Enterobacteriaceae and Clostridium, while low-risk groups showed higher Porphyromonadaceae and Peptostreptococcaceae, correlating with better immunotherapy responses. scRNA-seq revealed distinct cell-cell communication patterns across subtypes.The study highlights the complexity of CRC's TME and its role in prognosis and treatment. Findings support personalized treatment strategies, considering immune and microbial factors.This research integrates TME subtyping, risk modeling, single-cell analysis, and microbiome profiling to advance CRC prognosis and precision therapy, emphasizing personalized strategies for better outcomes.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Secretory granules (SGs) in endocrine cells store and release peptide hormones with their turnover tightly controlled to maintain cellular hormone levels. We found that crinophagy, a specialized autophagy process, is the prevalent pathway that degrades older unused SGs in resting cells by SG-lysosome fusion. siRNA screening with a live cell assay for SG-lysosome merge identified SG components Rab27A, Munc13-4 and VAMP2 and lysosomal components PLEKHM1, HOPS subunits, and SNAREs STX7, STX8, and VTI1B required for docking SGs to and fusion with lysosomes. Munc13-4 is a central regulator of crinophagy that associates with many proteins that are functionally essential for the merge of SGs with lysosomes, and regulates the docking and fusion of SGs with lysosomes. SG-lysosome fusion was regulated by local or global calcium through binding and activation of Munc13-4. The findings reveal the critical docking/fusion machinery for mediating SG turnover in mammalian endocrine cells, and indicate how its dysregulation could impair hormonal and metabolic regulation.
Osteoporosis (OP) has gradually become a major public health problem. It is clinically important to elucidate further the pathophysiologic mechanisms that induce OP and to identify more effective therapeutic targets. In the present study, we used Mendelian randomization analysis to assess the causal effects of 4907 plasma proteins on bone mineral density (BMD) outcomes to identify their potential therapeutic targets. The data files of 4907 plasma proteins were downloaded from the deCODE Genetics database, the bone density data files were obtained from the publicly available genome-wide association study database, the single nucleotide polymorphisms of weak instrumental variables in plasma proteins were removed based on the F test value of >10, the inverse variance weighted method was the main statistical method, and MR-Egger analysis was used for the test of diversity and difference. The obtained plasma proteins strongly associated with the disease were enriched by gene ontology (GO), pathway enrichment, and protein interaction networks were constructed in the GeneMANIA database. Based on P < .05 and false discovery rate value < 0.2, plasma proteins with consistent odds ratio values of 5 statistical methods were extracted, and a total of 22 plasma proteins strongly associated with diseases were obtained. The results of GO enrichment analysis showed that the disease-associated plasma proteins were functionally related to the Notch signaling pathway, trabecular morphogenesis, and so on, and their main enrichment was in the Notch signaling pathway and Toll-like receptor signaling pathway. A total of 20 interacting genes were predicted by the GeneMANIA database. Through least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression, key variables were selected from 22 plasma proteins. There is a causal relationship between plasma proteins and BMD, with proteins such as recombinant pleckstrin homology domain containing family A, member 1, RAB6B, member RAS oncogene family (RAB6B), and UDP-glucose dehydrogenase exacerbating the disease process. In contrast, proteins such as lipopolysaccharide-binding protein, manic fringe homolog, and cartilage adhesion protein can exert a protective effect, and both act as prognostic markers for OP and as potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Introduction: The interface between T cells and the tumor microenvironment, termed the 'immunological synapse', consists of multiple checkpoint protein pairs co-expressed on both sides of the synapse. mir-16, a microRNA from a widely known tumor-suppressor family of miRNAs, was previously shown by us to be downregulated in melanoma. As other miRNAs from this family have been shown to directly target checkpoint proteins, here we investigated whether miR-16 influences the expression patterns of checkpoint proteins in melanoma. Methods: Single-cell gene expression data from the melanoma microenvironment were retrieved from a public database. Melanoma cell lines were established from metastatic lesions and transiently transfected with an hsa-miR-16-5p-mimic RNA or a mir-16-expressing plasmid. The mRNA expression profiles were analyzed using an Affymetrix microarray. Direct targets of miR-16 were identified by luciferase reporter assays. Protein levels were assessed by Western blotting. Results: Bioinformatic analysis revealed that the expression levels of eight checkpoint mRNAs, known to be present on the melanoma side of the immunological synapse, were highly correlated. Four of these mRNAs contained putative binding sites for the miR-15/16 family. miR-16 expression was significantly reduced in melanoma cells, compared to normal melanocytes. Luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that miR-16 directly targets the 3' untranslated regions (3'UTRs) of CD40, CD80. The mRNAs downregulated following miR-16 overexpression were highly enriched for genes involved in autophagy, vesicle-mediated transport, and the regulation of protein membrane localization. Among these, VTI1B and SMPD1 were confirmed to be direct targets of miR-16. Transient overexpression of miR-16 resulted in a significant reduction in SMPD1 and VTI1B levels in melanoma cell lines. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that miR-16 potentially modulates melanoma tumorigenesis, metastasis and immunogenicity by altering the composition of checkpoint proteins at the immunological synapse and by regulating cellular pathways associated with intracellular trafficking and transmembrane protein presentation.
Avian influenza A virus (IAV) is a major global health threat. Not only does it cause significant economic losses to the agricultural industry, but it also presents a risk of spillover into the human population. However, several obstacles must be overcome for a successful cross-species transmission event to occur. One of these obstacles is the innate immunity of the host. While the innate immune response to IAV in humans has been well-studied, the innate immune response to IAV in birds is not as well understood. Here, we explore the interferon-induced immune response by identifying interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in chicken, quail, and duck cells, and find that they are largely species-specific. Using this data, we performed a CRISPR knockout ISG screen against two strains of IAV, the mouse-adapted PR8, and the low pathogenicity avian IAV isolate WF10. We find that for PR8, IFITM3 is the dominant restrictor of viral replication with several additional hits with modest effects, consistent with previous work in mammals. For avian WF10, IFITM3 was also a hit however there were two additional hits absent for PR8, the HSP70 co-chaperone protein BAG5 and deubiquitinase OTUD4. Overall, these findings confirm the divergence of interferon-mediated immunity between species and establish a screening system that can be used to identify ISGs important for viral restriction in avian species.Wild birds, especially waterfowl and shore birds, are the primary natural reservoir for influenza A viruses. These birds can transmit IAV to domestic poultry, where the spillover risk to humans increases. Chickens are the most common species of domestic poultry world-wide and are frequently infected with avian influenza viruses. Despite this, relatively little is known about how their immune system responds to influenza infection. This lack of knowledge creates a barrier to finding ways of preventing or mitigating IAV infection in chicken flocks. In this study, we characterized the interferon-induced immune response to IAV in chickens and found that only a small subset of ISGs were responsible for restricting IAV in chicken cells.
COG5-related congenital disorder of glycosylation (COG5-CDG) is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder with variable neurologic and ophthalmologic involvement. We report two siblings presenting with optic atrophy, macular atrophy, and neurodevelopmental delay; these three phenotypic manifestations have not, to our knowledge, been combined together in previously described individuals with COG5-CDG. The genetic disorder was only diagnosed through whole genome sequencing (WGS) after panel-based exome testing was unrevealing.Both siblings presented with early-onset severe visual impairment, bilateral optic atrophy, central macular atrophy, sensory nystagmus, and strabismus in the setting of global developmental delay. Additional features included polymicrogyria and hypotonia (Case 1) and microcephaly and autism spectrum disorder (Case 2).After repeated non-diagnostic inherited retinal gene panels, clinical quad WGS identified compound heterozygous variants in COG5 in both siblings: a paternally inherited pathogenic frameshift variant (c.1415dup) and a maternally inherited deep intronic variant (c.417 + 4779A>G) with high SpliceAI-predicted splicing impact. Visual function has remained relatively stable over 5 years of follow-up.These cases expand the phenotypic spectrum of COG5-CDG to include concurrent optic nerve and macular involvement with neurodevelopmental impairment and highlight the essential role of WGS in diagnosing complex neuro-ophthalmologic presentations when targeted genetic testing is nondiagnostic.Copyright © 2026 Granger, Do, Quindipan, Schmidt, Borchert, Nagiel and Chang.
Conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) deficiencies are rare congenital disorders of glycosylation characterized by severe multisystem involvement. Recurrent inflammatory episodes have been reported but remain poorly understood and are likely underrecognized.We describe three patients with COG6 or COG7 deficiency presenting recurrent episodes of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). In parallel, we conducted a systematic review of the literature to assess the frequency and characteristics of inflammatory manifestations in COG deficiency.All three patients experienced recurrent febrile episodes associated with biological features of HLH. In two cases, these episodes were followed by neurological deterioration and onset of epilepsy. Early or prophylactic corticosteroid therapy during febrile episodes appeared to mitigate both the severity and neurological impact of inflammatory flares. The literature review identified recurrent, unexplained, and poorly tolerated febrile episodes in approximately 40% of reported patients. Only one additional case of fully documented HLH was identified. However, multiple reports described partial or suggestive HLH features, supporting the hypothesis that hyperinflammatory manifestations are underdiagnosed in this population.COG deficiencies, especially COG6 and COG7, may be complicated by recurrent and potentially severe hyperinflammatory episodes, including HLH, with significant neurological consequences. These findings suggest a link between glycosylation defects and immune dysregulation. Early recognition and preventive anti-inflammatory strategies are recommended.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tibial dyschondroplasia (TD) is a chronic cartilage disorder commonly found in fast-growing broiler chickens, characterized by impaired tibial development and subsequent growth retardation, which collectively compromise poultry health and production efficiency. Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a class of non-coding RNAs with covalently closed loop structures, have recently garnered increasing attention in biological research. Growing evidence suggests that circRNAs are involved in the fine-tuned regulation of TD in broiler through competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks. However, the role of circRNA in TD pathogenesis via protein-binding mechanisms remains unclear. In our previous study, we identified circCOG6 (circ_0002951), a circular RNA derived from the COG6 gene, as significantly upregulated in a Thiram-induced TD model, indicating its potential critical role in TD onset and progression. In vitro functional assays revealed that overexpression of circCOG6 suppresses proliferation and differentiation of TD chondrocytes and promotes apoptosis. Mechanistically, through AGO2-RIP, RNA pull-down, and RIP experiments, we demonstrated that circCOG6 interacts with activin receptor type-1-like (ACVRL1) to inhibit chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, promote apoptosis, and synergistically enhance BMP/Smad signaling activation, thereby contributing to TD pathogenesis. Furthermore, in vivo studies showed that intra-articular injection of adeno-associated virus carrying shRNA targeting circCOG6 (AAV-sh-circCOG6) alleviates TD lesions in a broiler chicken. In conclusion, this study is the first to elucidate a circRNA-mediated regulatory mechanism in broiler TD via RBP-binding protein interaction, thereby enriching the TD regulatory network and offering a potential therapeutic target for its treatment.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The integrated stress response (ISR) can cause high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) cells to arrest in G1 phase, significantly suppressing their hyperproliferation. Nevertheless, the specific molecular mechanisms of the ISR in HGSOC remain unclear.This study integrated HGSOC- and ISR-related data. Prognostic genes were identified via differential expression, Mendelian randomization, and univariate Cox analyses. The risk model was constructed and evaluated using the risk score. Then, gene set enrichment analysis, drug sensitivity analyses, and single-cell RNA sequencing were used to explore risk model-related mechanisms, and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining were applied to detect prognostic gene expression.Four prognostic genes (NUP35, CASP3, BAG5, and DNAJB1) for HGSOC were identified. Using the risk score to classify patients into high- and low-risk groups, the model accurately predicted patients' prognoses. The PPAR signaling pathway was significantly enriched in both risk groups. The half-maximum inhibition concentration of NPK76-II-72-1 was positively correlated with DNAJB1 expression. Moreover, BAG5 and DNAJB1 expression changed dynamically during epithelial cell differentiation. RT-qPCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that NUP35, CASP3, and BAG5 were upregulated in HGSOC, consistent with the results of Wilcoxon's analysis.This study developed an ISR-associated prognostic model for HGSOC, which could improve patient prognosis.Copyright © 2026 Li, Kong, Cui, Gao, Zhuang, Zhang, Tian and Zhang.
Congenital Disorders of Glycosylation (CDG) are a complex and highly heterogeneous group of rare metabolic disorders characterized by defects in enzymes and transporter proteins crucial for glycosylation pathways, including N-linked, O-linked, and glycolipid glycosylation. To date, over 160 distinct subtypes have been identified. CDG are characterized by significant clinical heterogeneity, which presents substantial challenges for diagnosis, especially in the prenatal setting. While prenatal ultrasound serves as a crucial tool for screening potential cases, the intricate nature of CDG often necessitates the use of advanced techniques such as whole-exome sequencing (WES) to obtain more precise molecular genetic evidence.To investigate the genetic causes of suspected CDG in a Chinese fetus, WES was performed. Subsequently, the detected variants and their origins were validated by Sanger sequencing and classified according to the guidelines of the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics/Association for Molecular Pathology (ACMG/AMP).A non-consanguineous couple had previously experienced fetal hydrops with skeletal dysplasia during midpregnancy. In their subsequent pregnancy, second-trimester ultrasonography again revealed fetal hydrops, a previously unreported complication. Fetal WES revealed two novel heterozygous variants in the COG5 gene (NM_006348.5), namely c.1972del(p.Val658Serfs*23) and c.2168_2168+4delinsCATAAAA. Sanger sequencing confirmed that the c.1972del(p.Val658Serfs*23) variant was paternally inherited, while the c.2168_2168+4delinsCATAAAA variant was maternal inherited. Both variants were classified as likely pathogenic according to the ACMG/AMP guidelines.This study further expands the phenotypic and mutational spectrum of the COG5 gene, enhancing our understanding of COG5-CDG. Clinically, intellectual disability, developmental delay, brain abnormalities, skeletal deformities, microcephaly, short stature, vision abnormalities, and hepatic lesions are crucial diagnostic criteria for COG5-CDG. Other variable phenotypes of COG5-CDG can provide supporting information for prenatal diagnosis. The combined application of prenatal ultrasound and WES enables a more comprehensive and precise diagnosis of COG5-CDG, which will facilitate the implementation of early intervention and treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
BackgroundPhysical exercise shows neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects in Alzheimer's disease (AD) models, but whether it modulates neuroinflammation through regulation of peripheral T-cell activity is still unresolved.ObjectiveThe present study aimed to explore the mechanisms by which aerobic exercise regulates peripheral T cell-mediated immune responses and their potential contribution to neuroinflammation in AD.MethodsMale wild-type mice and APP/PS1 transgenic mice were divided into four groups: wild-type sedentary mice (WT-SE) group, wild-type exercise group (WT-EX), APP/PS1 transgenic AD sedentary mice (AD-SE) group, and APP/PS1 transgenic AD exercise mice (AD-EX) group. The sedentary groups received no exercise training, while the exercise groups underwent a 3-month treadmill aerobic exercise intervention. At the end of the intervention, T lymphocytes were isolated from spleens. Label-free proteomics combined with LC-MS/MS was used to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and perform functional and pathway enrichment analyses. Differentially expressed protein-coding genes were validated at the mRNA level using RT-qPCR.ResultsA total of 3399 proteins were quantified across the four groups. Applying a threshold of |log2 fold change| > 0.67 and q-value < 0.05, 913 DEPs were identified. These DEPs were significantly enriched in biological processes including immune system processes, protein-containing complexes, and structural molecule activity, as well as signaling pathways including AD, TGF-β, and apoptosis.ConclusionsOverall, HSP90AB1, HSP90AA1, BAG5, DNAJC8, CTSD, and ANXA1 may play a role in peripheral T-cell immune dysregulation in AD, with potential implications for central neuroinflammation. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on AD-related peripheral immune alterations, and its potential modulation of neuroinflammation, may be associated with expression changes in DEPs including Ppp2r1b, Pde2a, Casp8, Apaf-1, Dnajb11, and Dnajc13.
The epididymis orchestrates sperm maturation through microenvironmental regulation and epididymosome-mediated cargo delivery. Despite emerging evidence implicating protein S-acylation in vesicular trafficking, its compartment-specific dynamics and functional implications in epididymal physiology remain poorly characterized. Here, we employed acyl-biotin exchange-based 4D proteomics to decode the S-acylation proteomic of porcine caput/cauda epididymidis and their exosomes. Comparative analysis identified 2780 and 2084 S-acylated proteins in caput and cauda tissues, respectively, with 317 upregulated and 579 downregulated S-acylated proteins in cauda versus caput. Functional enrichment revealed S-acylation-dependent regulation of signal transduction, vesicle trafficking, and immune pathways, particularly through lysosomal activity, AMPK signaling, and glutathione metabolism. Exosomal profiling demonstrated conserved S-acylated protein signatures between caput and cauda derived exosomes, with 114 S-acylated proteins shared among caput tissue and both exosomal populations, implicating long-distance transport of caput-specific cargoes. Validation identified 5 caput-enriched S-acylated proteins, including evolutionarily conserved OCLN, CDH1, PDZK1, BAG5, and SCRN1, which were detected in S-acylated forms within caput-derived exosomes and cauda exosomes, but absent in cauda tissue. This study reveals a potential role of S-acylation in mediating exosomal cargo trafficking during porcine epididymis. Our findings advance understanding of post-testicular sperm functionalization and highlight S-acylation as a potential therapeutic target for male infertility. SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides the comprehensive S-acylation proteomic atlas of the porcine epididymis and its exosomes, revealing how this reversible lipid modification spatiotemporally regulates exosome-mediated protein trafficking to support sperm maturation. We demonstrate that S-acylation governs key pathways including vesicle transport, immune regulation, and metabolic signaling in the epididymal microenvironment. Crucially, we identify a cohort of caput-enriched S-acylated proteins that are packaged into exosomes and transported distally to the cauda region, suggesting a previously unrecognized mechanism for long-distance intercellular communication. These findings establish S-acylation as a central regulator of epididymal function and offer molecular insights into post-testicular sperm maturation. The identified S-acylated proteins and associated pathways may serve as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets for male infertility, particularly in cases of defective sperm functionalization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
COG5, a subunit of the conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex, plays a critical role in retrograde trafficking within the Golgi apparatus. Dysfunction of COG5 is associated with various human disorders, yet the underlying pathogenic mechanisms remain poorly understood. To investigate the mechanisms, we conducted proteomic analyses using COG5-deficient and rescue cell models, which revealed a potential link between COG5 dysfunction and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) deficiency. Using COG5-deficient cell models and patient-derived cells harboring COG5 variants, we biochemically validated the involvement of COG5 in mitochondrial OXPHOS, particularly in the regulation of complex I content. These models also exhibited elevated cellular copper levels. Notably, the significant reduction in OXPHOS complexes could be rescued by either restoring COG5 expression or administering a copper chelator. We further demonstrated that excessive cellular copper disrupts the function of mitochondrial iron-sulfur clusters, potentially leading to complex I assembly defects. Additionally, we identified a patient with biallelic COG5 variants presenting with a distinct subtype of mitochondrial disease (Leigh syndrome), a phenotype not previously associated with COG5-related disorders. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the role of COG5, extending beyond its established function in Golgi-mediated glycosylation modifications. Our results underscore the importance of COG5 in mitochondrial function through a copper-dependent pathway, offering new perspectives on its contribution to cellular homeostasis and disease pathogenesis.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Mitochondrial dynamics is a key regulator of cellular homeostasis, orchestrating metabolic reprogramming that fuels tumor progression and treatment resistance. In multiple myeloma (MM), however, the functional relevance of mitochondrial remodeling has not been fully defined. Using ultrastructural analyses, we reveal that MM cells display a highly fragmented mitochondrial network, a phenotype further exacerbated in both cell lines and primary MM cells resistant to proteasome inhibitors. Transcriptomic profiling across multiple patient-derived datasets consistently demonstrated upregulation of DNM1L gene, which encodes the mitochondrial fission GTPase DRP1, particularly in relapsed and refractory MM, and revealed a significant association with inferior overall survival. Disrupting mitochondrial fission, either through genetic targeting of DNM1L or pharmacologic inhibition of DRP1 with the selective small molecule inhibitor Drpitor1a, resulted in pronounced mitochondrial dysfunction, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, and potent anti-myeloma activity in vitro, culminating in a hybrid cell death program with a predominant apoptotic component accompanied by ferroptotic features. These effects were recapitulated in vivo in a bortezomib-resistant xenograft model, where either DNM1L depletion or DRP1 inhibition produced similar outcomes. Mechanistically, the transcription factor c-MYC upregulated DNM1L expression, and DRP1-dependent mitochondrial fragmentation sustained MYC-driven oxidative metabolism and lipid synthesis. Altogether, these findings establish aberrant mitochondrial fission as a pathogenic hallmark of MM and highlight DRP1 inhibition as a promising therapeutic approach, especially for relapsed or refractory disease.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a predominant contributor to low back pain, characterized by nucleus pulposus cell (NPC) senescence, extracellular matrix (ECM) metabolic dysfunction, and chronic inflammation. Excessive mitochondrial fission contributes to IVDD, yet the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Herein, we identified ETS proto-oncogene 1 (ETS1) as a critical regulator of mitochondrial fission in human NPCs. ETS1 was upregulated in severe human IVDD and correlated with disc degeneration severity and NPC senescence. Mechanistically, inflammatory cytokines induced ETS1 upregulation, which directly bound to the dynamin 1-like (DNM1L, encoding DRP1) promoter and activated its transcription. Increased DRP1 triggered excessive mitochondrial fission, leading to reactive oxygen species accumulation, NPC senescence, and ECM catabolism. Inhibition of ETS1 via AAV5-mediated RNA interference or targeting DRP1 with CRISPR/dCas9-KRAB system or Mdivi-1 alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular senescence, ECM degradation, and attenuated IVDD progression. Collectively, our findings revealed the ETS1/DRP1 axis as a novel pathogenic mechanism and a potential therapeutic target in IVDD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Severe proteinopathies-such as retinitis pigmentosa, a form of inherited blindness-are driven by genetic mutations that overwhelm the quality control of the post-endoplasmic reticulum (post-ER) secretory pathway, causing toxic protein accumulation. Here, we identify a therapeutic node defined by a hetero-oligomeric cargo receptor complex consisting of TMED7, 2, 9, and 10. This "entrapment complex" anchors structurally and functionally diverse mutant clients within the early secretory pathway via TMED7 binding to the integral Golgi protein GRASP55. Disruption of the entrapment complex results in the clearance of accumulated protein cargoes. In vivo ablation of the entrapment node via inducible genetic deletion or via the small molecule BRD7635 reverses histopathological hallmarks and rescues functional deficits in clinically distinct proteinopathies of the kidney and the eye, including mitigating vision loss in a mouse model of retinitis pigmentosa.
About one-third of the eukaryotic proteome transits the secretory pathway to reach its correct cellular or extracellular destination. At the earliest stage, transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC) or Golgi apparatus is mediated by coat protein complex II (COPII). COPII coats consist of inner and outer layers formed by Sec23-Sec24 heterodimers and Sec13-Sec31 heterotetramers, respectively, which initially assemble at ER exit sites (ERES) to form transport carriers. Sec23-interacting protein (Sec23IP) links the inner and outer coats through its interactions with both Sec23A and Sec31A, positioning it as a key potential regulator of COPII function. However, the mechanisms controlling Sec23IP activity remain poorly understood. Here, we investigate how physiological stimuli regulate COPII function through the dynamic modification of Sec23IP by O-linked β-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), a reversible, intracellular form of glycosylation. We first validated Sec23IP as a bona fide O-GlcNAcylated protein. Rescue experiments in Sec23IP knockout cells with a nearly unglycosylatable mutant protein demonstrated the essential role of O-GlcNAcylation in the intrinsically disordered domain in protein transport and in recruiting Sec31A to ERES. Moreover, O-GlcNAcylation of Sec23IP increased during protein transport, coinciding with a reduction in its interaction with Sec31A. These results indicate that distinct site-specific O-GlcNAcylation of Sec23IP spatiotemporally modulates its association with Sec31A to fine-tune ERES recruitment and COPII assembly/disassembly. Our work provides new insight into Sec23IP regulation and suggests that O-GlcNAc on other COPII proteins may govern carrier formation, uncoating, and transport.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Qi Huang Granules (QHG), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formulation, have been applied clinically for over two decades to treat dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and associated fundus lesions. Although its retinoprotective effects have been documented, the associated underlying mechanisms are largely unexplored. The present work focused on investigating the therapeutic efficacy of QHG in sodium iodate (NaIO₃)-induced retinal damage, with a particular focus on how the formula regulated the interaction between inflammatory responses and imbalances in mitochondrial dynamics. UPLC-HRMS, network pharmacology, and molecular docking analyses were integrated for identifying mitochondria-associated bioactive constituents and potential targets of QHG. In the experimental model, retinal injury was induced in rats through tail vein injection of NaIO3. Retinal morphological and ultrastructural changes were assessed by HE staining and transmission electron microscopy. To assess mitochondrial function, mitochondrial membrane potential, mtROS levels, and mtDNA integrity were measured. Additionally, ELISA was performed to quantify IL-1β and IL-18 levels. Key marker levels, including p-DRP1, DRP1, OPA1, MFN2, and NLRP3, were determined by Western blotting, IHC, and qRT-PCR. DNM1L (encoding DRP1) and MFN2 were identified as the primary targets of QHG through UPLC-HRMS and computational analyses. In vivo experimental results showed that treatment with QHG alleviated morphological alterations and ultrastructural damage to the retina and mitochondria in model rats. Furthermore, QHG treatment increased mitochondrial membrane potential, reduced mtROS levels, mitigated mtDNA damage, and reduced IL-1β and IL-18 contents. Mechanistically, QHG downregulated p-DRP1, DRP1, and NLRP3, while upregulating MFN2 and OPA1. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that QHG can ameliorate retinal morphology and ultrastructural damage in mitochondria, such as cellular mitochondria, improve mitochondrial function, and attenuate retinal inflammation, thereby exerting a protective effect against NaIO₃-induced retinal injury. The underlying mechanism may involve the mitochondrial dynamics-NLRP3 pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Transmembrane Emp24 Protein Transport Domain 3 (TMED3), a member of the p24 protein family, has been implicated in tumor proliferation, invasion, and migration. This study aimed to evaluate the expression patterns, prognostic significance, immune associations, and potential biological functions of TMED3 across multiple cancer types using pan-cancer bioinformatics analysis combined with immunohistochemical (IHC) validation in colon cancer. Multiomics datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas, Genotype-Tissue Expression, UALCAN, Human Protein Atlas, and cBioPortal databases were analyzed to investigate TMED3 expression and genetic alterations in pan-cancer. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate TMED3 protein expression in colon cancer tissues. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox regression analysis were used to assess the prognostic value of TMED3. Spearman correlation analysis was conducted to evaluate the associations of TMED3 with tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability (MSI), immune cell infiltration, and immune checkpoints. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis was performed to investigate potential biological pathways associated with TMED3 in colon cancer. TMED3 expression was elevated in most tumor types and was associated with unfavorable overall survival and disease-specific survival in adrenocortical carcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, and uveal melanoma. The greatest frequency of TMED3 genetic alterations was identified in mesothelioma, with amplification representing the predominant alteration type. In addition, TMED3 expression showed significant correlations with tumor mutational burden and microsatellite instability in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma, stomach adenocarcinoma, and uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma. TMED3 expression was also associated with immune infiltration and immune checkpoint expression in several tumors. IHC analysis demonstrated increased TMED3 expression in colon cancer tissues compared with normal colon tissues and showed an association with T stage. Functional enrichment analysis identified pathways related to ribosome, antigen processing and presentation, oxidative phosphorylation, and pentose phosphate. These findings indicate that TMED3 may represent a promising biomarker for the diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of colon cancer as well as other tumor types.
Fission is essential for proper mitochondrial function and for cellular homeostasis. Dysfunction in mitochondrial fission is associated with several neurological disorders, including the rare and lethal encephalopathy EMPF1, which is caused by de novo heterozygous DNM1L variants. DNM1L encodes the mitochondrial fission mechanoenzyme DRP1, which can intrinsically self-assemble and induce membrane scission. Wild-type DRP1 puncta that appear throughout the cytoplasm are thought to be pre-scission complexes of well-ordered oligomeric assemblies. Immunofluorescence imaging of patient-derived EMPF1 fibroblasts carrying assembly-deficient DNM1L variants reveals elongated mitochondrial networks consistent with impaired fission. Despite this loss-of-function phenotype, these cells retain essentially wild-type numbers of DRP1 puncta. We confirmed the previously reported inability of purified pathogenic DRP1 variants p.Gly363Asp and p.Gly401Ser to assemble under conditions in which WT DRP1 forms helical polymers. Under macromolecular crowding conditions, however, both wild-type and mutant DRP1 access condensed states whose formation depends on protein concentration and solution conditions. Acute treatment of EMPF1 fibroblasts with 1,6-hexanediol preferentially alters DRP1 puncta fluorescence intensity and distribution in mutant cells relative to wild type, indicating genotype-dependent differences in puncta material properties. Together, these findings support a model in which DRP1 puncta occupy a continuum of condensed states, only a subset of which mature into fission-competent assemblies, revealing biomolecular condensation as a previously unrecognized layer of DRP1 regulation. Biasing DRP1 along this continuum may provide a mechanistic basis for impaired fission in EMPF1 and suggest opportunities to restore productive assembly in select pathogenic contexts.DRP1 puncta associated with mitochondrial fission are thought to be well-ordered oligomeric assemblies that precede membrane scission. Yet their dynamic behavior within cells has remained difficult to reconcile as well-ordered assembly. Under prevailing models, cells bearing pathogenic DNM1L variants impaired in assembly would be expected to lack puncta, but we show these cells retain wild-type puncta levels. We demonstrate that both wild-type and pathogenic mutant DRP1 populate multiple condensed states in vitro , and that disease variants are biased toward more fluid, chemically sensitive assemblies. These findings identify biomolecular condensation as a regulatory layer of DRP1 organization and suggest that shifting DRP1 along this assembly continuum may restore productive fission in select pathogenic contexts.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is upregulated in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) tissues, cell lines, and tumor-conditioned media. Functional studies using LUSC cell lines (H1703, H520) demonstrate that FGF21 promotes cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor sphere formation in vitro. This pro-tumorigenic effect was validated in vivo through xenograft models, where intra-tumoral FGF21 administration accelerated tumor growth. Mechanistically, FGF21 activates calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), which phosphorylates dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1, encoded by DNM1L) at Ser616. Phosphorylated DRP1 translocates to mitochondria, inducing mitochondrial fission. Metabolic analyses revealed that FGF21 remodels cellular energetics in a cell type-specific manner, enhancing glycolysis in H520 cells and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in H1703 cells, consistent with their inherent predominant metabolic states. Knockdown of DRP1 or pharmacological inhibition of CaMKII (KN93) abolished FGF21-driven mitochondrial fission, metabolic reprogramming, and tumor-promoting effects. Collectively, FGF21 acts as a tumor-promoting factor in LUSC by activating the CaMKII/DRP1-Ser616 axis to induce pathological mitochondrial fission and metabolic reprogramming, identifying this pathway as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
C. elegans AGEF-1 , an ortholog of human ARFGEF1 and ARFGEF2, functions with ARF-1 , ARF-5 and the AP-1 clathrin adaptor to regulate membrane trafficking. Similar phenotypes induced by the agef-1 ( vh4 [E1028K]) allele and agef-1 (RNAi) suggested that agef-1 ( vh4 ) was a hypomorph. Here we report that agef-1 ( vh4 ) results in extrusion of yolk from the embryo. This is suppressed by RNAi of agef-1 , arf-1 , arf-5 but not AP-1. Based on structure of the yeast AGEF-1 ortholog, Sec7p, the E1028K change is predicted to activate AGEF-1 . Thus, Arf GTPase cycling is likely required to regulate trafficking with AP-1 but not with Arf effectors regulating yolk trafficking.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
The commercial pork production sector prioritizes genetic improvements in lean meat percentage to enhance profitability and meet consumer preferences. The Pietrain pig, a premier terminal sire breed renowned for its exceptional muscularity and leanness, serves as an ideal model to decipher the genetic underpinnings of these traits. This study investigated two key measures of leanness, backfat thickness and loin muscle depth, in two distinct Pietrain populations to elucidate the genetic architecture underlying these traits. We estimated genetic parameters and performed a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies, identifying ABCD4, LTBP2, NUMB, and SLC30A9 as candidate genes. To further investigate these associations, we integrated information on molecular quantitative trait loci from the PigGTEx project and single-cell transcriptomic resources. This integrative approach prioritized ABCD4 as a key candidate gene regulating backfat thickness. Functional validation in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes revealed a novel dual regulatory role for ABCD4: its knockdown suppressed cell proliferation while simultaneously stimulating adipogenic differentiation, as demonstrated by the upregulation of key markers. Our findings positioned ABCD4 as a critical modulator of fat deposition, likely through its influence on the core adipogenic transcriptional network. By establishing an analytical framework that integrates large-scale sequencing data from Pietrain pigs with functional validation, our study addresses a key gap in understanding the genetic basis of leanness and provides novel insights for precision breeding.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
The stipe of Hypsizygus marmoreus is a low-value byproduct generated during mushroom processing. Reutilization of this agricultural waste as a functional feed additive may provide both economic and environmental benefits for sustainable aquaculture. This study evaluated the effects of dietary H. marmoreus stipe (HMS) supplementation on the growth performance and survival of juvenile Micropterus salmoides and explored the underlying metabolic and transcriptional responses. Juvenile largemouth bass (initial body weight: 1.13 ± 0.05 g) were fed diets containing 0% (HMS0), 5% (HMS5), or 10% (HMS10) HMS for 46 days. HMS supplementation did not significantly affect growth performance but significantly increased survival rate in both HMS5 and HMS10 groups. Widely targeted metabolomic profiling suggested that dietary HMS may drive prominent shifts in the hepatic and gastric metabolic profiles, with potential changes observed in pathways associated with pyrimidine metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and ABC transporters. Hepatic transcriptomic analysis further identified differentially expressed genes enriched in these pathways. Integrated multi-omics analysis indicated potential coordinated associations between key metabolites, including orotic acid, ureidosuccinic acid, LPG (16:1), and Val-Cys, and genes involved in nucleotide metabolism, lipid metabolism, and transporter functions, such as DPYD (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase), NDK (nucleoside diphosphate kinase), ENTP5 (ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 5), NT5D2 (5'-nucleotidase domain containing 2), GPT3L (glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase-like), ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 1), and ABCD4 (ATP-binding cassette subfamily D member 4). In addition, antioxidant enzyme activities were significantly enhanced in the HMS5 group, whereas no further improvement was observed at the 10% supplementation level. Collectively, these findings suggest that dietary HMS supplementation may enhance the survival of largemouth bass via coordinated metabolic regulation and antioxidant responses. This study highlights the potential application of mushroom-processing byproducts as sustainable functional feed ingredients in aquaculture.
Neurogenesis is characterized by dynamic structural changes and functional remodeling of multiple organelles, which interact to form an intricate network that precisely modulates processes including neural progenitor cell self-renewal, neurogenesis, and terminal neuronal development. However, the spatiotemporal dynamics of peroxisomes and their functional contributions within this regulatory network remain incompletely defined during mammalian cortical development. Here, we found that radial glial cells (RGCs) exhibit enriched peroxisome abundance, whereas neural differentiation is associated with reduced peroxisome numbers and increased pexophagy, accompanied by the remodeling of lipid metabolic programs. Acute disruption of peroxisomes by PLAAT3-PEX11 impaired neural differentiation in the embryonic mouse cortex, while PEX7 knockout compromised neurogenic progression in human cortical organoids, supporting a conserved requirement for peroxisomal function during cortical development. Lipidomic and imaging analyses revealed that peroxisome-derived ether lipids were essential for driving neural differentiation and were specifically enriched in mitochondria. Consistently, knockdown of Gnpat, which catalyzes the initial step of ether lipid biosynthesis, reduced neural differentiation, and disrupted mitochondrial structure and function, while batyl alcohol supplementation partially restored these defects. Mechanistically, the ether lipids maintain the structural integrity of mitochondrial cristae and thereby support respiratory chain activity, which in turn promotes oxidative phosphorylation and activates the NAD+ associated signaling. Collectively, this work highlights the precise spatiotemporal regulation of neurogenesis through peroxisomal dynamics and interorganelle crosstalk and identifies ether lipids as a potential therapeutic target for neurodevelopmental disorders.
Homocystinuria is an uncommon metabolic disorder characterized by increased homocysteine concentrations. The condition may arise from mutations in the cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) gene (classic) or in other genes associated with the cobalamin and folate metabolic pathways (non-classic). This study investigated the genetic diversity and clinical outcomes of homocystinuria in an Iranian pediatric population, exploring genotype-phenotype correlations. A multicenter cross-sectional study carried out from January 2024 to August 2025 at three principal referral centers in Iran. A total of 48 pediatric patients diagnosed with homocystinuria and possessing whole-exome sequencing (WES) results were included. Clinical data, including neurological, ocular, and vascular manifestations, were extracted. The majority (52.1%) of patients in the cohort had B12-related homocystinuria, 25% had CBS-related, and 22.9% had B9-related problems. In most patients (93.7%) at least one neurological symptom was identified, with seizures and developmental delay being the most common. Nine patients (18.7%) had ocular symptoms, 7 patients (14.5%) had skeletal symptoms and skin/hair manifestations were seen in 5 patients (10.4%). Classical homocystinuria was associated with significantly elevated plasma homocysteine levels in comparison to non-classical subtypes (p = 0.011). Novel variants were identified in 10 patients (20.8%), affecting MMACHC , ABCD4 (associated with Cobalamin J type), HCFC1 (associated with Cobalamin X type), CBS, TCN2 and MTHFS genes. This study illustrates the genetic diversity and clinical variability of homocystinuria in Iran. The results highlight the clinical importance of regional genetic databases and whole-exome sequencing in the diagnosis and management of this rare metabolic disorder.© 2026. The Author(s).
Peroxisomes, as single-membrane-bound organelles in eukaryotes, are essential for the growth and development of filamentous fungi. The peroxisome RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligases PEX2, PEX10, and PEX12 are crucial for peroxisome biogenesis. In this study, targeted gene knockout technology was employed to investigate the biological functions of AaPex2, AaPex10, and AaPex12 in Alternaria alternata. Phenotypic analysis demonstrated that the deletion of AaPex2, AaPex10, and AaPex12 significantly inhibited growth, sporulation, and infection structure formation. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and qRT-PCR analyses indicated that the absence of these genes disrupted peroxisome structure and impaired the metabolic functions of the organelles. Further investigations revealed that fatty acid utilization was impaired in ΔAaPex2, ΔAaPex10, and ΔAaPex12 mutants, leading to the accumulation of lipid droplets. Additionally, these mutants exhibited reduced hydrogen peroxide levels, impaired superoxide anion scavenging capacity, and dysregulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) related genes. Disruptions in lipid metabolism and redox homeostasis resulted in elevated malondialdehyde levels, enhanced membrane permeability, and downregulation of ergosterol synthesis genes, ultimately compromising cell membrane integrity. Furthermore, the pathogenicity of all three mutant strains was significantly reduced. This study elucidates the mechanisms by which AaPex2, AaPex10, and AaPex12 influence fungal development and pathogenicity through the modulation of peroxisome structure and metabolic functions in A. alternata. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for developing novel control strategies against postharvest pear black spot disease by targeting peroxisomes.Copyright © 2026 British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters represent one of the largest membrane protein superfamilies in vertebrates, playing essential roles in translocating diverse substrates across membranes. However, knowledge of ABC transporter genes in reptiles remains limited. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive genome-wide identification and characterization of the ABC gene family in oviparous Sphenomorphus incognitus and viviparous Sphenomorphus indicus. A total of 45 ABC genes were identified in each species and classified into seven subfamilies (ABCA-ABCG). Comparative and phylogenetic analyses revealed a generally conserved gene repertoire, with limited duplication events observed mainly in the ABCA and ABCG subfamilies, whereas other subfamilies (e.g., ABCE, ABCF, and ABCD) remained highly conserved. Interestingly, a lineage-specific duplication of ABCC2 was identified in lizards. Oviductal expression profiling revealed distinct temporal patterns of ABC gene expression across reproductive stages. Several genes, including ABCG1, ABCC3, and ABCD4, exhibited conserved expression trajectories across both species, suggesting shared transcriptional regulation. In contrast, ABCA1, ABCB1, and ABCG2 showed species-specific expression patterns, indicating regulatory divergence between the two lizard species. Overall, ABC gene expression was more dynamic in S. incognitus than in S. indicus. In summary, although the ABC transporter family is structurally conserved, it exhibits lineage-specific evolutionary changes and divergent transcriptional regulation in lizard oviducts. This study provides a foundation for understanding the diversity and regulation of ABC transporter genes in reptiles.© 2026 International Society of Zoological Sciences, Institute of Zoology/Chinese Academy of Sciences and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA), the most prevalent organic acidemia in China, is an autosomal recessive disorder. Neonatal-onset MMA often presents with non-specific manifestation, often causing diagnostic delays.A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical data, laboratory findings, and genetic information of 45 neonatal-onset MMA patients admitted to the Children's Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University from October 2016 to June 2024.1) Classification: 32 combined MMA, 13 isolated MMA. Median onset: 11 days. Common manifestations: feeding difficulties (60.0%), failure to thrive (57.8%), jaundice (46.7%), respiratory distress (40.0%), impaired consciousness (28.9%). Key labs: hyperammonemia (40.0%), macrocytic anemia (33.3%), granulocytopenia (31.1%). Hydrocephalus occurred in 3/31, abnormal EEGs in 15/19. Elevated C3, C3/C0, methylmalonic acid, and methylcitric acid were diagnostic. 2) Combined MMA had significantly lower methionine, blood ammonia, and C3/C0 vs. isolated MMA. Isolated MMA showed lower leukocyte counts (p < 0.05). 3) Whole-exome sequencing: 31/32 (96.8%) had MMACHC mutations; c.609G>A recurrent (12/31). One had ABCD4 mutation. Isolated MMA: All 13 had MMUT mutations; c.729_730insTT common (46.2%). Missense mutations predominated.Neonatal-onset MMA presents with non-specific clinical phenotypes. Therefore, unexplained feeding difficulties, neutropenia, hyperammonemia, or seizures warrant prompt homocysteine, tandem MS, and urinary organic acid screening. Isolated MMA shows earlier free carnitine decline and higher ammonia. MMACHC c.609G>A and MMUT c.729_730insTT are recurrent in combined and isolated subtypes, respectively.© 2026 Xu, Kang, Yv, Li, Liu and Li.
Correct trafficking of lysosomal transporters is essential for intracellular homeostasis. While most lysosomal membrane proteins are directed to the lysosome via sorting motifs, the cobalamin exporter ABCD4 is distinct, instead relying on LMBD1 as a dedicated chaperone for its trafficking. Dysfunction of either protein causes inherited cobalamin metabolism disorders. Despite its physiological significance, the molecular mechanism underlying this chaperone-dependent trafficking remains unclear. Here, we report the cryo-EM structures of ABCD4 complex with LMBD1 in the lumen-open, substrate-bound and cytosol-open states. LMBD1 contains nine transmembrane-helices (TMs) and a cytosolic domain, both of which engage ABCD4. Cell imaging shows that disruption of these interactions impairs the trafficking of ABCD4 to lysosomes. Structural and biochemical analyses provide insights into cobalamin recognition and reveal conformational states associated with the proposed cobalamin transport cycle. These findings provide molecular insights into cobalamin metabolism and illustrate a chaperone-assisted mechanism that supports proper trafficking of a lysosomal transporter.© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a burgeoning global health burden with limited pharmacological options. Ergothioneine (EGT), a naturally occurring antioxidant, shows potential hepatoprotective effects; however, the exact mechanisms by which EGT regulates lipid metabolism in NAFLD remain elusive.This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic efficacy and potential mechanisms of EGT in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced NAFLD.NAFLD was induced in ApoE-/- mice via a 12-week HFD regimen, with concurrent oral administration of low- (1.7 mg/kg) or high-dose (17 mg/kg) EGT. We integrated in vivo multi-omics profiling with in vitro assays to identify the metabolic pathways modulated by EGT.EGT administration robustly ameliorated HFD-induced hepatic steatosis, liver injury, and dyslipidemia. We identified a critical regulatory axis wherein EGT inhibits phosphatidylethanolamine cytidylyltransferase 2 (PCYT2) expression, thereby dampening the accumulation of pathogenic phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) species. This suppression of PE synthesis acts as a trigger to upregulate acyl-CoA thioesterase 8 (ACOT8), a key enzyme in lipid turnover. Notably, the protective effects of EGT against palmitic acid-induced lipid accumulation were blunted by the PE synthesis inhibitor meclizine, validating the PE-ACOT8 pathway as the primary target of EGT.This study unveils a previously unrecognized mechanism by which EGT alleviates NAFLD: the restoration of the PCYT2/PE/ACOT8 signaling axis. By correcting phospholipid composition to upregulate ACOT8, EGT restores lipid homeostasis, presenting a compelling natural compound-based strategy for NAFLD intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Iron acquisition is important for fungal metabolism, growth, development, and pathogenicity. In response to iron limitation/starvation, filamentous fungi excrete siderophores to chelate iron ions from environment. As an iron responsive transcription factor, HapX was found to be required for the siderophore production in the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana. Comparative transcriptomic analysis indicated that the HapX-mediated transcriptome was significantly associated with metabolism, energy generation, replication and repair, and membrane transport. Significantly, HapX was required for transcriptional activation of siderophore synthesis genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) indicated HapX displayed the binding activity to the promoters of the comprehensive genes in B. bassiana, and FunCat analysis indicated the genes of the highly enriched promoters were over-presented in metabolism, energy, biogenesis of cellular components, and so on. The genes associated with peroxisome included a number of peroxin genes. Further experiments demonstrated that two peroxin genes (pex2 and pex12) were required for the siderophore production in B. bassiana and functioned as the direct targets of HapX. These data suggest that HapX regulates the siderophore production in B. bassiana through transcriptional control of peroxisomal functionality and the siderophore synthesis pathway compartmentalized in this organelle. This study highlights the new insights into the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms involved in the siderophore production of filamentous fungi.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal energy metabolism are important pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates how mitochondrial protease YME1L1 affects mitochondrial function and its upstream regulation in the pathogenesis of AD. The AD model was established by using APP/PS1 transgenic mice, primary neurons treated with Aβ1-42, and HT22 cells. The silencing of YME1L1 was achieved to evaluate its effects on mitochondrial function and OPA1 protein hydrolysis. RIP-qPCR and RNA pull-down test were used to evaluate the interaction between HNRNPC and YME1L1 mRNA. The protein succinylation level was detected by proteomic analysis of succinylation, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to verify the succinylation of HNRNPC. Cognitive ability was tested by behavioral tests, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, object recognition test, and olfactory test. Finally, the therapeutic potential of SIRT5 was studied by an overexpression experiment in an AD model. YME1L1 was significantly upregulated in the AD model, which promoted mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage through OPA1 hydrolysis. HNRNPC enhances the stability of YME1L1 mRNA through an m6A-dependent mechanism, while its own K50 succinylation enhances the stability of HNRNPC by competitively inhibiting TRIM25-mediated ubiquitination, further amplifying the expression of YME1L1. SIRT5 downregulation in AD elevated HNRNPC succinylation levels. SIRT5 overexpression promoted HNRNPC desuccinylation, reduced YME1L1 expression, restored mitochondrial function, and ameliorated Aβ deposition and cognitive deficits in AD mice. The SIRT5-HNRNPC-YME1L1 axis contributes to AD pathogenesis by disrupting OPA1 proteolysis and mitochondrial dynamics. Targeting HNRNPC succinylation represents a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Diabetic erectile dysfunction (DMED) is a prevalent complication of diabetes mellitus, with mitochondrial dysfunction playing a central pathogenic role. Current treatments inadequately address these subcellular pathological mechanisms. This study aimed to develop a mitochondria-targeted nanotherapeutic platform for efficient optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) protein delivery to restore mitochondrial homeostasis in cavernous tissue. A triphenylphosphonium (TPP)-functionalized Fe3O4-ferric tannic acid (FeTA) nanocarrier was synthesized and loaded with recombinant human OPA1 to form Fe3O4-FeTA-TPP-OPA1 (OFFT). OFFT nanoparticles exhibited a spherical morphology, a hydrodynamic diameter of 285.00 ± 6.36 nm, and an OPA1 loading content of 0.69%. OFFT showed pH-responsive OPA1 release, with cumulative release reaching 71.27 ± 3.42% at pH 5.5 versus 60.64 ± 0.20% at pH 7.4 within 72 h, and retained intrinsic superoxide dismutase/catalase-like activities. In high glucose-treated mouse Schwann cells, OFFT efficiently targeted mitochondria, restored cell viability from 52.87 ± 1.48% to 87.46 ± 1.60%, reduced apoptosis from 68.73 ± 1.94% to 51.25 ± 0.95%, suppressed reactive oxygen species, increased the JC-1 red/green fluorescence ratio from 25.20 ± 0.96 to 80.09 ± 2.53, and normalized mitochondrial fusion-fission balance. In DMED rats, OFFT treatment (15 mg/kg every 48 h for 8 weeks) increased the intracavernosal pressure/mean arterial pressure (ICP/MAP) ratio from 0.24 ± 0.05 to 0.45 ± 0.05, alleviated cavernosal fibrosis, enhanced local antioxidant capacity, and normalized mitochondrial dynamics-related protein expression. Collectively, the OFFT nanoplatform enables mitochondria-targeted OPA1 delivery, effectively restores mitochondrial homeostasis, and ameliorates DMED. This work presents a promising organelle-targeted protein delivery strategy for treating diabetic complications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cellular biochemistry arises from various interactions between macromolecules, including proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids. These make up membrane-bound organelles, membrane-less compartments, and molecular assemblies and scaffolds. Changes due to stimuli or disease can significantly impact cell fate and metabolism. We recently reported our protocol combining crosslinking and size exclusion chromatography with mass spectrometry (SEC-MS). In this study, we explore global changes to subcellular structure in Ewing sarcoma cell lines or in response to drug treatment. Crosslinking-dependent differential enrichment across four human cell lines is seen for proteins involved in splicing, mitochondria function, and cell division. We confirmed changes to nucleoli structure. We also examine structures affected by a transcription inhibitor, flavopiridol. Following flavopiridol treatment, we observed changes to the levels of transcription and mRNA processing machinery present in large subcellular structures. Unexpected effects were also found, including structural changes to a cytoplasmic organelle, the peroxisome. Along with a reduction in peroxisome function, dissociation of peroxisome pore proteins PEX13 and PEX14 was detected by STORM microscopy. We conclude that SEC-MS combined with crosslinking is a valuable method to detect and quantify drug or disease effects on subcellular structures and may shed light on new aspects to mechanisms underlying their biologic outcomes.
This study aims to investigate the action mechanism and target molecules of the ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix in improving renal tissue injury in rats with diabetic kidney disease(DKD) from the perspective of mitochondrial function. Ten SPF-grade male Wistar rats were selected as the control group, while 40 rats were fed a high-fat and high-sugar diet for four weeks followed by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin(STZ) 35 mg·kg~(-1) to establish the DKD model. The successfully modeled rats were then randomly divided into four groups: the model group, the canagliflozin group, the Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix aqueous decoction group, and the ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix group, with ten rats per group. All groups were administered via gavage for eight weeks. Renal function was assessed through 24 h urinary total protein(24-UTP) and biochemical parameters. HE staining, TUNEL staining, and transmission electron microscope were used to observe pathological morphological changes, apoptosis, and the status of intracellular organelles in cells. ELISA and Western blot were employed to measure adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content and the expression of mitochondrial function-related proteins, including optic atrophy 1(OPA1), mitofusin 2(Mfn2), dynamin-related protein 1(Drp1), ubiquitin-binding protein P62(P62), B-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2 interacting protein1(Beclin-1), and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax) in renal tissue. The results show that, compared to those in the control group, the rats in the model group exhibit a significant decrease in body weight(P&lt;0.01), along with elevated levels of blood glucose, 24-UTP, blood urea nitrogen(BUN), and serum creatinine(Scr)(P&lt;0.01). Renal tubular dilation, vacuolar changes in renal tissue cells, and a significant increase in apoptosis rate(P&lt;0.01) are observed, accompanied by mitochondrial swelling, cristae disappearance, and rupture. ATP levels in renal tissue are significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01), while the protein expressions of OPA1, Mfn2, Drp1, Beclin-1, and Bax are significantly increased(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01). The expression levels of P62 and Bcl-2 are significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01). Compared to those in the model group, the rats in the ultrafiltration membrane extract group show an upward trend in body weight, with reductions in 24-UTP, BUN, and Scr levels(P&lt;0.01). Renal tubular dilation and glomerular cell vacuolation are alleviated, and the apoptosis rate of renal tissue cells is significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01). Mitochondria exhibit mild swelling but remain largely intact. ATP levels in renal tissue are significantly increased(P&lt;0.01), while the expressions of OPA1, Mfn2, Drp1, Beclin-1, and Bax are significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01). The expression of Bcl-2 is significantly increased(P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix may attenuate renal tissue injury and delay disease progression in DKD rats by restoring mitochondrial dynamics, controlling mitochondrial fission-fusion balance, and improving mitochondrial function.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) triggers secondary pathological processes, including inflammation, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction, that contribute to progressive neuronal damage. Because mitochondria play a central role in cellular homeostasis, mitochondrial impairment is considered an important component of SCI pathophysiology. We investigated the effects of exenatide, a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist, on mitochondrial dysfunction after SCI using a rat contusion model and C6 glioma cells. Exenatide was associated with increased OPA1 expression and enhanced Drp1 phosphorylation at Ser637, suggesting a shift in mitochondrial dynamics toward fusion-dominant regulation. Exenatide also tended to increase the expression of Bcl-2, HO-1, and p62. In vitro, exenatide attenuated H2O2- and CCCP-induced reductions in cell viability, preserved mitochondrial membrane potential, and reduced the proportion of dead cells. These findings suggest that exenatide may mitigate secondary injury after SCI in association with mitochondrial protective responses.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Mary Ann Liebert (NY), LLC.
During primordial germ cell (PGC) specification, repression of somatic programs is essential for the establishment of germline identity. However, mechanisms that safeguard PGC fate thereafter remain unknown. Here, we identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM37 as a critical safeguard of PGC fate during migration. Trim37 deficiency causes severe PGC defects beginning at embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) with complete PGC depletion by E12.5, and leads to an aberrant transition toward somatic cell states. Mechanistically, TRIM37 binds TRIM28 through its MATH domain and ubiquitinates TRIM28 via its RING domain, enhancing the TRIM37-TRIM28 interaction and promoting the nuclear retention of TRIM37. Forced nuclear export of TRIM37 results in PGC loss. Moreover, disruption of TRIM37 ligase activity or mutation of TRIM28 ubiquitination sites compromises PGC maintenance. We further show that the TRIM37-TRIM28 complex, likely acting in cooperation with AP2γ, restricts chromatin accessibility and H3K27ac levels at somatic gene loci, thereby repressing somatic transcriptional programs in PGCs. Together, our findings uncover a TRIM37-TRIM28-AP2γ regulatory complex that safeguards germ cell fate by preventing the activation of somatic transcriptional programs during PGC migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ubiquitination is an essential posttranslational modification in eukaryotes, which plays a fundamental role in numerous important biological functions. However, the role of ubiquitination in the evolution of adaptive traits in insects remains poorly understood. Here, we reveal the role of ubiquitination in insecticide resistance and its associated fitness cost in the whitefly pest, Bemisia tabaci. We identify the RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM37 in B. tabaci and show its promotion of ubiquitination in vivo and in vitro. We further demonstrate that this ligase binds to other ubiquitin enzymes as part of the E1-1/E2-3/TRIM37 ubiquitination cascade, negatively regulating the transcription factor CREB by marking it for degradation. CREB, in turn, positively regulates the insecticide resistance gene CYP6CM1 while negatively regulating the key oogenesis gene Vasa. Downregulation of TRIM37 in neonicotinoid-resistant B. tabaci strains enhances insecticide detoxification via CYP6CM1 upregulation, but concurrently incurs a reproductive fitness cost due to downstream Vasa suppression. Our findings advance understanding of the insect ubiquitination system and its role in adaptive processes, while offering insights for sustainable pest control strategies.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is frequently complicated by systemic manifestations, including hepatic dysfunction, largely due to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. This study investigated the hepatoprotective effects of eplerenone, a selective aldosterone receptor antagonist, in a rat model of renal I/R.Male Wistar rats (n=24) were randomly divided into four groups: sham, I/R, eplerenone+I/R, and eplerenone alone. A single intraperitoneal dose of eplerenone (100 mg/kg) was administered one hour before ischemia induction. Hepatic injury was evaluated by histopathology, liver function enzymes (ALT, AST, ALP), oxidative stress parameters, sirtuins, and key mitochondrial and apoptotic signaling proteins.Renal I/R resulted in significant hepatic injury, characterized by histological alterations, increased liver enzymes, oxidative stress, and activation of inflammatory and apoptotic pathways. Pretreatment with eplerenone markedly improved hepatic outcomes by lowering ALT, AST, and ALP levels, preserving liver morphology, suppressing NF-κB and caspase-3 expression, and enhancing antioxidant and mitochondrial protective mechanisms, particularly through Nrf2 and Sirt-3/PGC-1α/Opa-1 pathways. The results indicated that eplerenone administration significantly improved liver function and histology following kidney I/R injury. Caspase-3 and NF-κB levels were downregulated following eplerenone administration. It also elevated the antioxidant capacity and protein levels of Nrf-2, HSP-70 (P<0.001), mitochondrial biogenesis factor (PGC-1α), sirtuin-1 (P<0.05), and dynamics factor (Opa-1, P<0.001), while decreasing Drp-1 levels (P<0.05) in the liver after kidney I/R injury.Eplerenone demonstrated strong hepatoprotective effects against renal I/R-induced liver injury. Its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and mitochondria-stabilizing actions highlight its potential as a therapeutic agent for preventing hepatic dysfunction associated with AKI and underline the importance of targeting distant organ injury in acute renal pathophysiology.© 2026 The Author (s).
Large-scale mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions cripple oxidative phosphorylation once they exceed a critical heteroplasmy threshold, causing incurable mitochondrial pathologies. Using a genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screen in an engineered human cell line carrying a large-scale mtDNA deletion at high heteroplasmy, we identified mitochondrial transcription termination factor 1 (MTERF1) as a suppressor of the heteroplasmy burden. Loss of MTERF1 restored mitochondrial function and increased cellular proliferation in cells with a mtDNA deletion burden exceeding the pathogenic threshold, without altering heteroplasmy or mtDNA copy number. MTERF1 binds wild-type and deletion-bearing mitochondrial genomes indiscriminately at a site downstream of the ribosomal RNA genes and curbs transcription. Relieving this constraint broadly increased OXPHOS transcripts, thereby eliciting more respiratory output from the residual wild-type genomes. Notably, the buffering effect of MTERF1 loss extended beyond mtDNA deletions. In a counter-screen, MTERF1 loss could also restore respiratory growth in cells depleted of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes such as OPA1 and COX5A . Together, these findings indicate that by relieving a transcriptional constraint, MTERF1 loss compensates for reduced genome dosage, defining a strategy to enhance residual mitochondrial function in mtDNA deletion disorders and related conditions.
The effect of thyroid hormones (TH) on metabolism and energy balance relies on their impact on lipid storage in adipose tissue (AT). Since peroxisomes play a key role in lipid metabolism in white AT, hypothyroidism may critically influence peroxisome population/dynamics. This study aimed to determine depot- and time-dependent effects of methimazole-induced hypothyroidism on peroxisome biogenesis and remodeling in rat white AT. Hypothyroidism was induced using 0.04% methimazole over 7, 15, or 21 days. We show that hypothyroidism affects peroxisome biogenesis in subcutaneous AT (SAT) and visceral AT (VAT) (mesenteric-mVAT, retroperitoneal-rVAT and gonadal-gVAT) in a depot-specific manner. Firstly, although a gradual increase in peroxisomal number is present in all of the AT depots examined, the time course differs. Secondly, according to ultrastructural and protein expression analyses of Pex11β, Pex19, and PPARα, biogenesis pathways are switching from canonical to de novo pathway in hypothyroidism, again distinctively across particular depots. Furthermore, this is accompanied by the emergence of unusual peroxisomal structures (pexopodium) infiltrating lipid bodies in VAT. The absence of acyl-coenzyme A oxidase 1 (ACOX1) suggests that such structures may develop as a consequence of uncoordinated oxidation of accumulated fatty acids in VAT. The presence of pexopodium was increased from day 15 of hypothyroidism in mVAT. However, this increase was transient in rVAT and gVAT, indicating different peroxisomal dynamics between VAT depots during the monitored period of induction. Pexopodium-like structures were not observed in SAT. Our results identify peroxisomal remodeling as a previously underappreciated component of adipose tissue plasticity in hypothyroidism. Discrete temporal and depot-specific responses, including the formation of pexopodia in VAT, underscore the functional heterogeneity of white AT depots and suggest that peroxisomal dynamics may contribute to regional metabolic vulnerability under thyroid hormone deficiency over the time.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42469918 is a review article
Host-pathogen interactions are shaped by cellular restriction factors that direct antiviral defenses. We built the first ovine genome-wide CRISPR knockout library in sheep testis (OA3.Ts) cells, targeting all protein-coding genes. Using this platform, we identified PEX11B, a peroxisomal membrane regulatory protein, as a strong restriction factor against orf virus (ORFV) infection. Removing PEX11B increased viral susceptibility and triggered severe cytopathic effects with membrane fusion and syncytia formation. Mechanistic studies showed that PEX11B knockout harmed peroxisomal integrity and disrupted lipid metabolism. This led to greater plasma membrane fluidity, creating a proviral environment that allowed more viral entry and replication. These results reveal a new antiviral function for PEX11B in blocking viral infection and underscore the importance of peroxisomal regulation in host-virus interactions.Copyright: © 2026 Gao et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The kidney is an organ rich in peroxisomes, which play a pivotal role in fatty acid oxidation and ROS decomposition. Importantly, peroxisomal dysfunction contributes to the development and progression of various renal diseases. Therefore, we aimed to elucidate whether peroxisomes affect renal damage and fibrosis over time using a unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) mouse model.Expression levels of peroxisome-related factors and ROS- and hypoxia-related genes in UUO mice were measured in a time-dependent manner.UUO led to renal damage and fibrosis progression over time; it significantly increased the protein expression levels of ATG5 and ATG7, while it decreased PMP70 and PEX14 protein expression. In particular, UUO increased the protein expression level of pexophagy receptor NBR1. Although the number of peroxisomes decreased, the protein expression levels of peroxisomal biogenesis-related proteins such as PEX11b, PEX16, and PEX19 remained constant. Decreased lipid metabolism due to reductions in ACOX1, DBP, and catalase caused by UUO and increased ROS production through peroxisomal degradation and mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme dysfunction were observed. Additionally, HIF-1α protein levels gradually increased in the UUO mice, whereas those of HIF-2α initially increased and then decreased.UUO is characterized by a progressive, chronological reduction in peroxisomal markers. Our findings indicate that peroxisomal degradation and associated metabolic dysfunction are tightly correlated with the progression of kidney injury and fibrosis, suggesting a potential involvement of compromised peroxisomal homeostasis in renal pathogenesis rather than proving a direct causal mechanism. Maintaining peroxisomal quality control may nevertheless represent a potential therapeutic avenue for chronic kidney disease.
Sepsis, is a life-threatening syndrome triggered by infection. Bile acid metabolism may be involved in the pathogenesis of sepsis, the underlying association has not yet been elucidated. Thus, we aimed to screen for bile acid metabolism-related biomarkers of sepsis and discover the potential association.Sepsis-related datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and bile acid metabolism-related differentially expressed genes (BAMRDEGs), then identified hub genes using protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis and CytoHubba algorithm. After GO/KEGG enrichment analysis, a sepsis risk prediction model based on key genes was subsequently constructed using support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) machine learning and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression. CIBERSORTx analysis was performed to assess immune cell infiltration and its association with key genes. Finally, the transcriptional levels of key genes in sepsis samples were detected by Quantitative Real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).9785 DEGs were identified, including 5138 upregulated and 4647 downregulated genes. Additionally, 25 hub genes were identified. Gene enrichment analysis indicated that the hub genes participate in multiple biological pathways. Key genes (ABCC2, PECR, EPHX2, PEX2, and AGXT) exert central roles in the development of sepsis, indicating the involvement of bile acid metabolism. Significant correlations existed between the expression of key BAMRDEGs and the levels of different immune cell types. qRT-PCR suggested significant up-regulation on ABCC2 and AGXT in sepsis samples versus controls.This study revealed novel insights into the correlation between sepsis and bile acid metabolism, and identified 5 key genes involved in the development of sepsis, providing molecular targets and novel strategies for the diagnosis and treatment of sepsis.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To determine whether boys with VUS detected through Newborn screening (NBS) for Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) develop adrenal insufficiency (aiALD) and cerebral ALD (cALD) at rates comparable to those with pathogenic variants, and to evaluate the relationship between C26:0-lysophosphatidylcholine (C26:0-LPC) levels and clinical outcomes.We conducted a retrospective multicenter cohort study (2013-2025) across six US centers, including 201 males identified through NBS in 19 states. Variants were classified as pathogenic (n=65), likely pathogenic (n=45), or VUS (n=88). Primary outcomes were development of aiALD and cALD; secondary outcomes included C26:0-LPC levels. Statistical analyses included Kaplan-Meier, mixed-effects regression, and Cox models.201 males with ABCD1 variants identified through NBS for ALD. Median age at last follow-up was 4.2 years (IQR 2.5-7.9). Overall, 26% developed aiALD (54% pathogenic, 16% likely pathogenic, 11% VUS), and 8% developed cALD (11%, 9%, and 4.5%, respectively). Pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants were associated with higher odds of aiALD than VUS (OR 5.8; 95% CI 2.16-15.58; p=0.001). At 150 months, 39% of individuals with pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants remained free of aiALD versus 85% with VUS. C26:0-LPC levels were higher in pathogenic variants and correlated with genotype (p=0.0006). Higher levels were associated with increased aiALD risk and earlier onset (HR 1.38 per 0.1 µmol/L; 95% CI 1.20-1.59; p<0.0001).Boys with VUS had lower rates of aiALD and lower C26:0-LPC levels than those with pathogenic variants, although some developed disease. C26:0-LPC correlates with genotype and risk, supporting its role in variant classification and risk-stratified surveillance.Newborn screening for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy has increased identification of variants of uncertain significance, accounting for up to 50% of screen-positive cases in some states. These are often associated with borderline biomarker levels, and their natural history remains poorly understood.Screen-positive individuals with VUS had substantially lower rates of disease onset than those with pathogenic variants. Newborn biomarker levels also correlated with variant pathogenicity and disease onset, which may aid future variant classification and risk stratification.
Penicillium expansum is the main pathogen causing postharvest decay of apples, resulting in economic losses during fruit storage. Meanwhile, patulin, a highly toxic secondary metabolite produced by the pathogen, poses a significant threat to food safety. Investigating its pathogenic molecular mechanisms can provide theoretical support for disease control. To elucidate the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of the key pathogenic gene PeBgl1, this study screened transcriptome data to identify the bZIP family transcription factor PebZIP7 (PEX2_056,300) with a gene expression pattern similar to PeBgl1. Using yeast one-hybrid, dual-luciferase reporter gene, and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) experiments, it was verified both in vivo and in vitro that PebZIP7 can specifically bind to the PeBgl1 promoter and positively regulate its expression. Gene knockout tests showed that after PebZIP7 was deleted, the pathogenicity of P. expansum toward apples was significantly weakened, and both the fruit decay rate and decay diameter were lower than those of the wild-type strain and the complemented strain. Further functional analysis revealed that PebZIP7 can positively regulate the sporulation capacity of the strain while specifically negatively regulating the strain's tolerance to low temperature, cell membrane stress, and oxidative stress. This study clarifies the biological functions of PebZIP7 in P. expansum infection, growth and development, and stress responses, enriches the research on transcriptional regulation in P. expansum, and provides a reference and candidate target for the green control of postharvest blue mold in apples.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Barth Syndrome (BTHS) is an inherited mitochondrial cardiomyopathy caused by variants in the gene encoding TAFAZZIN (Taz), a transacylase catalyzing the synthesis of the essential mitochondrial phospholipid cardiolipin (CL). Although defects in Taz deteriorate mitochondrial respiration, Ca2+-uptake, and redox regulation in cardiac myocytes, we previously observed an unexpected lack of oxidative cardiac damage, despite the development of cardiomyopathy in a BTHS mouse model with Taz-knockdown (KD). Furthermore, we revealed that the integrated stress response (ISR) governs metabolic rewiring in Taz-KD hearts to compensate for deficient mitochondrial FAO and to support GSH production. Here, we interrogated whether adaptive mechanisms in peroxisomes, which are closely associated with mitochondria and harbor antioxidative enzymes, can also compensate for the mitochondrial defects. We identified alterations in the peroxisomal biogenesis factors PEX14 and PEX19, indicating changes in the peroxisomal proteome in Taz-KD vs. WT hearts. While the enzymes of peroxisomal FAO were unchanged, levels of Lon Protease 2 (LONP2) and catalase were elevated in Taz-KD hearts. Inhibition or siRNA-mediated knockdown of catalase increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and blunted the protection of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) with Taz-knockout (KO), but not in WT, from ROS-induced activation of the apoptotic caspase 3. Furthermore, we observed that the increase in plasmalogen synthesis in cardiac Taz-KD peroxisomes contributes to the activation of the ISR, since siRNA-mediated knockdown of the key enzyme GNPAT blunted the ISR and thereby increased cellular ROS in Taz-KO, but not WT MEFs. In conclusion, peroxisomes facilitate a counterregulatory response to dysfunctional mitochondria by activating a catalase-driven ROS defense and maintaining ISR-mediated metabolic alterations, both of which compensate for mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. Therefore, the so far poorly investigated mitochondrial-peroxisome crosstalk may represent a novel therapeutic target in an orphan disease with a poor prognosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The co-occurrence of hemophilia A and X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) represents an exceptionally rare clinical scenario. Both the F8 and ABCD1 genes are situated at the Xq28 locus, a gene-dense region where independent pathogenic variants may co-segregate due to low recombination rates and the presence of mutational hotspots. We report a rare co-occurrence of distinct pathogenic variants in both genes in the same patient.A 12-year-old male with FVIII deficiency (hemophilia A), caused by a heterozygous c.3652delG variant in the F8 gene, presented with cutaneous hyperpigmentation, progressive cognitive decline, and behavioral issues including irritability and impulsivity. A first brain MRI revealed a leukodystrophic pattern over the posterior regions. Electroencephalogram revealed brief and sudden episodes of impaired consciousness associated with generalized epileptiform discharges consistent with absence seizures treated with lamotrigine. Given the presence of hyperpigmentation, adrenal function was tested revealing primary adrenal insufficiency. Adrenal autoantibodies were negative. Very-long-chain fatty acids were elevated, and molecular analysis revealed a pathogenic variant c.1978C>T in the ABCD1 gene, thus leading to a definitive diagnosis of cerebral ALD. Due to the severity and extent of MRI lesions at diagnosis (Loes score = 14), the patient was not eligible for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation; he received hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone replacement and supportive nutritional therapy. At last follow-up visit at 15 years of age, he presented with severe cognitive impairment, psychiatric issues, insomnia, neurological pyramidal signs, drug-resistant generalized epilepsy, and a Loes score of 23 at brain MRI.This case highlights the genetic vulnerability of the Xq28 locus and the possible co-occurrence of hemophilia A and ALD. Physicians should maintain a high index of clinical suspicion for ALD in males with known FVIII deficiency and cognitive signs or concomitant hyperpigmentation as early diagnosis is vital for life-saving therapeutic interventions.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
A deficiency of fatty acid oxidation (FAO) is the key hallmark in renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs) under high-altitude hypoxia (HH), reflecting their physiological reliance on FAO as a major energy source. The resulting lipid accumulation is likely to promote lipotoxicity-induced pathological injury in renal tissue. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying HH-induced renal lipotoxic injury remain poorly understood. This study identifies hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α (HNF4α) as a key regulator of lipid metabolism. HNF4α expression in kidney tissues was significantly downregulated after HH exposure. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis revealed that HNF4α directly binds to and regulates the transcription of the Acyl-CoA Oxidase 1 (ACOX1), a key gene involved in FAO, in the kidney of hypoxia- exposed rats. Further functional studies indicated that lentivirus-mediated overexpression of HNF4α significantly alleviated hypoxia-induced lipid accumulation and the decrease in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, while effectively inhibiting cell apoptosis. In contrast, knockdown of HNF4α markedly aggravated cellular lipotoxicity, as evidenced by increased intracellular lipid accumulation, reduced ATP levels, and enhanced apoptosis. Mechanistically, HNF4α directly activates ACOX1 transcription and modulates Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase1A (CPT1A) expression, thereby enhancing FAO capacity. This leads to reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, improved mitochondrial membrane potential, and promoted ATP synthesis, ultimately mitigating hypoxia-related cellular injury. Overall, our findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for HNF4α in maintaining lipid homeostasis in TECs under hypoxic conditions and provide novel mechanism and target for HH-associated kidney injury.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
TMEM135 has been implicated in lipid metabolism, but its role in regulating hepatic lipid homeostasis remains unclear. Here, we investigated how TMEM135 affects hepatic lipid metabolism using Tmem135 mutant mice with liver-specific Pex5 deletion. The Tmem135 mutation induced a lipogenic state characterized by depletion of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), activation of SREBP-dependent pathways, and increased monounsaturated fatty acids without causing hepatic steatosis. In contrast, loss of PEX5-dependent peroxisomal function in Tmem135 mutant mice resulted in marked hepatic lipid accumulation, indicating that peroxisomal metabolism buffers the elevated lipogenic state. Fish oil supplementation to Tmem135 mutant mice restored DHA levels and suppressed lipogenesis. Proteomics identified distinct DHA-sensitive metabolic programs, including activation of SREBP-dependent lipogenesis. Quantitative malonyl-proteomics revealed increased malonylation of glycolytic enzymes, accompanied by altered glycolytic output. Together, these findings identify TMEM135 as a central regulator of hepatic lipid metabolism and uncover a coordinated mechanism linking lipid availability, lipogenesis, and post-translational metabolic regulation.Tmem135 mutation induces a lipogenic state with increased lipolysis without hepatic steatosis. PEX5-dependent peroxisomal function buffers lipid accumulation in Tmem135 mutant liver. Fish oil supplementation restores DHA and suppresses SREBP-dependent lipogenesis in Tmem135 mutants. DHA-sensitive protein malonylation targets glycolytic enzymes in Tmem135 mutant liver.
Background: MASLD is a disorder linked to lipid metabolism and obesity, increasingly prevalent among sedentary people and leading to hepatic fibrosis. Cyclodipeptides (CDPs) have promising anti-obesogenic and liver-protective potential. Methods: CDP treatment was evaluated in a chronic MASLD model using female Wistar rats fed an obesogenic diet, with assessments of insulin resistance, glucose tolerance, liver damage, oxidative stress, and the expression of genes related to metabolic function. Results: MASLD CDP-treated rats showed low visceral adipose tissue (VAT) content, improved insulin responsiveness and glucose tolerance, reduced steatosis, and reversed oxidant stress and the NRF2, GPX1, and GCLC expression. Furthermore, MASLD-related dysregulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism was restored, including vLDL transport (MTTP, APOB, and RASAL2), β-oxidation (PPAR-α, ACOX1, and FOXO1), lipogenesis (ACC1 and SREBP 1C), and fatty acid transport (PSD3 and CD36). In accordance, genes of key signaling pathways were also restored, including mTOR, TSC1, and TSC2, along with fibrosis and inflammation TGF-β, Fas, NF-κB, and IL-6. In VAT of MASLD animals, crown-like structures and adiposity density were diminished by CDP treatment, with increased expression of genes associated with beige-like adipose tissue remodeling, including PGC-1α, UCP1, NRF1, ATP6v1, CEBP-α, COX4i1, PPARγ, and CS. Consistently, the UCP1 and PGC-1α protein expression was increased in the VAT of MASLD animals treated with CDPs. Conclusions: The anti-MASLD effects of CDPs were associated with reversal of key pathogenic markers in the liver and VAT, suggesting remodeling of white adipose tissue (WAT) toward a beige-like adipose tissue phenotype. The findings suggest that CDPs may modulate adipose tissue structure and adipogenesis, underscoring their therapeutic relevance for MASLD.
This study investigated the potential effects of Bellamya purificata polysaccharide (BPP) supplementation in feed on Cherax quadricarinatus, aiming to elucidate its impact on immune function and the underlying regulatory mechanisms. A 60-day feeding trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of varying dietary BPP concentrations (0‱, 2‱, 4‱, 6‱, and 8‱) on growth performance, histopathology, immune function, and transcriptomic profiles of C. quadricarinatus. Dietary BPP significantly increased the final body length and body weight of C. quadricarinatus. Furthermore, BPP inclusion improved the histological damage of hepatopancreatic tissues, alleviated physiological stress, and enhanced antioxidant capacity, antibacterial activity, and anti-inflammatory function, as evidenced by alterations in relevant enzyme activities and gene expression levels. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 957 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were predominantly enriched in GO terms and KEGG pathways associated with BPP-mediated immune regulation, such as the PPAR signaling pathway, peroxisome, steroid hormone biosynthesis, and lysosome. In addition, 14 candidate genes were identified, including Acox3, ACOX1, SCP2, and PPT1. Integrated analysis of GO, KEGG, and Short Time-Series Expression Miner (STEM) data supported the development of a mechanistic model illustrating how C. quadricarinatus modulates immune function in response to BPP supplementation. RT-qPCR validation confirmed the accuracy and reliability of the high-throughput sequencing results. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential of BPP as a functional feed additive in aquaculture and provide novel insights into disease prevention strategies for the C. quadricarinatus farming industry.
To characterize and compare the distribution of peroxisomal markers in the right dorsal colon (RDC) and left ventral colon (LVC) of healthy horses and horses treated with NSAIDs.Archived colonic tissues were evaluated from 10 horses (n = 5/group) administered phenylbutazone (4.4 mg/kg, PO, twice daily for 10 days) or placebo prior to euthanasia. Samples from the RDC and LVC were analyzed using immunofluorescence to assess peroxisomal biogenesis factor 14 (PEX14) and acyl-coenzyme A oxidase 1 (ACOX1) distribution. Marker abundance was quantified within colonic crypts and compared by region, crypt axis (tip, mid, base), and treatment group.In control horses, no differences in PEX14 or ACOX1 distribution were detected between the RDC and LVC. The ACOX1 fluorescence area per cell was greater at the crypt tip than the base in both regions, whereas PEX14 distribution did not differ along the crypt axis. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug administration was not associated with differences in PEX14 distribution in either region. In NSAID-treated horses, ACOX1 area per cell at the crypt tip was greater in the RDC than the LVC (mean difference, 1.66 μ2/nuclei; 95% CI, 0.35 to 2.97).Peroxisomal marker distribution did not differ between the RDC and LVC in healthy horses. In NSAID-treated horses, ACOX1 per cell was greater at the crypt tip in the RDC, suggesting a region-specific response to NSAIDs.Region-specific differences in peroxisomal-associated pathways may contribute to the susceptibility of the RDC to NSAID-induced injury and warrant further investigation into underlying mechanisms and prevention strategies.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of vision loss and is associated with reduced nuclear retinoid X receptor (RXR) activity. Retinal explants exposed to high glucose showed downregulation of RXR, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR), and liver X receptor-β and their lipid metabolism targets (Abca1, Scd1, and Acox1). Supplementation with the RXR agonist UAB126 restored nuclear receptor signaling and preferentially activated RXR/PPAR heterodimers. We evaluated UAB126 microparticles (UAB126-MP), a sustained-release RXR agonist formulation, for pharmacokinetic, molecular, and functional effects in db/db mouse retinas. A single intravitreal injection of UAB126-MP provided extended drug exposure for up to 6 months and increased retinal RXRα expression. Functionally, UAB126-MP preserved scotopic and photopic electroretinographic responses at 2 months and sustained cone photoreceptor function at 6 months. However, it did not reduce acellular capillaries. At 6 months, immunostaining and flow cytometry revealed decreased retinal macrophage/microglial infiltration and reduced CD45-positive myeloid cells and monocytes. These findings indicate that RXR agonism supports neuronal protection and immune modulation but does not prevent vasodegeneration, suggesting primarily neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions. Collectively, UAB126-MP confers durable retinal protection through nuclear receptor-mediated pathways, underscoring its potential as a long-acting therapeutic strategy for DR.High glucose exposure of retinal explants reduces expression of nuclear receptors retinoid X receptor (RXR), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor, and liver X receptor-β, and treatment with UAB126 increases the formation of RXR-peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor heterodimers. Sustained release of UAB126-loaded microparticles enables intravitreal drug delivery for up to 6 months. Intravitreal UAB126 microparticles injection in diabetic mice confers long-term neuroprotection and anti-inflammatory benefits. RXR-targeted therapy represents a promising approach strategy for managing diabetic retinopathy.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young (MODY) remains an underdiagnosed condition with remarkable genetic variability across populations. While diagnostic tools are based on Caucasian cohorts, Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) studies are needed to identify new genes in non-Caucasians, as up to 77% of patients do not harbor variants of significance in MODY-known genes. No WES studies have addressed the genomic landscape of MODY beyond its canonical genes in Latino populations. We aimed to characterize the genomic landscape of MODY through WES in a Mexican cohort, comparing cases with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients and healthy controls (HC).WES was performed in 17 patients with MODY, 17 with T2DM and 17 HC. We compared the single nucleotide variant landscape across groups in MODY-known genes and searched for genetic variants with differential enrichment across groups.MODY genes used for routine diagnosis showed low discrimination utility, as patients with MODY, T2DM and HC harbored genetic variants in MODY-known genes at similar frequencies in most cases. We found 14 genes with variants capable of distinguishing MODY from T2DM and HC. Variants in genes such as MAP2K3, SYT15, KCNJ12, PEX5, and TPTE were found in 75-100% of MODY cases while absent in T2DM and HC. Enrichment analysis revealed involvement in synaptic vesicle trafficking, insulin/IGF pathway-mitogen activated protein kinase kinase/MAPK, and insulin/IGF pathway-protein kinase B/AKT signaling.MODY presents a complex genetic architecture in the Mexican population. Besides improving our understanding of glycemic regulation pathways, identified genes may serve as diagnostic biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 Moscona-Nissan, Marrero-Rodríguez, Andonegui-Elguera, Luna-Ávila, Martínez-Mendoza, Vela-Patiño, Ramírez-Ramos, Hinojosa-Alvarez, Hernandez-Perez, Chavez-Santoscoy, Mercado-Medrez, León-Wu, De Miguel-Ibáñez, Mercado, Taniguchi-Ponciano and Ferreira-Hermosillo.
Cisplatin is a standard chemotherapeutic agent widely used for the treatment of common solid tumors; however, its dose-dependent nephrotoxicity severely limits its clinical application. Currently, effective and specific strategies for preventing or reversing cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity remain limited. Fenofibrate, a clinically used selective PPARα agonist, has shown renoprotective effects in multiple kidney injury models. This study investigated whether fenofibrate attenuates cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats and explored the underlying mechanisms. Our results showed that cisplatin significantly induces renal injury, along with renal oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial dynamics imbalance, as well as impaired fatty acid oxidation. However, fenofibrate treatment significantly reduced cisplatin-induced elevations in serum BUN and SCr levels, decreased NGAL and Kim1 expression, and ameliorated renal histopathological damage. Mechanistically, fenofibrate restored mitochondrial homeostasis in the kidney by downregulating Drp1 and upregulating Mfn1, Mfn2, and OPA1. It also alleviated renal oxidative stress, as evidenced by increased GSH and SOD levels and decreased MDA levels, and inhibited renal apoptosis by reducing the expression of Bax and Cleaved Caspase3 while increasing Bcl2 expression. Furthermore, fenofibrate activated the AMPK/PGC-1α/PPARα pathway, suppressed the aberrant upregulation of the fatty acid transporters CD36 and FATP4, and restored the expression of key fatty acid oxidation-related enzymes, including CPT1A, CPT2, and ACOX1. Taken together, these findings suggest that fenofibrate protects against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity by restoring mitochondrial dynamics and improving renal fatty acid oxidation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Excessive lipid accumulation impairs digestion and gastrointestinal function. Transmembrane protein 135 (TMEM135) is involved in lipid metabolism of various tissues. Here, TMEM135 deficiency increased intestinal lipid absorption through ELOVL6-dependent oleoylethanolamide production and subsequent activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), which upregulated CD36 at the plasma membrane in the intestine of mice fed a high-fat diet or lard oil. Despite this enhanced lipid uptake, long-term lipid accumulation was suppressed by elevated peroxisomal and mitochondrial β-oxidation through increased fatty acid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation activities without chylomicron secretion in TMEM135-depleted intestine. Inhibition of PPARα or ELOVL6 attenuated these effects. Furthermore, consistent results were observed in both TMEM135 KO and intestine-specific TMEM135iKO mice, confirming tissue-specific rather than systemic effects. Overall, these results provide insight into the role of TMEM135 as a regulatory node connecting intestinal lipid absorption and systemic energy expenditure, contributing to the coordination between lipid storage and oxidation during metabolic adaptation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica is an outstanding chassis for producing high-value chemicals. Its highly active β-oxidation pathway generates a substantial pool of acetyl-CoA within peroxisomes; however, this abundant reservoir remains largely underutilized. Here, we developed a peroxisomal surface-display platform in Y. lipolytica, enabling enhanced biosynthesis of acetyl-CoA-derived chemicals. We first identified three peroxisomal membrane-targeting signals, derived from Pex3, Pex22, and Pex26 for protein display on the cytosolic face of the peroxisome. By anchoring the carnitine acetyl-CoA transferase Cat2 via these membrane-targeting signals, peroxisomal acetyl-CoA was redirected to the cytosol, increasing acetyl-CoA level and mevalonate production up to 2.4-fold and 2.9-fold, respectively. Further engineering improved squalene titers by 47% to 1.62 g/L. The same platform applied to 3-hydroxypropionic acid biosynthesis improved its production by 22% to 12.85 g/L. Our study establishes a peroxisomal surface display platform for harnessing subcellular acetyl-CoA and provides a versatile toolkit for subcellular engineering in Y. lipolytica.
Recent evidence indicates that mitochondria, through the activity of the E3 Ub ligase MARCH5, are critical for de novo peroxisome biogenesis. Here we report that peroxisome biogenesis factor Pex26 is a MARCH5 client protein. In peroxisome-containing cells, MARCH5 interacts with Pex26 and facilitates the transfer of newly synthesized Pex26 from the OMM to peroxisomes. MARCH5 also controls peroxisomal delivery of other candidate peroxins in peroxisome-containing cells. On the other hand, in peroxisome-deficient cells, the turnover rate of Pex26 is dramatically increased, and MARCH5 targets this protein for p97-dependent proteasomal degradation. Both activities are mediated by MARCH5-dependent Pex26 ubiquitination. Knockout of Pex26 induces the accumulation of cells containing Tom20-positive, Catalase-deficient pre-peroxisomes. Further supporting the critical role of MARCH5 in peroxisome biogenesis, these structures are absent in Pex26/MARCH5 double knockout cells. The data support the model, where in peroxisome-containing cells, MARCH5 acts as a peroxisome biogenesis factor, while with defective peroxisome biogenesis, as in Zellweger syndrome cells, it protects mitochondria from potentially toxic accumulation of peroxins on the OMM.
Breast cancer has become the main cause threatening women's health. RNA editing is one of the most important mechanisms for modifying genetic information. This study explained the relationship between A-to-I RNA edited miR-3664-5p and malignant phenotype of breast cancer. The results showed that high editing level of miR-3664-5p in breast cancer, which was related to tumor stage, recurrence and prognosis of breast cancer patients. ADAR perturbation experiments demonstrated that ADAR1 is the key enzyme regulating miR-3664-5p editing in breast cancer. A series of in vitro assays revealed that miR-3664-5p functioned as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer, but ed-miR-3664-5p promoted breast cancer development. Mechanically, dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed that ed-miR-3664-5p directly targets LONP2, yet wt-miR-3664-5p loss this binding site. ChIP assay proved that PKM2 was enriched in the transcriptional regulatory region of LONP2 gene. Seahorse XFe analysis showed that LONP2 knockdown strengthened glycolysis in breast cancer. Xenograft assay also demonstrated that edited miR-3664-5p affected glycolysis in breast cancer through the regulation of LONP2. In conclusion, A-to-I RNA editing endows miR-3664-5p with carcinogenicity in breast cancer through modulating LONP2 mediated glycolysis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Heimler syndrome is an ultra-rare autosomal recessive disorder belonging to the spectrum of peroxisomal disorders. Heimler syndrome is characterized by sensorineural hearing loss, retinal dystrophy and dental anomalies. It is caused by hypomorphic mutations in peroxisomal biogenesis genes, namely PEX1, PEX6, PEX26, and PEX10. Fewer than 30 cases have been reported to date.We report the case of a male infant born at 36 weeks of gestation with congenital bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, confirmed by abnormal auditory brainstem responses and managed with early bilateral cochlear implantation. Poor visual behavior led to ophthalmologic evaluation, which revealed a "salt-and-pepper" appearance of the peripheral retina and markedly attenuated retinal vessels. Full-field electroretinogram (ffERG) responses were severely reduced and optical coherence tomography revealed abnormal retinal layering. Whole-exome sequencing in trio identified two novel compound heterozygous variants in PEX26.This case broadens the phenotypic and genotypic spectrum of peroxisome biogenesis disorder linked with PEX26, manifesting as Heimler syndrome. The discovery of two novel PEX26 variants contributes to the mutational landscape of peroxisomal biogenesis disorders and underscores the diagnostic value of early ophthalmologic and genetic screening in children with congenital hearing loss.
Pex14 is a membrane peroxin that plays a central role in matrix protein import by mediating the docking of the cytosolic receptor Pex5, which delivers cargo harboring a peroxisome targeting signal 1. We previously reported the crystal structure of the conserved N-terminal domain of Pex14, which harbors the primary binding site for Pex5. However, the mechanistic contribution of this domain to the import process, particularly regarding its membrane orientation, remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of the AAA+ ATPase peroxin Pex6 in regulating the membrane topology of the Pex14 N-terminal domain. By a combination of immunofluorescence microscopy and protease protection assays, we show that the orientation of the Pex14 N terminus is dynamically modulated in an ATP- and ubiquitination-dependent topological remodeling. Under normal culture conditions, the N-terminal domain of Pex14 is oriented toward the peroxisomal lumen. Deficiency of Pex6 or its membrane-recruiting partner Pex26, as well as pharmacological inhibition of AAA+ ATPases, resulted in a marked topological remodeling, exposing the Pex14 N terminus to the cytoplasm. Conversely, inhibition of ubiquitin activation using MLN-7243 prevented this reorientation, likely by blocking Pex5 ubiquitination and its subsequent extraction from the membrane. These findings support a model in which Pex14 undergoes reversible, ATP-dependent topological remodeling during Pex5 recycling, functioning as a molecular reset mechanism for the docking-translocation complex. Our study reveals an additional mechanism of regulation in peroxisomal protein import and highlights the coordinated roles of Pex6 and Pex5 ubiquitination in maintaining the structural organization of the translocation machinery.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is the most prevalent malignancy among women, and the steadily increasing disease burden has garnered considerable global attention. Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are critical in the initiation and progression of BC. This study aimed to elucidate the associations between diverse PTMs and the prognosis of patients with BC. We collected genes associated with multiple PTMs and evaluated the activity of each PTM using GSVA. We aggregated PTM scores to derive the PTMS and identified differentially expressed genes between the high- and low-PTMS groups. A PTM-related gene signature (PTMRS) was developed based on the optimal combination among 117 machine learning models, and its predictive performance was benchmarked against other published signatures. In addition, we investigated the associations between PTMRS, tumor immunity, and treatment response. Gene expression across different cell types was evaluated using single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses. Gene expression levels in cancerous and paired adjacent noncancerous tissues were validated by PCR. The results of GSVA showed that most of the PTMs were dysregulated in cancer. Tumor immunity levels were elevated in the low-PTMS group compared with the high-PTMS group. The PTMRS comprised five genes: SLC27A2, TNFRSF17, PEX5L, FUT3, and COL17A1. The predictive performance of the PTMRS exceeded that of the clinical profile and 14 other published gene signatures. Patients in the high-PTMRS group exhibited poorer prognosis and reduced anti-tumor immunoreactivity. In addition, patients in the low-PTMRS group showed improved responses to chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors. Spatial transcriptomics analysis revealed that SLC27A2 exhibited higher expression in malignant spots, whereas COL17A1 and TNFRSF17 showed lower expression in malignant spots. SLC27A2 mRNA expression was elevated in tumor tissues relative to adjacent noncancerous tissues, whereas the mRNA expression levels of the other four genes were decreased. This study reveals the important role of PTMs in BC prognosis and provides new perspectives for the prognostic assessment of BC patients as well as personalized treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
The present study aimed to explore runs of homozygosity (ROH), Heterozygosity Enriched Regions (HER) using the sliding window approach in both PLINK and detectRUNS, as well as the consecutive SNP approach in detectRUNS and their association with important economic traits. Genomic inbreeding coefficient based on ROH and heterosis coefficient based on HER were also estimated among crossbred (n = 81) by using GGP_HDv3_C genotyping assay. Total ROH varied from around 600 in the sliding window approach and almost double in the Consecutive SNP approach of detectRUNS. Similarly, the HER are 756 in the sliding window and 771 in the Consecutive SNP method. The mean inbreeding coefficient range varied in different approaches, i.e., 0.016-0.022 is observed based on ROH (Froh), and the heterosis coefficient based on HER (Frohet) is 0.0019. Top ROH and HER regions contain important genes related to dairy (EHHADH, CACNA1C, MICALL1, EIF3L, GTPBP1, SYNGR1, ATF4, GRAP2, FAM83F, ACO2), immunity (LIPH, TMEM41A, PEX26, CDC42EPI, CXXC5, PSD2, PURA, CYSTM1, RNF14), growth and carcass (MAGEF1, TGS1, LYN, CHCHD7, FAM110B, SDCBP, SH3BP1, GGA1, TRIOBP, PICK1, MAFF, TOMM22, MGAT3, TNRC6B, ADSL, EP300, SMDT1, MATR3) traits. These findings may provide valuable insights into the understanding of genome-wide homozygosity and heterozygosity patterns and genetic architecture of the Pakistani crossbred cattle.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
YTHDF3 expression is up-regulated in sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE), yet its precise function remains to be fully elucidated. This study aims to investigate the role of YTHDF3 in microglial pyroptosis during SAE and to explore its upstream and downstream regulatory mechanisms.Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced SAE models were established in mice and primary microglia for the assessment of YTHDF3 and pyroptosis levels. Downstream targets of YTHDF3 were identified through RNA sequencing and RNA immunoprecipitation. Ultimately, chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR (ChIP-qPCR) was utilized to confirm H3K18la enrichment at the YTHDF3 promoter.In both in vitro and in vivo models of SAE, YTHDF3 expression was significantly upregulated. Crucially, YTHDF3 knockdown effectively attenuated NLRP3-mediated microglial pyroptosis, thereby alleviating neuroinflammation and restoring cognitive function in SAE mice. Mechanistically, Usp9x acted as a direct downstream target of YTHDF3 to mediate the deubiquitination of NLRP3, which in turn augmented microglial pyroptosis in SAE. Furthermore, the transcriptional upregulation of YTHDF3 was promoted by H3K18la enrichment at its promoter. Inhibition of the lactylation-driven YTHDF3/Usp9x/NLRP3 signaling axis attenuates microglial pyroptosis and ameliorates cognitive dysfunction in SAE models.Lactylation-driven YTHDF3 promotes microglial pyroptosis and cognitive impairment in SAE by targeting the Usp9x/NLRP3 axis. Our findings highlight this axis as a potential therapeutic target for SAE.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Osteoarthritis (OA) lacks approved disease-modifying therapies. Here, by integrating quantitative proteomics with reanalysis of public single-cell RNA sequencing data from human articular cartilage, we identify thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) as a pathogenic regulator linking inflammatory stress to metabolic rewiring and matrix breakdown. TK1 is markedly upregulated in OA chondrocytes. Mechanistically, IL-1β enhances S-palmitoylation of TK1 at Cys153, which promotes USP9X-dependent deubiquitination and prevents proteasomal degradation, leading to TK1 accumulation. Stabilized TK1 acts as a scaffold to potentiate JNK signaling, increase PRMT1 and PFKFB3 expression, drive excessive glycolysis, and accelerate extracellular matrix catabolism. Conversely, the depalmitoylase PPT1 destabilizes TK1 and restrains glycolytic activation. Based on this mechanism, we developed a cell-penetrating interfering peptide, Depalm-WT, which disrupts the TK1-JNK interaction, promotes TK1 depalmitoylation and degradation, and suppresses downstream catabolic responses. In preclinical OA models, Depalm-WT attenuated cartilage degeneration and disease progression. These findings define a palmitoylation-stabilized TK1-JNK-glycolysis axis in OA and support targeted TK1 destabilization as a potential therapeutic strategy.
Oocytes rely on a cohort of proteins whose sustained expression ensures normal meiotic progression and reproductive competence throughout an animal's reproductive life. Age-related declines in these proteins are a major cause of reduced oocyte quality and female fertility during reproductive aging. Here, we report that the cohesin regulatory protein PDS5B, a dynamically maintained factor in oocytes, declines with age and plays a noncanonical role in the spindle pole formation independent of its cohesion function during oocyte meiotic maturation. Specifically, we found that PDS5B was expressed throughout the oocyte meiosis and localized at the spindle poles at metaphase stages, while its protein abundance was reduced in aged oocytes, concomitant with decreased messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels and translational efficiency. Knockdown or heterozygous knockout of PDS5B caused spindle assembly defects, meiotic arrest, and aneuploidy in oocytes, ultimately leading to female subfertility. Mechanistically, immunoprecipitation/mass spectrometry analyses revealed that PDS5B recruited deubiquitinating enzyme USP9X to spindle poles to stabilize nuclear mitotic apparatus and promote proper spindle assembly. Moreover, expression of exogenous PDS5B in aged oocytes partially alleviated meiotic defects associated with advanced maternal age. Altogether, our findings uncover a unique spindle pole-specific function of PDS5B in oocytes and suggest that maintaining PDS5B levels may be a potential strategy to improve the quality of aged oocytes.
The persistent threat of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) to the global swine industry is compounded by high neonatal piglet mortality and the absence of effective antiviral therapies. Host-directed strategies that reinforce immunity offer a promising avenue to counter viral immune evasion. Through screening of an FDA-approved compound library, we identify the small-molecule cyclocytidine hydrochloride (Cyclo-C) as a potent inhibitor of PEDV replication that acts by stabilizing the peroxisomal biogenesis factor PEX13, a previously unrecognized host restriction factor. The antiviral activity of Cyclo-C is strictly PEX13-dependent, as it is completely abrogated in PEX13 knockout cells. Mechanistically, Cyclo-C disrupts the interaction between PEX13 and the viral nonstructural protein 8 (NSP8), thereby preventing NSP8-mediated PEX13 degradation and the subsequent induction of PI3K/AKT/mTOR-driven pexophagy. Preservation of peroxisomal integrity stabilizes the peroxisome-localized pool of MAVS, leading to a robust enhancement of type III interferon (IFN-III) responses that suppress viral replication. Critically, this mechanism translates in vivo, where Cyclo-C treatment of PEDV-challenged piglets significantly reduces mortality, lowers viral loads, and protects intestinal villus architecture. Our findings establish Cyclo-C as a first-in-class host-directed therapeutic candidate and validate the concept that pharmacological preservation of peroxisome-mediated innate immunity represents an effective antiviral strategy against enteric coronaviruses.The high genetic variability of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) limits current vaccine efficacy, and no antiviral therapeutics exist. Host-directed therapies targeting cellular pathways that viruses exploit for immune evasion offer an alternative approach. Here, we identify the FDA-approved compound Cyclo-C as a potent inhibitor of PEDV replication. Cyclo-C acts by stabilizing PEX13, a host protein that the virus degrades to evade immunity. By blocking viral protein NSP8 from binding PEX13, Cyclo-C prevents virus-induced pexophagy, thereby preserving peroxisomal integrity. This preserves peroxisome-localized MAVS and enhances type III interferon responses. In infected neonatal piglets, Cyclo-C reduced mortality and viral loads while protecting intestinal integrity. This study provides proof of concept that targeting peroxisomal immune regulation is a viable antiviral strategy and identifies Cyclo-C as a promising candidate for treating PEDV infection.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42464700 is a review article
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the predominant histological subtype of kidney cancer, characterized by a paucity of therapeutic targets and a dismal prognosis in advanced stages. Although family with sequence similarity 49 member B (FAM49B) has been implicated in tumor progression with context-dependent roles, its function in ccRCC remains undefined. Herein, we elucidated the expression profile and regulatory mechanisms of FAM49B by utilizing integrated bioinformatics, molecular biology, and proteomic approaches. Analysis of TCGA and CPTAC data sets revealed a significantly upregulated FAM49B protein in ccRCC tissues that positively correlated with pathological grade, while the mRNA level was unchanged. Mechanistically, FAM49B undergoes proteasomal degradation, whereas the deubiquitinating enzyme USP9X directly binds to and stabilizes FAM49B. Pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of USP9X notably reduces FAM49B protein abundance without altering its transcription. Quantitative proteomic and affinity mass spectrometry identified ATP1B1 as a critical downstream effector of FAM49B. Western blotting (WB) analysis verified that silencing FAM49B downregulated ATP1B1 in ccRCC cells, while coimmunoprecipitation assays established their direct physical interaction. Consistent with FAM49B expression profiles, ATP1B1 protein levels were elevated in high-grade ccRCC specimens. Collectively, these findings delineate a USP9X-FAM49B-ATP1B1 signaling axis that drives ccRCC progression, representing a promising diagnostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is a matter of great global public health importance; however, its current therapeutic effectiveness is deemed inadequate, and the range of therapeutic targets is limited. This study aimed to explore the efficacy of Bosutinib (BOS) in HCC and the underlying molecular mechanism.Bioinformatic analysis, machine learning, and online databases were used for screening targets and molecular docking studies. The mRNA level of mammalian polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) was identified via real-time quantitative PCR. The protein expression of PLK1, PTK2, and USP9X was detected using western blot. Cell viability, apoptosis, and migration were evaluated by MTT, flow cytometry, and transwell assay. The angiogenesis capacity was determined using tube formation assay. The glucose consumption, lactate production, and ATP/ADP ratios were analysed using commercial kits. CO-IP assay was used to confirm the interaction between PLK1 and USP9X. A mouse model was used for exploring BOS in vivo. Immunochemistry was used to examine PLK1 and USP9X expression in tumours.This study illustrated that BOS inhibited proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and glycolysis of HCC cells. Bioinformatic analysis and machine learning identified PLK1 as a core gene related to the glycolysis of HCC. PLK1 was upregulated in HCC and correlated with an unfavourable prognosis. Further evaluation showed that the anti-tumour effects of BOS were impaired by PLK1 overexpression. In addition, BOS treatment inhibited PLK1 protein level, while its mRNA level was not affected. Moreover, Bosutinib inhibited USP9X to reduce the deubiquitination of PLK1. CO-IP assay indicated that reduced USP9X could enhance the ubiquitination of PLK1 and reduce protein stability. Finally, BOS showed anti-tumour effects in a mouse model.This study revealed that BOS inhibited cell proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and glycolysis via suppressing USP9X, thus reducing deubiquitination of PLK1 in HCC, demonstrating the potential of BOS for the treatment of HCC.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
The liver plays a major role in regulating the metabolic fate of lipids and facilitates lipid secretion to peripheral organs in the form of VLDLs or lipid storage in lipid droplets (LDs). Hepatic regulation of excess lipids profoundly influences the development of atherosclerosis; thus, uncovering the regulatory mechanisms underlying lipid storage and secretion pathways may reveal additional therapeutic targets. In this issue of the JCI, Lu et al. identified a pathway involving SEC16B, showing that this protein functions as a lipid-responsive regulator and mediates VLDL secretion and LD formation to maintain lipid homeostasis. They also demonstrated that a reduction in SEC16B reduced serum lipid levels and atherosclerotic plaque area in Ldlr-/- mice. These results indicate that SEC16B connects VLDL and LD metabolism, positioning SEC16B as a potential therapeutic avenue for atherosclerosis.
The co-occurrence of thyroid cancer (TC) and breast cancer (BC) has attracted much attention in recent years. The aim of the study was to explore the potential molecular mechanisms in the comorbidity of TC and BC. We identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) for TC and BC using the TCGA database and screened the common driver genes for the comorbidity of TC and BC. Immunohistochemical staining was performed to verify the expression of the common gene (USP9X) in double primary cancers (co-occurrence of TC and BC). Migration, invasion and colony formation assays were used to evaluate the role of USP9X in TC and BC cells in vitro. In the present study, we confirmed 8 driver genes shared by TC and BC through bioinformatics analysis. In samples with co-occurring TC and BC, USP9X immunoreactivity was detected in 100% (14/14) TC and 100% (14/14) BC samples. Interfering with USP9X expression could inhibit the colony formation, migration and invasion abilities of TC and BC cells. Protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed USP9X/MCL-1 and USP9X/NUAK1 might be molecular pathways involved in the comorbidity of TC and BC. Our findings suggest that USP9X overexpression is a molecular event involved in the comorbidity of TC and BC and it could be a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Patient mutations within Drp1, the master regulator of mitochondrial fission, lead to severe neurological defects and poor patient outcomes. Many of these mutations have been characterized as causing functional or assembly defects in Drp1, but our study highlights three mutations (G362S, E379K, E410K) that do not have an apparent defect in core Drp1 functions. We investigated the possibility that these mutations impact interactions with Mff, a pro-fission partner protein of Drp1. Negative stain electron microscopy and mass photometry were used to visualize and quantify assembly properties, while GTPase assays assessed the enzymatic activities of distinct proteins and protein complexes. In parallel, confocal microscopy highlighted the effects of overexpressing each mutation on mitochondrial morphology in cells. We discovered that G362S and E410K Drp1 mutations limit interactions with Mff, as co-assembly into larger filaments and the associated stimulation of GTPase activity was inhibited. Conversely, the E379K mutation is able to form functional complexes with Mff, and no apparent defect was observed, warranting additional studies focused on unique mitochondrial fission attributes. Overall, our data highlight the complex nature of disease-associated mutations in Drp1 and emphasize the importance of Drp1-Mff interactions in sustaining mitochondrial and cellular health.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a major microvascular complication of diabetes. The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA) liraglutide exerts renoprotective effects beyond glucose control; however, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. The protective effects and mechanisms of liraglutide were investigated using in vitro (HK-2 cells under glucolipotoxic conditions) and in vivo (DKD rat) models. Key molecular and functional assessments included the evaluation of oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial function (dynamics (MFN1, MFN2, FIS1, and DRP1), mitophagy (PINK1, PARKIN, LC3II/I, and P62), and ultrastructure), and histone acetylation (H3K9/14/18/27ac). The critical role of the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway was validated using pharmacological inhibition and genetic silencing (shRNA/AAV). Both in vitro and in vivo, a multifaceted injury phenotype, including oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction, and histone hyperacetylation, was induced, accompanied by downregulation of the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway. Disruption of this pathway further exacerbated these injuries. Conversely, liraglutide treatment effectively counteracted this phenotype, improving metabolic parameters (blood glucose, blood insulin, and blood lipids), renal function (blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio) and histopathology. Liraglutide attenuated oxidative stress and apoptosis, restored mitochondrial function and mitophagy, and reduced histone hyperacetylation. These protective effects were consistently associated with the restoration of NQO1/SIRT3 expression. Genetic or pharmacological disruption of the NQO1/SIRT3 axis significantly attenuated the efficacy of liraglutide, and combined inhibition completely abolished its effects. Our findings demonstrate that liraglutide attenuates DKD by activating the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway, which coordinates the enhancement of mitochondrial function and the restoration of epigenetic homeostasis. This study revealed that the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway is a critical mechanistic mediator of the renoprotective effect of liraglutide.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive dopaminergic neuron loss and motor and non-motor impairments. Mitochondrial dysfunction and altered post-translational modifications, including SUMOylation, have emerged as key mechanisms in PD pathogenesis. Here, we investigated global SUMOylation changes in in vivo and in vitro PD models induced by MPTP and MPP+, respectively. Intranasal MPTP administration in rats induced region- and time-dependent changes in Ubc9 and SENP3 across the olfactory bulb, prefrontal cortex, striatum, and hippocampus. In primary cortical neurons, MPP+ reduced SUMO-2/3 conjugation, Ubc9 and SENP3 levels, along with the mitochondrial fission proteins Drp1 and Mff. Notably, SENP3 showed opposite regulation in vivo and in vitro, highlighting model-specific SUMOylation responses to neurotoxic stress. These findings suggest that context-dependent alterations in SUMOylation and mitochondrial dynamics contribute to PD pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vibration-based sensing systems for deployed industrial fault diagnosis often face incremental fault classes, changing degradation stages, and limited permission to retain historical sensor streams. Static fault classifiers are therefore insufficient for online maintenance settings in which a model must learn new sensor-observed states while preserving previous diagnostic knowledge under a bounded memory budget. This paper proposes ASBR-CL, an adaptive stage-aware balanced replay framework for continual fault diagnosis under a fixed exemplar-memory budget. ASBR-CL combines dataset-adaptive exemplar memory, balanced replay between current data and retained exemplars, and a conditional validation checkpoint module that is enabled only when it improves balanced stage recognition. Experiments on SEU-enhanced92, the 92-dimensional feature construction for SEU, and XJTU-bearing23, the 23-dimensional feature construction for XJTU-SY, compare ASBR-CL with DGGN/MFF same-backbone continual-learning baselines and XJTU imbalance-aware variants under five random seeds and K=100 training exemplars. On SEU, the selected ASBR-CL setting reports 97.49±1.18 Average Accuracy, 90.37±4.53 Final Accuracy, 90.37±4.53 Macro Recall, and 11.50±5.25 Average Forgetting. On XJTU, the conservative ASBR-CL-BoundedVal-K100 setting is not a universal Final Accuracy winner: DGGN-ER reaches a slightly higher Final Accuracy (89.52±2.68 versus 89.05±2.48). The ASBR-CL evidence instead lies in balanced recognition and retention, with Macro Recall 75.00±2.00, Macro-F1 67.66±3.83, and Average Forgetting 20.39±4.89, compared with DGGN-ER at 63.94±7.50, 55.48±12.82, and 41.11±13.61. Additional validation-resource, RMS-derived stage-definition, and imbalance-aware baseline analyses show that the revised XJTU claim should be framed as more stable Macro Recall, Macro-F1, and forgetting control under memory-limited continual diagnosis, not as superiority on every accuracy metric.
Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) shows neuroprotective potential in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (CIR) injury, but its variable efficacy suggests that the underlying cellular mechanisms remain incompletely defined. We previously showed that HBO suppresses microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation after CIR injury in a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent manner; yet, how ROS couples to this effect remains unclear. Since mitochondria regulate ROS and inflammasome signaling, we investigated whether HBO modulates microglial mitochondrial dynamics in CIR injury. In adult male ICR mice (n = 71, 8-12 weeks) subjected to 60 min middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 24 h reperfusion, HBO improved neurological function, reduced infarct area, and decreased ASC-positive microglia/macrophages. In lipopolysaccharide/nigericin-stimulated primary microglia, HBO suppressed IL-1β release, reduced mitochondrial fragmentation, preserved mitochondrial membrane potential, maintained mitofusin 2 (MFN2) protein level, and reduced DRP1 Ser616 phosphorylation without altering total DRP1 or FIS1 expression. MitoTEMPOL abolished HBO-mediated protection against mitochondrial fragmentation, MFN2 reduction, and DRP1 Ser616 phosphorylation in vitro. Edaravone, when combined with HBO, attenuated HBO-mediated neuroprotection and counteracted HBO-induced regulation of MFN2 and DRP1 Ser616 phosphorylation in vivo. These findings support ROS-dependent remodeling of microglial mitochondrial dynamics as a mechanism contributing to HBO-mediated suppression of inflammasome-associated inflammation after CIR injury.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510579 is a review article
While radiation therapy plays a pivotal role in the treatment of advanced invasive bladder cancer, its efficacy is often limited when used as alone, underscoring the need to identify molecular targets that regulate radiosensitivity. In this study, we identify USP15 as a novel regulator of mitochondrial function and demonstrate that USP15 serves as a key target for enhancing radiosensitivity in bladder cancer cells. In orthotopic bladder cancer mouse models, USP15 overexpression combined with radiotherapy effectively suppressed tumor growth. Mechanistically, as a canonical deubiquitinase, mitochondria-localized USP15 directly interacts with FIS1 and stabilizes FIS1 protein by deubiquitinating it at the K25 site, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction and downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), which in turn increases radiosensitivity. Conversely, treatment with the mitochondrial inhibitor metformin reversed the radioresistance observed in bladder cancer tissues with low USP15 expression, effectively inhibiting the growth of patient-derived xenograft (PDX) tumors and significantly improving survival benefits. In summary, USP15 plays a critical role in regulating radiosensitivity, and targeting USP15-mediated mitochondrial OXPHOS may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy in bladder cancer, providing a novel treatment approach for the treatment of bladder cancer patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a persistent member of the Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), is widely detected in the environment and human populations and has recently been increasingly associated with neurotoxicity; however, its underlying molecular mechanisms, particularly those involving mitochondrial quality control, remain poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanistic basis of PFOA-induced neurotoxicity, focusing on mitochondrial dysfunction, dynamics, and mitophagy, and to determine the downstream effects on neuronal integrity and cognitive function using both in-vitro and in-vivo approaches. In N2a cells, PFOA exposure induced significant oxidative stress, characterized by elevated intracellular and mitochondrial ROS levels and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm). These alterations were accompanied by dysregulation of mitochondrial dynamics, evidenced by suppression of fusion proteins (MFN1, MFN2, OPA1) and enhanced activation of fission regulators (DRP1, FIS1). Concurrently, mitophagy was impaired, as indicated by dysregulation of PINK1-Parkin and LC3-p62 signaling, suggesting defective mitochondrial clearance. In-vivo, chronic PFOA exposure disrupted blood-brain barrier integrity, as reflected by increased MMP-9 and reduced tight junction proteins (ZO-1, occludin, claudin-5), and was associated with enhanced neuronal apoptosis, histopathological damage, and cognitive deficits. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PFOA induces neurotoxicity through mitochondrial dysfunction-driven impairment of mitochondrial dynamics and quality control, leading to neuronal degeneration and neurobehavioral dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder driven by amyloid-beta (Aβ) accumulation, mitochondrial failure, and neuroinflammation. While probiotics show therapeutic potential via the gut brain axis, the molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study investigated the neuroprotective potential of Leuconostoc mesenteroides lysate and its bioactive metabolites in an Aβ-induced SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma model.SH-SY5Y cells were challenged with Aβ and treated with L. mesenteroides lysate. Neuroprotective effects were evaluated via ROS accumulation, SOD1, APOE, NOS2, and mitochondrial dynamics (MFF, OPA1) using qPCR and WB. Potential mechanisms of action were explored computationally through integrated genome mining (antiSMASH 7.0), molecular docking (CB-Dock2), and systems pharmacology analysis (STRING/KEGG/R-studio) to identify candidate metabolites and host targets.L. mesenteroides lysate significantly attenuated Aβ-induced ROS levels and upregulated SOD1, enhancing antioxidant capacity. The lysate effectively downregulated APOE expression and restored mitochondrial homeostasis by reducing mitochondrial fission (MFF) and promoting fusion (OPA1). In silico analysis predected phytoene as a primary bioactive metabolite with significant theoretical binding affinity for APOE. Systems biology mapping revealed highly significant enrichment in PPAR signaling and cholesterol metabolism pathways (FDR < 10⁻⁵). Specifically, Cellular Component analysis highlighted robust interactions within protein-lipid complexes (FDR = 1.98e-16).L. mesenteroides lysate counteracts Aβ-induced neurotoxicity by modulating oxidative stress and restoring mitochondrial bioenergetics. Collectively, our findings suggest a theoretical Phytoene-PPAR-APOE signaling axis as a predictive framework for the observed cellular effects. We emphasize that phytoene represents a predicted candidate metabolite requiring future chemical characterization and biological validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
High-temperature stress poses a critical challenge to cold-water aquaculture; however, the size-associated molecular mechanisms underlying thermal adaptation in triploid rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) remain poorly understood. Here, we integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling of liver tissues, which plays central role in energy metabolism and stress integration, from three body-weight classes-small (0.8 kg ± 0.18 kg), medium (1.5 kg ± 0.22 kg), and large (2.5 kg ± 0.31 kg)-sampled under peak summer heat stress (20.5 °C). Transcriptomic analysis identified 974, 570, and 862 group-specific differentially expressed genes, respectively, revealing a non-linear, size-associated transcriptional pattern. Genes assigned to the ribosome pathway were significantly enriched in comparisons involving MLA and SLA relative to LLA, but not between SLA and MLA, whereas carbon metabolism and amino acid biosynthesis were enriched exclusively in smaller fish, indicating a higher catabolic burden under heat stress. Metabolomic profiling identified 1123 metabolites, with lipids accounting for 45.06%, and showed size-specific enrichments in biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, glycerophospholipid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, and pathways related to necroptosis. Integrative analysis revealed that in smaller fish, pla2g1b and gpx4a coordinately regulate the accumulation of prostaglandin H2 and 16(R)-HETE, forming a regulatory network with ferroptosis-related genes acsl4a and hmox1a; concurrently, chka, lpin1, and phospholipase A2 members drive extensive membrane phospholipid remodeling. The observed negative correlation between hsd17b3 expression and 7α-hydroxytestosterone levels suggests size-associated steroid-mediated energy repartitioning. Collectively, smaller fish undergo extensive transcriptional and metabolic reprogramming with heightened activation of cell death pathways, whereas larger fish maintain greater thermal buffering capacity. These findings provide molecular targets for size-stratified thermal management and selective breeding in rainbow trout aquaculture.
Background/Objectives: Exposure to high and sustained levels of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) in the peripartal period is the main cause of fatty liver disease in dairy cows. Rumen-protected choline is often fed as part of the nutritional management of peripartal cows, with in vivo and in vitro data indicating positive effects of this nutrient on alleviating liver lipid accumulation. Although hepatic molecular mechanisms associated with choline supply have been studied using a target gene, protein, or metabolite approach, application of high-throughput technologies could vastly enhance fundamental knowledge on the functional role of choline. The main objective was to challenge isolated hepatocytes with a mixture of NEFA and determine proteome- and metabolome-wide effects in response to choline supply. Methods: Three healthy female calves (1 d old, 30-45 kg) were sacrificed to harvest hepatocytes. During a 12 h incubation, isolated hepatocytes were challenged without NEFA (control), 1.2 mM NEFA (c9-18:1, 18:2, 16:0, 18:0, and c9-16:1 at 43.5%, 4.9%, 31.9%, 14.4%, and 5.3% of total NEFA, respectively), or NEFA for 6 h followed by 10 μM choline chloride for another 6 h (NEFA + Chol). iTRAQ labeling-based protein profiling and GC/MS-based metabolomics profiling were used to determine changes in proteins and metabolites. Differentially abundant proteins for each group comparison were determined at a threshold of 1.4-fold change. Differences in metabolite profiles were assessed via pairwise comparisons. A subset of differentially abundant proteins was validated via qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Results: Compared with the control, there were 90 proteins and 22 metabolites in the NEFA group, and 83 proteins and 29 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol. Compared with NEFA, there were 49 proteins and 17 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol group. Greater abundance of hexokinase-1 (HK1), fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (ALDOA), mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1 (MPC1), and increased concentrations of lactate with high NEFA treatment alone suggested greater glycolytic and TCA cycle activity. Accumulation of triacylglycerol in the NEFA group was associated with lipotoxicity and markers of inflammation, such as greater abundance of prostaglandin reductase 1 (PTGR1), serious cell autophagy processes, such as greater abundance of cell division cycle 42 (CDC42), and NFκB-related proteins. Choline supplementation reduced TAG partly due to greater VLDL secretion driven by greater abundance of diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), perilipin 3 (PLIN3), and apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3). In addition, a greater abundance of carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase 1b (CPT1B) with choline suggested enhanced mitochondrial β-oxidation. Activation of the CDC42/JNK pathway and ROS/NFκB axis-related proteins, along with depressed PI3K/AKT/RAC-related proteins, indicated enhanced mitochondrial autophagy in response to NEFA. Conclusions: Overall, data confirmed published effects of choline on TAG accumulation, VLDL secretion, and fatty acid oxidation, while highlighting negative effects of NEFA on the respiratory electron transport chain, autophagy, and inflammatory processes.
Recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), especially those that targets PD-1/PD-L1, have significantly altered the treatment approach for NSCLC. Nevertheless, many patients experience different levels of resistance after receiving treatment with ICIs, which restrict their broader use in clinical practice. Therefore, to enhance the overall efficacy of ICIs, there is an immediate necessity to further explain the processes of immune evasion in NSCLC, especially the modulatory mechanism of PD-L1.IHC was used to evaluate the protein expression level of PLIN3 and PD-L1 in NSCLC tissues. The impact of PLIN3 on PD-L1 was analyzed in NCI-H1975 and NCI-H157 cells using western blot, flow cytometry and quantitative PCR (qPCR). Immunofluorescence was performed to examine the effect of PLIN3 on the autophagy level. The levels of Granzyme B (GZMB) and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) secreted by T cell were assessed. Bioinformatic analyses, including immune infiltration estimation and TIDE score, were performed using TCGA data.In this research, we discovered that elevated PLIN3 level was linked to decreased infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cell, a higher TIDE score, and poorer immunotherapy response. In NSCLC tissues, there was a positive correlation between PLIN3 and PD-L1. Besides, the level of PLIN3 protein is significantly reduced in patients who achieve pathological complete response. In addition, PLIN3 knockdown markedly reduced the level of PD-L1 protein. Mechanistically, PLIN3 knockdown activated autophagy, and promoted PD-L1 degradation via the autophagic-lysosomal pathway, which consequently shortened its protein half-life. Furthermore, PLIN3 knockdown enhanced T-cell-mediated tumor killing and resulted in an increased secretion of the effector molecules, including granzyme B and IFN-γ.In summary, our study has shown that targeting PLIN3 can induce autophagy, which promotes the degradation of PD-L1, ultimately leading to enhanced activation of T cells. This research is the first to investigate the function of PLIN3 in the immune microenvironment, revealing its critical function in immune evasion and highlighting its promise as a treatment target. This offers an innovative approach to enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy in lung cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Huaier, a traditional Chinese medicinal mushroom, has been shown to have anti-tumor properties in our previous studies. However, its role and underlying mechanisms in regulating doxorubicin (DOX) sensitivity in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remain unclear.This study investigated whether Huaier could potentiate TNBC cell susceptibility to DOX and explored the associated molecular mechanisms involving lipophagy and ferroptosis.The therapeutic potential of Huaier in combination with DOX was evaluated using in vitro cell viability and colony formation assays and validated in xenograft models in vivo. Ferroptosis and lipophagy were characterized by quantifying ROS, MDA, and GSH, as well as by staining with BODIPY and Lyso-Tracker. Underlying mechanisms were dissected using acetylation spectrum profiling, LC-MS, co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), and proximity ligation assays (PLA).Huaier significantly enhances TNBC cell sensitivity to DOX both in vitro and in vivo by triggering lipophagy and ferroptosis. Acetylation spectrum profiling revealed that Huaier selectively deacetylates Perilipin 3 (PLIN3) at lysine 65 (K65), which was responsible for Huaier's regulatory effects on TNBC lipophagy, ferroptosis, and DOX sensitivity. Mechanistically, Huaier upregulated histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) to de-acetylate PLIN3 at K65. Our data also showed that deacetylation of PLIN3 at K65 increased PLIN3-mediated recruitment of ATG16L1, promoting lipophagy and ferroptosis, and ultimately improving chemo-sensitivity in TNBC cells.This study showed that Huaier enhanced DOX sensitivity by deacetylating PLIN3 and subsequently induction of lipophagy and ferroptosis. These results indicate that Huaier may serve as a promising adjuvant therapeutic approach to augment chemotherapy efficacy in TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) depends on host lipid metabolism and lipid droplets (LDs) for genome replication, assembly, and particle production, yet how LD structure and lipid utilization change over the course of infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the temporal remodeling of LD-associated metabolic pathways during HCV JFH-1 infection of human hepatoma Huh7 cells. HCV infection transiently increased LD fluorescence intensity at 24 hours post-infection (hpi), followed by normalization or relative loss of LD signal at later time points. Concomitantly, LDs became progressively clustered and enlargement during late infection, despite reduced protein levels of the canonical LD fusion proteins CIDEA, CIDEB, and CIDEC, suggesting that HCV-induced LD enlargement occurs through CIDE-independent mechanisms. Transcriptomic, RT-qPCR, and immunoblot analyses revealed time-dependent regulation of genes and proteins involved in LD structure, triglyceride synthesis, lipolysis, lipid uptake, and mitochondrial fatty acid utilization. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated preferential accumulation of fatty acids in mitochondrial fractions at 24-72 hpi. This redistribution was accompanied by increased oxygen consumption rate, elevated extracellular acidification, and progressive reactive oxygen species accumulation, indicating infection-associated metabolic activation and oxidative stress. Pharmacological inhibition of DGAT1-dependent LD biogenesis, LIPA-dependent lysosomal lipid hydrolysis, LIPE/HSL-dependent lipolysis, or CPT1-dependent mitochondrial fatty acid transport markedly reduced mitochondrial fatty acid accumulation and suppressed HCV-induced respiratory activity. Inhibition of LIPA or LIPE/HSL reduced both HCV RNA and core protein levels, whereas inhibition of CPT1 or DGAT1 had more pronounced effects on core protein than on viral RNA. Together, these findings support a model in which HCV dynamically remodels LDs, mobilizes LD-associated fatty acids, and redirects them toward mitochondria to support infection-associated metabolism and downstream stages of the viral life cycle. Lipid hydrolysis and mitochondrial fatty acid trafficking therefore represent potential host-directed targets for limiting HCV infection.Hepatitis C virus depends on host lipid metabolism for replication, assembly, and production of infectious particles, but how it uses lipid droplets over time remains incompletely understood. This study shows that hepatitis C virus dynamically remodels lipid droplets, causing an early increase in lipid storage followed by droplet enlargement and mobilization of fatty acids during later infection. The released fatty acids preferentially accumulate in mitochondria, where they are associated with increased cellular respiration and oxidative stress. Blocking lipid droplet formation, lipid breakdown, or fatty acid transport to mitochondria reduced this metabolic response and decreased viral RNA or core protein accumulation. Inhibition of lysosomal acid lipase and hormone-sensitive lipase suppressed both viral RNA and protein levels. These findings identify lipid droplet breakdown and mitochondrial fatty acid trafficking as important host processes used by hepatitis C virus and as potential targets for host-directed antiviral intervention.
Reducing reliance on supplemental fish oil is central to sustainable aquaculture, but the molecular consequences of replacing it with vegetable oils remain poorly characterized in the juvenile Chinese soft-shelled turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis). We evaluated whether full substitution of the supplemental dietary fish oil (FO) with linseed oil (LO) or soybean oil (SO) compromises hepatic lipid metabolism in Pelodiscus sinensis. Three isonitrogenous and isolipidic diets, sharing identical fish meal and other ingredient bases and differing only in the supplemental lipid (4% FO, LO or SO), were fed to triplicate groups of juvenile turtles (initial body weight 55.0 ± 0.05 g) for 8 weeks. Growth performance, survival, feed conversion ratio, and serum biochemistry were unaffected. However, both vegetable oil diets altered tissue fatty acid composition, raising n-6 PUFA and lowering n-3 LC-PUFA and the n-3/n-6 ratio in liver and muscle (muscle EPA and DHA each decreased by approximately 40%); the SO group additionally exhibited elevated hepatic malondialdehyde, whereas hepatic lipid droplet area and lipid content did not differ significantly among groups. Liver transcriptomic profiling identified 262 (LO vs. FO) and 214 (SO vs. FO) differentially expressed genes, converging on lipid storage and bile acid metabolism. RT-qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of PLIN3, G0S2 and APOF and the down-regulation of CYP7A1. Over 8 weeks, replacement of supplemental FO maintained growth without overt impairment while altering tissue fatty acid profiles and the hepatic expression of key lipid metabolism genes.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42448685
Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) play crucial regulatory roles in various cancers. However, the mechanisms by which snoRNAs regulate N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modifications in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unclear. This study systematically deciphered the precise interaction mechanism between SNORD78 and the m6A reader IMP2 in CRC. We demonstrate that SNORD78 specifically stabilizes IMP2 to activate the PIK3CD-CHKA-Kennedy pathway in an m6A-dependent manner, promoting endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) biosynthesis, thereby driving CRC. Conversely, the SNORD78-targeting antisense oligonucleotide (ASO), ASO-78, effectively suppresses ERS and PC levels, inhibiting CRC progression. Mechanistically, SNORD78, relying on the "UAAUGA" element in its C-D box region, specifically binds to the Lys221 ubiquitination site of IMP2, blocking TRIM25-mediated degradation of IMP2 and maintaining its stability. IMP2 enhanced the stability and translation of the target mRNAs PIK3CD and CHKA by recognizing their corresponding m6A positions, m6A-3208 and m6A-1619, respectively, to reshape the phosphatidylcholine metabolite profile in CRC cells. In terms of potential therapeutic strategies, the ASO-78 can significantly inhibit CRC cell proliferation, reduce ERS levels, and decrease phosphatidylcholine content. The combination of ASO-78 and IMP2 inhibitor IMP2-IN1, by dual blocking of the SNORD78-IMP2 axis, exhibits an excellent proliferation-inhibiting effect in CRC organoids. This study not only reveals a mechanism by which the SNORD78-IMP2 interaction regulates CRC occurrence and development but also provides theoretical basis for innovative therapeutic strategies for precise targeting of tumor snoRNA-m6A reader interactions.
Hepatic stellate cell activation is characterized by loss of cytoplasmic lipid droplets and acquisition of a profibrogenic phenotype; however, the contribution of lipid droplet-associated perilipins remains poorly understood. We investigated differential perilipin modulation during TGFβ1 induced activation of LX-2 cells and whether lipid storage restoration could reverse altered perilipin expression and fibrogenic features. TGFβ1 stimulation induced enhanced proliferation, fibroblast-like morphology, reduced neutral lipid accumulation, and increased fibrotic marker expression, associated with a distinct perilipin remodelling pattern: suppression of PLIN2 and induction of PLIN3 and PLIN5, indicating selective adaptation of LD machinery. Oleic acid supplementation partially restored intracellular LDs, selectively increased PLIN2, and showed differential effects on PLIN3 and PLIN5, with a trend toward reduced fibrotic markers, though not statistically significant. These findings suggest perilipin remodelling reflects metabolic adaptation in activated HSCs, and LD restoration alone is insufficient to reverse fibrogenic activation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inguinal WAT (IngWAT) quickly adapts its metabolism to body energy status variations, including uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) expression. However, its long-term metabolic response to long-term sedentary and exercise training has not been fully characterized. This study investigated IngWAT's long-term response to sedentary (SED, restricted cage) vs. exercise (EXER, treadmill running with a defined protocol) conditions in mice. EXER mice showed increased expression of Sarcoendoplasmic Reticulum Calcium ATPase (SERCA)2b and UCP1, along with a reduction in adipocyte size, indicating activation of thermogenesis. Fascinatingly, exercise elevated the expression of CIDEA in tiny adipocytes and promoted a beiging effect in mice. Elevated OXPHOS complex proteins expression and NMR-based metabolite profiling in IngWAT revealed that exercise profoundly reprogrammed energy metabolism by strengthening phosphocreatine-creatine buffering, regulating TCA cycle metabolite cycling (citrate and succinate), and increasing ketone body formation (3-hydroxybutyrate and acetone). Elevated glycerol level, a higher glycerol-lactate ratio, and reduced carnitine in IngWAT of EXER mice reflected improved fatty acid uptake and β-oxidation, in contrast to the metabolic inefficiency observed during sedentariness. Moreover, increased vascularization was accomplished by upregulated expression of vascular endothelial growth factor 1a (VEGF1a), angiopoietins (ANG)1&2, supports elevated metabolic state in exercise. Conversely, SED mice showed larger adipocytes with uniform CIDEA expression, but a downregulation of thermogenic proteins. Interestingly, a significant downregulation of mitochondrial complex III was also observed, which indicates altered mitochondrial physiology in SED mice. Data presented here suggest that IngWAT is metabolically flexible and can undergo both structural and metabolic adaptations in accordance with physical activity level.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Three genes found in the Unfolded protein response, Ribophorin 1, Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 beta and peptidylprolyl isomerase a are thought to be potential targets for RNA interference (RNAi) in Acyrthosiphon pisum. Ribophorin 1 (RPN1) is a transmembrane glycoprotein that assists in anchoring ribosomes to the rough endoplasmic reticulum membrane. It acts as a substrate specific chaperone. It facilitates N-glycosylation by delivering newly synthesized proteins to the Oligosaccharyl Transferase (OST) complex. Eukaryotic translation Initiation Factor 2 Beta (eIF2B) is a key component of the eIF2 heterotrimer that facilitates protein synthesis initiation by binding GTP and recruiting a specific transfer RNA to the 40S ribosome. The RNA it recruits is tRNAiMet, which delivers the first methionine to the ribosome to start protein synthesis. eIF2B is part of both the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) and the Integrated Stress Response (ISR). Peptidylprolyl Isomerase A (PPIA) is also known as Cyclophilin A (CypA). CypA is a molecular chaperone that catalyzes the cis-trans isomerization of peptide bonds, which facilitates protein folding and maturation during stressful conditions. Previous studies confirm that RNAi can affect the lifespan and fecundity of pea aphids. The objective of this study was to determine whether the selected genes would also affect the lifespan of pea aphids. Decreasing concentrations of double-stranded Ribo Nucleic Acid (dsRNA) were fed to the aphids to test the effects of each chosen gene. The experiment's objective is to identify the effects of each dsRNA knockdown on the aphids. Higher concentrations had a greater effect on decreasing aphid survival. RPN1 and CypA reduced aphid survival only at the highest concentration tested. eIF2B showed a greater effect on aphid survival at lower concentrations than the other genes tested. It was effective at decreasing survival at a concentration of 100 ng/mL. The result of this study agrees with previous studies that aphid survival can be affected by the introduction of dsRNAs.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a systemic vasculitis of childhood driven by aberrant immune activation. Natural killer (NK) cell dysregulation plays a critical role, but its upstream molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Isonicotinylation (Kinic), a novel lysine acylation acting as a metabolic sensor, represents an unexplored regulatory layer in KD.We employed an artificial intelligence (AI)-driven multi-omics framework. Limma differential expression analysis on GSE68004 (KD patient bulk profile) identified Kinic-related differentially expressed genes. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and CIBERSORT on GSE18606 (KD patient bulk profile) delineated an NK cell-correlated module. Their intersection defined Kinic- and NK (KN)-related signature, which was used to construct a diagnostic model via an explainable machine learning pipeline on KD patient bulk profiles (GSE73463, GSE73462, and GSE63881). The central hub gene was validated using KD patient single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (GSE24757). An AI-based drug screen (DrugReflector) and molecular docking nominated therapeutic candidates. Finally, PPID expression was validated in an independent clinical cohort using q-RT-PCR.We identified a six-gene KN-associated signature that demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance. PPID can be considered upregulated hub gene. Single-cell analysis confirmed predominant PPID expression in NK cells and linked its function to epigenetic modification and inflammatory signaling. Drug screening nominated BRD-K90382497 as a potential PPID-targeting compound.This study unveils a novel KN-associated molecular axis in KD pathogenesis, with PPID as an NK cell-centric hub. This axis provides a promising diagnostic biomarker and identifies a potential therapeutic target, bridging a novel metabolic modification to NK cell dysfunction in KD.© 2026 Yang and Hu.
The progression of carotid plaques is closely associated with immune dysregulation. This study aimed to identify key natural killer (NK) cell-related genes and to explore their immune microenvironment using bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data.Differential expression analysis was performed based on the transcriptomic dataset GSE43292. Key gene modules were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). NK cell-related hub genes were further screened using Lasso and logistic regression, followed by validation in an external cohort. The expression profile of IGHG1 and intercellular communication of NK cells were assessed using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Pseudotime trajectory analysis was conducted with Monocle 2, and IGHG1-associated signaling pathways were explored through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA).Four candidate genes were screened, and IGHG1 was the only independent risk factor. IGHG1 was significantly upregulated in advanced-stage plaques and demonstrated high predictive performance (AUC = 0.831; external AUC = 0.911). In the scRNA-seq dataset analyzed in this study, IGHG1 signal was mainly detected in the annotated NK-cell cluster. However, because IGHG1 is canonically associated with B-lineage and plasma cells, this observation should be interpreted cautiously in the context of SingleR/CellMarker-based annotation. Two NK-related subclusters were identified, showing inferred intercellular interactions predominantly involving the PPIA-BSG ligand-receptor pair. Pseudotime analysis revealed a transient high expression of IGHG1 during the transition from precursor to mature NK cells. GSEA indicated that IGHG1 was involved in the T cell receptor signaling pathway and NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity pathway.IGHG1 is a key gene closely associated with the progression of carotid plaques and was linked to NK cell-related immune features in our analyses. Given the canonical association of IGHG1 with B-lineage/plasma cells and the limitations of automatic annotation, its cellular origin and functional relevance require further validation.Copyright: © 2026 Shen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Protein translocation across the bacterial SecYEG channel involves mechanical constraints arising from ATP-driven SecA activity, geometric confinement within the translocon, and folding of the emerging polypeptide on the periplasmic side. Periplasmic chaperones assist substrate maturation during this process, but how they influence protein folding under force remains poorly understood. Using protein L as a model two-state substrate, we applied physiologically relevant force pulses using custom-built single-molecule magnetic tweezers to examine how bacterial periplasmic chaperones modulate folding under tension. To isolate the direct effects of individual chaperones, these experiments were performed in the absence of SecA and the SecYEG translocon. We show that the periplasmic chaperones PpiD and DsbC increase folding probability and accelerate refolding under force, while having minimal effect on unfolding kinetics. In contrast, Spy and Skp reduce folding probability and suppress refolding, consistent with holdase-like behaviour. These observations show that distinct classes of periplasmic chaperones differentially modulate folding probability and refolding kinetics under mechanical force. Increased folding probability correspondingly enhances the expected mechanical work output of substrate folding under force. Together, our findings establish a quantitative framework for investigating how bacterial periplasmic chaperones modulate protein folding under controlled mechanical conditions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is the most common malignancy among women worldwide. Although observational studies have linked carnitine-related metabolites (CRMs) to BC, causal inference has been limited by confounding and reverse causality. This study used Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to investigate the potential causal link between CRMs and BC.MR analysis was conducted using the Cancer Genome Atlas-BC and CRM-related datasets to explore the potential causal relationship between CRMs and BC. Variants were screened based on criteria encompassing genome-wide significance (p < 5×10-8), independence (r 2 < 0.001, kb=10000), and sufficient strength (F-statistic > 10). Various MR techniques, including inverse-variance weighted, MR-Egger, simple mode, weighted mode, and weighted median approaches, were applied to assess these potential causal associations. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to investigate the expression and biological functions of biomarkers linked to metabolites.The MR analysis suggested that genetically predicted elevated levels of octanoylcarnitine and decanoylcarnitine were associated with increased risk of BC. Functional enrichment analysis identified 12 candidate genes associated with these metabolites, which are involved in fatty acid β-oxidation (FAO) pathways. ScRNA-seq analysis revealed eight distinct cell subpopulations, with macrophages exhibiting the highest intercellular communication. Six biomarkers were identified as potential contributors to BC development: ACADM, FNIP2, RAPGEF2, RABGGTB, PPID, and ST6GALNAC3.This study provides evidence supporting potential causal associations between octanoylcarnitine and decanoylcarnitine and BC risk. Integrative single-cell transcriptomics revealed six CRM-associated biomarkers and their dynamic expression within tumor microenvironments. Additional experimental and clinical studies are needed to validate these observations and clarify their biological and translational relevance.Copyright © 2026 Termedia & Banach.
Intermuscular bones (IBs) are ossified structures within the myoseptal connective tissues of cyprinid fishes and negatively affect eating quality and processing suitability. Although runx2b has been shown to be essential for IB formation, the molecular changes associated with runx2b-mediated IB reduction or loss remain poorly understood. In this study, runx2b-edited Culter alburnus F1 individuals were generated and classified into wild-type, heterozygous mutant, and homozygous mutant groups. Skeletal staining revealed a clear genotype-associated phenotypic gradient, with normal IBs in wild-type individuals, markedly reduced IBs in heterozygous mutants, and complete IB absence in homozygous mutants. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were then performed using matched muscle/myoseptal tissues to characterize molecular changes associated with this phenotypic gradient. Global mRNA-protein correlations were weak and DEG-DEP overlaps were limited, suggesting that transcriptomic changes alone cannot fully explain protein-level remodeling after runx2b mutation. Functional enrichment and integrated omics analysis highlighted coordinated changes in cytoskeletal organization, extracellular matrix remodeling, cell adhesion, calcium-related signaling, muscle-associated processes, and ossification-related pathways. Representative candidate molecules, including MYH1s, CDH26, PLIN5, PAH, HBA/HBB, GPX4, KRT1, GSN, LGALS9, and ANXA3, were mainly associated with structural, metabolic, and microenvironmental remodeling rather than being interpreted as direct downstream osteogenic targets of runx2b. Overall, these findings suggest that runx2b-associated IB reduction and loss may involve coordinated remodeling of the myoseptal osteogenic microenvironment rather than disruption of a single ossification pathway. This study provides a discovery-oriented multi-omics resource and a hypothesis-generating molecular model for future functional validation of IB development in cyprinid fishes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504609 is a review article
This study investigated the role of peptidylprolyl isomerase A (PPIA) in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) using bioinformatics approaches and experimental validation.This study began by assessing PPIA expression and its prognostic significance in LUAD. We then performed functional enrichment analyses and examined CNVs, DNA methylation, DNMT activity, RNA modification, immune cell infiltration, and drug therapy efficacy. Cellular experiments were performed to confirm the role of PPIA in DNA damage repair.PPIA was overexpressed in LUAD tissues and was associated with poor prognosis, including shorter overall survival and progression-free interval. PPIA expression was correlated with CNVs, DNA methylation, DNMT activity, and RNA modification-related genes. It was also negatively associated with immune cell infiltration and immune-related gene expression, suggesting a potential immunosuppressive role. Drug sensitivity analysis indicated that PPIA may serve as a predictive biomarker for therapeutic efficacy in LUAD. In addition, PPIA expression was associated with DNA damage repair-related genes. Cellular experiments show that PPIA knockdown increases radiosensitivity and γ-H2AX foci formation, whereas PPIA overexpression exerts the opposite effects.This study highlights the potential of PPIA as a prognostic biomarker and target in LUAD, particularly in the regulation of DNA damage repair and tumor immune microenvironment remodeling.© The Author(s) 2026.
Partial hepatectomy (PH) triggers acute liver insufficiency and a tightly-orchestrated regenerative program. Here we show that artesunate (ART) markedly accelerates liver mass restoration in mice subjected to PH. ART elevated the liver index, normalized serum total protein and albumin, and curbed ALT/AST leakage. Histologically, ART attenuated hepatocellular necrosis and reduced lesion scores in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistically, ART amplified Ki67-positive hepatocytes, suppressed apoptosis, and shifted cell-cycle distribution from G1 arrest toward G2/M progression. These regenerative effects were associated with enhanced mitophagy-related changes, as evidenced by increased TOM20/LC3B co-localization, elevated LC3-II/I ratio, increased PINK1 and Parkin expression, and reduced p62 accumulation. A chloroquine-based lysosomal inhibition assay further supported that ART enhanced mitophagy-associated flux. Docking analysis suggested a potential interaction between ART and AMPKα1/2, with docking energies of - 6.41 and - 6.45 kcal mol- 1 for PRKAA1 and PRKAA2, respectively. ART increased p-AMPKα1/2 and suppressed mTOR signaling, as further supported by reduced p-S6 expression. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK with Compound C attenuated ART-induced PINK1/Parkin-associated mitophagy-related signaling, suppressed ART-enhanced hepatocyte proliferation, increased apoptosis, and partially reversed the ART-mediated reduction in p-S6 expression. Collectively, these findings suggest that ART promotes post-PH liver regeneration by activating AMPKα1/2-associated signaling and enhancing mitophagy-associated flux, positioning ART as a potential adjunct strategy for liver regeneration after hepatectomy.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Sea cucumber is a high-value marine food that contains characteristic bioactive components, notably saponins and polysaccharides. Strategies promoting their biosynthesis to improve sea cucumber quality are vital for the industry. The impacts of three dietary yeast β-glucans (native β-glucan, ultrasonic-degraded low-molecular-weight β-glucan, and carboxymethylated β-glucan) on the biosynthesis of saponin and fucosylated chondroitin sulfate (FCS) in A. japonicus and the underlying mechanism were investigated. A 28-day feeding trial showed that modified β-glucans improved growth performance and immune responses, as well as elevated the body wall accumulation of saponin and FCS. Mechanistically, modified β-glucans up-regulated the genes involved in the saponin and FCS biosynthesis, including the core mevalonate pathway (hmgcr, mvk, mvd), downstream post-squalene modifications (sqle), and chondroitin backbone biosynthesis (xylt1, chsy1, chpf). Moreover, these β-glucans up-regulated the TLR-MAPK signaling axis genes (tlr, myd88, irak4, traf6, tak1, mkk1, erk, p38) and increased p38/ERK protein abundance and phosphorylation levels. In vivo MAPK inhibition attenuated β-glucan-induced saponin and FCS accumulation and the expression of hmgcr, sqle, xylt1, and chsy1. Our findings reveal that modified β-glucans enhance A. japonicus quality by promoting saponin and FCS biosynthesis in association with the TLR-MAPK signaling axis-mediated immune-metabolic crosstalk.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Rosa roxburghii is a horticultural crop valued for its nutritional and medicinal properties, which is largely attributed to the diverse bioactive triterpenoids in its fruits. In this study, we provided a multi-omics insight into the triterpenoid biosynthesis in R. roxburghii. We first generated a high-quality chromosome-scale genome assembly of the cultivated variety "Guinong No.5", with a final genome size of 512.5 Mb. Subsequent genomic analyses indicated the absence of recent whole-genome duplication events, and pointed triterpenoid metabolism as a primary pathway undergoing pronounced genomic innovation. Genome-wide identification of triterpenoid biosynthesis-related families revealed 22 squalene epoxidase (SQLE) and 14 oxidosqualene cyclase (OSC) genes. Both families possessed weak codon usage bias, yet they exhibited distinct evolutionary paths. The upstream SQLEs have undergone significant expansion, primarily via tandem duplications, whereas the downstream OSCs family remained constrained and experienced gene loss. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling across fruit developmental stages demonstrated that the upregulation of specific RroSQLEs (e.g. RroSQLE15 and RroSQLE16) correlated with the total triterpenoid accumulation, while the downregulation of specific RroOSCs (e.g. RroOSC4 and RroOSC13) was associated with a shift in triterpenoid composition, particularly a reduction in triterpenoid saponin abundance. Collectively, our findings suggest a decoupled evolutionary strategy between upstream precursor supply and downstream diversification in triterpenoid biosynthesis in R. roxburghii, providing a valuable genomic resource and a prioritized set of candidate genes for future metabolic engineering and quality improvement of this functional fruit crop.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Excessive NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activity is an important driver of inflammatory tissue damage in acute lung injury (ALI), yet effective targeted therapies remain lacking. Neferine, a natural bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid extracted primarily from the mature seed embryo of Nelumbo nucifera, has shown anti-inflammatory potential, but its role in inflammasome regulation during ALI is still not well understood.This study was designed to examine whether neferine could attenuate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI through modulation of NLRP3 inflammasome signaling and to explore the mechanism involved.We carried out a preclinical investigation using an LPS-triggered mouse model of ALI together with a macrophage pyroptosis model induced by LPS+nigericin (Nig). Both preventive administration and delayed post-challenge treatment with neferine were evaluated in vivo. To define pathway dependence, we combined pharmacologic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibition, Prkaa1 deficiency, and blockade of autophagic flux.Neferine was examined in LPS-treated mice and in macrophages exposed to LPS plus Nig. Lung pathology, inflammatory injury, and pyroptosis-related changes were assessed. Additional experiments focused on AMPK signaling, autophagic flux, and NLRP3 degradation.Neferine attenuated inflammatory lung injury in mice, accompanied by reduced inflammatory cytokine production and decreased macrophage pyroptosis. Mechanistic analyses showed that neferine increased AMPK phosphorylation and downstream unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1 (ULK1) signaling, enhanced autophagic flux, and promoted K63-linked ubiquitination of NLRP3. These changes favored trafficking of NLRP3 into autophagic compartments and its subsequent lysosomal degradation, thereby limiting inflammasome activity. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK signaling and genetic loss of Prkaa1 weakened the effects of neferine on ULK1-related autophagy and pyroptosis-associated readouts, supporting a functional contribution of AMPKα1 signaling to this process. Notably, neferine also remained effective when given after LPS exposure, reducing inflammatory injury and pyroptosis-associated readouts in the therapeutic setting.These findings indicate that neferine alleviates inflammasome-related lung injury at least partly through AMPKα1-dependent autophagy, accompanied by increased ULK1 phosphorylation and subsequent autophagy-lysosomal clearance of NLRP3.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Jiuwei Xiaozhi Decoction (JWXZ) is a nine-herb traditional Chinese medicine formula clinically used for hepatic steatosis and dyslipidemia, but its chemical basis and pharmacological mechanisms in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) remain incompletely defined. The chemical profile of JWXZ was characterized by UHPLC-HRMS/MS. Its therapeutic effects were evaluated in a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced mouse model of MASLD, followed by hepatic transcriptomic analysis, network pharmacology, molecular docking, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence validation. UHPLC-HRMS/MS identified 178 chemical constituents in JWXZ, including phenolic acids, flavonoids, flavonoid glycosides, alkaloids, isoflavones, and coumarins. In HFD-fed mice, JWXZ attenuated body weight gain, white adipose accumulation, dyslipidemia, hepatic triglyceride and cholesterol accumulation, serum transaminase elevation, and hepatic steatosis, while improving glucose tolerance and partially restoring whole-body metabolic flexibility. Hepatic transcriptomics identified 124 HFD-dysregulated genes reversed by high-dose JWXZ, with prominent enrichment in cholesterol and sterol biosynthesis, endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis, oxidative stress response, and PPARα-related lipid handling. Integrated transcriptomic and network pharmacology analyses further identified 157 shared targets and 18 overlapping pathways, converging mainly on cholesterol metabolism and PPAR signaling. Protein-level validation showed that JWXZ suppressed SREBP2 proteolytic activation, reduced nuclear SREBP2 abundance, and downregulated HMGCR, SQLE, and PCSK9, indicating inhibition of the hepatic cholesterogenic program. In parallel, JWXZ restored nuclear PPARα abundance and CPT1A expression, consistent with reactivation of fatty acid oxidation. JWXZ also reduced hepatic EGFR phosphorylation and lowered hepatic and circulating TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and MCP-1 levels. Molecular docking provided supportive evidence for potential interactions between representative JWXZ constituents and key regulators, including naringin-HMGCR, chlorogenic acid-SQLE, rhoifolin-PPARα, and rhoifolin-SREBP2. These findings suggest that JWXZ ameliorates HFD-induced MASLD mainly by rebalancing hepatic lipid metabolism through coordinated suppression of SREBP2-mediated cholesterogenesis and restoration of PPARα-mediated fatty acid oxidation, with associated attenuation of EGFR-linked inflammatory responses.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505662 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488674 is a review article
Lipid droplet (LD)-associated metabolic reprogramming plays a critical role in breast cancer progression and immune modulation, yet robust prognostic biomarkers and their functional mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify LD-associated biomarkers with prognostic and therapeutic relevance through multi-omics integration and functional validation.Bulk transcriptomic, single-cell RNA sequencing, and spatial transcriptomic data were integrated using machine learning to construct a prognostic model in the TCGA-BRCA cohort, validated in merged GEO datasets (GSE24450 and GSE42568). Functional enrichment, immune infiltration analyses, and in vitro/in vivo experiments-including 3T3-L1 adipogenesis, co-culture, orthotopic tumor models, and clinical adipose tissue validation were performed to characterize candidate genes.The StepCox[both]+plsRcox algorithm generated an optimal prognostic model that independently stratified patients across molecular subtypes, outperforming ER/PR/HER2 status. High-risk patients exhibited reduced immune infiltration and T-cell dysfunction. SQLE and SOCS3 emerged as key LD-associated genes with opposing expression patterns: SQLE enriched in tumor-associated adipocytes and SOCS3 in immune cells. Functional assays confirmed SQLE promoted while SOCS3 inhibited adipogenesis. Modulating these genes in adipocytes suppressed tumor growth and EMT and polarized macrophages toward an M1-dominant phenotype.SQLE and SOCS3 serve as functionally significant LD-associated prognostic biomarkers and represent promising therapeutic targets in breast cancer, revealing novel mechanisms in tumor-adipocyte crosstalk.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Society of Clinical Oncology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42448519
Trichophyton indotineae is an emerging dermatophyte associated with chronic, recalcitrant dermatophytosis and terbinafine resistance due to squalene epoxidase (SQLE) mutations. We analyzed clinical characteristics, antifungal susceptibility profiles, SQLE mutations, and treatment outcomes of cases diagnosed in Switzerland.Clinical and therapeutic data of patients diagnosed at the University Hospital Zurich (2014-2024) were reviewed. Antifungal susceptibility testing and SQLE gene sequencing were performed for 31 isolates. Additional SQLE data up to December 2025 were analyzed to contextualize temporal trends.Thirty-five cases were identified, with a marked increase in recent years. SQLE mutations occurred in 20/31 (65%) study isolates and 55/69 (80%) isolates through 2025, most commonly F397L, L393S, and A448T. Mutated strains exhibited significantly higher terbinafine MICs than wild-type (median 8 vs. 0.008 µg/ml). Patients with SQLE-mutated strains required significantly longer systemic treatment (11.5 vs. 3.5 weeks) and often required itraconazole for eradication, whereas wild-type infections responded to terbinafine. Relapses occurred in one third of patients but generally responded to retreatment.Trichophyton indotineae is an emerging cause of dermatophytosis in Switzerland. SQLE genotyping supports individualized therapy; terbinafine remains effective for wild-type strains, itraconazole represents the most reliable option for SQLE-mutated infections.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal der Deutschen Dermatologischen Gesellschaft published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Deutsche Dermatologische Gesellschaft.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559078 is a review article
VEGFA plays a pivotal role in angiogenesis and is known to affect clinical phenotypes related to the vasculature in various diseases, such as cancer or stroke. However, it is still unclear how the VEGFA genotype influences the clinical phenotype of moyamoya disease (MMD). This study included 137 Japanese MMD patients (84 adult and 53 pediatric patients) carrying either the heterozygous RNF213 p.R4810K or the RNF213 wild-type genotypes. Patients with homozygous RNF213 p.R4810K genotype or the other rare RNF213 variants were excluded because these genotypes are already known to affect the clinical phenotype. After genotyping VEGFA rs2010963 (NM_001171623.2, c.-634G > C, also known as c.+405G > C), we statistically analyzed the genotype-phenotype correlation. Genotyping and clinical data collection were both blinded. 110 (80.3%) patients carried the heterozygous RNF213 p.R4810K genotype. For VEGFA rs2010963 genotypes, 36 (26.3%) patients had the G/G genotype, 86 (62.8%) had the C/G genotype, and 15 (10.9%) had the C/C genotype. In the subgroup analysis, the VEGFA rs2010963 C/G + C/C genotype was significantly associated with a higher incidence of bilaterality and PCA involvement in pediatric MMD patients (p = 0.032 and 0.0399, respectively). Furthermore, a multivariate regression analysis confirmed the significant association for them (p = 0.0391 and 0.0271, respectively). This genotype-phenotype association study suggests that the VEGFA rs2010963 CG + CC genotype may be associated with a higher rate of bilaterality and PCA stenosis in pediatric MMD patients, in addition to the well-known association of RNF213. These findings suggest that both RNF213 and VEGFA genotypes may be useful in the clinical assessment of MMD patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ring finger protein 213 (RNF213) p.R4810K is a genetic susceptibility factor for intracranial arteriopathies. In patients with isolated intracranial arterial steno-occlusive disease (ICAD) without Moyamoya disease (MMD), we developed a phenotype-based triage score to prioritize RNF213 genotyping by enriching the p.R4810K carriage probability.We retrospectively analyzed 753 patients with isolated ICAD involving the distal internal carotid artery or middle cerebral artery M1 segment who underwent RNF213 genotyping between January 2010 and November 2022, excluding definite MMD or significant extracranial steno-occlusion. A prespecified score incorporated anterior cerebral artery (ACA) laterality (0/1/2), tandem lesion burden ≥ 3 (0/1), and MMD family history (0/1; weighted ×4). Discrimination, prespecified thresholds (≥ 3 and ≥ 4), and bootstrap-corrected calibration were assessed, with external application in an independent cohort.RNF213 p.R4810K was identified in 289 patients (38.4%). MMD family history showed the strongest association with carriage (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 8.34, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 4.15-16.77, p < 0.001), followed by tandem burden ≥ 3 (adjusted OR 1.76, 95% CI: 1.15-2.69, p = 0.009) and ACA laterality (adjusted OR 1.74, 95% CI: 1.35-2.23, p < 0.001). The score showed moderate discrimination (internal area under the curve [AUC] 0.720; external AUC 0.708). A cutoff ≥ 3 restricted genotyping to 33.5% of patients while capturing 55.7% of carriers, reducing genotyping workload by 66.5%. A cutoff ≥ 4 increased the positive predictive value to 81.7% with 97.6% specificity.In clinically selected isolated ICAD, a phenotype-based score incorporating lesion distribution and family history may help prioritize RNF213 genotyping and improve genotyping yield in resource-limited settings.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a nonspecific autoimmune disease, the etiology and pathogenesis of which remain unclear. Identifying new disease targets could inform clinical diagnosis and treatment.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptome data from UC patients. We screened key biomarkers and constructed a nomogram diagnostic model through three machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE, and Boruta). In situ validation was conducted on mucosal tissue sections from clinical UC and healthy controls using multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF). To investigate the intracellular mechanisms by which RNF213 regulates Tregs, we employed scTenifoldKnk and CellChat analyses. Potential targeted compounds were predicted based on the DSigDB and HERB databases.Five UC-specific ubiquitination biomarkers were identified: ZC3H12A, ENC1, RNF213, MAP3K5, and RMND5A. Among them, RNF213 demonstrated superior diagnostic performance with an AUC greater than 0.9 in both training and validation cohorts. Single-cell localization and in situ mIF quantification indicated that RNF213 was enriched in mucosal Tregs from UC patients. RNF213+ Tregs were increased in UC compared with healthy controls. In-silico RNF213 perturbation analysis suggested that RNF213-enriched Tregs may be associated with transcriptional programs related to mitochondrial proton transport and ATP synthesis. CellChat analysis further predicted altered ligand-receptor interaction patterns among RNF213+ Tregs and other immune cell populations, including monocytes, macrophages, and B cells.This study identifies RNF213 as a biomarker enriched in UC-associated mucosal Tregs. RNF213+ Tregs may represent a transcriptionally and spatially distinct Treg subset associated with inflammatory activity in UC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wu, Yang, Zhou, Chen, Ren, Li, Ma, Miao, Jia and Miao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518953 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510799 is a review article
Genome-wide CRISPR screens have systematically identified genes required for cancer cell survival, yet these studies are typically performed under standardized conditions that do not fully recapitulate the physiological stresses encountered within the tumor microenvironment. In a recent issue of Nature Genetics, Cheruiyot and colleagues perform genome-wide loss-of-function screens under inflammatory conditions induced by interferon-β (IFN-β), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), revealing that distinct cytokines impose different genetic requirements for tumor cell survival. The study shows that inflammatory signaling reshapes genetic dependency landscape in a cytokine-specific manner. Mechanistic analyses identify the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) transamidase complex and FITM2 as representative examples of genes that become selectively required under inflammatory stress by maintaining membrane protein maturation, endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, and resistance to oxidative stress. These findings broaden our understanding of how inflammatory cytokines influence tumor cell biology beyond transcriptional regulation and immune recognition. More broadly, the study highlights the value of incorporating physiologically relevant conditions into functional genetic screens, suggesting that conventional dependency maps capture only part of the genetic requirements for tumor survival. Applying similar approaches to other microenvironmental stresses-including hypoxia, metabolic competition, extracellular matrix remodeling, and stromal signaling-may uncover additional therapeutic opportunities for cancer immunotherapy.
Moyamoya disease is rarely complicated by other cerebrovascular diseases. A man in his 60s presented with subcortical hemorrhage in the left frontal lobe with an anterior cranial fossa dural arteriovenous fistula (dAVF) and concomitant asymptomatic moyamoya disease. Although the anterior cranial fossa dAVF and moyamoya disease have similar vascular architectures of intra and extracranial vascular connections via the ethmoidal artery, the former involves anastomoses between arteries and veins and the latter involves anastomoses between arteries. Both diseases are rare, with our search of the literature identifying 11 cases of dAVF concomitant with moyamoya disease. These cases are reviewed. It is important to be aware that dAVF can develop during the course of moyamoya disease, and careful follow-up may therefore be warranted.© 2026 The Author(s).
We describe the anatomy of replication forks by detecting proteins associated with DNA replication (Cdc45 and RPA), DNA damage (H2A.X), and DNA repair (Rad51) relative to tracts of synthesized, 5'-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled DNA on chromatin fiber images. These fibers track pixel intensity and positional data, which are analyzed using our program: R-ODD-BLOBS (One Dimensional Data Boolean Logic Operations Binning System in the programming language R). We studied the effect of threshold and signal smoothing for BrdU and protein tracts following hydroxyurea in wild type fission yeast (Schizoasaccharomyces pombe), compared to DNA replication checkpoint mutants mrc1Δ and cds1Δ. We show that R-ODD-BLOBS allows robust analysis of BrdU lengths and that Rad51, Cdc45, RPA, and H2A.X show distinctive, checkpoint-dependent locations around replicated tract ends. Rad51 was found at 22% more replicated areas in mrc1∆ than in wild type, suggesting that homologous recombination repair may be more common at mrc1Δ forks. Helicase detachment in cds1∆ post-HU was indicated by Cdc45 enrichment in unreplicated chromatin close to putative forks. Similarly, cds1Δ fibers show that Rad51, RPA, and H2A.X are distributed upstream of replicated areas more than in wild type. Excitingly, we find that H2A.X is distributed asymmetrically around replication forks, suggesting that the fork complex is a barrier for DNA damage signal extension into replicated areas. Together, R-ODD-BLOBS analysis shows a rigorous, iterative computational analysis tool to assess large chromatin spread datasets. R-ODD-BLOBS finds patterns of DNA replication length and protein components at replication forks that describe the anatomy of a fork and how structures change after replication checkpoint loss.Copyright © 2026 Kerenza Cheng et al.
Comparative oncology can uncover novel mechanisms of cancer resistance and progression across animals. Non-traditional model organisms with naturally high or low cancer prevalence may provide further insights into metastasis or cancer resistance. In this context, the "lemon frost" morph of the leopard gecko (Eublepharis macularius) shows high prevalence of iridophoromas, exceeding 80%. These tumors can recur and metastasize, presenting a unique opportunity to study pigment cell cancer and tumor progression in a non-mammalian vertebrate.We performed high-coverage whole-genome sequencing on matched tumor and non-tumor samples from three lemon frost individuals. A shared missense mutation in the TATA-box binding protein (TBP) suggests possible disruption to transcriptional regulation in tumor samples. Additionally, a recurrent gene fusion between IARS1 and RNF213 was identified across all tumor samples. Copy number neutral loss of heterozygosity events were observed in three mutated genes that have a role in cancer: MAP3K13, TENM4, and OR2AT4-like, while copy number gains were observed in four genomic regions. Pathway analysis revealed dysregulation in actin filament organization, a hallmark of metastatic potential. These findings suggest a multifaceted genomic basis for tumorigenesis in this model, including transcriptional misregulation, chromatin remodeling defects, and cytoskeletal disruption.This study provides the first characterization of genomic changes associated with iridophoroma in a reptilian species and establishes the lemon frost gecko as a promising model for cancer research. Our findings identify candidate pathways of tumor progression and metastasis in a non-traditional system, highlighting both conserved and novel mechanisms relevant to human disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
By integrating transcriptomics and network pharmacology, we systematically investigated the potential hemostatic mechanism of Bletilla striata (BS).Thirty SPF-grade Kunming mice were randomly divided into three groups (n =10 per group): Control group, Model group, and BS group. The BS group was orally administered Bletilla striata extract (2.48 g/kg) for 7 consecutive days, while the Control and Model groups received an equal volume of 0.5% sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC-Na) solution. On day 7, the Model and BS groups were injected via the tail vein with heparin sodium (0.8 U per mouse) to inducesystemic bleeding. The bleeding time (BT) was measured by tail tip amputation, and coagulation parameters including prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), thrombin time (TT), and plasma fibrinogen (FIB) were measured using a semi-automaticcoagulation analyzer. Liver tissues were collected for total RNA extraction and transcriptome sequencing to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to coagulation pathways. Network pharmacology was used to construct aprotein-protein interaction (PPI) network, screen hub genes, and perform molecular docking to evaluate the binding affinity between the active component militarineand key target proteins.Compared with the Model group, preventive treatment with BS significantly shortened BT and CT (P <0.01), and reversed coagulation parameters: APTT, PT, and TT were significantly reduced (P <0.01), while FIB levels were significantly elevated P <0.001). Transcriptome analysis showed that the hepatic gene expression profile in the BS group was closer to that of the Control group. Network pharmacologyidentified Tnf, Rictor, Nrld1 , and Pnpla2 askey hub genes involved in the hemostaticprocess, all of which exhibited favorable binding affinity with militarine. Compared to the control group, the Model group showed a significant decrease in hepatic Tnf expression but significant increases in Rictor, Nr1d1 , and Pnpla2. After preventive intervention with Bletilla striata , the hepatic Tnf expression in the mice was significantly increased compared to the Model group, while Rictor, Nr1d1 , and Pnpla2 significantly decreased. These findings were further validated by RT-PCR and molecular docking analyses.This study reveals that the hemostatic effect of BS is potentially mediated through multi-target synergistic regulation of coagulation factor transcription, coupled with modulations in lipid metabolism and circadian rhythms. It provides a theoretical basis for developing novel hemostatic agents.
Vein occlusion (VO), including deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and retinal vein occlusion (RVO), is a common cause of multiple diseases that severely compromise the quality of life of affected individuals. Epidemiological evidence indicates that VO prevalence increases in cold seasons, yet the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here, we show that cold exposure markedly elevates peripheral platelet counts, thereby aggravating VO in mouse models. Cold-augmented thrombocytopoiesis depends on the activation of adipose thermogenesis and subsequent increase in circulating free fatty acid (FFA) levels. Mechanistically, FFA-β-oxidation promotes acetyl-CoA production, which upregulates and stabilizes C/EBPα by shifting the balance between p300 acetyltransferase and SIRT1 deacetylase. Acetyl-C/EBPα transcriptionally upregulates GATA-1 and NF-E2 for megakaryocyte maturation and platelet production. Depletion of adipose triglyceride lipase PNPLA2, megakaryocyte-specific knockout of key β-oxidation enzyme CPT1α, or pharmacological inhibition of CPT1α and p300 abolishes cold-augmented thrombocytopoiesis and alleviates DVT and RVO in mouse models. In healthy volunteers, tolerable cold exposure activates adipose thermogenesis, increases circulating FFA levels, and increases platelet counts. Moreover, a retrospective cohort study of 425 patients reveals elevated platelet counts and higher DVT incidence during cold seasons. Similarly, increased platelet counts are observed in 448 patients with RVO at the time of diagnosis in cold seasons. Our study provides novel mechanistic insights into the increased VO risk induced by cold exposure and proposes a new therapeutic paradigm for VO by targeting megakaryocyte metabolism.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fas-associated factor family member 2 (Faf2) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated protein implicated in apolipoprotein B (ApoB) metabolism, yet its physiological role in the intestine remains unclear. To investigate this, we generated intestine-specific Faf2 knockout (Faf2-IKO) mice and fed them either a normal diet or a high-fat diet (HFD). Faf2-IKO mice exhibited reduced body weight and adiposity under both conditions, improved glucose tolerance, and protection against HFD-induced hepatic steatosis. In the intestine, Faf2 deficiency was associated with lipid droplet accumulation, intracellular retention of ApoB48, and reduced chylomicron abundance in lacteals, consistent with impaired intestinal lipoprotein handling. Faf2-IKO mice also exhibited elongation of the small intestine and villi after weaning. Despite these changes, Faf2-IKO mice showed elevated postprandial triglyceride and free fatty acid levels during lipid tolerance tests, indicating paradoxical alterations in postprandial lipid responses. Additionally, Faf2 deficiency was associated with ER dilation and increased expression of genes associated with ER-related cellular responses. Furthermore, in the livers of Faf2-IKO mice, genes that govern cholesterol homeostasis and sterol biosynthetic pathways were significantly enriched. Collectively, these findings suggest that intestinal Faf2 deficiency alters chylomicron-associated lipid handling and is associated with protection against obesity and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease in mice.© The author(s).
Neural progenitor cell differentiation is a complex process requiring the proper integration of instructive and permissive factors. Instructive cues including signaling molecules and transcription factor networks have been well studied in this context, but permissive factors such as cell homeostasis have not. Cell homeostasis is critical to support the health and stability of a cell and enable the cell to act on instructive differentiation cues. Our study investigates a homeostasis protein, FAF2, and its function in neural progenitor cells. FAF2 is an adaptor protein involved in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) associated degradation to remove misfolded proteins and restore ER homeostasis. Here we show that knocking out Faf2 in neural progenitor cells results in increased ER stress signature at the protein and transcription level, indicating a conserved functional role in neural progenitor cells. Induced neural differentiation of FAF2 deletion cells shows a failure of neurite development but RNA-seq indicates genes that support neural differentiation are induced. Reducing ER stress in FAF2 knockout cells with a small molecule inhibitor can rescue neural differentiation, providing evidence that excess ER stress contributes to the inhibited differentiation. Taken together, these results reveal that FAF2 is a critical protein in neural progenitor cells for the maintenance of ER homeostasis and execution of neural differentiation.FAF2 is required to regulate ER homeostasis in neural progenitor cellsFAF2 knockout blocks differentiation of neural progenitor cells to neurons at the cell morphological level, but does not inhibit the mounting of transcriptional programs associated with neural differentiation.Excess ER stress due to FAF2 knockout contributes to blocked neural differentiation.
Down feathers and contour feathers are two distinct feather types with vastly different structures and functions coexisting in the same individual. However, the molecular mechanism underlying these differences remains unclear. In this study, skin tissue containing intact feather follicles was collected from four anatomically defined regions of healthy Beijing ducks (Anas platyrhynchos domesticus) for transcriptomic sequencing: the breast and abdomen, which generate down feathers, and the wingtips and rump, which produce contour feathers. To mitigate bias arising from site-specific effects, we established paired comparisons between contour feathers and down feathers across different regions. Across all comparisons, 36 core differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were consistently identified. These encompassed nine HOX family transcription factors across three paralogous clusters, ZIC family members (ZIC1 and ZIC4), WNT4, TBX4, BMP5, cytoskeletal and sarcomeric genes (MYOZ2, ACTN2, DES, SMPX), extracellular matrix regulators (ASPN, MGP, FMOD), and lipid metabolism-related genes (MOGAT2, PNPLA2), among others. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that transcriptomic variations in different feather follicles involve gene modules functioning in positional identity, cytoskeletal organization, extracellular matrix remodeling and lipid metabolism, with potential neuroendocrine modulation. The transcriptomic dataset established here facilitates future studies on the molecular mechanisms of feather differentiation and offers a reference for molecular breeding to enhance down feather yield and quality of Beijing ducks.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by oxidative stress (OS). This study reveals a novel epigenetic mechanism linking lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in PCOS pathogenesis. A meta-analysis of 50 clinical studies demonstrated elevated systemic oxidative markers (total oxidant status, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde) and reduced paraoxonase-1 levels in PCOS patients, alongside compromised total antioxidant capacity in follicular fluid. Bioinformatic analysis identified TSP-1 as a key downregulated gene in PCOS, and the hTFtarget database predicted KAT5 as an upstream regulator of TSP-1. In vitro, H₂O₂-induced oxidative stress in KGN granulosa cells suppressed TSP-1, KAT5, and H2AK5ac levels, which were restored by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Mechanistically, KAT5 was found to regulate TSP-1 expression via H2AK5 acetylation at its promoter. Knockdown of KAT5 exacerbated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and senescence, while TSP-1 overexpression counteracted these effects. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, ovarian tissues exhibited decreased H2AK5 acetylation, reduced KAT5 and TSP-1 expression, and impaired redox homeostasis. Interventions with N-acetylcysteine or TSP-1 ameliorated ovarian pathological changes, hormonal imbalances, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cellular senescence. Collectively, these findings establish the KAT5-TSP-1 axis as a critical regulator of ovarian redox homeostasis, unveiling a novel epigenetic mechanism and proposing a dual-target therapeutic strategy for PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Cisplatin resistance is a major barrier to effective treatment of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) including cutaneous SCC and Head and neck SCC, where resistance develops in more than half of advanced cases. Our previous work demonstrated that genetic knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of TIP60 (KAT5), a histone acetyl transferase, sensitizes cisplatin-resistant SCC cells, induces cell cycle arrest and promotes cell death, suggesting a key role for TIP60 in mediating resistance. Here, we use cisplatin-sensitive and resistant SCC cell lines, together with siRNA-mediated gene silencing, stable overexpression, pharmacological inhibition, immunodot-blot assays, and ICP-MS to demonstrate that TIP60 promotes resistance through two complementary pathways: (1) upregulation of the efflux transporter ABCC1, which reduces intracellular cisplatin accumulation, and (2) increased expression of XPC, a key component of the nucleotide excision repair pathway, involved in recognition and removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts. Elevated TIP60 levels correlate with reduced cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, enhanced removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and increased cell survival in resistant lines. TIP60 depletion reduces ABCC1 expression and increases cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, effects similarly observed with the ABCC1 inhibitor, MK-571. In parallel, TIP60 knockdown impairs removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and reduces expression of multiple DNA damage response (DDR) genes, including XPC. Combined inhibition of TIP60 with spironolactone (targeting XPB/NER) or with MK-571further reduces cell survival and increases cell death in resistant cells. These findings establish TIP60 as a regulator of cisplatin resistance that integrates drug efflux and DNA repair pathways, highlighting TIP60 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome platinum resistance in SCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
An acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the leading cause of drug-induced hepatotoxicity and acute liver failure (ALF) in the United States. While N-acetylcysteine (NAC), is highly effective when administered early after an overdose, its efficacy decreases with delayed administration. Since most patients present late to the clinic, there is an urgent need for novel late-acting therapeutic options to prevent progression to ALF. We previously demonstrated the benefit of delayed activation of the Adenosine A2B Receptor (A2BAR) in attenuating APAP-induced hepatotoxicity and this study focuses on its effects on liver recovery after injury. Fasted male C57BL/6J mice were treated with 300 mg/kg APAP, followed by activation of A2BAR 6 or 9 h later and sacrifice 24, 48 or 72 h post-APAP with evaluation of liver injury, the innate immune response and liver regeneration. Delayed activation of A2BAR significantly enhanced liver recovery, with accelerated repopulation of the liver by Kupffer cells, increased macrophage migration to the necrotic areas and their faster resolution. A2BAR activation also upregulated lipid metabolism-related genes in non-parenchymal cells and cell proliferation and metabolism genes in hepatocytes. Remarkably, genes such as Cidec and Plin2 , crucial for lipid droplet formation, were upregulated, indicating that A2ABR activation enhances lipid metabolism which plays a key role in providing energy for liver regeneration. Overall, these findings highlight the potential of A2BAR activation not only in protecting against liver injury, but also in promoting and accelerating liver regeneration by modulating the innate immune responses and metabolic pathways.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42423603 is a review article
Mild thermal stimulation enhances skeletal muscle differentiation; however, its underlying metabolic basis remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that thermal stimulation promotes myogenic differentiation through enhanced glucose uptake and transient lipid droplet (LD) accumulation in C2C12 myoblasts. Thermal stimulation at 39 °C induced a transient increase in LD formation during early differentiation. Early transient LD accumulation, particularly on days 1 and 2, was positively correlated with the day 5 fusion index, suggesting that early LD formation is associated with subsequent myogenic differentiation. Suppression of LD formation by Plin2 knockdown impaired myotube formation, indicating that LD formation is functionally required for myogenic differentiation. Thermal stimulation enhanced glucose uptake, accompanied by increased Slc2a4 and Ppargc1a expression and increased GLUT4 fluorescence intensity. Moreover, higher glucose availability further supported LD formation and myogenic differentiation even under serum-free conditions. Notably, mitochondrial mass, ATP content, and oxidative capacity remained largely unchanged, suggesting that enhanced glucose uptake is associated with LD accumulation without a corresponding increase in mitochondrial oxidative capacity. These findings identify transient LD formation as a key metabolic event driving myogenic differentiation under thermal stimulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a major cause of neonatal mortality and neurodevelopmental impairments. Following brain hypoxia-ischemia (HI), microglia face substantial metabolic stress; and upon phagocytosis, they become overloaded with lipids derived from engulfed dead neurons and myelin debris. It is unclear how microglia respond to and process the lipid cargo, and whether lipid accumulation may affect microglia function following neonatal HI.The postnatal day 10 mice were subjected to HI using the Vannucci model. Lipid droplets (LD) were assessed by histology and immunofluorescent staining. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) was performed using brain tissue from HI-injured and sham-operated mice at 72 hours after HI. LD-accumulating microglia (LDAM) were identified by a specific LD marker gene perilipin 2 ( Plin2 ). Differential gene expression was analyzed between Plin2 -positive and Plin2 -negative microglia after HI. Human HIE brain sections were also examined for LD accumulation. The dynamic changes of PLIN2-expressing microglia and infiltrating monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) at 24 hours, 72 hours and 7 days after HI were compared using flow cytometry. In addition, mouse BV2 microglia were subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) to study phagocytosis and cytokine expression.Lipid droplets accumulated primarily in microglia after HI in neonatal mice and in human HIE brain. LD were not found in astrocytes or neurons. Plin2 -expressing LDAM emerged as new microglia clusters after HI. Compared with microglia without LD, LDAM showed a distinct transcriptional profile with upregulation of genes linked to microglial activation, enhanced cholesterol and lipid processing, and a shift towards phagocytic and pro-inflammatory state. Blocking LD biogenesis reduced elevated phagocytosis and IL-1β expression in BV2 cells following OGD.Our study revealed that microglia accumulate lipid droplets as part of their metabolic responses to HI in the neonatal brain. Microglial lipid droplet formation is associated with a pro-inflammatory phenotype at early stage after HI, and increased phagocytosis in vitro. The lipid metabolic changes may regulate microglial function and influence HI outcomes.
This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of mulberry leaf powder (MLP) on alleviating fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) in laying hens. A total of 180 healthy 33-week-old Hy-Line Gray laying hens were randomly assigned to 3 groups, with 6 replicates per group and 10 chickens per replicate, and fed a basal diet (CON), high-energy-low-protein (HELP) diet (FLHS), and HELP + 5% MLP diet (MLP), respectively. The experiment lasted 56 days. Results showed that the HELP diet successfully induced FLHS, characterized by an increased liver index, hepatic steatosis, and oxidative stress (P < 0.05). MLP significantly alleviated FLHS-induced hepatic steatosis, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, total antioxidant capacity, and glutathione) in serum and liver (P < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified 102 differentially expressed genes, whose expression was increased by FLHS but reversed by MLP, including SREBF1, SLC27A4, PLIN2, ACOT13, APOA4, GLRX, and MSRB1, which mainly participate in lipid droplet dynamics and redox homeostasis. qRT-PCR confirmed that upregulated expression of lipogenic genes (such as FASN, ACACA, SCD, and ELOVL6) and the downregulated expression of oxidative stress-responsive genes (SOD1 and GPX1) in the FLHS group were normalized by MLP (P < 0.05), accompanied by increased expression of PPARα, CPT1A, and CD36 (P<0.05). 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that MLP reduced the abundance of Desulfovibrio, Rikenellaceae_RC9_gut_group, Intestinimonas, and Shuttleworthia, and enriched Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium in the cecum of FLHS laying hens (P < 0.05). Furthermore, MLP increased acetate, propionate, and butyrate levels, and decreased isobutyrate and isovalerate levels (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis showed that cecal acetate, propionate, butyrate, Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium were positively correlated with hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities (P < 0.05), and negatively correlated with hepatic lipogenic gene expression, hepatic lipid deposition and oxidative stress markers (P < 0.05). These findings indicated that MLP alleviated hepatic lipid metabolism disorders and oxidative stress in FLHS laying hens, which might be achieved by modulating gut microbiota structure and short-chain fatty acid production.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the causal association between Seipin and breast cancer risk using the Mendelian randomization (MR) approach.Genome-wide association study (GWAS) data for Seipin and breast cancer were analyzed, and genetic variants associated with Seipin were selected as instrumental variables (IVs). Inverse variance weighting (IVW) was used as the primary analytical method, supplemented by MR-Egger, weighted median, simple mode, and weighted mode MR analyses to evaluate the causal relationship between Seipin and breast cancer risk. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry was performed to detect Seipin expression in pathological specimens from patients with breast cancer and those with mammary hyperplasia, and the correlation between Seipin expression and clinicopathological characteristics was analyzed.MR analyses indicated that Seipin was inversely associated with breast cancer risk (IVW: OR = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.83-0.96, P < 0.05). Consistent with this, immunohistochemical results showed lower Seipin expression in breast cancer tissues than in mammary hyperplasia tissues, and its low expression was correlated with adverse clinicopathological features. Further independent validation using the TCGA-BRCA cohort recapitulated reduced BSCL2 expression in tumor versus adjacent normal tissues (P = 9.58 × 10-3).MR combined with immunohistochemistry and independent public database validation suggests that Seipin may serve as a potential protective factor closely related to the occurrence and progression of breast cancer. Further functional studies are needed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.© 2026 Zeng et al.
Persistent neuroinflammation is a hallmark of central nervous system (CNS) injury, driving neuronal loss and functional deficits. While microglial lipid metabolic reprogramming, particularly lipid droplet accumulation, has been implicated in chronic inflammation, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Using single-cell transcriptomics, we identified a previously defined lipid droplet-accumulating microglia (LDAM) subpopulation in spinal cord injury (SCI), characterized by elevated PLIN2 expression. Genetic deletion of Plin2 markedly reduced lipid droplet burden, attenuated neuroinflammation, and promoted neuronal survival and functional recovery in vivo. Mechanistically, PLIN2 interacts with the mitochondrial outer membrane protein PGAM5 to regulate lipid droplet-mitochondria contacts. This interaction inverts canonical metabolic flux by redirecting fatty acids from mitochondria back to lipid droplets, thereby suppressing β-oxidation and inducing mitochondrial dysfunction, which subsequently triggers STING-dependent inflammation. Notably, the PLIN2 220-392 domain is essential for PGAM5 binding and contact formation; disrupting this interaction attenuates STING signaling and enhances neuroprotection and functional recovery in vivo. Our findings identify the PLIN2-PGAM5 as a critical metabolic-immune pathway and suggest that targeting organelle-contact-mediated metabolic reprogramming represents a potential therapeutic strategy for CNS injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) remains a major cause of morbidity after pancreatoduodenectomy, yet the biochemical composition of postoperative effluents and their effects on anastomotic healing remain poorly understood. We investigated whether CR-POPF effluents exhibit lipolysis-associated lipid signatures and induce defined responses in cellular model systems relevant to anastomotic healing. Drain effluents from 14 patients (7 CR-POPF, 7 non-POPF) underwent GC-MS lipid profiling. Metabolic viability assays (ATP-based readout of cellular stress responses) were performed in peritoneal mesothelial cells and human foreskin fibroblasts as stromal model systems relevant to anastomotic healing, as well as PanC-1 cells. Two CR-POPF effluents associated with reproducible reductions in metabolic viability were functionally selected for transcriptomic profiling. RNA sequencing was performed in mesothelial cells and fibroblasts after exposure to these effluents and monopalmitin. CR-POPF effluents showed coordinated enrichment of long-chain fatty acids and monoacylglycerides. Only a subset reproducibly impaired cellular metabolic viability. Transcriptomic profiling of the two functionally selected CR-POPF effluents revealed a lipid-responsive transcriptional signal across these biologically distinct effluent samples, characterized by induction of ANGPTL4, HMOX1, PLIN2, and PDK4 and consistent with a metabolic and stress-adaptive transcriptional response to lipid exposure. Activation followed a clear gradient (monopalmitin > AES1448 > GR1479) and was more pronounced in mesothelial cells than in fibroblasts. Functionally active CR-POPF effluent samples may carry lipid signals that are associated with a consistent transcriptional signal in peritoneal mesothelial cells and fibroblasts in functionally active effluent samples. The lipid-dependent amplitude and compartment-specific embedding of this signal support a hypothesis-generating framework derived from the two functionally selected CR-POPF effluents.© 2026. The Author(s).
Buffalo milk is favoured by consumers due to its higher nutritional components, as well as its rich and mellow flavour. However, research on the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of lactation traits in buffalo remains limited. In this study, we systematically investigated the regulatory effects of estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) on lactation-related functions in buffalo mammary epithelial cells (BMECs) using overexpression and small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated silencing strategies. Our results demonstrated that ESR1 knockdown via siRNA significantly suppressed BMEC viability and proliferation and downregulated the expression of genes associated with lipid transport and secretion (PPARG, LPL, PLIN2, VLDLR, ADFP, CD36), milk protein synthesis (CSN1S1, CSN1S2, RPS6, RHEB, EIF4E, AKT1), and cell proliferation (STAT5A, MTOR, ELF5, CCND1, EGF, IGF1). Concurrently, silencing ESR1 markedly upregulated pro-apoptotic genes (BAX, CASP9) and downregulated the anti-apoptotic gene BCL2. Conversely, ESR1 overexpression exerted opposite effects on BMECs, further validating the critical role of ESR1 in modulating BMEC proliferation and milk component synthesis. In conclusion, ESR1 expression enhances buffalo lactation traits by promoting milk fat and milk protein synthesis, stimulating BMEC proliferation, and inhibiting cellular apoptosis. These findings provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms governing buffalo lactation and offer valuable references for the development and utilization of lactation-related genetic resources in buffalo breeding.Copyright: © 2026 Zhixiang Wang et al.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) primarily results from excessive nutrient consumption, with lifestyle modifications, particularly dietary interventions, constituting a principal strategy for its management. This study sought to examine the ameliorative effects of a quinoa diet (QD) on hepatic lipid metabolism in mice with MASLD. Six-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were fed with a QD for 12 weeks, and age-matched male mice were subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) to establish obese MASLD models, followed by QD intervention. Compared with the chow diet (CD) group, QD supplementation maintained lower levels of Lee's index, serum AST and ALT, confirming its regulatory effect on hepatic fat accumulation. In MASLD mice, QD supplementation markedly decreased Lee's index, blood glucose, ALT, AST, LDL-C, TC and TG contents. It also downregulated the gene expression of ACC, FAS and SCD-1 as well as the protein levels of PPARγ and PLIN2, thereby alleviating HFD-triggered hepatic lipid metabolism disorders. Lipids and lipid-like molecules were the most significantly altered metabolites in QD-treated mice, accounting for 50.87% of all differential metabolites. Collectively, quinoa demonstrates the capacity to enhance hepatic lipid metabolism in mice with metabolic-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), with the PPARγ-PLIN2 signaling pathway potentially serving as a central therapeutic target. These findings indicate that quinoa holds significant promise as a functional food for the intervention and mitigation of MASLD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains an incurable neurodegenerative disorder with an elusive pathogenesis, where emerging evidence implicates metabolic dysregulation and ferroptosis in neuronal loss. Although the BSCL2 gene, which encodes Seipin, is crucial for lipid metabolism, its specific role in the progression of AD remains undefined. This study employed Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, in vivo APP/PS1 mouse models, and in vitro BV2 microglial assays to elucidate the mechanistic axis linking BSCL2, metabolites, and ferroptosis in AD. MR analysis demonstrated a causal relationship between genetically predicted elevated BSCL2 expression and an increased risk of AD, partially mediated by glycine. Supporting these genetic findings, stereotactic knockdown of Seipin in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice significantly ameliorated cognitive deficits without inducing systemic metabolic toxicity. Mechanistically, Seipin deficiency reduced ferroptosis in both AD mouse brains and Aβ-stimulated microglia, as evidenced by the upregulation of anti-ferroptotic markers (GPX4, Nrf2, HO-1) and the suppression of pro-ferroptotic effectors (ACSL4, NCOA4). Moreover, glycine supplementation partially ameliorated the aggravated ferroptotic phenotype caused by Seipin overexpression, indicating a functional feedback mechanism in which glycine facilitates glutathione synthesis to mitigate Seipin-induced lipid peroxidation. These findings collectively identify Seipin as a novel regulator of ferroptosis in the pathogenesis of AD and underscore the potential of the BSCL2-glycine-ferroptosis axis as a therapeutic target. Future research should aim to elucidate the specific molecular interactions between Seipin and the iron-handling machinery and to validate glycine-based interventions in clinical settings as a means to prevent neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) is linked to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), yet responsible chemical constituents and the biological basis of susceptibility remain unclear, limiting source-targeted regulation and precision prevention in vulnerable populations. We examined PM2.5 components - liver outcomes associations in youth, assessed susceptibility by PNPLA3 genotype (the strongest known MASLD genetic determinant), and evaluated genotype-specific metabolic mediation in two independent cohorts.Baseline data from 113 Los Angeles Latino adolescents with obesity (discovery cohort) were analyzed, including magnetic resonance imaging-measured hepatic fat fraction (HFF), liver stiffness (LS), and serum metabolomics and lipidomics. Visit-year average exposures to 15 PM2.5 components were estimated from residential addresses. Linear regression and g-computation assessed individual component and mixture effects, with PNPLA3 genotype as modifier. Moderated mediation analyses identified metabolic mediators, followed by pathway enrichment and total mediation effect estimation. Findings were replicated in 81 young adults of mixed race/ethnicity and body mass index (replication cohort) using level 1 metabolites confirmed by authentic standards.PM2.5 components and mixture were predominantly positively associated with HFF and LS; simultaneous interquartile range increases in all components were associated with 10.0% higher HFF. Elemental carbon (EC), bromine (Br), copper, potassium, and lead were key contributors. Stronger effects were observed in PNPLA3 GG carriers. GG carriers exhibited more mediating metabolite features (n = 550 vs. 196), with broader pathway enrichment in carbohydrate, lipid, and amino acid metabolism, and signaling/endocrine pathways. Significant total mediation effects were observed exclusively in GG carriers. Replication confirmed GG-specific associations of EC, Br with HFF, and identified increased fatty acid 16:1, and decreased guanidinosuccinate, proline as candidate mediators.PM2.5 components potentially indicative of combustion and traffic sources (i.e. EC, Br) increase MASLD risk in youth via metabolic pathways, with genotype-specific responses likely heightening susceptibility in PNPLA3 GG carriers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529254 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522599 is a review article
Associations of the MICA (rs2596542), GPC3 (rs2267531), PNPLA3 (rs738409), and TM6SF2 (rs58542926) gene variants with the susceptibility to developing Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) were studied. Blood samples from 600 subjects, including 300 HCC patients and 300 age- and gender-matched controls, were collected from different hospitals in Punjab, Pakistan. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood, and PCR was performed. The results showed that the mutant (TT) of the rs2596542 of the MICA gene is significantly associated with a decreased risk of HCC, while the heterozygote (CT) of the same polymorphism shows a significantly high association with increased HCC risk of 2-fold. In the case of the rs2267531 polymorphism of the GPC3 gene, the mutant (GG) is significantly associated with decreased risk of HCC. In contrast, the heterozygous genotype (AG) of this polymorphism exhibited a highly significant association with a 7-fold higher risk of liver cancer. In the rs738409 variants of gene PNPLA3, heterozygous (AG) has a highly significant association with hepatocellular carcinoma, with increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma by 2-fold. In rs58542926, a homozygous mutant (GG) also shows a substantial correlation with HCC, with increased risk of HCC up to 2-fold. In contrast, the heterozygous (AG) genotype of the rs58542926 SNP shows a highly significant relationship with decreased risk of HCC.
Metabolically-dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is the most common chronic liver disease worldwide and is strongly influenced by genetic susceptibility. Among the identified genetic variants, the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) rs738409 (I148M) polymorphism has been consistently associated with hepatic steatosis and disease progression. However, previous meta-analyses included fewer studies, limited ethnic diversity, and insufficient investigation of between-study heterogeneity. This study aimed to comprehensively evaluate the association between the PNPLA3 rs738409 polymorphism and MASLD susceptibility.A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, Scopus, Web of Science, and Google Scholar to identify eligible case-control studies published between 2015 and 2025. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated under allelic, dominant, homozygous, heterozygous, and combined genotype models using random-effects meta-analysis. Between-study heterogeneity was assessed using the I² statistic, and ethnicity-based subgroup analyses were performed to investigate potential sources of heterogeneity.Forty-one studies comprising 9,064 patients with MASLD and 10,894 controls were included. The G allele was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to MASLD (OR = 1.70, 95% CI: 1.49-1.93). Individuals carrying the GG genotype had approximately a twofold higher risk of MASLD (OR = 2.00, 95% CI: 1.65-2.42), whereas the CC genotype showed a protective association (OR = 0.51, 95% CI: 0.44-0.59). Significant associations were also observed for the CG genotype (OR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.08-1.38) and the dominant model (CG + GG vs. CC) (OR = 2.64, 95% CI: 1.86-3.75). Although substantial between-study heterogeneity was observed (I² = 66%-96%), ethnicity-based subgroup analyses explained part of the variability while demonstrating consistent associations across major ethnic populations.This updated meta-analysis confirms that the PNPLA3 rs738409 (I148M) polymorphism is a major genetic susceptibility factor for MASLD across diverse populations. Although ethnicity contributes to between-study heterogeneity, the association remains robust across populations. These findings support the incorporation of PNPLA3 into multifactorial risk assessment models and provide an updated evidence base for future precision medicine approaches in MASLD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480153 is a review article
Cryptogenic steatotic liver disease (SLD) remains undefined.We investigated the clinical features and outcomes of cryptogenic SLD, operationalised as lean SLD without recorded cardiometabolic risk factors (CMRFs).Clinical characteristics were evaluated in the UK Biobank (UKB) magnetic resonance proton density fat fraction (MR-PDFF) cohort (SLD defined as PDFF ≥5%). Findings were assessed in a hepatic steatosis index-based UKB cohort and externally validated in three cross-sectional cohorts, including the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and Korean National Health Insurance Service (KNHIS) cohorts. Outcomes were examined using Cox regression in two longitudinal cohorts: the UKB hepatic steatosis index cohort and the KNHIS cohort.Among 30 847 MR-PDFF participants, 1195 (3.4%) had non-obese SLD (body mass index <25 kg/m²); 13.7% had cryptogenic SLD and 86.3% had lean metabolic dysfunction-associated SLD. Cryptogenic SLD showed less favourable metabolic and liver-related profiles than non-SLD/no CMRF across cohorts. In cohort-specific analyses, cryptogenic SLD exhibited higher contrast-enhanced T1-weighted image values and an increased prevalence of PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 risk variants in the UKB MR-PDFF cohort. Higher fibrosis rates were observed in the magnetic resonance elastography cohort. In longitudinal analyses, cryptogenic SLD was associated with liver-related death in KNHIS (HR 2.5, 95% CI 1.4 to 4.3). A similar but imprecise association was observed in the UKB hepatic steatosis index cohort (HR 13.2, 95% CI 1.9 to 92.4). The KNHIS association persisted after stricter alcohol exclusion.Operationally defined cryptogenic SLD accounted for a substantial proportion of lean SLD. Despite no recorded CMRFs, this phenotype was associated with liver injury markers and liver-related mortality.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Synaptotagmins (Syts) are Ca2+-sensing exocytosis regulators whose tandem C2 domains interact with phosphoinositides and membranes to trigger neurotransmitter and hormone release. Although Ca2+ binding is known to enhance C2 domain-membrane interactions, the sequence determinants governing lipid binding and membrane penetration across Syt isoforms remain incompletely understood. Here, we performed MARTINI coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations of isolated C2A and C2B domains from eight Ca2+-sensing Syt isoforms (Syt1, Syt2, Syt3, Syt5, Syt6, Syt7, Syt9, and Syt10) interacting with phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2)-containing plasma membranes. To systematically modulate electrostatic properties, we introduced partial and full charge-flip mutations at conserved acidic residues within the calcium-binding loops (CBLs). By integrating simulations across multiple isoforms and charge states, we sought to identify the dominant sequence determinants governing membrane interactions. We found that PIP2 binding to both, CBLs and polybasic patches (PBs), is associated with loop net charge, yielding correlations > 0.95 across all isoforms. However, membrane penetration is not sufficiently explained by loop net charge alone. The local phenylalanines additionally increase membrane penetration independent of loop net charge. Together, these findings establish a comprehensive electrostatic-aromatic framework where loop net charge governs PIP2 binding, whereas loop net charge and local phenylalanine enrichment jointly govern membrane penetration across Syt C2 domains.
Emerging evidence implicates intestinal barrier dysfunction and translocation of microbial factors as key drivers of post-myocardial infarction inflammation and cardiac remodeling, yet therapeutic strategies targeting the gut-heart axis remain underdeveloped. Here we demonstrate that ALY688, an adiponectin receptor agonist peptide, confers robust cardioprotection in rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury through coordinated immunoregulatory programs in cardiac and intestinal tissues. ALY688 administration during ischemia or at reperfusion and subsequently daily for 28 days significantly preserved cardiac function with improved ejection fraction and fractional shortening, reduced infarct size, and decreased cardiac troponin-I levels. Mechanistic investigation revealed tissue-specific immune reprogramming: in the myocardium, ALY688 directly activated macrophages to secrete TGFβ1, which promoted regulatory T cell (Treg) differentiation from naïve CD4 + T cells as validated in macrophage-T cell co-culture systems. This macrophage-to-Treg axis suppressed inflammasome activation and IL-1β/IL-23/IL-6 signaling while enhancing anti-inflammatory macrophage polarization. Simultaneously, ALY688 strengthened intestinal barrier integrity through activation of the RORγt/IL-17 pathway, upregulating tight junction proteins (Claudin-1, ZO-1) and mucins (MUC19, MUC22), thereby limiting systemic spillover of bacterial endotoxin (LPS) and other microbial metabolites. Multi-omics profiling supported this dual-compartment mechanism: proteomics revealed modulation of immune regulatory (CAPG, CORO1A, MCAM) and cardioprotective (clusterin, NPPA) proteins, while metabolomics demonstrated attenuation by ALY688 of post-IR elevations in pathogenic gut-derived metabolites (anthranilic acid, imidazole propionate, linoleic acid derivatives). This study establishes adiponectin receptor activation as a multi-organ immunometabolic intervention that simultaneously resolves cardiac inflammation while protecting intestinal barrier function. These findings provide mechanistic insight for therapeutic strategies that target the gut-heart axis to address a major remaining unmet clinical need in ischemic heart disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Liver fibrosis, a wound-healing response to chronic liver injury characterized by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation, represents a major global health burden with no approved anti-fibrotic therapies. Pien Tze Huang (PZH), an officially approved traditional Chinese medicine (NMPA Drug Approval No. Z35020243), has demonstrated hepatoprotective effects, yet its epigenetic mechanisms in fibrosis treatment remain unexplored. Methods: We performed the first integrated methylome-transcriptome-proteome analysis to investigate PZH's anti-fibrotic mechanisms in a CCl4-induced mouse model using reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS), RNA-seq, and TMT-labeled LC-MS/MS. Results: We identified 10,974 differentially methylated loci (DMLs) and 773 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) modulated by PZH treatment. Integration analysis revealed ANXA3 and CORO1A as candidate therapeutic targets exhibiting significant inverse methylation-expression correlations validated at both transcriptomic and proteomic levels. Notably, PZH treatment modulated the CRLF-CLCF1 cytokine complex and the EGR-3 transcription factor network (42/44 genes enriched), suggesting broad transcriptional reprogramming in fibrotic liver. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis highlighted key gene pairs such as Dnmt1-Uhrf1, Cbfb-Runx1, and Col4a1-Col4a2, implicating PZH in epigenetic maintenance, transcription factor regulation, and ECM remodeling. Conclusions: These findings suggest mechanistic insights into PZH's multi-target anti-fibrotic effects and offer a rationale for developing potential therapeutic targets for liver fibrosis.
To investigate the total circulating exosome transcriptome in animal models of two different CNS pathologic conditions, autoimmune demyelination and traumatic brain injury (TBI).Next generation sequencing (NGS) was used to define the global RNA profile of blood exosomes in the MOG-induced EAE model of autoimmune demyelination and TBI mice model. We analyzed 5 million reads per sample, including a detailed analysis of microRNAs (miRNAs) differentially expressed in EAE versus control mice and versus TBI model.Exosomal RNA NGS revealed 10 different classes of transcripts including miRNA. MiRNA numbers from EAE and TBI mice showed trend to be lower versus control mice. The differentially expressed miRNAs were found in all three sequential EAE time points: early stage post mice immunization (EAEp), peak of disease (EAEa) and recovery (EAEl). The differential expression pattern of miRNA in EAE versus TBI correlated with their involvement in activation or inhibition of immune response. In the early stage of EAE miRNA-335-5p and miRNA-411-5p were upregulated versus TBI. At the peak of disease six miRNAs were most upregulated, miRNA-27a-3p, miRNA-141-3p, miRNA27b-3p, miRNA-195a-5p, miRNA21a-5p and miRNA-99a-5p. The six most upregulated miRNA at the recovery time point of EAE, miRNA-27b-3p, miRNA 141-3p, miRNA 27a-3p, miRNA-127-3p, miRNA-429-3p and let-7b-5p were associated with inhibition of immune response and enhancement of immunoregulation. Interestingly, it was found that similar pattern of downregulated miRNAs versus TBI were present at all three of EAE time points. Bioinformatic analysis of protein genes targeted by the most differentially expressed miRNAs revealed a numbers of proteins involved in neuroinflammation both in EAE and TBI models. In the early phase of EAE, three protein transcripts, Hdac9, Syt7 and NT5c2 serve as an epigenetic switch controlling T cell fate and cytokine production. In recovery of EAE RoRb, a member of ROR nuclear receptor family involved in Th17 cell differentiation was inhibited.These data indicate that different type of CNS pathology, autoimmune demyelination versus TBI is associated with different pattern of miRNA expression in circulating exosomes which may suggest their differential role in these two CNS pathologies.Copyright © 2026 Selmaj, Tinsley, Badaut and Mycko.
The hippocampal CA3 subfield is central to associative learning and memory consolidation. The principal cells of the CA3, pyramidal neurons, execute these functions by generating hypersynchronous bursts that feed forward to the CA1. Extensive recurrent collateral connections within the CA3 neuron population are crucial for the generation of this burst activity. Double C2 domain-containing protein α (Doc2α) and synaptotagmin 7 (Syt7) are high-affinity calcium sensors implicated in asynchronous synaptic vesicle (SV) release and in the exocytosis of dense-core vesicles (DCVs). Additionally, Doc2α is a sensor for miniature neurotransmission, whereas Syt7 is involved in synaptic facilitation and SV replenishment. Both Doc2α and Syt7 are expressed in the hippocampus, but their potential roles in spontaneous excitatory network activity remain unanswered. Using whole-cell recordings in disinhibited acute hippocampal slices obtained from juvenile Doc2α- and Syt7- knockout (KO) mice (P15-21), we report increased CA3 burst generation without changes in spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current (sEPSC) frequency or amplitude. Moreover, the intrinsic properties of CA3 pyramidal neurons, such as the resting membrane potential, firing rate and input resistance, are unchanged. We propose that this novel burst phenotype in Doc2α- and Syt7- KO mice is unrelated to changes in SV release but might be mediated by changes in neuropeptide release from DCVs. Regardless of the underlying mechanisms, this work reveals that both proteins act to regulate network activity.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is characterised by progressive renal tubular epithelial cell injury, yet underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in DN were identified through integrated GEO dataset analysis (GSE30529 and GSE175759). Protein-protein interaction networks identified hub genes. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses determined molecular mechanisms. Nephroseq v5 explored correlations between hub genes and clinical features. CORO1A expression was validated by immunohistochemistry and western blot in DN patients, diabetic db/db mice and high glucose-exposed HK-2 cells. Vps34 inhibition and CORO1A knockdown explored regulatory mechanisms in vesicular trafficking and ferroptosis.Bioinformatics identified CORO1A as a phagosome-related core gene significantly upregulated in DN renal tubulointerstitium and correlated with eGFR, proteinuria, serum creatinine, blood pressure and age. External validation and experiments confirmed CORO1A upregulation in DN patients, diabetic mice and high glucose-exposed cells. Vps34 inhibition impaired lysosomal degradation flux and increased tubular injury markers, ferroptosis, ferritinophagy and CORO1A expression. CORO1A knockdown attenuated ferroptosis and lipid peroxidation, while rescue experiments with Ferrostatin-1 and Erastin confirmed the functional link between CORO1A, vesicular trafficking and ferroptosis.CORO1A is elevated in diabetic renal tubular epithelial cells and regulates vesicular trafficking and ferroptosis. This mechanistic axis suggests CORO1A as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating tubular injury and diabetic nephropathy progression.© 2026 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is increasingly understood as a condition influenced by the diversity of chondrocytes and immune system dysfunction; however, the specific molecular elements connecting distinct chondrocyte populations to the immune environment remain inadequately explored. The protein CORO1A, associated with the cytoskeleton and implicated in immune regulation, has not been thoroughly investigated in the context of OA or through single-cell analysis.We employed multi-omics techniques alongside single-cell RNA sequencing, supported by experimental validation using human OA cartilage samples, a murine model of medial meniscus destabilization (DMM), and in vitro inflammatory chondrocyte models to elucidate the expression patterns and functional significance of CORO1A in OA.The CORO1A gene is recognized as significantly expressed in osteoarthritic cartilage. Transcriptomic evaluations reveal that CORO1A is predominantly expressed in inflammatory and proliferative chondrocyte subpopulations, while showing lower levels in other chondrocyte types, underscoring the specificity of these groups. The upregulation of CORO1A is associated with increased infiltration of various immune cells, including M2 macrophages, plasma cells, and natural killer cells, and is linked to the activation of IL-6/JAK-STAT3 and TNF-α/NF-κB signaling pathways. Additionally, experimental data indicate that CORO1A is markedly elevated in the cartilage regions affected by osteoarthritis in both humans and mice. In terms of its function, the expression of CORO1A in primary chondrocytes is enhanced by inflammatory stimuli, while its suppression leads to reduced MMP13 expression and diminished chondrocyte migration. Conclusion: This study identifies CORO1A as a regulator specific to subpopulations within the immune microenvironment, connecting immune remodeling to both inflammatory and proliferative chondrocytes in OA. Considering the diversity of chondrocytes, the presence of immune cells, and catabolic processes, our results emphasize the significance of CORO1A as a mechanistic factor contributing to cartilage degradation, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for OA.Copyright © 2026 Liang, Ning, Gao, Liu, Zhao, Huang, Hou and Tan.
Macrophages are central regulators of liver immunity and fibrosis; Recent single-cell studies have characterized macrophage heterogeneity in cirrhosis; however, how regulated cell death programs shape their functional transitions across disease progression in human liver remains poorly defined.We integrated scRNA-seq data from 224,529 cells across 31 adult liver samples to define macrophage states and trajectories. Functional activities of regulated cell death pathways were assessed, and key programs were validated by dual immunofluorescence in human liver tissues.Four macrophage subsets with disease-biased distributions were identified. Cirrhotic macrophages exhibited progressive suppression of autophagy, necroptosis, apoptosis, and immunogenic cell death along differentiation, most prominently in terminal states, accompanied by transcriptional exhaustion and reduced immune regulator expression. A disease-associated transitional subpopulation displayed hybrid metabolic-immune features and yielded a six-gene diagnostic signature (LDHB, CD37, S100A10, RNASE1, CXCR4 and CORO1A) validated in bulk RNA-seq data (AUC = 0.936). Spatial analyses confirmed attenuation of autophagy and necroptosis and enrichment of CXCR4- and S100A10-positive macrophages in fibrotic niches.Human cirrhosis is characterized by progressive repression of regulated cell death programs in liver macrophages, providing mechanistic insight into disease progression and identifying macrophage-associated molecular signatures that may aid in patient stratification and serve as potential targets for future therapeutic intervention.
Coronin-1A (CORO1A), a conserved WD-repeat protein enriched in immune cells, plays a pivotal role in host-pathogen interactions and immune regulation, yet the mechanisms controlling its expression have remained elusive. We identify vitamin D3 and retinoic acid as potent repressors of CORO1A transcription via a novel competitive displacement mechanism, wherein soluble VDR/RXR heterodimers outcompete NFAT1 at its binding site on the CORO1A promoter. Luciferase reporter assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation and electrophoretic mobility shift assays pinpoint NFAT1 as the dominant transcriptional driver of CORO1A in the myeloid lineage, with NFAT1/NFAT2 jointly controlling its expression in lymphoid cells. Strikingly, perturbation of the calcineurin-NFAT1 axis sharply reduces CORO1A levels, markedly enhancing macrophage-mediated mycobacterial clearance. The present work uncovers previously unrecognized lineage-specific transcriptional circuitry for CORO1A regulation and positions the calcineurin-NFAT1 pathway as a compelling therapeutic target for immune modulation and host-directed interventions against infectious disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the Biochemical Society.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565210
Acquired paclitaxel (PTX) resistance remains a major obstacle in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) treatment. This study investigated TIPE1's role in regulating autophagy and PTX sensitivity and developed ROS-responsive TIPE1 mRNA-loaded nanoparticles (TIPE1m NPs) as a therapeutic strategy. PTX-resistant TNBC cell lines were established, and integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were performed. TIPE1 was downregulated in resistant cells, while higher TNFAIP8L1 expression in public breast cancer cohorts was associated with better survival and improved PTX response. Mechanistically, TIPE1 overexpression was associated with ubiquitination-related reduction in the stability of the small GTPase RAB7A, leading to impaired autophagic flux, increased ROS accumulation, and enhanced PTX-induced apoptosis. Conversely, TIPE1 knockdown stabilized RAB7A, enhanced autophagy, and increased PTX tolerance. ROS-responsive TIPE1m NPs were constructed to restore TIPE1 expression in resistant cells. TIPE1m NPs suppressed autophagy, increased ROS, and enhanced PTX-induced apoptosis in vitro. In PTX-resistant xenografts, combined TIPE1m NPs and PTX treatment suppressed tumor growth without obvious systemic toxicity. These findings identify the TIPE1-RAB7A-autophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target and support TIPE1 mRNA delivery as a strategy to overcome PTX resistance in TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552063 is a review article
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are rare tissue-resident lymphocytes that functionally mirror cells of CD4+ T helper lineage but lack antigen receptors. Type 3 ILCs (ILC3s) are enriched at barrier sites, regulating inflammation and promoting tissue integrity. Here we profile the promoter-anchored chromosomal contacts of primary human ILC3s using low-input, high-resolution targeted chromosome conformation capture and compare them with those in CD4+ T cells. We use these data to link Crohn's disease genome-wide association study variants with target genes, implicating both known and unanticipated candidates, including CLN3, a causal gene for Batten disease. We show that Cln3 overexpression in a mouse ILC3-like cell line alters stimulation-induced transcriptional programs and cytokine secretion. Extending our approach to five additional immune genome-wide association study traits reveals enrichment for regulators of ILC3 activation. Our work develops methods, maps long-range gene regulation in ILC3s, and prioritizes immune disease risk genes with roles in this clinically relevant immune cell type.© 2026. The Author(s).
Brucella spp. are widespread intracellular animal pathogens that cause brucellosis, a significant zoonosis. Despite the global impact of brucellosis on animal and human health, the host genes that support Brucella infection remain incompletely defined. To address this knowledge gap, we developed a flow cytometry-based infection assay with fluorescent Brucella and performed a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 loss-of-function screen in human macrophage-like cells. Disruption of >150 host genes significantly reduced intracellular B. abortus signal at 3 hours post-infection. In addition to recovering known host factors, the screen revealed previously unappreciated genes linked to endosomal trafficking, cytoskeletal remodeling, and lipid homeostasis. The screen was robust, as validation within these functional categories confirmed that the small GTPase RAB14, the Src-family kinase regulator CSK, and the phospholipid flippase subunit TMEM30A support the B. abortus and B. ovis infection process at a post-entry step. Gene set enrichment analysis further identified positive regulators of mTORC1 signaling as host factors. This result was validated by genetic disruption of LAMTOR2 and AKT1, and pharmacologic inhibition of AKT1. Together, these data indicate that the AKT-Ragulator-mTORC1 axis contributes to establishing a permissive intracellular niche. Finally, to assess whether these host requirements extend beyond Brucella, we examined infection by the unrelated intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium abscessus. CSK, AKT1, and LAMTOR2 were required for efficient M. abscessus infection, whereas RAB14 was dispensable. Together, these results define host genes that impact Brucella infection and distinguish shared versus pathogen-specific host dependencies exploited by intracellular bacteria.
Targeting mitophagy is a potential strategy to tackle chemoresistance and improve chemotherapy in cancer. Ku80 is reported to play a role in chemoresistance and could exert non-canonical functions in mitophagy, but the mechanism remains largely unknown. Here, we report that increased expression of Ku80 leads to prominent mitophagy in liver cancer cells and tissues. Mechanistically, Ku80 directly regulates Rab7A to enhance formation of mitolysosomes. Elevated cytoplasmic levels of Ku80 and Rab7A in liver cancer tissues correlate with improved disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) and significantly enhance the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy in surgical liver cancer patients. Several FDA-approved drugs can be repurposed as mitophagy activators, which enhance the chemotherapeutic agent epirubicin and Ku80/Rab7A interactions. Therefore, we have discovered the non-canonical role of Ku80 in mitophagy by directly regulating Rab7A in liver cancer, which is a potentially druggable and molecular subtyping strategy to improve chemotherapy outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) is a major determinant of disease severity in flavivirus infections, yet the host-associated factors that regulate the transition from antibody-mediated uptake to productive infection remain incompletely defined. Fc gamma receptor IIA (FcγRIIA/CD32A), an activating Fc receptor expressed on myeloid cells, represents a key host determinant linking pre-existing immunity to viral entry pathways. Here, we investigated how FcγRIIA signalling influences intracellular trafficking and ADE efficiency across dengue virus (DENV), Zika virus (ZIKV), and Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV).Using BHK-21 cells expressing either wild-type FcγRIIA (WT) or a cytoplasmic-truncated variant lacking the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM), we show that immune-complex internalization occurs independently of the cytoplasmic domain, but that signalling competence significantly modulates downstream infection efficiency. WT cells generally showed higher ADE efficiency, whereas cytoplasmic-truncated receptors preserved ADE activity but showed virus-dependent reductions in enhancement magnitude.FcγRIIA signalling altered the intracellular routing of virus-antibody complexes. WT receptors promoted rapid trafficking from EEA1-positive early endosomes to Rab7-positive late endosomes, whereas signalling-deficient receptors displayed delayed progression and increased association with IRAP- and Rab14-positive compartments. These trafficking differences correlated with virus-specific patterns of enhancement, with DENV showing the strongest dependence on late endosomal maturation, while ZIKV and JEV utilized more flexible or alternative pathways. Transcriptomic analysis revealed minimal differences between WT and truncated receptors at later time points, indicating that FcγRIIA primarily modulates early post-entry events rather than sustained transcriptional responses.Collectively, these findings identify FcγRIIA signalling as a host-associated determinant that regulates the intracellular fate of virus-antibody complexes and influences ADE efficiency through modulation of endosomal trafficking dynamics. The work provides a mechanistic framework linking host receptor signalling to variability in infection outcomes under conditions of pre-existing immunity, with implications for understanding disease heterogeneity and optimizing vaccine and antibody-based interventions.Copyright © 2026 Rakwi, Muraoka, Haga, Yeo and Moi.
CLN3 disease, or juvenile Batten disease, is a neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder in which visual impairment is typically the earliest clinical manifestation. Although retinal pathology has been extensively studied, functional alterations within central visual pathways remain poorly understood. Here, we used functional ultrasound (fUS) imaging to characterize visually evoked activity across central visual circuits in young Cln3 knockout ( Cln3-/-) mice before the onset of severe retinal degeneration. Visually evoked hemodynamic responses were quantified in regions spanning the geniculostriate and extrageniculate visual pathways, including cortical, thalamic, and midbrain regions. To assess regional pathological burden, accumulation of subunit c of mitochondrial ATP synthase (SCMAS), a pathological marker of CLN3 disease, was examined using immunohistochemistry. We found that Cln3-/- mice exhibited pathway-specific alterations in visually evoked activity. Regions along the extrageniculate pathway, including the midbrain, posterior thalamus, and anterior secondary visual cortex, showed enhanced activation relative to wild-type controls. In contrast, activation within the geniculostriate pathway was reduced in the anterior thalamus and remained unchanged in the primary and posterior secondary visual cortex. SCMAS accumulation was elevated across all examined visual regions in Cln3-/- mice relative to wild-type controls, with greater accumulation observed in geniculostriate regions than in extrageniculate regions. These findings demonstrate early pathway-specific functional and pathological alterations in the visual system of Cln3-/- mice, suggesting pathway-level reorganization of central visual processing. This study advances understanding of central visual dysfunction in CLN3 disease and highlights fUS imaging as a sensitive approach for detecting early functional abnormalities in neurodegenerative disorders.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by early-onset cognitive decline, includes two major pathologic types: FTD-Tau and FTD-TDP. Coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain containing 10 (CHCHD10) encodes a mitochondrial protein, and the CHCHD10V57E variant is a novel mutation clinically identified in FTD patients. The role of CHCHD10 mutants in the pathogenesis of FTD-TDP has been largely reported. However, whether CHCHD10 variants impact the FTD-tau pathology or tau-mediated neurodegeneration is not clear. Here, we generated CHCHD10V57E mutant Drosophila and mammalian cell culture models on a human R406W tau or 0N4R tau expressing background. We discovered that the CHCHD10V57E mutation aggravates retinal degeneration, climbing defects, and short lifespan in tauR406W Drosophila. Additionally, the CHCHD10V57E mutation promotes synaptic integrity defects, increases secretion of total and phosphorylated tau, and induces cytotoxicity in tau-overexpressing mammalian cell culture models. Further studies indicated that localization of the endogenous and wild-type CHCHD10, as well as the V57E mutant, includes the mitochondrial inner and outer membranes. Furthermore, we showed that phosphorylated tau accumulates within the endo-lysosomal system of the CHCHD10V57E-expressing flies and mammalian cells. Depletion of endosomal protein Rab7A partially attenuates neurodegeneration, reduces total and phosphorylated tau secretion, and diminishes cytotoxicity in tauopathy models expressing CHCHD10V57E. Mechanistically, we presented evidence that the CHCHD10-Rab7A-TBC1D15 complex maintains Rab7A in an inactive state. By contrast, CHCHD10V57E expression dissociates the protein complex, resulting in Rab7A activation. Taken together, our study proposes a model whereby the FTD-associated CHCHD10V57E mutation modulates the activation process of Rab7A, resulting in promoting the development of tau pathologies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) shows promise in treating locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC); however, identifying biomarkers for predicting efficacy remains a challenge. Chimeric RNAs offer a potential solution for precision oncology. To investigate the potential of chimeric RNAs as indicators for molecular classification of ESCC and to evaluate their utility in guiding ICB treatment decisions. RNA-seq data from 155 paired ESCC and adjacent normal tissues were analyzed using STAR-Fusion, FusionCatcher, and JAFFA to identify chimeric RNAs, followed by stringent filtering to create a chimeric RNA landscape. A total of 2578 chimeric RNAs were mainly formed through intergenic-splicing, creating 2204 chimeric proteins and 325 neoantigens, which were confirmed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC/MS). Moreover, chimeric RNAs can be utilized to facilitate patient stratification. Patients with specific chimeric RNAs, such as BRAF and JAK2, exhibited favorable responses to trametinib or ruxolitinib, and those with more neoantigens may benefit from immunotherapy. Notably, CTSC-RAB38, MTAP-CDKN2B-AS1, and PTK2-AGO2, which possess oncogenic properties, were linked to unfavorable prognoses. CTSC-RAB38, the most recurrent chimeric RNA, formed via cis-splicing between adjacent genes (cis-SAGe), reshaped the tumor microenvironment (TME) by facilitating CD8+ T cell exhaustion to promote tumor growth. In subcutaneous xenograft models, tumors bearing Ctsc-Rab38 responded better to anti-PD1 therapy, highlighting its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic target. These findings indicate that chimeric RNAs can produce novel fusion proteins and neoantigens, disrupt the expression and function of partner genes, and guide clinical treatment stratification in ESCC.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
Mitochondria are semi-autonomous organelles whose functions critically depend on nucleus-encoded proteins. TOM40 is the core β-barrel protein of the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane (TOM) complex that mediates the import of most nucleus-encoded mitochondrial proteins. Here, we show that the small GTPase RAB32 facilitates the mitochondrial localization of TOM40 and the mitochondrial protein homeostasis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. Accordingly, knockout of RAB32 results in mitochondrial dysfunction and inhibits NSCLC progression in xenograft and autochthonous NSCLC mouse models. We further identify ubiquitin-specific peptidase 13 (USP13) that removes the K48-linked polyubiquitin chains from RAB32 to prevent its proteasomal degradation. Consistently, knockout of USP13 causes destabilization of RAB32, impairs TOM40 mitochondrial localization and mitochondrial function, and inhibits NSCLC progression, which are restored by reconstitution of wild-type USP13 or RAB32, but not the catalytically inactive USP13C345A/M664/739E. Our study has revealed a previously uncharacterized RAB32-USP13 axis for mitochondrial functions and NSCLC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
The Rab32 antimicrobial pathway restricts Salmonella Typhi replication in murine macrophages. The broad-host pathogen Salmonella Typhimurium has evolved a solution to disrupt this pathway via effector proteins, including GtgE. The presence of a C-terminal CaaX motif in GtgE prompted the hypothesis that the effector was prenylated by the host. Here, we show that the CaaX motif enhances GtgE membrane association and intracellular targeting. Substitution of the C-terminal cysteine (C225S) caused diffused cytosolic distribution and loss of membrane enrichment. Inhibition of host isoprenoid biosynthesis or geranylgeranyl transferase I activity also disrupted GtgE localization. During infection, translocated GtgE was enriched in membrane fractions and accumulated around intracellular Salmonella in a pattern consistent with association to the Salmonella-containing vacuole, whereas the C225S variant showed reduced membrane association. These findings identify host prenylation as a mechanism that may direct GtgE to intracellular membranes where Rab32 is accessible for cleavage.
Solute carrier (SLC) family genes govern transmembrane transport and cellular metabolism, yet their systematic roles from Helicobacter pylori infection to gastric cancer (GC) remain undefined. By integrating multiple GEO datasets with weighted gene co-expression network analysis, differential expression, and machine learning algorithms, we identified seven core SLC genes (SLC9A9, SLC43A2, SLC16A6, SLC7A14, SLC28A3, SLC4A11, SLC5A2) for H. pylori infection and nine (SLC1A3, SLC2A3, SLC15A3, SLC19A3, SLC2A12, SLC16A4, SLC25A4, SLC9A7, SLC28A3) for GC. Logistic regression models achieved high diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.976 and 0.874, respectively). Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct correlation patterns: SLC4A11 and SLC5A2 associated with activated mast cells, neutrophils, and M2 macrophages in infection, while SLC1A3 and SLC2A3 correlated broadly with M1/M2 macrophages and activated CD4+ T cells in GC. Enrichment analyses confirmed involvement in transmembrane transport, immune-related pathways, and cancer signaling. Transcription factor prediction identified CEBPB, RELB, and STAT5A as key upstream regulators. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinities between SLC proteins and repurposable compounds (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, CHEMBL1182312, quinine). This study provides the first systematic characterization of SLC family expression across the H. pylori-GC continuum, identifying potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rab GTPases regulate vesicular trafficking and membrane dynamics, processes essential for platelet activation. Although several Rab family members are expressed in platelets, the role of Rab31 remains undefined.To determine the role of Rab31 in platelet activation, thrombosis, and hemostasis and to explore the underlying mechanisms.Rab31 expression was examined in human and murine platelets. Platelet function was evaluated in Rab31-/- and wild type mice using aggregation, ATP release, spreading, and clot retraction assays. In vivo thrombosis and hemostasis were assessed by FeCl3-induced mesenteric arterial injury, collagen/epinephrine-induced pulmonary embolism, tail-snip bleeding, and platelet depletion and repletion experiments. Quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses were performed to identify Rab31-dependent signaling pathways in platelets.Rab31 was expressed in human and murine platelets at both mRNA and protein levels. Rab31 deficiency significantly reduced platelet aggregation, ATP secretion, spreading, and clot retraction. In vivo, Rab31-/- mice showed delayed arterial thrombus formation and reduced pulmonary embolism, whereas tail bleeding time and blood loss were unchanged. Platelet depletion and repletion experiments confirmed the platelet intrinsic role of Rab31 in thrombosis. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed decreased ERK2 and PLCβ3 phosphorylation in Rab31-deficient platelets, and quantitative proteomics identified reduced CD151 expression. These findings were validated by immunoblotting.Rab31 promotes platelet activation and arterial thrombosis without affecting physiological hemostasis, likely through regulation of ERK-PLCβ3 signaling and CD151 expression.Copyright © 2026 International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42436062 is a review article
Vestibular schwannoma (VS) is a benign Schwann cell-derived tumor that frequently causes progressive hearing loss and vestibulocochlear dysfunction, substantially impacting quality of life. The molecular mechanisms underlying VS pathobiology remain poorly defined, and reliable biomarkers or targeted therapies are lacking. This study aimed to delineate the molecular landscape of VS through a transcriptome-wide meta-analysis. We performed a genome-wide random-effects meta-analysis of four independent Affymetrix microarray datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differential expression analyses were conducted with and without covariate adjustment. Gene Ontology enrichment and DrugBank-based drug-gene interaction analyses were subsequently applied to characterize biological pathways and assess translational potential. Across the meta-analysis, more than 3,200 differentially expressed genes were identified in the covariate-free model. After applying a more stringent threshold (|metaLFC| > 1 and FDR < 0.05), 1,095 genes remained differentially expressed, with high concordance between the covariate-free and covariate-adjusted models. Downregulated genes included extracellular matrix and stromal components (MFAP5, FABP4, DCN), and sensory- and synapse-related transcripts (SLC22A3, LGI1). Upregulated genes included immune- and inflammation-associated genes (TREM2, CCL3, CCL4, L1CAM) and proliferative regulators (CCND1, RAB31, MOXD1). Functional enrichment highlighted extracellular matrix remodeling, immune modulation, sensory signaling, and cell cycle pathways. Notably, many of the most strongly dysregulated genes have not previously been associated with VS. Drug-gene interaction analysis identified multiple dysregulated genes with known pharmacological targets, suggesting potential translational relevance. This transcriptome-wide meta-analysis provides a comprehensive overview of gene expression patterns in VS, highlighting alterations related to extracellular matrix organization, sensory and synaptic processes, immune-associated signaling, and cell cycle-related pathways. The study highlights novel disease-associated genes and pathways and may help prioritize candidates for further investigation, including those with potential relevance for therapeutic targeting.Copyright: © 2026 Altınalan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The Yangtze sturgeon (Acipenser dabryanus), a critically endangered living fossil whose wild populations are now extinct, faces new challenges to survival in captive breeding. Among these, the emergence of albino and gray color morphs raise fundamental questions about the molecular basis and physiological consequences of pigmentation loss. Here, we integrated histological, transcriptomic, and quantitative PCR to investigate pigmentation variation and associated immune alterations in this species. Histology revealed a complete absence of melanin in albino individuals and marked reduction in gray morphs. Transcriptomic profiling across the three color morphs uncovered a broad downregulation of core melanogenic genes, including PMEL, TYR, TYRP1, DCT, SLC45A2, OCA2, MREG, and MLPH, indicating impaired melanosome formation, melanin synthesis, and intracellular transport. Notably, pigmentation loss coincided with systematic changes in the expression of immune-related genes: phagosome pathway genes (e.g., C3, MHC I/II, TAP2) were downregulated, while pro-inflammatory mediators (e.g., IL-8, IL-17, CXCL10) were upregulated, suggesting a transcriptional pattern correlated with reduced expression of pathogen defense-related genes and increased genes associated with inflammation mediators. These findings reveal a mechanistic correlation between melanin deficiency and immune dysfunction in a basal vertebrate lineage, offering the first molecular evidence of an association between albinism and altered immune-related gene expression in sturgeons and highlighting its implications for conservation and captive management.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterised by perivascular space inflammation and perivenous neuronal demyelination. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is driven along these perivascular structures by vasomotor waves, respiratory and cardiovascular pulsations which also drive cerebral blood flow. As altered blood flow precedes lesion development in vivo, we used fast functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at 10 Hz and whole-brain statistical maps to investigate whether 25 patients without disease-modifying therapies and with recently diagnosed multiple sclerosis showed alterations in three physiological brain pulsations that drive brain fluid dynamics, compared to 25 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. In this observational study we show that respiratory pulsation's power (PPResp) is significantly higher in CSF spaces and widely in MS brain compared to the healthy controls. Neither arterial cardiovascular pulsations nor vasomotor waves showed significant differences between the groups. Furthermore, power of respiratory pulsation correlated with greater neurological disability especially in sensorimotor areas and thalamus, and with the higher MS lesion burden. The duration of MS correlated with the increased width range of variability in the autonomous respiratory rate. These findings indicate altered perivenous CSF and intravenous flow dynamics, consistent with the perivenous disposition of MS, and may provide target for new therapies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42159407 is a review article
Growing evidence links lysosomal dysfunction to parkinsonism. TRPML1, a lysosomal cation channel encoded by the MCOLN1 gene, is essential for lysosomal function. Biallelic loss-of-function variants in MCOLN1 cause mucolipidosis type IV. However, the role of heterozygous MCOLN1 variants remains unclear.Two patients with α-synucleinopathies underwent clinical evaluation and whole-genome sequencing. The functional effects of TRPML1 variants were assessed using immunofluorescence, lysosomal patch-clamp recording, and autophagic flux assay.Two heterozygous MCOLN1 variants were identified: p.E376K in a patient with multiple system atrophy and p.L315del in a patient with early-onset Parkinson's disease. Functional analyses showed that p.L315del disrupted lysosomal localization, and both variants significantly reduced lysosomal currents upon TRPML1 agonist stimulation, with a trend toward impaired autophagic flux, indicating loss of function.These findings demonstrate that both variants impair TRPML1 function in vitro, identifying MCOLN1 as a candidate gene for α-synucleinopathies that warrants further investigation in larger cohorts. © 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552057
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552056
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546981 is a review article
The transmembrane protein 175 (TMEM175) is a high-risk gene for Parkinson's disease (PD) and encodes an ion channel in lysosomes. Many PD-associated variants in TMEM175 lead to the loss of ion channel function. In this study, we identified the PD-associated TMEM175-L156P variant is a missense mutation with trafficking deficiency. Using imaging, biochemical, and whole-endolysosomal electrophysiological approaches, we identified that L156P abolished the lysosomal expression of TMEM175; instead, it accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The cytosolic segment of the fourth transmembrane helix (TM4-1), where the L156 resides, determined the lysosomal localization of TMEM175. Having understood the structural basis, we evaluated wild-type (WT) TMEM175 and pharmacological chaperones previously used in cystic fibrosis treatment. We elucidated that WT partially rescued the aberrant expression of L156P. Moreover, the chaperones substantially reduced the ER-retained L156P and facilitated its trafficking to lysosomes. We further screened and identified a bifunctional chemical molecule that both corrected the trafficking defects and potentiated the ion channel function of L156P. Notably, the chemical-restored L156P is functional, as it relieves the lysosomal over-acidification. Conclusively, we establish the relationship between aberrant trafficking and pathogenesis in PD, demonstrating the potential of utilizing "chaperone plus agonist" bifunctional chemical molecules as personalized treatment for PD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Despite the high prevalence of pediatric asthma, the molecular basis of its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, in part due to the complex and heterogeneous nature of the disease.In this study, we performed bulk RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 183 children (114 asthma cases, 69 controls) across two independent cohorts as a minimally invasive approach to capture the gene expression changes underlying asthma status and severity.Our analysis identified robust signatures of pediatric asthma, including differential expression of a canonical asthma gene (RAB7B) and two novel genes (RPP38-DT, NCAL1), which encode long non-coding RNAs. Additionally, severity-stratified analyses revealed upregulation of several immune-related genes (CCL8, ACOD1, CXCL9, SLAMF1, EPN2) and downregulation of an uncharacterized transcript (ENSG00000288973) as asthma severity increased. Enrichment and co-expression analysis further implicate impaired type I interferon signaling in asthma disease severity.Our results demonstrate contributions to the pathobiology of asthma among several novel molecular candidate genes, which may support future efforts towards molecular stratification of pediatric asthma.© 2026. The Author(s).
TMEM175 is a lysosomal cation channel essential for maintaining lysosomal pH and function. Dysregulation of TMEM175 has been implicated in Parkinson's disease, highlighting the need for small-molecule modulators to probe its physiological and therapeutic roles. We previously screened an FDA-approved compound library for TMEM175 modulators using a plasma membrane overexpression system that enables functional analysis of channel activity. Here, we report the pharmacological characterization of the most potent hit, candesartan cilexetil. In fluorescence-based thallium flux, automated patch-clamp, and manual patch-clamp assays, candesartan cilexetil robustly activates TMEM175 with efficacy comparable with the reference activator DCPIB, whereas its hydrolyzed metabolite candesartan is inactive. Candesartan cilexetil is active only when applied to the extracellular (lysosome lumen-equivalent) side of the channel and is inactive from the cytosolic-facing side. To determine whether activation requires the intact prodrug, we generated analogs that modify or eliminate the cilexetil and ester functionalities. Structure-activity studies show that selected modifications of the cilexetil moiety reduce potency while preserving maximal efficacy, whereas more extensive modification markedly reduces intrinsic activity, indicating that it is an essential pharmacophoric element rather than a simple membrane-permeating handle. Manual patch-clamp wash-off experiments further demonstrate direct, reversible activation without requiring membrane permeation or hydrolysis. Unexpectedly, the nonhydrolyzable analog VU0982645 exhibits minimal intrinsic activity yet produces robust synergistic activation with DCPIB. Together, these findings establish the cilexetil handle as a key pharmacophoric element and support synergistic modulation as a tractable mechanism for activating TMEM175.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We introduce a new therapeutic paradigm for TMEM175 targeting by demonstrating that synergistic agonist pairs can drive robust channel activation. Beyond identifying candesartan cilexetil as a moderately potent activator with a previously unrecognized pharmacophoric cilexetil moiety, we show that a minimally active analog can dramatically potentiate activation in combination with DCPIB. This synergistic strategy establishes TMEM175 as a tractable therapeutic target and reveals coagonism as a powerful mechanism to modulate lysosomal ion channels.
Differentiating oligodendrocytes undergo dramatic morphologic alterations to transition from progenitors to mature oligodendrocytes that synthesize myelin, the lipid-rich membrane coating axons which strengthens saltatory conduction and provides metabolic support. Actin dynamics, which are often regulated by membrane bound nucleators associated with organelles, underpin the morphologic shifts in oligodendrocyte maturation; however, the origin of such regulation during oligodendrocyte differentiation remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the lysosomal non-selective cation channel, transient potential mucolipin 1 (TRPML1), is a critical regulator of oligodendrocyte morphology during differentiation and initial myelination. Lysosomes move into oligodendrocyte processes during differentiation. While manipulation of TRPML1 did not change the expression of oligodendrocyte lineage markers, activation of TRPML1 resulted in altered oligodendrocyte morphology and an increase in actin filament content driven by the small GTPase Rac1 and subsequent disinhibition of PAK1 via phosphorylation. Actin associated changes in morphology are accompanied by the presence of lysosomal-derived calcium transients in nascent oligodendrocyte processes, potentially revealing a link between localized calcium signaling and actin polymerization. Lastly, adolescent mice (Mcoln1 -/-), in which TRPML1 had been deleted, had significantly impaired myelination and decreased numbers of mature oligodendrocyte, which was associated with a reduction in staining for the phosphorylated form of the actin regulator, PAK1, in the motor cortex and corpus callosum as evidence of decreased TRPML1/Rac1/PAK1 signaling. Together, our work reveals lysosomal TRPML1 activity as a central regulator of oligodendrocyte morphology independent of myelin protein expression and may provide mechanistic insight into the distinct but coordinated pathways that lead to oligodendrocyte differentiation and how lysosomal dysfunction impacts these processes in diseased states.
Anxiety disorders are prevalent and can greatly impact well-being. The biological mechanisms behind anxiety are not fully understood, but growing evidence suggests a role for DNA methylation. Here, we conduct a large-scale methylome-wide association study of lifetime anxiety in 14,443 participants (1817 cases and 12,626 controls) in whole blood, and, through epigenomic deconvolution, 12 different blood cell types. We detect four CpG associations at methylome-wide significance in whole blood, and a range between 15 and 124 associations among the cell types. Top cell type-specific findings include genes potentially involved in stress response such as FAM171A2 and VIPAS39 and genes that have been previously linked to anxiety, such as NCOR1. Whole blood and all cell type-specific findings significantly overlap with findings from two previous methylome-wide association studies of lifetime anxiety and an anxiety GWAS, suggesting results are robust. Pathway analyses broadly implicate anxiety-related impacts on cellular stress response. Analyses of five epigenetic clocks suggest DNA methylation-based phenotypic aging and pace of aging may be accelerated in anxiety. Our results support a cell type-specific relationship between DNA methylation and anxiety and highlight the utility of including cell type-specific analyses in whole blood studies of DNA methylation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41923461 is a review article
The high mortality rate associated with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is primarily due to recurrence and chemoresistance, underscoring the urgent need for innovative therapeutic approaches that leverage newly identified vulnerabilities in cancer cells. While conventional chemotherapies induce apoptosis by targeting DNA or mitotic machinery, ferroptosis represents a new distinct form of programmed cell death characterised by the accumulation of lipid peroxides.The sensitivity of different EOC cell lines to ferroptosis inducers was evaluated using cell viability assays and lipid peroxidation measurements. Live-cell imaging with the pH-sensitive CD63-pHuji reporter was performed to track the extracellular export of acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4) via exosomes. The upstream regulator of ACSL4 were identified through immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) and validated using protein binding assays. Finally, cell-derived xenograft (CDX) and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models were utilised to evaluate the therapeutic potential overcoming ferroptosis resistance.In this study, we found that interferon (IFN)-γ combined with arachidonic acid (AA), which are endogenous ferroptosis inducers, could initiate ferroptosis in most EOC cells. However, some EOC cells displayed significant resistance. Contrary to the typical increase in ACSL4 protein observed in ferroptosis-sensitive cells, resistant EOC cells exhibited surprisingly low levels of this pro-ferroptotic lipid metabolic protein. Intriguingly, this reduction is attributed to the exosomal expulsion of ACSL4 protein, revealing a distinct cellular mechanism to evade ferroptosis. We further identified VIPAS39 as a pivotal regulator in sorting ACSL4 into late endosomes, thereby facilitating their subsequent release as exosomes. Notably, targeting VIPAS39 not only overcomes the resistance to ferroptotic cell death but also markedly suppresses tumour growth.Our findings uncover the crucial role of VIPAS39 in ferroptosis evasion by facilitating the exporting of ACSL4 protein via exosomes, highlighting VIPAS39 as a promising target for ferroptosis-based anti-cancer therapy.Funded by Beijing Municipal Natural Science Foundation (Key program Z220011), National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (T2225006, T2488301, 82272948), Peking University Medicine Youth Science and Technology Innovation 'Sail Plan' Project Type B Medical Interdisciplinary Seed Fund (71006Y3171), GuangDong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2021A1515110820), and the special fund of the National Clinical Key Speciality Construction Program, P. R. China (2023).Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39982357 is a review article
This study aims to explore the causal relationship between five selected factors-lysosome, migrasomes, macrophage, fibroblast, and endothelium cell-and early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) through related genes, providing clues for EOAD research.Using genes related to the five selected factors as exposure variables and EOAD as the disease outcome, significant genes were screened through Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis using the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, based on the OpenGWAS database. The selected genes were intersected with genes related to the exposure factors to assess the causal relationships between the five factors and EOAD.MR analysis identified 13 genes in total. Six of these genes were protective factors for EOAD, with LYST being the most significant (OR = 0.4259, 95% CI: 0.2218-0.8178, p = 0.0103). Seven genes were risk factors for EOAD, with NCF4 being the most significant (OR = 2.7207, 95% CI: 1.0229-7.2362, p = 0.0449). A total of 1925 genes related to lysosome, migrasomes, macrophage, fibroblast, and endothelium cell were analyzed. After intersection, 10 lysosome-related genes (NCF4, VIPAS39, LYST, SORT1, ARSB, EPDR1, SYNGR1, ANXA11, PYGB, CLN5) and 3 endothelium cell -related genes (ADM, NFIB, NKTR) were found to have significant causal relationships with EOAD.There are genes related to lysosome and endothelium cell that have significant relationships with EOAD, while no causal relationships were found between migrasomes, macrophage, fibroblast, and EOAD. This study provides an important basis for further EOAD research.
Arthrogryposis-renal dysfunction-cholestasis (ARC) syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder, exhibits genetic heterogeneity with the VIPAS39 gene pathological variants being a distinct contributor.We present two related patients from Kosovo, describing the clinical, genetic, and therapeutic aspects of the syndrome. The identified novel VIPAS39 pathological variants (c.762G > A; c.1064_1082delinsAGTG) emphasize the complex phenotypic expression of ARC syndrome. A systematic literature review identified 8 VIPAS39-related ARC cases with notable variability in clinical features. Prognostically, patients fell into severe and milder groups, with some reaching adolescence. Our report aligns with others noting milder ARC courses and emphasizes the value of genetic testing, especially in atypical presentations. Challenges included incomplete literature data, early mortality affecting diagnostic workup, and limited VIPAS39-related ARC cases. Comparisons with the more prevalent VPS33B pathological variants revealed no distinct clinical differences.Our study expands understanding of ARC syndrome, highlighting its genetic diversity and clinical variability. Milder presentations underscore diagnostic challenges and the potential prevalence of undiagnosed cases. Increased awareness and comprehensive genetic testing are crucial for early and accurate diagnosis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Integrating proteomic and transcriptomic data with genetic architectures of problematic alcohol use and alcohol consumption behaviours can advance our understanding and help identify therapeutic targets. We conducted systematic screens using genome-wise association study data from ~3,500 cortical proteins (N = 722) and ~6,100 genes in 8 canonical brain cell types (N = 192) with 4 alcohol-related outcomes (N ≤ 537,349), identifying 217 cortical proteins and 255 cell-type genes associated with these behaviours, with 36 proteins and 37 cell-type genes being new. Although there was limited overlap between proteome and transcriptome targets, downstream neuroimaging revealed shared neurophysiological pathways. Colocalization with independent genome-wise association study data further prioritized 16 proteins, including CAB39L and NRBP1, and 12 cell-type genes, implicating mechanisms such as mTOR signalling. In addition, genes such as SAMHD1, VIPAS39, NUP160 and INO80E were identified as having favourable neuropsychiatric profiles. These findings provide insights into the genetic landscapes governing problematic alcohol use and alcohol consumption behaviours, highlighting promising therapeutic targets for future research.© 2024. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
A male infant born out of non-consanguineous marriage to a primigravida presented to us as his third hospitalisation with ichthyotic lesions all over the body, cholestatic jaundice, multiple joint contractures and a history of recurrent sepsis. Blood and urine investigations revealed Fanconi syndrome, hypothyroidism and direct hyperbilirubinaemia with elevated liver enzymes and normal gamma glutamyl transpeptidase levels. The combination of arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction and cholestasis led to the suspicion of arthrogryposis, renal tubular dysfunction, cholestasis (ARC) syndrome, which was then proved by genetic testing. The baby was managed conservatively with respiratory support, antibiotics, multivitamins, levothyroxine and other supportive measures but succumbed to the illness on day 15 of hospitalisation. Genetic analysis using next-generation sequencing was confirmatory of a homozygous mutation in VIPAS39 gene leading to ARC syndrome type 2 in the present case. Genetic counselling was provided and prenatal testing was advised to the parents for future pregnancies.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Loss-of-function variants of vacuolar protein sorting proteins VPS33B and VPS16B (VIPAS39) are causative for arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction, and cholestasis syndrome, where early lethality of patients indicates that VPS33B and VPS16B play essential cellular roles. VPS33B is a member of the Sec1-Munc18 protein family and thought to facilitate vesicular fusion via interaction with soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes, like its paralog VPS33A in the homotypic fusion and vacuole sorting complex. VPS33B and VPS16B are known to associate, but little is known about the composition, structure, or function of the VPS33B-VPS16B complex. We show here that human VPS33B-VPS16B is a high molecular weight complex, which we expressed in yeast to perform structural, composition, and stability analysis. Circular dichroism data indicate VPS33B-VPS16B has a well-folded α-helical secondary structure, and size-exclusion chromatography-multiangle light scattering revealed a molecular weight of ∼315 kDa. Quantitative immunoblotting indicated a VPS33B:VPS16B ratio of 2:3. Expression of arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction, and cholestasis syndrome-causing VPS33B missense variants showed L30P disrupts complex formation but not S243F or H344D. Truncated VPS16B (amino acids 143 to 316) was sufficient to form a complex with VPS33B. Small-angle X-ray scattering and negative-staining EM revealed a two-lobed shape for VPS33B-VPS16B. Avidin tagging indicated that each lobe contains a VPS33B molecule, and they are oriented in opposite directions. We propose a structure for VPS33B-VPS16B that allows the VPS33B at each end to interact with separate SNARE bundles and/or SNAREpins, plus associated membrane components. These observations reveal the only known potentially bidirectional Sec1-Munc18 protein complex.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) viruses, including foot‑and‑mouth disease virus (FMDV), enterovirus 71 (EV71), and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), reprogram host lipid metabolism to facilitate replication. However, the mechanisms governing virus‑induced lipid droplet (LD) degradation remain poorly defined, which limits the development of host‑directed antiviral strategies.We employed virological, biochemical, and imaging approaches to investigate the role of the lysosomal GTPase ARL8B in ssRNA virus infection. Lipid droplet dynamics, lipophagy, and lysosomal exocytosis were assessed using confocal microscopy and biochemical assays. Small‑molecule inhibitors targeting ARL8B were identified through virtual screening and validated in vitro for antiviral activity. The in vivo efficacy of selected inhibitors was evaluated in a murine EV71 infection model, with disease severity and survival as endpoints.ARL8B was identified as a central host factor that promotes replication of multiple ssRNA viruses by coordinating LD degradation with viral egress. Mechanistically, ARL8B drove lysosome‑dependent LD breakdown via selective lipophagy, releasing free fatty acids that fuel membrane remodeling within viral replication complexes. Concurrently, ARL8B facilitated viral exit through a noncanonical lysosomal-exosome pathway, enhancing progeny virus dissemination. Virtual screening yielded small‑molecule ARL8B inhibitors that potently suppressed ssRNA virus replication in vitro. In a murine EV71 infection model, these inhibitors provided robust protection and substantially reduced disease severity.Our findings establish ARL8B as a key host factor coupling lipid catabolism with viral export, and unveil a class of broad‑spectrum antiviral candidates targeting a lipid reprogramming node essential for multiple pathogenic RNA viruses. This study provides a mechanistic framework for developing host‑directed antiviral therapies against ssRNA viruses.© 2026. The Author(s).
The endolysosomal system is a dynamic intracellular network essential for cargo degradation, recycling, and spatial compartmentalization. Proper coordination of endosome maturation and positioning is critical for lysosomal function and receptor fate. This study identifies an additional role for the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF13 in controlling endolysosomal dynamics through its interaction with the small GTPase Arl8B. Predictive structural modeling and co-immunoprecipitation revealed that RNF13 binds to Arl8B via residues Glu22 and Phe55 of Arl8B and Leu244 of RNF13. Binding occurs with a modest preference for the GDP-bound Arl8B over GTP-bound state, suggesting that RNF13 may engage an inactive fraction of Arl8B to influence endolysosomal positioning and assembly of Arl8B-dependent trafficking complexes. Disrupting RNF13-Arl8B binding alters Arl8B localization and redistributes lysosomes toward the cell periphery without changing the abundance of endolysosomal markers. Functionally, perturbing this interaction selectively alters epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) trafficking kinetics, consistent with a delayed progression of cargo toward lysosomal degradation rather than a general defect in endocytosis. Although overexpression of the Arl8B effector PLEKHM1 enhances RNF13-Arl8B association, this is better explained by a shared Arl8B binding interface and does not imply direct cooperativity between RNF13 and PLEKHM1. Together, these findings identify RNF13 as a regulator of lysosomal organization and cargo transport, operating through Arl8B binding and ubiquitination that can occur without a proportional change in Arl8B abundance under our assay conditions. This work reveals an additional layer of regulation in endolysosomal trafficking, highlighting RNF13 as a regulatory node influencing cargo progression through degradative pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The small GTP-binding protein Arl8b is established as a regulator of lysosome positioning and fusion, yet its role in lysosome biogenesis remains unclear. Here, we investigate the role of Arl8b in the trafficking of newly synthesized LAMP1 to lysosomes using the Retention Using Selective Hook (RUSH) assay. We find that Arl8b localizes to post-endocytic LAMP1-containing vesicles prior to fusion with acidic lysosomes. Arl8b depletion leads to Rab11a-dependent recycling of LAMP1 to the plasma membrane, impairing its lysosomal delivery. Mechanistically, Arl8b recruits the Rab11a GAP, TBC1D9B, to LAMP1-positive membranes, and TBC1D9B depletion similarly disrupts LAMP1 sorting. Notably, TBC1D9B knockdown also impairs the retrieval of cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor (CI-M6PR) from Rab11a- and Rab14-positive endosomes to the trans-Golgi network, impairing pro-cathepsin trafficking and cargo degradation. These findings reveal that Arl8b-mediated recruitment of Rab GAP TBC1D9B is crucial for inactivation of the Rab11a recycling pathway, leading to efficient sorting of lysosomal cargo to their functional location.© 2026 Chouhan et al.
Osteoclast-mediated bone resorption depends on the secretion of lysosomal hydrolases via the fusion of secretory lysosomes with the ruffled border, yet the molecular mechanisms governing lysosomal trafficking and fusion remain incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that the small GTPase Arl8b regulates the processing of osteoclast-specific lysosomal hydrolase, cathepsin K, and the positioning of secretory lysosomes toward the actin ring. Accordingly, depletion of Arl8b led to defects in lysosome-mediated bone resorption in osteoclasts. We identify RUFY4 as a RANKL-inducible Arl8b effector that promotes lysosome clustering and maturation by linking Arl8b to Rab7 through the adaptor PLEKHM1 and recruiting the multi-subunit tethering factor HOPS complex to drive late endosome-lysosome fusion. Depletion of RUFY4 or HOPS subunits impairs cathepsin K processing and disrupts lysosome positioning, leading to reduced bone resorption activity. These findings suggest that Arl8b and its interaction partners play essential roles in biogenesis and positioning of secretory lysosomes, essential for osteoclast function in bone remodeling.
Lysosomes are highly dynamic organelles that serve antagonistic functions as terminal catabolic stations for the degradation of macromolecules and as central metabolic decision centers for anabolic growth signaling. Lysosome dysfunction is implicated in various human diseases. The physiological roles of lysosomes are linked to the control of lysosome position and dynamics via the activity of the kinesin-activating small GTPase ARL8. How the activity of ARL8 is regulated remains poorly understood. Here, we identify the GTPase-activating Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC) domain protein TBC1D9B as a critical negative regulator of ARL8B function. We demonstrate that TBC1D9B is associated with the lysosomal membrane protein TMEM55B, directly binds to ARL8B-GTP, and stimulates its GTPase activity. Knockout of TBC1D9B or its binding partner TMEM55B causes lysosome dispersion, defective autophagic flux, and impairs the adaptive degradative response of cells to limiting nutrient supply. These lysosomal phenotypes of TBC1D9B loss are occluded by concomitant depletion of ARL8 in cells. Collectively, our data unravel a key role for TBC1D9B in controlling lysosome function by serving as a negative regulator of ARL8 activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ras-related GTPases are molecular switches regulating hundreds of signaling and trafficking pathways in cells. Many GTPase regulators remain to be identified despite extensive genetic and biochemical screens. Here we present the results of computational protein-protein interaction screens and functional experiments identifying the DENN domain protein Avl9 as a GTPase-activating protein for Arf1. Avl9 is involved in secretion and cell migration, but its molecular function has not been characterized. We determined that Avl9 possesses robust Arf-GAP activity and is recruited to secretory vesicles by Rab8. We find that Avl9 function is conserved in humans and enhances cell migration. We propose that several other DENN domain proteins are also candidate GAPs, and we demonstrate that one candidate previously characterized as a Rab-GEF, DENND6A, exhibits strong Arf-GAP activity towards ARL8B, explaining its role in lysosome positioning. Collectively, this work uncovers a family of monomeric 'DENN GAP' proteins that regulate diverse cell biological pathways.
Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) hijacks lysosomes, repurposing them as vehicles for viral release by disrupting their function. Progranulin (PGRN), a lysosomal glycoprotein essential for lysosomal regulation, plays a pivotal role in this process. This study demonstrates that PHEV infection reduces full-length PGRN levels while enhancing its lysosomal targeting. Notably, PGRN knockout mice exhibit resistance to PHEV infection, implicating PGRN in PHEV-induced lysosomal dysfunction and viral release. Mechanistically, PHEV infection-induced enhancement of PGRN lysosomal trafficking depends on the concurrent harnessing of two distinct pathways for lysosomal delivery of PGRN. This enhanced targeting involves increased vacuolar-type ATPase recruitment, intensifying lysosomal acidification and triggering Arl8b-dependent lysosomal exocytosis, facilitating viral release. Furthermore, in vivo knockdown of neuronal PGRN expression suppresses PHEV transmission within the central nervous system. These findings underscore the essential role of PGRN-mediated lysosomal acidification in driving lysosomal exocytosis, thereby contributing to PHEV release and neural dissemination during infection. These insights provide a foundation for targeting PGRN expression and lysosomal trafficking as a potential therapeutic strategy to mitigate PHEV infection and its neural dissemination.IMPORTANCEBetacoronaviruses exploit the lysosomal exocytic pathway for cellular egress through diverse mechanisms, often leading to lysosomal dysfunction. Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV), a neurotropic porcine betacoronavirus, relies on lysosomal acidification for cell egress, in contrast to other betacoronaviruses, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 and mouse hepatitis virus, which utilize deacidified lysosomes for release. Progranulin (PGRN), a lysosomal glycoprotein essential for regulating lysosomal function, has emerged as a critical player in this process. Here, we demonstrate that PHEV infection enhances PGRN lysosomal trafficking, with PGRN knockout mice exhibiting resistance to PHEV infection. Our findings reveal that PGRN expression and lysosomal targeting drive PHEV-induced lysosomal acidification, facilitating Arl8b-dependent lysosomal exocytosis and promoting viral egress. These results underscore the pivotal role of PGRN in lysosomal dysfunction and viral egress, warranting further investigation into its regulatory function during cellular egress of other betacoronaviruses.
BACKGROUND: Osteocytes, the most abundant cells embedded in bone, possess extensive cytoplasmic extensions that form a complex network facilitating direct communication among osteocytes and with other effector cells in the bone and bone marrow. The mechanisms underlying osteocyte dendrite formation during “osteocytogenesis” remain poorly understood. MicroRNAs play a crucial role in regulating bone homeostasis. METHODS: To induce osteoporosis, bilateral ovariectomy was performed on 8-week-old female C57BL/6J mice of both wild-type (WT) and miR-185 knockout (KO) genotypes. Ploton silver staining was used to visualize the effects of miR-185 KO on the osteocyte lacunar-canalicular network (LCN), while micro-computed tomography assessed bone microstructure. Bone biomechanical properties were evaluated via three-point bending tests. To investigate the mechanisms by which miR-185 regulates osteocyte LCN, miR-185 KO MLO-Y4 cells were generated using CRISPR/Cas9 technology. Bioinformatics analysis, Western blotting and dual-luciferase reporter assays were used to identify the target gene of miR-185. Co-immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down experiments were utilized to validate the interacting partner of target gene. The levels of pathway-related molecules and the activation of downstream signaling were examined using cell surface protein biotinylation, Western blotting and Lysosome immunoprecipitation. The role of miR-185 KO in osteocyte-mediated regulation of osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation was evaluated using ALP staining, alizarin red staining and TRAP staining. RESULTS: In this study, we demonstrated that dendrite formation and osteocyte connectivity were significantly enhanced in miR-185 KO ovariectomized (OVX) mice. Furthermore, both bone quality and mass were improved in miR-185 KO OVX mice. In miR-185 KO MLO-Y4 cells, we observed similar osteocyte morphology change. We identified Arl8b, a small GTP-binding protein that promotes lysosomal anterograde trafficking, as a target gene of miR-185. Knockdown of Arl8b significantly inhibited the enhanced dendritic process formation phenotype observed in miR-185 KO cells. Additionally, we discovered that RAB5A is a novel interacting protein of ARL8B. Downregulation of RAB5A similarly impaired osteocyte connectivity, suggesting a functional interaction between ARL8B and RAB5A. Further studies revealed that knockdown Arl8b suppressed RAB5A-mediated ITGB1 endosomal recycling, promoted its entry into lysosomes, reduced ITGB1 expression, inhibited FAK activation, and consequently diminished osteocyte dendritic process formation. Moreover, it was observed that the culture supernatant from miR-185 KO MLO-Y4 cells enhanced osteoblast mineralization and inhibited osteoclast differentiation. CONCLUSIONS: This study elucidates the mechanism of miR-185 in regulating osteocyte LCN and its involvement in estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis progression, identifying novel therapeutic targets and informing potential intervention strategies for skeletal disorders.
Age-related declines in neuronal bioenergetic levels may limit vesicular trafficking and autophagic clearance of damaged organelles and proteins. Age-related ATP depletion would impact cognition dependent on ionic homeostasis, but limits on proteostasis powered by GTP are less clear. We used neurons isolated from aged 3xTg-AD Alzheimer's model mice and a novel genetically encoded fluorescent GTP sensor (GEVAL) to evaluate live GTP levels in situ. We report an age-dependent reduction in ratiometric measurements of free/bound GTP levels in living hippocampal neurons. Free GTP colocalized in the mitochondria decreased with age accompanied by the accumulation of free GTP-labeled vesicular structures. The energy dependence of autophagy was demonstrated by depletion of GTP with rapamycin stimulation, while bafilomycin inhibition of autophagy raised GTP levels. Twenty-four-hour supplementation of aged neurons with the NAD precursor nicotinamide and the Nrf2 redox modulator EGCG restored GTP levels to youthful levels and mobilized endocytosis and lysosomal consumption for autophagy via the respective GTPases Rab7 and Arl8b. This vesicular mobilization promoted the clearance of intraneuronal Aβ aggregates, improved viability, and lowered protein oxidative nitration in AD model neurons. Our results reveal age- and AD-related neuronal GTP energy deficits that impair autophagy and endocytosis. GTP deficits were remediated by an external NAD precursor together with a Nrf2 redox modulator which suggests a translational path.© 2025. The Author(s).
Environmental factors such as extracellular pH (pHe) and nutrition status affect lysosomal localization and autophagy, but how pHe, intracellular pH (pHi), and Ca2+ regulate lysosome transport is not well understood. Here, we identify RNF13 as a key regulator of lysosomal positioning via pHi- and Ca2+-dependent degradation of ARL8B. Ca2+-activated apoptosis-linked gene 2 (ALG-2) promotes retrograde lysosomal transport while increasing pHi and decreasing lysosomal pH (pHlys). Elevated pHi deprotonates RNF13 at His332, enabling its interaction with Ca2+-bound ALG-2 and inhibition of ARL8B-mediated anterograde transport. Alkaline pHe elevates pHlys and activates the lysosomal Ca2+ channel TRPML3, enhancing RNF13 activity and driving lysosomes toward a perinuclear position. Thus, starvation or alkaline pHe induces ALG-2 activation and pHi elevation, facilitating RNF13-mediated ARL8B degradation. In contrast, acidic pHi suppresses RNF13, keeping ARL8B levels high even when ALG-2 is active. These findings reveal a coordinated mechanism involving Ca2+ signaling and pH dynamics in regulating lysosomal positioning.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic glomerulonephritis (CGN) primarily arises from immune-mediated inflammation, but the exact targets driving its initiation and progression remain unclear. This study identified the YTHDC2/RAB20/NLRP3 axis as a potential therapeutic target in CGN.RAB20 and YTHDC2 expression was analyzed through bioinformatics. In vitro, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated mouse mesangial cells (MMCs) were transfected with siRNA targeting RAB20 and YTHDC2, along with overexpression plasmids. Actinomycin D was utilized to evaluate RAB20 mRNA stability. RNA immunoprecipitation quantitative PCR (RIP-qPCR) was performed to investigate the interaction between RAB20 mRNA and YTHDC2 protein. Cell proliferation was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) and 5‑Ethynyl ‑2'‑Deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation assays. NLRP3 inflammasome priming was measured by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), immunofluorescence, and Western blot (WB). In vivo, adenine-induced CGN mice were treated with adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9-YTHDC2). Renal function markers were assessed, and kidney histopathology was analyzed via tissue staining.Both clinical, cellular, and animal models revealed a significant reduction in RAB20 expression in CGN. RAB20 knockdown facilitated NLRP3 inflammasome priming, while its overexpression suppressed these effects. The YTHDC2 protein specifically binds to RAB20 mRNA. YTHDC2 knockdown increased RAB20 mRNA stability, which inhibited MMC proliferation and NLRP3 inflammasome priming. In CGN mice, AAV9-mediated silencing of YTHDC2 improved renal function, as evidenced by reduced kidney function markers and diminished inflammatory cell infiltration.This study demonstrates that YTHDC2-mediated degradation of RAB20 mRNA regulates NLRP3 inflammasome priming in glomerular mesangial cells and contributes to CGN pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study leverages bioinformatics to identify differential genes linked to lysosomal alterations in late-onset major depressivedisorder (LOD) patients and explores potential therapeutic drugs. We analyzed differential genes in the GSE76826 dataset usingWGCNA to identify modules associated with LOD. After intersecting with lysosomal genes, we utilized ROC and Lasso regression toassess diagnostic significance. Pathway enrichment analysis was conducted on key modules, followed by CIBESORT, MCPcounter,and quanTIseq to analyze immune infiltration in LOD patients. The changes in the expression of selected genes were confirmedthrough a chronic unpredictable mild stress model. The ITCM database predicted small molecule drugs targeting lysosome-relatedgenes. We selected ANK3, BIN1, CKAP4, GPRASP1, MYO7A, and RAB20 from the Green module, which showed diagnostic value.GO biological processes revealed a link to T cell differentiation and its regulation. Immune infiltration analysis indicated a relationshipbetween LOD patients and CD8 + T cells and neutrophils, with BIN1 positively correlating with CD8 + T cells. RT-qPCR verification inanimal models confirmed our bioinformatics findings. The ITCM database suggested that 17-beta-estradiol and nickel compoundscould be potential treatments for LOD. LOD's etiology involves multiple genes and pathways, with CD8 + T cells and Neutrophils cellspotentially advancing the disorder. 17-beta-estradiol and nickel may offer targeted therapeutic options for LOD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Emerging evidence links macrophage overactivation to sepsis-associated acute lung injury (ALI), yet the role of lung tissue-derived extracellular vesicles (Ti-EVs) in this process remains unclear. This study combines transcriptomic profiling and functional validation to reveal how Lung Ti-EVs mediate macrophage polarization through miRNA-dependent NLRP3 inflammasome activation.We established a sepsis mouse model, extracted and characterized lung tissue-derived EVs, performed high-throughput transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. Intratracheal administration of these EVs to wild-type C57BL/6 mice revealed their effects on pulmonary inflammation, macrophage polarization, and proliferation. In vitro co-culture experiments with Raw264.7 macrophages further validated these findings and explored underlying mechanisms.We identified extracellular vesicles (EVs) enriched in lung tissues from septic ALI mice, selectively carrying miRNAs including miR-128-3p. In vivo administration of these EVs exacerbated pulmonary inflammation by expanding M1 macrophage populations, while in vitro experiments demonstrated EV-mediated miR-128-3p delivery to macrophages stimulated TNF-α and IL-6 production. Mechanistically, miR-128-3p promoted macrophage proliferation and inflammatory responses by targeting Rab20.© 2025 Deng et al.
Acral melanoma, characterized by its aggressiveness and poor prognosis compared to other melanoma subtypes, poses significant challenges in clinical management. However, the molecular underpinnings driving the biological and clinical features of this disease remain poorly understood.In this study, our aim was to elucidate the molecular landscape and the correlation between subtypes and clinical features of acral melanoma.We conducted comprehensive analyses to dissect the molecular characteristics of acral melanoma, employing a combination of multi-omics data analysis and network-based disease gene prediction algorithms. Single-cell RNA-Seq data were utilized to investigate the contribution of immunocytes to the molecular classification of acral melanoma. Additionally, we used clinical samples to validate the correlation between new subtypes and the prognosis of acral melanoma and the expression of subtype markers and verified the interaction between macrophages and acral melanoma cells at cellular level.Our study reveals the existence of two distinct subtypes of acral melanoma exhibiting marked differences in clinical behaviour, cellular and molecular mechanisms. We identified a robust biomarker panel (EREG, VSIG4, FCGR3A and RAB20) that accurately distinguishes these two subtypes with an impressive AUC of 0.946, validated using clinical samples. Subtype I, characterized by thinner Breslow thickness, demonstrates a favourable prognosis, whereas Subtype II represents a high-risk subtype with a propensity for dermal invasion. Notably, the signature gene EREG of Subtype I is enriched in FCN1+ macrophages, known for promoting inflammatory and immune responses. Conversely, signature genes VSIG4 and FCGR3A of Subtype II are enriched in SPP1+ macrophages, which exhibit significant crosstalk with tumour cells.Our findings significantly enhance the understanding of the molecular landscape of acral melanoma and offer novel insights into its clinical management by identifying distinct subtypes and potential therapeutic targets. The findings have to be confirmed in different cohorts in the future for full validation.© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.
Ras-related protein Rab-20 (Rab20) is induced in hypoxia and contributes to hypoxia-induced apoptosis. However, the role and mechanism of Rab20 in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury need to be elucidated. We established a cerebral I/R injury model in the mice and an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) model in HT22 cells to determine the effects of Rab20 in cerebral I/R injury. Rab20 expression was upregulated in mice after I/R and in HT22 cells after OGD/R. Upregulated Rab20 was mainly located in neurons. Rab20 inhibition significantly alleviated brain infarct volume, neurological deficits, and neuronal apoptosis in mice after I/R. Moreover, Rab20 knockdown significantly ameliorated the OGD/R-induced inhibition of cell viability and apoptotic cell death in HT22 cells. Rab20 knockdown significantly alleviated OGD/R-induced mitochondrial fission by repressing mitochondrial dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp-1) recruitment and increasing Drp-1 (Ser637) phosphorylation and ameliorated mitochondrial dysfunction by reducing the mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cellular calcium accumulation and increasing the mitochondrial membrane potential. In addition, Rab20 knockdown significantly alleviated cytochrome c release from the mitochondria into the cytosol in HT22 cells after OGD/R. Rab20 contributes to cerebral I/R injury by regulating mitochondria-associated apoptosis pathways. Targeting Rab20 may be an attractive strategy for the treatment of cerebral I/R injury.Copyright © 2022 Guo, Zhang, Bu, Li, Hu and Li.
Silicosis is a worldwide serious occupational disease that is caused by inhalation of silica crystals. However, little is known about the pathogenesis mechanism of silicosis. We performed single-cell sequencing in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from mine workers with silicosis and their co-workers who did not develop silicosis, and found that the RAB20 deficiency in monocytes/macrophages was strongly linked to the development of silicosis. In the silicosis murine model, RAB20 knockout markedly enhanced the silica crystal-induced pulmonary interstitial fibrosis and respiratory dysfunction. Moreover, this process is strongly accompanied by IL-1β release and NLRP3 activation. In vitro, RAB20 knockout macrophages aggravated the crystalline silica-induced IL-1β release and NLRP3 inflammasome activation partly by increased ratio of crystalline silica/phagosomal areas/volumes to induce lysosomal injury. Thus, these findings provide novel molecular insights into the intricate mechanisms underlying lysosomal protein RAB20 that are necessary for environmental irritant-mediated innate immunity, and shed light on the future development of novel therapy target for the prevention of silicosis.Copyright © 2022 Peng, Duan, Zhao, Tang and Liang.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a disabling condition with significant morbidity and mortality. Currently, no effective SCI treatment exists. This study aimed to identify potential biomarkers and characterize the properties of immune cell infiltration during this pathological event. To eliminate batch effects, we concurrently analyzed two mouse SCI datasets (GSE5296, GSE47681) from the GEO database. First, we identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using linear models for microarray data (LIMMA) and performed functional enrichment studies on those DEGs. Next, we employed bioinformatics and machine-learning methods to identify and define the characteristic genes of SCI. Finally, we validated them using immunofluorescence and qRT-PCR. Additionally, this study assessed the inflammatory status of SCI by identifying cell types using CIBERSORT. Furthermore, we investigated the link between key markers and infiltrating immune cells. In total, we identified 561 robust DEGs. We identified Rab20 and Klf6 as SCI-specific biomarkers and demonstrated their significance using qRT-PCR in the mouse model. According to the examination of immune cell infiltration, M0, M1, and M2 macrophages, along with naive CD8, dendritic cell-activated, and CD4 Follicular T cells may have a role in the progression of SCI. Therefore, Rab20 and Klf6 could be accessible targets for diagnosing and treating SCI. Moreover, as previously stated, immune cell infiltration may significantly impact the development and progression of SCI.Copyright © 2022 Cao and Li.
The pathogenesis of connective tissue disease-associated interstitial lung disease (CTD-ILD) is unclear. This study aims to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in CTD-ILD to determine the potential role of these DEPs that may play in the pathogenesis of CTD-ILD and to offer potential therapeutic targets.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples were collected from four patients with CTD-ILD and four patients without CTD-ILD. Label-free mass spectrometry-based relative quantification was used to identify the DEPs. Bioinformatics were used to determine the potential biological processes and signaling pathways associated with these DEPs.We found 65 upregulated DEPs including SFTPD, CADM1, ACSL4, TSTD1, CD163, LUM, SIGLEC1, CPB2, TGFBI and HGD, and 67 downregulated DEPs including SGSH, WIPF1, SIL1, RAB20, OAS3, GMPR2, PLBD1, DNAJC3, RNASET2 and OAS2. The results of GO functional annotation for the DEPs showed that the DEPS were mainly enriched in the binding, cellular anatomical entity, cellular processes, and biological regulation GO terms. The results of KEGG analyses showed that the pathways most annotated with the DEPs were complement and coagulation cascades, metabolic pathways, pathways in cancer, and PPAR signaling pathway. COG analyses further informed the functions associated with these DEPs, with most focused on signal transduction mechanisms; posttranslational modification, protein turnover, chaperones; intracellular trafficking, secretion, and vesicular transport; amino acid transport and metabolism; and lipid transport and metabolism.DEPs identified between patients with vs. without CTD-ILD may play important roles in the development of CTD-ILD and are potential new biomarkers for early diagnosis of CTD-ILD.© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
RAB20, a member of the RAS GTPase oncogene family, is overexpressed in several cancers with poor outcomes, promoting tumorigenesis and inducing genomic instability. Here, we performed comprehensive genomic sequencing on eight penile squamous cell carcinoma (PSCC) and normal tissue pairs and found that RAB20 was upregulated in tumors, especially in metastatic lymph nodes. RAB20 overexpression in tumors was further verified by qPCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry of our newly established PSCC cell lines and paired tissues. The clinical significance of RAB20 was validated in 259 PSCC patients, the largest cohort to date, and high RAB20 expression positively correlated with the T, N, M status, extranodal extension, and clinical stage (all p < 0.01). RAB20 was an unfavorable independent prognostic indicator in the survival analysis (p = 0.011, HR = 2.090; 95% Cl: 1.183−4.692), and PSCC patients with high RAB20 expression experienced shorter 5-year cancer-specific survival times (p < 0.001). Furthermore, tumorigenesis assays demonstrated that RAB20 knockdown inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. RAB20 depletion also induced PSCC cell cycle arrest at G2/M by increasing Chk1 expression and promoting cdc25c phosphorylation to reduce cdc2-cyclinB1 complex formation. Our study revealed an oncogenic role for RAB20 in promoting PSCC cell proliferation at the G2/M phase via the Chk1/cdc25c/cdc2-cyclinB1 pathway. Thus, RAB20 could be a promising prognostic biomarker of advanced PSCC with poor patient survival outcomes and could be a potential therapeutic target.
Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer worldwide, in which aberrant activation of the RAS signaling pathway appears frequently. RAB proteins (RABs) are the largest Ras small GTPases superfamily that regulates intracellular membrane trafficking pathways. The dysregulation of RABs have been found in various diseases including cancers. Compared with other members of Ras families, the roles of RABs in colorectal cancer are less well understood. Methods: We analyzed the differential expression and clinicopathological association of RABs in CRC using RNA sequencing and genotyping datasets from TCGA samples. Moreover, the biological function of RAB17 and RAB34 were investigated in CRC cell lines and patient samples. Results: Of the 62 RABs we analyzed in CRC, seven (RAB10, RAB11A, RAB15, RAB17, RAB19, RAB20, and RAB25) were significantly upregulated, while six (RAB6B, RAB9B, RAB12, RAB23, RAB31, and RAB34) were significantly downregulated in tumor tissues as compared to normal. We found that the upregulated-RABs, which were highly expressed in metabolic activated CRC subtype (CMS3), are associated with cell cycle related pathways enrichment and positively correlated with the mismatch repair (MMR) genes in CRC, implying their role in regulating cell metabolism and tumor growth. While, high expression of the downregulated-RABs were significantly associated with poor prognostic CRC mesenchymal subtypes (CMS4), immune checkpoint genes, and tumor infiltrating immune cells, indicating their role in predicting prognosis and immunotherapy efficacy. Interestingly, though RAB34 mRNA is downregulated in CRC, its high expression is significantly associated with poor prognosis. In vitro experiments showed that RAB17 overexpression can promote cell proliferation via cell cycle regulation. While, RAB34 overexpression can promote cell migration and invasion and is associated with PD-L1/PD-L2 expression increase in CRC cells. Conclusions: Our study showed that RABs may play important roles in regulating cell cycle and immune-related pathways, therefore might be potential biomarkers in predicting prognosis and immunotherapy response in CRC.Copyright © 2022 Jiang, Yang, Gao, Liu, Feng, Ye and Yang.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is one of the most severe malignant tumors. Phosphoinositides metabolism (PIM) plays an important role in maintaining the normal life activities of the organism and regulating tumor development. This study aimed to comprehensively investigate the association between LUAD and PIM. Data on LUAD and PIM-related genes (PIM-RGs) were sourced from public databases. Differential expression, univariate Cox regression analyses, and machine learning were conducted to identify prognostic genes. A risk model was subsequently developed, and LUAD patients were categorized into a high-risk group (HRG) and a low-risk group (LRG). Independent prognostic factors for LUAD were identified, and a nomogram was constructed. Functional enrichment, tumor microenvironment, mutations, and drug sensitivity analyses were also conducted to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying LUAD. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data analysis was employed to identify key cells and clarify the dynamics of prognostic genes' expression. Ultimately, prognostic gene expression was investigated in clinical samples. MTMR7, GDPD1, MTMR4, and MTMR10 were recognized as prognostic genes. The risk model and nomogram (incorporating risk score and Stage) had good predictive performance. Notably, LUAD's malignant progression might be closely associated with biological processes including cellular protein synthesis, abnormal activation of neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, and anti-tumor immune responses. Additionally, there was a general positive correlation between the differentially infiltrated immune cells of HRG and LRG. Moreover, TP53 and TTN had relatively high mutation frequencies in both HRG and LRG, and 142 drugs exhibited differential sensitivity between the 2 groups. Interestingly, epithelial cells were identified as LUAD's key cell type, with prognostic gene expression showing dynamic changes as these cells differentiated. Consistently, compared with the control group, GDPD1 and MTMR4 were upregulated, MTMR10 was downregulated, and MTMR7 showed no statistical difference but a certain upward trend in the LUAD group. This study identified 4 prognostic genes and constructed an effective risk model, providing a new perspective on the treatment of LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Modifier genes may cause different clinical phenotypes in patients with long QT syndrome (LQTS) carrying the same pathogenic variant. Variants in the MTMR4 gene have been previously associated, via patient-specific cardiomyocytes derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, with variable arrhythmic risk in a family with the p.Y111C-LQT1 mutation. This study aimed to evaluate the broader clinical impact of MTMR4 variants in patients with LQT1 and LQT2.A total of 1192 LQTS patients were analysed: 638 with LQT1, 432 with LQT2, and 122 Swedish carriers of the p.Y111C-LQT1 variant. The association between MTMR4 variants and clinical severity was assessed by comparing patients with severe symptoms (cardiac arrest or syncope on beta-blockers) vs asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic individuals. ECG parameters, including Tpeak-Tend and T-wave heterogeneity, were also evaluated.In the LQT1 cohort, there was a significant decreasing pattern for cardiac events across MTMR4 genotypes (AA:15.9%, Aa:11.6%, aa:6.3%), while an opposite trend was apparent in the LQT2 cohort (AA:16.5%, Aa:18.2%, aa:27.6%). No pattern was apparent in the Swedish cohort. In the combined LQT1 cohort, the aa genotype was found in 15% of 702 mild/asymptomatic vs 1.7% of 58 with severe symptoms (P = .002). Vice versa, in LQT2, aa was more frequent in severe cases (24.1% vs 11.9%, P = .014). QTc was not associated with MTMR4, but the repolarization markers supported a gene-specific directionality of arrhythmic risk.The MTMR4 minor allele in homozygosis exerts a gene-specific and opposite impact on arrhythmic risk in LQTS. This finding should influence risk stratification in clinical practice.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) shows high recurrence rate and poor prognosis. Genes associated with ubiquitin play a role in the onset and advancement of cancers; however, they have yet to be employed for the diagnosis and prognosis of LUAD.First, gene modules correlated with ubiquitin were identified by WGCNA. The expression profiles obtained were intersected with differential genes taken between the LUAD and control samples. The genes were then further compressed using univariate and multifactorial Cox regression analyses and risk models. In addition, the model was validated by constructing a nomogram using clinical characteristics and Riskscore. Next, the differences in immune infiltration between different subgroups were explored, and immunotherapy and drug sensitivity evaluations were performed. The biological role of HEATR1 in LUAD was also explored using CCK-8, wound healing assay and transwell.The intersection between the module genes between LUAD samples and control samples and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) yielded 197 intersected genes after we screened three particular modules with the strongest ubiquitin association by WGCNA. 32 genes associated with LUAD prognosis were screened, and B4GALT4, DNAJB4, GORAB, HEATR1, LPGAT1, FAT1, GAB2, MTMR4 and TCP11L2 were selected as independent prognosis genes for risk modeling. Patients were classified into low- and high-risk groups by the Riskscore. Low-risk patients had markedly better overall survival (OS) than those in the high-risk group. The quantity of immune cell infiltration between the two patient groups varied notably, and the expression of model genes was negatively connected with the infiltration of the great majority of immune cells. The medications TAE684, Cisplatin, and Midostaurin exhibited the largest negative correlation with Riskscore, according to drug sensitivity study. Lastly, we demonstrated through in vitro tests that HEATR1 knockdown markedly reduced LUAD cell survival, migration, and invasion.This study is the first to systematically integrate the ubiquitin pathway with multi-omics data, constructing a robust risk model for LUAD prognosis and immune characteristics, providing a theoretical reference for future exploration of potential biomarkers for LUAD patients' diagnosis.Copyright © 2025 Li, Tian, Chen, Liu, Zhang and Wang.
Although research has increasingly been focused on pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) in adolescents, its diagnosis remains complex and challenging. Thus, the use of host transcription markers in the diagnosis of adolescent PTB was evaluated in this study.The study cohort comprised 40 adolescents (aged 14-18 years) with PTB who had received their first PTB diagnosis at Anhui Provincial Chest Hospital, China, between January and December 2023 (case group) and 32 healthy adolescents who had undergone physical examinations at The First Affiliated Hospital of the University of Science and Technology of China during the same period (control group). Peripheral blood samples were collected from both groups, and isolated monocytes were subjected to transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic analysis. The relevant genes were confirmed through quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The diagnostic value of these genes in adolescent PTB patients was analysed using receiver operating characteristic curves. Furthermore, an in vitro model was constructed by infecting THP-1 cells with the Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain H37Ra to assess whether the in vitro expression levels of the identified genes were consistent with those of the genes in the peripheral blood monocytes of adolescents with PTB. The specific mechanisms were explored using methods such as lentiviral infection, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and qRT‒PCR.The results revealed that the expression level of the myotubularin-related protein 4 gene (MTMR4) was lower in the case group than in the control group (P < 0.0001; area under the curve: 0.946; 95 % confidence interval: 0.893-0.999; cut-off value: 0.844; sensitivity: 0.875; specificity: 0.969). The expression level of the oncostatin M gene (OSM) was greater in the case group than in the control group (P = 0.014; area under the curve: 0.962; 95 % confidence interval: 0.914-1.000; cut-off value: 0.919; sensitivity: 0.950; specificity: 0.969). However, no significant between-group difference was detected in the expression level of the complement component 1q subcomponent A gene. The results from the in vitro experiment indicated that the expression levels of MTMR4 and OSM were consistent between the H37Ra-infected cells and the case group samples. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, JAK/STAT signalling and PI3K/cell survival-related pathways play key roles in the pathogenesis of adolescent PTB. Additionally, we found that H37Ra infection affected tuberculosis progression via the OSM/PI3K/GPX4 pathway.Peripheral blood monocyte OSM and MTMR4 may serve as biomarkers of adolescent PTB. We speculate that targeting the OSM signalling pathway by knocking down OSM expression or inhibiting its ligand/receptor might be a strategy to reduce pulmonary tuberculosis-related tissue damage.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Autophagic lysosome reformation (ALR) is crucial for lysosomal homeostasis and therefore for different autophagic processes. Despite recent advances, the signaling mechanisms regulating ALR are incompletely understood. We show that RAF1, a member of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway initiated by growth factors, has an essential, kinase-dependent role in lysosomal biology. RAF1 ablation impairs autophagy, and a proxisome screen identifies several proteins involved in autophagic and lysosomal pathways in the RAF1 molecular space. Two of these, SPG11 and the lipid phosphatase MTMR4, are RAF1 substrates. RAF1 ablation causes the appearance of enlarged autolysosomes and alters the phosphoinositide composition of autolysosomes. RAF1 and MTMR4 colocalize on autolysosomes, and overexpression of a MTMR4 mutant mimicking phosphorylation of the RAF1-dependent site rescues the lysosomal phenotypes induced by RAF1 ablation. Our data identify an RAF1 function in lysosomal homeostasis and a substrate through which the kinase regulates phospholipid metabolism at the lysosome, ALR, and autophagy.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pharmacologic intervention in chronic heart failure (HF) with renal insufficiency is one of the clinical challenges due to the fact that the mechanisms of cardio-renal interactions in chronic heart failure (CHF) progressing have not been fully revealed. In this paper, C57BL/6 mice were applied thoracic aortic narrowing surgery to establish pressure overload CHF model. Cardiac function, serum markers, renal pathologic changes and kidney metabolism were analyzed at 4th, 8th, 12th, and 16th week after surgery respectively to evaluate the heart-Kidney pathologic overlap. Kidney proteomic analysis was performed at 16th week after operation. As a result, renal hypofiltration and exacerbation of pathological damage was observed accompanying cardiac function deterioration after 12th week. 66 differentially expressed proteins and 13 differential metabolites were found to be involved in the cardio-renal pathological overlap. Joint proteomic and metabolomic analysis revealed that signal pathways like Phosphatidylinositol signaling system, Glucagon signaling pathway, the Glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism; DEPs of Pten, Mtmr4, PLC and CPT1, differential metabolites like aspartic acid and isocitrate deserve further investigation.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is the most prevalent cardiovascular disease and remains the major contributor to death and mortality globally. Leonurine (LEO) is a unique alkaloid compound with protective effects on the cardiovascular system. However, the exact mechanisms underlying its cardiovascular-protecting action are still not fully elucidated. The methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), the catalytic core of the N6-methyladenosine modification (m6A) methyltransferase complex, has been shown to inhibit autophagy and exacerbate the process of AS via regulation of m6A modification of mRNA.We aimed to determine whether the inhibited effect of LEO on AS is related to METTL3-mediated AKT1S1 stability.The apolipoprotein E (ApoE) knockout mice was subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD), and THP-1 derived macrophages was exposed to oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL), to establish the animal and cellular models of AS, respectively.We found that LEO effectively improved AS and reduced the plaque area and inflammation via diminishing macrophage lipid accumulation and remodeling the lipid metabolism profile. LEO activated ox-LDL-induced macrophage autophagy, enhancing lipid metabolism decrease, according to the lipidomic and molecular biology analyses. Additionally, LEO caused a marked increase in autophagy marker levels in mouse models with advanced AS. Furthermore, we found that LEO reactivated autophagy and reversed lipid accumulation by suppressing METTL3 expression. The m6A-seq from ox-LDL-induced macrophages showed that a total of five autophagy-related mRNA transcripts (AKT1S1, AKT1, RB1CC1, CFLAR, and MTMR4) were altered, and AKT1S1 was significantly upregulated by LEO. Mechanistically, LEO-mediated regulation of METTL3 decreased AKT1S1 expression by attenuating its mRNA stability. Silencing AKT1S1 inhibited LEO-METTL3 axis-mediated autophagy and enhanced lipid accumulation in ox-LDL-induced macrophages.The study first revealed that LEO exerts anti-atherosclerotic effect by activating METTL3-mediated macrophage autophagy in vivo and in vitro. The mechanism of LEO was further found to be the enhancement of METTL3-mediated AKT1S1 stability to activate autophagy thereby reducing lipid accumulation. This study provides a new perspective of natural medicines on the treatment of AS via an epigenetic manner.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is caused by cerebral ischemia due to thrombosis in the blood vessel. The purpose of this study is to identify key genes related to metabolism to aid in the mechanism research and management of AIS.Gene expression data were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis, Gene Ontology and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes analysis were used to identify metabolism-related genes that may be involved in the regulation of AIS. A protein protein interaction network was mapped using Cytoscape based on the STRING database. Subsequently, hub metabolism-related genes were identified based on Cytoscape-CytoNCA and Cytoscape-MCODE plug-ins. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator algorithm and differential expression analysis. In addition, drug prediction, molecular docking, ceRNA network construction, and correlation analysis with immune cell infiltration were performed to explore their potential molecular mechanisms of action in AIS. Finally, the expression of hub gene was verified by real-time PCR.Metabolism-related genes FBL, HEATR1, HSPA8, MTMR4, NDUFC1, NDUFS8 and SNU13 were identified. The AUC values of FBL, HEATR1, HSPA8, MTMR4, NDUFS8 and SNU13 were all greater than 0.8, suggesting that they had good diagnostic accuracy. Correlation analysis found that their expression levels were also related to the infiltration levels of multiple immune cells, such as Activated.CD8.T.cell and Activated.dendritic.cell. It was found that only HSPA8 was successfully matched to drugs with literature support, and these drugs were acetaminophen, bupivacaine, dexamethasone, gentamicin, tretinoin and cisplatin. Moreover, it was also identified that the ENSG000000218510-hsa-miR-330-3p-HEATR1 axis may be involved in regulating AIS.The identification of FBL, HEATR1, HSPA8, MTMR4, NDUFC1, NDUFS8 and SNU13 provides a new research direction for exploring the molecular mechanisms of AIS, which can help in clinical management and diagnosis.© 2024 The Author(s). IET Systems Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Inhibiting breast cancer stem cell (BCSC) signaling pathways is a strategic method for successfully treating breast cancer. Nobiletin (NOB) is a compound widely found in orange peel that exhibits a toxic effect on various types of cancer cells, and inhibits the signaling pathways that regulate the properties of BCSCs; however, the effects of NOB on BCSCs remain elusive. The purpose of this study was to determine the target genes of NOB for inhibiting BCSCs using in vitro three-dimensional breast cancer cell culture (mammospheres) and in silico approaches. We combined in vitro experiments to develop mammospheres and conducted cytotoxicity, next-generation sequencing, and bioinformatics analyses, such as gene ontology, the Reactome pathway enrichment, network topology, gene set enrichment analysis, hub genes selection, genetic alterations, prognostic value related to the mRNA expression, and mRNA and protein expression of potential NOB target genes that inhibit BCSCs. Here, we show that NOB inhibited BCSCs in mammospheres from MCF-7 cells. We also identified CDC6, CHEK1, BRCA1, UCHL5, TOP2A, MTMR4, and EXO1 as potential NOB targets inhibiting BCSCs. NOB decreased G0/G1, but increased the G2/M cell population. These findings showed that NOB is a potential therapeutic candidate for BCSCs treatment by regulating cell cycle.
The current study set out to identify the miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks that influence the radiosensitivity in esophageal cancer based on the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases.Firstly, esophageal cancer-related miRNA-seq and mRNA-seq data were retrieved from the TCGA database, and the mRNA dataset of esophageal cancer radiotherapy was downloaded from the GEO database to analyze the differential expressed miRNAs (DEmiRNAs) and mRNAs (DEmRNAs) in radiosensitive and radioresistant samples, followed by the construction of the miRNA-mRNA regulatory network and Gene Ontology and KEGG enrichment analysis. Additionally, a prognostic risk model was constructed, and its accuracy was evaluated by means of receiver operating characteristic analysis.A total of 125 DEmiRNAs and 42 DEmRNAs were closely related to the radiosensitivity in patients with esophageal cancer. Based on 47 miRNA-mRNA interactions, including 21 miRNAs and 21 mRNAs, the miRNA-mRNA regulatory network was constructed. The prognostic risk model based on 2 miRNAs (miR-132-3p and miR-576-5p) and 4 mRNAs (CAND1, ZDHHC23, AHR, and MTMR4) could accurately predict the prognosis of esophageal cancer patients. Finally, it was verified that miR-132-3p/CAND1/ZDHHC23 and miR-576-5p/AHR could affect the radiosensitivity in esophageal cancer.Our study demonstrated that miR-132-3p/CAND1/ZDHHC23 and miR-576-5p/AHR were critical molecular pathways related to the radiosensitivity of esophageal cancer.© 2022. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) is a common autoimmune disease. The Basement Membrane (BM) plays a critical structural role in tissues such as the kidneys and joints, and is often implicated in immune-related diseases. This study aims to explore the complex interactions between RA and the BM, and to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers.The data used in this study were sourced from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We screened Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs) related to BM by comparing RA tissue with normal tissue. Consensus clustering analysis was performed based on the features of the BM in RA tissue samples. Functional enrichment analyses, including Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway analysis, were performed on genes common to the different clusters. Three machine learning algorithms were used to screen for biomarkers, including LASSO, Random Forest (RF), and Support Vector Machine Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE). The screening results were validated using the GSE77298 dataset and confirmed via qRT-PCR. In addition, molecular docking technology was applied to predict the binding potential between Schisandrin (SCH) and the candidate biomarkers SEL1L3 and SLAMF8.By integrating RA transcriptome data with BM-related genes, we identified two BMassociated molecular subtypes of RA, both of which exhibit distinct immune cell infiltration characteristics. By further implementing a combination of LASSO, RF, and SVM-RFE, SEL1L3 and SLAMF8 were identified as candidate diagnostic biomarkers. In the external validation set (GSE77298) and qRT-PCR experiments, both exhibited significant upregulation in RA tissue and excellent diagnostic efficacy. The AUC of SEL1L3 and SLAMF8 was 0.987 and 0.970, respectively, and molecular docking suggests that SCH binds stably to both.The research results indicate that molecular changes related to BM may play an important role in the pathogenesis of RA, particularly through immune regulation and tissue remodeling. Identifying different subtypes of BM-related RA highlights the heterogeneity of RA and may help improve disease classification and personalized diagnosis. SEL1L3 and SLAMF8 can serve as promising biomarkers for early RA detection and provide new insights into BM-related immune mechanisms.SEL1L3 and SLAMF8 are the first BM-associated RA diagnostic markers identified, providing new targets for early RA diagnosis and investigation of its molecular mechanisms.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 8 (SLAMF8) is predominantly expressed on the surface of macrophages and participates in modulating tumor immune microenvironment. However, the role of SLAMF8 in tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in gastric cancer (GC) remains unclear.SLAMF8 expression and its association with patient prognosis were analyzed using various online databases. CCK-8 and EdU assays were used to assess GC cell proliferation. A xenograft tumor model was used to assess the in vivo functional role of SLAMF8.SLAMF8 expression was markedly increased and correlated with an unfavorable prognosis in GC. Additionally, SLAMF8 was primarily expressed in macrophages in GC tissues and increased in in vitro-generated-TAMs. SLAMF8 knockdown suppressed M2 polarization, whereas SLAMF8 overexpression promoted M2 polarization in in vitro-generated TAMs. SLAMF8 facilitates TAM-like polarization by coordinately inhibiting NF-κB activation and activating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway. Furthermore, SLAMF8-overexpressing TAMs enhanced the growth of MKN-45 cells both in vitro and in vivo and impaired CD8 + T cell function.SLAMF8 promotes macrophage M2 polarization and accelerates CD8 + T cell dysfunction, thereby facilitating the progression of GC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer is characterized by a complex pathogenesis and diverse clinical manifestations. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play a pivotal role in tumorigenesis, metastasis, and response to anticancer therapies. This study aimed to analyze the functional role of signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family 8 (SLAMF8) in TAMs and its impact on breast cancer cell proliferation.The SLAMF8 silencing in THP-1 cells was established by transfection with SLAMF8 shRNA lentiviral particles, and the THP-1 cells were induced to M0 macrophages or M2 macrophages. The M2 macrophage markers, CD11b+CD163, CD206, and IL-10, were measured by flow cytometry and Western blotting. The induced macrophages were cocultured with breast cancer cells (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231) using a transwell insert. The viability and migration of cancer cells were measured using CCK-8 and transwell migration. The STAT6 and NF-κB pathways were measured using Western blotting. In vivo, mice were co-injected with breast cancer cells and the THP-1-derived macrophages to observe the tumor growth. The NF-κB pathway in tumor tissues was measured by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting.The SLAMF8 silencing significantly downregulated the number of THP-1-derived M2 macrophages. The viability, migration, and the STAT6 and NF-κB pathways of breast cancer cells were significantly enhanced after co-culture with M2 macrophages compared to co-culture with M0 macrophages. However, the SLAMF8 silencing markedly suppressed the promoting effects of M2 macrophage co-culture on the above factors in cancer cells. In line with the in-vitro results, co-injection with M2 macrophages significantly promoted the tumor growth. Moreover, the SLAMF8 silencing in M2 macrophages downregulated the tumor growth compared with that of cancer cells co-injected with M2 macrophages without SLAMF8 silencing.This study showed that SLAMF8 silencing downregulated M2 macrophage polarization and weakened the promoting effects of M2 macrophages on breast cancer cells, suggesting a promising therapeutic strategy for breast cancer.© 2026 Kong et al.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disorder that significantly impacts quality of life. Despite extensive research, its pathogenesis remains unclear. This study aims to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for RA.This study integrated patient data from three Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases to analyze gene expression in RA. Using Weighted Gene Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA), we identified key genes, which were then compared with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) to uncover RA-related genes. Functional enrichment analysis provided insights into the biological roles of these genes. To refine our findings, we applied three algorithms-RandomForest, SVM-REF, LASSO, and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)-to pinpoint a subset of core genes. We evaluated their diagnostic potential through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and selected the top five genes with the highest area under the curve (AUC) values for constructing a predictive nomogram model. An interaction analysis was performed to investigate the relationship between these genes and immune cell infiltration. Finally, the expression of these core genes was validated in the synovial tissues of RA patients. Drug-protein interaction relationships were predicted using the DSigDB database.Differential expression analysis identified 543 DEGs. We subsequently applied WGCNA to compare these DEGs with significant module genes, resulting in the identification of 273 key genes. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes were primarily involved in inflammatory response pathways. Further analysis using four machine learning algorithms identified 11 core genes. Of these, the five genes with the highest AUC values were selected to construct a robust nomogram model. Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in immune cell levels and pathways between RA patients and healthy controls, which were correlated with the expression of these five genes. Validation through quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blot, and immunofluorescence (IF) confirmed that GABARAPL1, FKBP5, and PCDH9 expression was lower in RA synovial tissues compared to healthy controls, while SLAMF8 expression was elevated. Additionally, potential therapeutic drugs targeting these key genes, including (+)-chelidonine, daunorubicin, and bisacodyl, were predicted.GABARAPL1, FKBP5, PCDH9, and SLAMF8 are identified as potential biomarkers for RA, offering insights into future therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Feng, Yang, Jia, Yuan, Guo, Chen, Li and Yang.
Subclinical acute rejection (SCAR) in kidney transplantation, defined by histologic lesions without clinical dysfunction, remains a major cause of allograft injury and is currently detectable only by invasive protocol biopsies. We conducted a multicenter study in which transcriptomic profiling of Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded biopsies from SCAR and control patients revealed a distinct signature with upregulation of NFKBIZ, TNFSF14, SLAMF8, and CD247, validated by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry but not detectable in urine. Focusing on secreted cytokines, CXCL10 and FasL emerged as candidate urinary biomarkers and were first measured in 12 SCAR patients and 12 controls, showing a significant increase in SCAR. Validation in an independent cohort of 86 kidney transplant recipients, after excluding patients with confounders, confirmed higher CXCL10 and FasL levels in SCAR. When combined as a composite biomarker signature (CXCL10 + FasL), ROC analysis yielded an AUC of 0.711 (95% CI, 0.549–0.874), with 50% sensitivity and 84% specificity at the optimal cutoff. In the still poorly studied context of SCAR, this work is a proof-of-concept approach linking intragraft transcriptomics to urinary cytokine levels. Our findings support the utility of urinary CXCL10 and FasL in assisting clinicians in identifying patients who may benefit from further evaluation, including consideration of a graft biopsy, thereby contributing to improved long-term allograft outcomes.
Cervical cancer is a common malignancy in women globally. Its development links to immune evasion with T cell exhaustion as a key mechanism. This study used transcriptomic data to explore T cell exhaustion-related features and networks in cervical cancer. After datasets from TCGA and GEO were analyzed, WGCNA was used to identify gene modules related to T cell exhaustion, and machine-learning was applied to screen central regulatory genes. This comprehensive approach helped reveal the architecture of immune-related molecular networks and provided a reliable basis for identifying key regulatory factors. 1888 differentially expressed genes were found between CIN and controls. The magenta module from WGCNA correlated with T cell exhaustion. Five hub genes were selected (ADAMDEC1, MIAT, PGR, SLAMF8, SLC7A7). Immune infiltration analysis showed differences in immune cell distribution, suggesting a link between T cell dysfunction and immune microenvironment remodeling. Drug-gene prediction and docking suggested PGR as a potential therapeutic target. This study elucidates key molecular characteristics and immune regulatory mechanisms associated with T cell exhaustion during cervical cancer progression. The findings provide new insights into immune evasion in cervical cancer and suggest potential targets for immunotherapy, which may facilitate clinical prediction and personalized treatment strategies.
SLAMF8 is predominantly expressed in macrophages and plays an important role in autoimmune diseases and inflammation. Our previous studies have focused on SLAMF8, however, the potential of SLAMF8 as an immunotherapeutic target and its role in regulating the tumor immune microenvironment remain to be elucidated. This study demonstrated that macrophage-specific SLAMF8 is significantly associated with a poor prognosis for colorectal cancer (CRC). Additionally, M2 macrophage and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) models were used to verify that SLAMF8 induces an immunosuppressive phenotype in macrophages and regulates antitumor immunity by inhibiting the activation and function of CD8+ T cells. In vivo, we confirmed that SLAMF8 inhibition promoted remodeling of the immunosuppressive microenvironment and augmented immunotherapy sensitivity in CRC. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that SLAMF8 promotes the polarization of macrophages toward the M2 phenotype via the PI3K/AKT and JAK/STAT3 signaling pathways. In summary, this study confirmed that inhibiting SLAMF8 exerts an antitumor effect by reversing the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in CRC, providing new therapeutic targets and strategies for combined immunotherapy.
Naive CD4+ T cells are highly plastic cells that can differentiate into various T helper (Th) cell subsets upon activation. It is well accepted that the vital expression of specific transcription factors and effector cytokines that characterize the different Th cell fates can be stabilized by epigenetic mechanisms including DNA methylation. However, a global view on DNA methylation profiles in Th cell subsets is currently lacking. In this study, we identified the DNA methylomes of human naive T cells, Th1, nonclassic Th1, and Th17 cells by performing a whole-genome bisulfite sequencing analysis. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) obtained by pairwise comparison of the Th cell methylomes indicate a close relationship between ncTh1 and Th17 cells on a genome-wide level. However, similar methylation patterns at key gene loci such as TBX21, IFNG, SLAMF7, and SLAMF8 may explain the functional proximity of ncTh1 to Th1 cells. Using luciferase reporter assays, we demonstrated that DNA methylation can modulate the transcriptional activity of promoter-located DMRs belonging to genes such as GSPT1, SRSF7, SLAMF7, SLAMF8, TIGIT, and PDCD1. Upon stimulation, SLAMF7 gene expression was upregulated exclusively in IFN-γ producing cells, with SLAMF7+ cells appearing among both Th1 and ncTh1 cells. Taken together, the DNA methylomes of proinflammatory human Th cells provide useful data for better functional characterization of the lineages and identification of key genes for therapeutic intervention.© 2025 The Author(s). Immunology & Cell Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
BackgroundMelanoma represents one of the most aggressive skin cancers, responsible for over 75% of skin cancer-related deaths despite comprising only 5% of cases. Despite therapeutic advances, patient responses remain variable and unpredicv. The Signaling Lymphocytic Activation Molecule (SLAM) family regulates immune cell communication, with SLAMF8 being predominantly expressed on myeloid cells. However, SLAMF8's specific role in melanoma pathogenesis remains largely unexplored.MethodsIn this retrospective integrative study, we systematically investigated SLAMF8's role in melanoma through multi-omics analyses using TIMER, GEPIA, and UALCAN databases, following the STROBE (Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology) guidelines for observational data reporting. Functional studies were conducted in A-375 and SK-MEL-28 melanoma cell lines using siRNA-mediated knockdown, followed by migration, invasion, and proliferation assays. DNA methylation patterns were analyzed via the SMART database, while mutation profiles were examined using cBioPortal and COSMIC. Immune infiltration analysis was performed through TIMER, and pathway associations were investigated using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis and protein-protein interaction networks. Finally, two-sample Mendelian Randomization analysis assessed the causal relationship between SLAMF8 expression and melanoma susceptibility.ResultsSLAMF8 expression was significantly higher in metastatic melanoma compared to primary tumors, with expression patterns varying across disease stages and between sexes. Higher SLAMF8 expression correlated with improved disease-free and overall survival. Functional studies demonstrated that SLAMF8 knockdown significantly enhanced melanoma cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. DNA methylation analysis revealed significant negative correlations between methylation at specific CpG sites and SLAMF8 expression, with hypermethylation associated with worse survival outcomes. Mutation analysis identified alterations in 10.21% of melanoma patients. Immune infiltration studies demonstrated strong correlations between SLAMF8 expression and enhanced immune cell presence. GSEA linked SLAMF8 to critical immune pathways including allograft rejection, inflammatory response, and interferon signaling. Mendelian Randomization analysis established a protective causal relationship between SLAMF8 and melanoma risk (OR = 0.39, 95% CI = 0.21-0.74, p = 3.34e-03).ConclusionOur study demonstrates that SLAMF8 plays a critical role in melanoma by suppressing tumor progression and modulating the immune microenvironment. Elevated SLAMF8 expression in metastatic melanoma is associated with improved patient survival, suggesting its utility as a prognostic biomarker. Furthermore, its tumor-suppressive effects and immune-regulatory functions highlight SLAMF8 as a promising therapeutic target for melanoma treatment strategies.
SLAMF8 functions as a cancer-promoting immune checkpoint and could be targeted for therapy in multiple cancer types. Its effect on the immune microenvironment and metastasis of prostate cancer (PCa) is not well understood.We analyzed SLAMF8 distribution in PCa and normal tissues using TIMER and examined its role in drug sensitivity and immunotherapy for PCa. The prognostic value and clinical relevance of SLAMF8 in PCa were assessed using multiple datasets. GO, KEGG, and GSEA analyses identified dysregulated pathways in tumors with varying SLAMF8 levels. Tumor purity and immune cell infiltration, and their correlation with SLAMF8 overexpression, were analyzed and confirmed in PCa samples. Additionally, CCK-8, flow cytometry, and transwell assays evaluated the viability, apoptosis, and invasion capacity of SLAMF8-overexpressing PCa cells. Allograft models in C57BL/6 mice were used to study the effects of SLAMF8 overexpression on tumor growth and immune cell infiltration.Compared to non-tumor tissues, SLAMF8 was overexpressed in PCa tumors. High SLAMF8 levels are linked to poor distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), higher Gleason scores (GS), and advanced T stage. SLAMF8 expression in PCa tumors negatively correlates with tumor purity but positively correlates with the infiltration of B cells, T cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages. SLAMF8 overexpression in prostate cancer cells promoted cell growth, lowered apoptosis rates, and boosted invasion in vitro, alongside hastening tumor development in mice. This study demonstrates that SLAMF8 enhances PCa metastasis via the TLR4-NF-κB pathway. SLAMF8 is a potential predictor of distant metastasis and a promising target for PCa immunotherapy.© 2025. The Author(s).
PI(3,5)P2 is an endosomal lipid whose depletion is associated with a variety of pathologies such as neurodegenerative diseases. However, studying this lipid in physiological and disease models has been difficult due to the scarcity of the lipid and the lack of live-cell imaging tools. That is until recently, when a novel PI(3,5)P2 biosensor, SnxA, was characterized. Despite the exciting promise of this new sensor, it was still unclear whether SnxA reported on PI(3,5)P2 levels without bias and how its sensitivity compared to other PI(3,5)P2 biosensors. In this work, we addressed these gaps by using a recruitable PIKfyve construct to demonstrate that ectopically generated PI(3,5)P2 at mitochondria was sufficient to recruit SnxA. Further, we co-expressed putative PI(3,5)P2 biosensors to definitively show that SnxA is more sensitive to PI(3,5)P2. We also validated previous results by showing that SnxA depends on PI(3,5)P2 for membrane binding, SnxA responds to PI(3,5)P2 production at endosomes, and that PI(3,5)P2 levels decline quickly when its production is inhibited. Thus, we conclude that SnxA is a robust and sensitive PI(3,5)P2 biosensor that facilitates real-time analysis of this key lipid.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-adaptive lipid kinase axis that supports adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, exacerbates ER stress, and activates a compensatory sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-lipid kinase axis that drives adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, leading to ER stress accumulation and activation of a compensatory, sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42455373 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is dependent on autophagy for growth. Chloroquine/Hydroxychloroquine (CQ/HCQ), the sole FDA-approved autophagy inhibitors, have shown limited clinical efficacy as cancer therapies. To identify approaches to improve PDAC response to CQ, we performed a CQ-anchored, CRISPR-Cas9 mediated loss-of-function screen. We identified that the loss of genes encoding proteins upstream in the autophagy pathway enhanced CQ-mediated growth suppression. This indicated that simultaneous targeting of two distinct nodes of the same pathway, vertical inhibition, may be a more effective strategy than single node inhibition. We demonstrated that genetic loss or pharmacological inhibition of VPS34, a protein necessary for autophagosome nucleation, sensitized PDAC cells to inhibitors of the terminal stage of the autophagy pathway, including CQ and an inhibitor of PIKfyve. We extended this concept to the initiation complex and demonstrated that ULK1/2 inhibition synergized with CQ and PIKfyve inhibition to impair PDAC cell growth and increase apoptosis. Anticipating mechanisms of resistance to vertical autophagy inhibition, we performed reverse-phase protein array profiling and identified that vertical inhibition of the autophagy pathway resulted in enhanced activation of the PI3K-AKT-mTORC1 signaling pathway. Increased mTORC1 signaling resulted in heightened sensitivity to bi-steric mTORC1 inhibition in both cell line and organoid models of PDAC. This study identifies novel anti-autophagy inhibitor combinations that may improve the clinical efficacy of autophagy inhibition for PDAC treatment.Vertical inhibition of the autophagy pathway reduces pancreatic cancer cell growth, increases apoptosis, and enhances sensitivity to mTORC1 inhibition; thereby representing a novel therapeutic strategy for autophagy-driven pancreatic cancer.
Amoeboid cell migration is key to efficient T cell immunity. Spatial polarization of organelles within cells, including endo-lysosomes, is a prerequisite of migration. However, how ultrastructural polarization is linked to the signaling requirements governing T cell migration remains unknown. Here we show that signaling molecules generated by endo-lysosome-localized kinases regulate velocity of amoeboid migration. Specifically, imaging of T cells identifies accumulation of endo-lysosomes decorated with the lipid kinases VPS34-PIKfyve at the uropod of polarized cells. Activity of VPS34 and PIKfyve regulates speed, but not directedness, of migrating T cells. Mechanistically, PI(3,5)P2 generated by the sequential action of VPS34 and PIKfyve, mediates Ca2+ efflux from lysosomes via the mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), thus controlling activity of myosin IIA and hence the generation of propulsive force through retrograde actin flow. The VPS34-PIKfyve kinases also regulate velocity of myeloid cells, as well as of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum - establishing the axis as an evolutionarily conserved speed control system of amoeboid cell migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) ocular measurements are widely used in ocular disease research and drug discovery. Traditional methods rely on manual annotations, causing challenges in precision, efficiency, and workload. Here, we introduce a deep learning-based zebrafish ocular morphometric analysis (Deep-ZOMA) tool for quantitative measurement of zebrafish larvae ocular structures.A dual-center dataset of 1820 bright-field images (1010 internal; 810 external) was annotated for key ocular regions. A UNet++ segmentation network was trained with augmentation and hybrid loss. Sixteen morphometric parameters were computed using customized quantification algorithms. Performance was evaluated on internal and external datasets using Dice coefficient, IoU, Student's t-test, correlation, and agreement analyses. Utility was further tested on an slc4a7 knockdown/rescue dataset and compared with three ophthalmology graduate students.Deep-ZOMA achieved mean Dice coefficients of 0.96 on the internal set and 0.95 on the external set for primary ocular regions, with IoU values >0.90. Automated measurements showed strong correlations and excellent agreement with expert measurements. In the slc4a7 model, Deep-ZOMA accurately identified microphthalmia and rescue phenotypes consistent with expert annotations. Measurement and data-entry times were >20-fold faster than those of human observers, with comparable or better accuracy.Deep-ZOMA provides a reliable and efficient solution for high-throughput zebrafish ocular morphometry, supporting applications in ocular genetics, drug screening, and phenotypic studies.This deep learning-based system enables accurate, reproducible zebrafish ocular morphometry, accelerating translational research by linking genetic or pharmacological perturbations with quantifiable ocular outcomes relevant to human eye diseases.
Ovarian cancer treatment has long been challenged by clinical obstacles including platinum resistance recurrence and incomplete eradication of micrometastatic lesions. This study presents a platinum(II)-based compound AP-604 through the "Targeted Drug Conjugate (TDC)" strategy to overcome the limitations inherent in conventional chemotherapy. Research indicated that AP-604 preserved potent PIKfyve targeting capability (IC50 = 15.4 ± 1.3 nM) while also exhibiting pronounced cytotoxicity against A2780 (IC50 = 2.2 ± 0.4 μM). Mechanistic investigations revealed a multi-mode antitumor action involving concurrent activation of the BCL-2/caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway and S phase specific cell cycle arrest, complemented by enhanced platinum accumulation that exacerbated DNA damage. In vivo tests showed that AP-604 at a high dose achieved stronger tumor suppression than Cisplatin, Apilimod, and their combination without inducing significant histopathological damage. These findings proved that AP-604 has potential as a promising drug candidate with enhanced efficacy and favorable safety profiles in treatment of ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lysosomes clear unwanted cellular material delivered by constant membrane fusion. Membrane fission is thus required to balance lysosome size, number, and composition. PIKfyve is a lipid kinase that converts phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate [PtdIns(3)P] to phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(3,5)P2] and promotes lysosome fission since lysosomes coalesce into larger, but fewer, organelles in its absence. Here, we reveal a role for PIKfyve in regulating ER dynamics. We show the ER is less reticulated and motile in cells inhibited for PIKfyve. Partly, this arises because lysosomes cluster perinuclearly and are less motile, which appears to arrest ER hitchhiking, a process in which lysosomes pull and form ER tubules. Secondly, the ER morphology is distorted because of hyper-tethering of protrudin, an ER transmembrane protein, to lysosomes via excess PtdIns(3)P and protrudin's FYVE domain. Our findings reveal that PIKfyve balances phosphoinositides at ER-lysosome contact sites to govern ER properties and have significant implications for our understanding of PIKfyve function and of diseases linked to its dysfunction.© 2026 Jenkins et al.
The population of Serbia faces a significant burden from cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). This study aimed to computationally investigate genetic factors that contribute to the prevalence of these diseases by examining the possible involvement of common variants on lipid metabolism.We examined how a variant prevalent in the Serbian population, chr7:g.56019730G>A in the PSPH gene, affects the phosphoserine phosphatase (PSP) protein interaction network, particularly involved in lipid metabolism. The Informational Spectrum Method (ISM), method for the analysis of protein sequence based on amplitude changes, was applied to single out the top 10 affected interactors. Their further functional annotation identified the pathways in which they jointly participate with PSP. An additional strategy encompassed the investigation of variant combinations in all analyzed genes and potential relevance of prevalent variant combinations on lipid metabolism.The PSP interactions affected by the R49W variant, such as SHMT1/2, were primarily in pathways associated with serine, glycine, and sphingolipid metabolism, highly relevant for CVD etiology. Further, we identified frequent variant combinations within the LRCH1, CEP126, PIK3CG, and PIKFYVE genes in the Serbian cohort.This study underscores the importance of investigating genetic variant combinations in complex diseases, and provides a hypothesis generating foundation for future research into the relationship between these genes and cardiovascular diseases.
Colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Although programmed cell death (PCD) and RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification have each been shown to regulate tumor progression and therapeutic responses, their combined prognostic significance in COAD has not been fully elucidated. The present study aimed to develop an integrated m6A-PCD prognostic model and to identify potential therapeutic targets in COAD. In total, 1,379 genes across 14 PCD-related pathways were systematically analyzed and a 21-gene m6A-PCD signature (MCDI) was constructed following multivariate Cox regression analysis. Single-cell RNA sequencing from publicly available datasets (GSE132465 and GSE205506), together with reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (qPCR) validation using clinical samples, were employed to identify genes with tumor-specific expression patterns. The functional role of serine/threonine kinase 25 (STK25) was further investigated through knockdown experiments, flow cytometry, m6A methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP)-qPCR and RIP assays. In addition, small interfering RNAs targeting methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and YTH domain-containing protein 1 (YTHDC1) were used to evaluate the involvement of m6A modification in STK25 mRNA stability and apoptosis regulation. The resulting MCDI signature demonstrated robust and independent prognostic value and effectively predicted differential responses to programmed death-ligand 1 immunotherapy. In total, 5 core genes [microRNA 210, STK25, TGFB2, tripartite motif containing (TRIM)6 and TRIM68] were identified as key prognostic markers. STK25 was specifically upregulated in tumor epithelial cells, and its knockdown significantly promoted apoptosis in COAD cells. Correlation analyses revealed positive associations between STK25 expression and multiple m6A regulators, with METTL3 and YTHDC1 showing the highest targeting credibility. Knockdown of METTL3 or YTHDC1 reduced STK25 mRNA levels. RIP assays confirmed their direct binding to STK25 mRNA, while MeRIP-qPCR demonstrated that METTL3 knockdown decreased the m6A modification level of STK25 mRNA. In conclusion, the reconstructed MCDI was established as a novel m6A-PCD-based prognostic model for patient stratification and the prediction of immunotherapy response in patients with COAD. STK25 was also identified as a potential therapeutic target linking m6A modification to the regulation of apoptosis in COAD.Copyright: © 2026 Yu et al.
Programmed cell death factor 10 (PDCD10) is associated with intercellular junction, cytoskeleton organization, cell proliferation, apoptosis, exocytosis, and angiogenesis. However, the role of PDCD10 in human cancer is unclear. This study aims to explore the role of PDCD10 in various tumors and its possible mechanism through bioinformatics analysis.We verified the expression of the PDCD10 gene based on data from the ONCOMINE, TIMER2.0, and TISDB databases. The correlation of PDCD10 with prognosis of patients with different tumors was analyzed using data from the GEPIA2 database. Proteins bound to PDCD10 were analyzed from the STRING database. PDCD10, PDCD10-binding proteins, and associated candidate genes were analyzed in DAVID for functional and pathway analyses. We also evaluated the immunological, clinical, and genetic aspects of distinct cancers by using TIMER2.0 and the connection between PDCD10 expression and tumor immune subtypes by using TISDB. Single-cell sequencing data from the CancerSEA database were used to characterize cancer cell functional states and generate heat maps.PDCD10 overexpression is linked to certain molecular subtypes of human cancer. Low PDCD10 expression in patients with bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA), lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSC), kidney chromophobe carcinoma (KICH), brain lower grade glioma (LGG), pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD), uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC), oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), and esophageal adenocarcinoma (ESAD) was correlated with favorable OS, whereas high PDCD10 expression in patients with LUSC, KIRC, READ, SKCM, and THYM was correlated with good prognosis. STRING network prediction results showed that 20 proteins, namely, paxillin (PXN), CCM2 scaffold protein (CCM2), TRAF3 interacting protein 3 (TRAF3IP3), FGFR1 oncogene partner 2 (FGFR1OP2), chromosome 4 open reading frame 19 (C4orf19), suppressor of IKBKE 1 (SIKE1), serine/threonine kinase 25 (STK25), striatin (STRN), protein phosphatase 2 catalytic subunit alpha (PPP2CA), mammalian sterile-20-like kinase 4 (MST4), MOB family member 4 (MOB4), protein phosphatase 2 scaffold subunit Abeta (PPP2R1B), sarcolemma-associated protein (SLMAP), serine/threonine kinase 24 (STK24), striatin 4 (STRN4), STRN3, protein phosphatase 2 scaffold subunit A alpha (PPP2R1A), striatin interacting protein 1 (STRIP1), CTTNBP2 N-terminal like (CTTNBP2NL), and cortactin binding protein 2 (CTTNBP2), can bind to PDCD10. Gene enrichment analysis suggested that PDCD10 is involved in the occurrence of different tumors through the Hippo signalling pathway, RNA transport, mRNA monitoring pathway, endocytosis, and T cell receptor signalling pathway. An inverse relationship was found between PDCD10 expression and cancer-associated fibroblasts in LUSC and TGCT, and PDCD10 expression was strongly connected with immunological subtypes, such as C1 (wound healing), C2 (interferon-gamma dominant), C3 (inflammation), C4 (lymphocyte depletion), C5 (immune silenced), and C6 (TGF-beta dominant). Finally, analysis of single-cell sequencing data revealed that PDCD10 expression is linked to epigenetic reprogramming, DNA repair, cell cycle progression, cell differentiation, inflammation, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, cell invasion, and angiogenesis.The results of our investigation demonstrate that PDCD10 has an oncogenic function in many cancer types. This study provides a reference for future research on antitumor therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2022 Ning Sun et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most fatal and fastest-growing cancers. Recently, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has been recognized as a major catalyst for HCC. Thus, additional research is critically needed to identify mechanisms involved in NASH-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, to advance the prevention and treatment of NASH-driven HCC. Because the sterile 20-type kinase serine/threonine kinase 25 (STK25) exacerbates NASH-related phenotypes, we investigated its role in HCC development and aggravation in this study.Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced in the context of NASH in Stk25 knockout and wild-type mice by combining chemical procarcinogens and a dietary challenge. In the first cohort, a single injection of diethylnitrosamine was combined with a high-fat diet-feeding. In the second cohort, chronic administration of carbon tetrachloride was combined with a choline-deficient L-amino-acid-defined diet. To study the cell-autonomous mode of action of STK25, we silenced this target in the human hepatocarcinoma cell line HepG2 by small interfering RNA.In both mouse models of NASH-driven HCC, the livers from Stk25-/- mice showed a markedly lower tumor burden compared with wild-type controls. We also found that genetic depletion of STK25 in mice suppressed liver tumor growth through reduced hepatocellular apoptosis and decreased compensatory proliferation, by a mechanism that involves protection against hepatic lipotoxicity and inactivation of STAT3, ERK1/2, and p38 signaling. Consistently, silencing of STK25 suppressed proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and invasion in HepG2 cells, which was accompanied by lower expression of the markers of epithelial-mesenchymal transition and autophagic flux.This study provides evidence that antagonizing STK25 signaling hinders the development of NASH-related HCC and provides an impetus for further analysis of STK25 as a therapeutic target for NASH-induced HCC treatment in human beings.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A balance between positive and negative regulation of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway is required to prevent harmful or inappropriate inflammatory responses. Although TLR9 has been reported to be expressed in many mammalian tissues and cells, its function and exact mechanism are not fully understood. Some protein post-translational modifications (PTMs), such as phosphorylation and ubiquitination, are involved in the development of tumors. An important PTM, methylation, which controls the TLR9 signaling pathway, still remains unclear.Using human prostate cancer (PCa) cells PC3 and clinical PCa samples, this study employed LipidTOX staining, RNA interference, Western blot, immunoprecipitation, GST fusion protein sedimentation, and immunofluorescence techniques to investigate the molecular mechanism of TLR9 protein arginine methylation modification in PCa ferroptosis.In this study, we found that the total level of methylation was reduced in PCa, the expression of TLR9 was decreased, and the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was increased in PCa cells, indicating that TLR9 may be involved in the regulation of ferroptosis in PCa. In addition, protein arginine methyltransferase 5 and 9 (PRMT5 and PRMT9) are recruited to mediate methylation modification of TLR9 after stimulation of unmethylated cytosine guanine [oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN)], but PRMT9 has the strongest effect, which prompted us to focus on PRMT9. Decreased expression of PRMT9 down-regulates arginine (R) methylation levels of TLR9. Methionine 260 (G260) mediates PRMT9 to catalyze arginine methylation of TLR9 on R216. In vitro transcriptomic results showed that the expression level of acyl synthetase medium chain family 1 (ACSM1) in cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in the para-cancer group. BODIPY-C11 immunofluorescence results indicated that TLR9 methylation could regulate the growth of PC3 cells mediated by ACSM1. In addition, arginine methylation enhancement of TLR9 induced by PRMT5 or 9 increased the transcription activity of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2), and arginine methylation of TLR9 at sites 216 and 305 mediated the interaction between TLR9 and NRF2 and enhanced the transcription activity of NRF2. PRMT9 mutation and (R216K) mutant TLR9 decreased NRF2 transcriptional activity, and R216 mutation decreased PRMT9-mediated arginine methylation GPX4 and other related iron-death protein levels.Our study reveals a key role of TLR9 protein arginine methylation in the regulation of ferroptosis, which may provide a therapeutic strategy for controlling the development and progression of PCa.© AME Publishing Company.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease driven by aberrant keratinocyte activation and immune dysregulation. Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) was identified as a candidate regulator in psoriatic keratinocytes, yet its function and mechanistic role in psoriasis pathogenesis remain unclear.We analyzed multiple public bulk RNA-sequencing and single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) transcriptomic datasets from psoriasis patients to assess PRMT5 mRNA expression and distribution. Protein expression was further validated by immunofluorescence staining of psoriatic lesion biopsies. Functional validation employed siRNA-mediated Prmt5 knockdown in imiquimod-induced psoriasis model. Transcriptomic profiling combined with in vitro human primary keratinocytes experiments was performed with PRMT5 knockdown or inhibition to map downstream potential mechanisms. Specific mechanistic investigations included co-immunoprecipitation, molecular docking, GST pull-down, mass spectrometry, and site-directed mutagenesis to characterize the PRMT5-p65 interaction and symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA) modification. Finally, the therapeutic potential of PRMT5 inhibition by EPZ015666 was evaluated in imiquimod and IL-23-induced psoriasis models.PRMT5 was markedly upregulated in psoriatic keratinocytes. Knockdown of Prmt5 reduces local inflammation responses in the imiquimod-induced mouse model. Transcriptomic profiling combined with in vitro detection defined that inhibition of PRMT5 can dampen the inflammatory response of keratinocytes. Mechanistically, PRMT5 inhibition markedly reduces p65 protein levels, prompting further exploration of the PRMT5-p65 axis. Co-immunoprecipitation, molecular docking and GST pull down assay confirmed a direct PRMT5-p65 interaction; PRMT5 knockdown attenuated this interaction, diminishes symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA) modification of p65, and compromises p65 protein stability. Accordingly, p65 overexpression restored inflammatory cytokine production in PRMT5-knockdown keratinocytes, functionally validating this regulatory axis. Mass spectrometry combined with site-directed mutation experiments revealed that PRMT5 facilitates p65 symmetric dimethylation at R158 and R166, which suppresses autophagy-mediated lysosomal degradation, thereby promoting p65-dependent cytokines expression. Pharmacological inhibition of PRMT5 with EPZ015666 ameliorates psoriatic inflammatory responses in vivo, underscoring its translational potential value.These findings establish a PRMT5-p65 regulatory axis wherein PRMT5-mediated symmetric dimethylation at R158 and R166 stabilizes p65 by autophagy-mediated lysosomal degradation and amplifies NF-κB-driven inflammation in keratinocytes, identifying PRMT5 as a potential therapeutic target in psoriasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Methylthioadenosine phosphorylase (MTAP) is deleted in 13% of NSCLC, and MTAP two-copy deleted (MTAPdel) cancer cells are vulnerable to protein arginine methyltransferase 5 inhibitors being examined in trials. Outcomes for MTAPdel NSCLC are poorly characterized.Patients with advanced MTAPdel and MTAPwt NSCLC who underwent large panel, tissue-based, NGS at a single center and received systemic therapy and from 10/2016-3/2024, were included in this retrospective study. Treatments of interest included platinum doublet + anti-PD-(L)1 therapy, anti-PD-(L)1 monotherapy, and docetaxel-based chemotherapy. Baseline characteristics, PFS, and OS were compared between cohorts.Compared to the MTAPwt cohort (n=307), the MTAPdel cohort (n=93) had more female patients (65.6% vs. 51.5%, p=0.018), less of a smoking history (33.3% vs. 49.0% >30 pack-years, p=0.008), more stage IV disease at diagnosis (78.8% vs. 60.9%, p=0.002), lower PD-L1 TPS (37.9% vs. 24.3% TPS <1%, p=0.017), and lower tumor mutational burden (median 7.6 vs. 9.9 mutations/Mb, p=0.012). Patients with MTAPdel (vs. MTAPwt) NSCLC had shorter PFS on anti-PD-(L)1 monotherapy (HR 1.70 [95% CI 1.02-2.82], p=0.040) and platinum doublet + anti-PD-(L)1 therapy (HR 1.89 [95% CI 1.20-2.97], p=0.006) when controlling for histology, age, smoking pack-years, PD-L1 TPS, targetable co-mutations, and treatment line. OS was similar between MTAPdel and MTAPwt cohorts across regimens.MTAPdel NSCLC has more features of aggressive disease, including CNS metastasis, and associates with PD-L1 TPS <1%. Compared to patients with MTAPwt NSCLC, patients with MTAPdel NSCLC have worse outcomes to anti-PD-(L)1-based therapies. Effective therapies targeting MTAPdel NSCLC are needed.
Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) regulates vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotype switching to participate in cardiovascular disease progression. This study aimed to explore the effect of EPZ015666, a PRMT5 enzymatic activity inhibitor, on VSMC behaviors and phenotype switching in intracranial aneurysm (IA), and potential mechanisms.IA rat model was established by ligating left common carotid artery and right renal artery, followed by elastase injection and angiotensin II (Ang II) infusion. Rat brain artery VSMCs were treated with 1 μM Ang II to establish the IA cell model. Then, cells were treated with 10 μM EPZ015666 in combination with Ang II. Furthermore, cells were co-administered with Ang II, EPZ015666, and 50 μg/mL 740Y-P [phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) agonist].PRMT5 was increased in the IA specimens of rats and Ang II-treated VSMCs. In Ang II-treated VSMCs, EPZ015666 did not affect PRMT5 but decreased H4R3me2s, suggesting its inhibition of PRMT5 enzymatic activity. EPZ015666 increased VSMC apoptosis, decreased viability, and reduced invasive capacity. EPZ015666 increased α-smooth muscle actin and decreased osteopontin and matrix metalloproteinase-9, which indicated that EPZ015666 facilitated the VSMC transition from synthetic phenotype to contractile phenotype. EPZ015666 decreased phosphorylated (p)-PI3K and p-protein kinase B (AKT), suggesting its inhibition of PI3K/AKT pathway. 740Y-P reversed the impact of EPZ015666 on Ang II-treated VSMCs.EPZ015666 inhibits the PI3K/AKT pathway to promote VSMC phenotype switching from synthetic phenotype to contractile phenotype, thereby attenuating IA progression. However, this study is limited by the use of male-only rats a relatively small sample size, which may restrict the generalizability of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Kang, Li, Tian, Feng, Yao, Wei, Chen, Tong and Chen.
We report a novel homozygous missense variant in ABCB4 gene in a Yemeni child born to consanguineous parents, with a significant family history of liver disease-related deaths, resulting in a progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC) type 3 phenotype requiring liver transplantation for intractable pruritus.© 2021 Indian National Association for Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Bladder cancer (BC) is a highly prevalent form of cancer worldwide, and cisplatin (CDDP) resistance poses a major challenge to patients. Cytoplasmic linker-associated protein 2 (CLASP2) is a member of the microtubule plus-end tracking protein family and is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics. In this study, we evaluated the influence of CLASP2 on BC progression and cisplatin resistance. Levels of CLASP2, HNRNPA1, NONO, ZRANB2, FUS, KHSRP and QKI in BC tissues and cells were tested by RT-qPCR. Protein levels of CLASP2 and KHSRP were detected by Western blot. Cell viability and IC50 of cisplatin-treated BC cells were measured by CCK-8. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were determined using colony formation assay and flow cytometry, respectively. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) experiments were adopted to verify target genes of CLASP2. Cellular localization of CLASP2 and MAPRE1 was detected utilizing immunofluorescence staining. The xenograft tumor model was established in BALB/c nude mice. We found that iCLASP2 levels were increased in CDDP-resistant BC tissues and cells. Suppression of CLASP2 impeded BC cell proliferation and alleviated their resistance to CDDP. KHSRP positively influenced the stability of CLASP2 mRNA. There was a protein interaction between CLASP2 and MAPRE1. Silencing KHSRP or MAPRE1 reversed the effect exerted of CLASP2 on BC cells. CLASP2 decreased the sensitivity of BC to CDDP in vivo. Our results imply that CLASP2 contributes to tumorigenesis and cisplatin resistance in BC via targeting MAPRE1, thereby promoting BC progression and providing a new therapeutic target for BC treatment.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Bladder cancer (BCa) metastasis is a multi-step process triggered by cytoskeleton reorganization. However, the regulation mechanism of cytoskeleton reorganization in BCa remains ambiguous. This study elucidated the influence of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in cytoskeleton remodeling during BCa metastasis and its possible mechanisms.Colony formation, scratch, transwell, and the nude mouse model were adopted to evaluate the growth and metastasis. Molecular expression was assessed by immunohistochemical staining, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), and Western blotting. The N6-methyladenosine (m6A) level was detected by methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP). Protein interaction was validated by Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). Immunofluorescence staining was used to identify rearrangement of actin filament fibers (F-actin) and protein colocalization.TNF-α facilitated cytoplasmic linker associated protein 2 (CLASP2) and methyltransferase like 3 (METTL3) expression in a dose (10-50 ng/mL)-dependent manner in BCa. CLASP2 high expression suggested a shorter overall survival of BCa patients. CLASP2 deficiency suppressed BCa cell proliferation, migration, and invasion via disrupting F-actin cytoskeleton. Mechanistically, TNF-α promoted METTL3-mediated m6A modification of CLASP2 to enhance CLASP2 mRNA stability. Moreover, CLASP2 directly interplayed with IQ motif containing GTPase activating protein 1 (IQGAP1) to regulate F-actin cytoskeleton remodeling. In vivo data demonstrated that inhibition of METTL3/CLASP2 axis delayed lung metastasis in nude mice.TNF-α favors BCa cell metastasis, which involves METTL3-mediated m6A modification of CLASP2 that interacts with IQGAP1, thus leading to F-actin cytoskeleton remodeling. Our findings suggest targeting TNF-α/METTL3/CLASP2/IQGAP1 axis as a potential avenue for promising treatment for BCa.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The underlying pathophysiology of nonhealing chronic wounds is poorly understood due to the changes occurring at the gene level and the complexity arising in their proteomic profile. Here, we elucidated the temporal and differential profile of the normal and diabetic wound-healing mediators along with their interactions and associated pathways. Skin tissues corresponding to normal and diabetic wounds were isolated at Days 0, 3, 6, and 9 representing different healing phases. Temporal gene expression was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. Concurrently, differential protein patterns in the wound tissues were identified by Nano LC-ESI-TOF mass spectrometry and later confirmed by Western blot analysis. Gene ontology annotation, protein-protein interaction, and protein pathway analysis were performed using DAVID, PANTHER, and STRING bioinformatics resources. Uniquely identified proteins (complement C3, amyloid beta precursor protein, and cytoplasmic linker associated protein 2) in the diabetic wound tissue implied that these proteins are involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic wound. They exhibit enhanced catalytic activity, trigger pathways linked with inflammation, and negatively regulate wound healing. However, in the normal wound tissue, axin 1, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4, and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor were identified, which are involved in proliferation, angiogenesis, and remodeling. Our findings demonstrate the correlation between elevated gene expression of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and identified mediators: aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator, 5'-aminolevulinate synthase 2, and CXC-family, that inflicted an inflammatory response by activating downstream MAPK, JAK-STAT, and NF-κB pathways. Similarly, in normal wound tissue, the upregulated IL-4 and hepatocyte growth factor levels in conjunction with the identified proteins, serine/threonine-protein kinase mTOR and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, played a significant role in the cellular response to platelet-derived growth factor stimulus, dermal epithelialization, and cell proliferation, processes associated with the repair mechanism. Furthermore, Western blot analysis indicated elevated levels of inflammatory markers and reduced levels of proliferative and angiogenic factors in the diabetic wound.© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cytoplasmic linker-associated protein-2 (CLASP2) is a member of the CLIP-associating proteins (CLASPs) family involved in the structure and function of microtubules and Golgi apparatus. Several studies performed using different mammalian and non-mammalian model organisms reported that CLASP2 controls microtubule dynamics and the organization of microtubule networks. In Drosophila and mice, an important role of CLASP2 during the development of germ cell lines has been uncovered. However, no study has clearly defined its role during fish germ cell differentiation. In the present study, we used two excellent aquatic animal models among teleost fish: zebrafish (Danio rerio) and guppy (Poecilia reticulata). Using qPCR, we found that the clasp2 transcript level is significantly high in the testis of both fish. Then, by in situ hybridization, we localized the clasp2 transcript in the spermatozoa of zebrafish and the spermatozeugmata of guppy. Our data suggest a potential role for this gene in the last stage of spermiogenesis in fish.
Mutant C9orf72 has been extensively studied as a major genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, and is also known to generate Huntington's disease (HD)-like phenocopies. However, despite this strong disease association, the role of wild-type C9orf72 (wt-C9orf72) in neurodegeneration remains largely unexplored. HD is a neurodegenerative disease, and characterized by the accumulation of misfolded mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) and impaired proteostasis, yet the upstream mechanisms driving ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) dysfunction are not fully understood. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized modulatory role of wt-C9orf72 in regulating mHTT aggregation in experimental HD models. Analysis of public transcriptomic datasets reveal context-dependent C9ORF72 expression changes across HD-related human datasets, while C9orf72 levels are increased in R6/2 mouse brain lysates. Functional analyses reveal that overexpression of wt-C9orf72 increases mHTT aggregation and is accompanied by increased apoptotic signaling and reduced cell viability. Unbiased proteomic profiling identifies Stat1 as a key downstream effector. Mechanistically, wt-C9orf72 promotes Stat1 activation and nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional upregulation of Isg15, a ubiquitin-like modifier. Elevated Isg15 disrupts UPS function, resulting in accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins and impaired proteasomal degradation. Importantly, genetic suppression of Stat1 or Isg15 significantly attenuates C9orf72-associated mHTT aggregation, supporting a functional C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis. Consistent with these cell-based findings, Stat1, phosphorylated Stat1 and Isg15 levels are elevated in the cortex and striatum of R6/2 HD mouse brains. Collectively, our findings identify a novel wt-C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis that promotes proteasomal dysfunction and mHTT aggregation, providing new insights into wt-C9orf72-associated protein homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Amyloid fibrils are a common pathological hallmark in multiple neurodegenerative diseases, yet molecular tools to recognize and manipulate them remain scarce. We report FibrilPaints, a family of modular peptides designed for amyloid binding and adaptable chemical functionality. The degenerative amyloid-targeting unit of FibrilPaints, W5P4H3R2, has a high content of π-stacking and aromatic side chains. Systematic sequence variation, altering charge, termini, and residue order, revealed the importance of the composition of the amyloid-targeting unit for high-affinity binding across Tau and Huntingtin fibrils. Importantly, sequence changes outside this unit do not preclude fibril binding, which permits attachment of fluorophores or E3-recruiting motifs for targeted protein degradation. This work establishes FibrilPaint as a modular peptide system for binding Tau and Huntingtin amyloid fibrils, with potential for broader detection and modulation applications.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemistry – A European Journal published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder (NDD) caused by CAG repeat expansion in the HTTgene. Previous studies suggested an inverse comorbidity between HD and malignancies, possibly linked to pro-apoptotic mechanisms. In this study, we aimed to investigate the prevalence of malignancies in a large HD cohort (Enroll-HD) and explore demographic, genetic, and clinical factors associated with cancer risk.We analyzed baseline data from the Enroll-HD PDS6 dataset (N = 24,686; 18,892 HD gene expansion carriers [HDGECs], 5,794 controls). Cancer diagnoses were identified using ICD-10 codes (C00-C97). Prevalence was compared between groups using Chi-square and Mantel-Haenszel tests. Logistic regression models were used to assess associations with demographic, lifestyle, and genetic variables; models included age, sex, tobacco use, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, and CAG repeat length as covariates. Associations between cancer status and clinical outcomes were examined using general linear and linear mixed-effects models.Overall cancer prevalence did not differ significantly between HDGECs (4.92%) and controls (5.23%). However, pre-motor-manifest HDGECs had a significantly lower prevalence (3.62%) compared with both controls and motor-manifest patients (5.57%). Similarly, cancer prevalence increased progressively across HD Integrated Staging System (HD-ISS) stages. Logistic regression identified older age (HDGECs: OR = 1.05, 95% CI 1.05-1.06; controls: OR = 1.07, 95% CI 1.06-1.08) and female sex (HDGECs: OR = 1.22, 95% CI 1.07-1.40; controls: OR = 1.46, 95% CI 1.13-1.88) as risk factors for malignancy in both groups. In contrast, shorter CAG repeat length was associated with increased cancer prevalence only in HDGECs (OR = 0.89, 95% CI 0.86-0.92). No specific cancer type was over- or under-represented. Among HDGECs, a history of cancer was associated with better baseline motor (UHDRS TMS estimate = -5.10, SE = 0.73, p < 0.0001) and functional outcomes (UHDRS TFC estimate = 0.64, SE = 0.58, p < 0.0001), but was not associated with differences in longitudinal trajectories. In contrast, among controls, cancer history was associated with worse motor (UHDRS TMS estimate = 0.68, SE = 0.18, p < 0.0001) and functional outcomes (UHDRS TFC estimate = -0.12, SE = 0.04, p = 0.001).These findings do not support a strong overall protective effect of HD against malignancy. Instead, cancer prevalence was associated with disease stage, age, and CAG repeat length. The lower cancer prevalence observed in premanifest HDGECs may reflect a combination of biological factors and age-related confounding. Further mechanistic and longitudinal studies are needed to clarify the interplay between mutant huntingtin, apoptosis, and cancer biology.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanded CAG repeat within exon 1 of the huntingtin (HTT) gene, resulting in a mutant protein that drives neuronal dysfunction and loss. A key event in the pathogenesis of HD is proteolytic cleavage of mutant HTT, which generates aggregation-prone N-terminal fragments that contribute to toxicity. Strategies that prevent this process thus hold therapeutic potential. Here we develop CRISPR base editors that generate proteolysis-resistant HTT isoforms by disrupting the splice acceptor of HTT exon 13, an exon that encodes critical proteolytic cleavage sites implicated in N-terminal fragment production. When delivered to the striatum of an HD rodent model, these editors reduced HTT fragment formation, decreased aggregation, improved functional deficits and attenuated brain atrophy. Collectively, these results demonstrate the potential of base editing and splice-site modulation to mitigate mutant HTT toxicity in HD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Phase separation (PS) of the low-complexity domain (LCD) of TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) is linked to pathogenic aggregates in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD-TDP). Here, we show that extensive phosphorylation of the LCD C-terminus redirects its self-assembly. Coarse-grained Monte Carlo simulations predicted that 12 Ser phosphorylations partition the 148-residue LCD into a hydrophobic N-terminal and highly charged C-terminal block, favouring finite-sized micellization over macroscopic PS. In vitro, LCD phosphorylated by casein kinase 1 delta (CK1δ; mean of 12 phosphorylations by native mass spectrometry) and phosphomimetic 12D/12DD mutants formed spherical nanoparticles (≈ 20-50 nm) above a low-micromolar critical micelle concentration, whereas the unphosphorylated LCD underwent reversible PS that matured into fibrils. Increasing ionic strength shifted the mutants toward anisotropic morphologies (wormlike 12D micelles and rigid 12DD nanocylinders). Turbidity assays and confocal imaging directly visualized the absence of PS in the phosphorylated form. Negative-stain and cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) confirmed the spherical micellar architecture for the phosphorylated LCD and 12D/12DD mimics. Our data identify phosphorylation as a molecular switch tuning macrophase separation and fibril formation of TDP-43 LCD, providing a framework for an aggregation-protective role through microphase separation into size-limited micelles. Whether these assemblies are stable or kinetically trapped on pathological timescales remains unclear.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512450 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Patient-derived cell lines retaining donor-specific age-related and genomic features are essential for modeling late-onset neurodegenerative disorders like Huntington's disease (HD). This study aims to establish and comprehensively characterize HDDF2, a novel dermal fibroblast line from an HD patient, to provide a relevant cellular model. Methods: Dermal fibroblasts were isolated and cultured from a 44-year-old male HD patient carrying 46 CAG repeats in the HTT gene. Cells were evaluated for senescence markers (p16, lamin B1, SA-β-Gal activity, proliferation rates) and polyglutamine (polyQ) aggregation. Direct reprogramming protocols were applied to convert these fibroblasts into induced neurons. Results: HDDF2 fibroblasts exhibited a pronounced senescence-associated phenotype, evidenced by increased p16 expression, reduced lamin B1 levels, elevated SA-β-Gal activity, and decreased proliferation. Notably, polyQ deposition was preferentially detected within the senescent subpopulation, displaying distinct localization patterns differentiating senescent from proliferating cells. Despite this, HDDF2 cells retained their capacity for direct reprogramming and were successfully converted into induced neurons. Conclusions: HDDF2 represents a well-characterized, patient-specific cellular model for HD. The observed co-occurrence of polyQ deposition and cellular senescence, combined with successful neuronal conversion, establishes this line as a valuable resource for investigating the relationship between cellular aging and HD pathogenesis.
Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) is an established therapeutic target in cancer; however, ATP-competitive kinase inhibitors have shown limited clinical success because of toxicity, acquired resistance, and incomplete inhibition of non-catalytic PLK1 functions. Targeting the Polo-box domain (PBD), which regulates PLK1 localization and substrate recognition, represents an alternative therapeutic strategy but has been hindered by the lack of selective, cell-active small molecules. Here, the optimization and biological characterization of abbapolins, a series of non-peptidic PLK1 PBD inhibitors developed using the REPLACE strategy are described. Structure-guided optimization and screening across the NCI-60 cancer cell panel identified compounds with preferential activity against prostate cancer cells. Proteomic analyses demonstrated that cellular sensitivity correlated with PLK1 protein abundance, supporting an on-target mechanism of action. Abbapolins directly engaged PLK1 in cells, induced selective degradation of endogenous PLK1, and suppressed long-term clonogenic growth. Lead compounds demonstrated favorable pharmacokinetic properties and significantly inhibited prostate tumor growth in xenograft models without detectable systemic toxicity. PLK1 abundance was significantly reduced in treated tumors and correlated with tumor response, identifying PLK1 degradation as a potential pharmacodynamic biomarker. Abbapolins also synergized with enzalutamide in castration- resistant prostate cancer cells, supporting their potential as combination therapies for advanced disease. Collectively, these studies establish selective inhibition of the PLK1 Polo-box domain as a viable therapeutic strategy, provide in vivo proof-of-concept for the REPLACE approach, and identify abbapolins as promising leads for advanced prostate cancer.
G protein-coupled receptor 19 (GPR19) is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor with emerging relevance in cancer; however, its role in breast cancer remains poorly understood. Given the high frequency of tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations in aggressive breast cancer, particularly triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), we investigated the clinical significance, biological function, and molecular mechanism of GPR19 in TP53-mutant breast cancer.Public datasets (Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas) were analyzed to assess GPR19 expression in relation to TP53 status, molecular subtype, and prognosis. Expression was validated in breast cancer cell lines, paired clinical tissues, and tissue microarrays by quantitative PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. Stable GPR19 knockdown models in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 cells were used to evaluate proliferation, cell cycle distribution, and apoptosis. RNA sequencing, rescue experiments with the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activator Ro 67-7476, and a nude mouse xenograft model were employed to investigate the underlying mechanism.GPR19 was significantly upregulated in TP53-mutant breast cancer, primary tumors, and especially TNBC, and its high expression was associated with poor survival. Functionally, GPR19 depletion markedly suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and DNA synthesis, while inducing G2/M arrest and apoptosis in TP53-mutant breast cancer cells. Mechanistically, GPR19 knockdown reduced ERK phosphorylation and downregulated forkhead box protein M1 (FOXM1) and its downstream G2/M regulators cyclin B1 (CCNB1) and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), whereas total ERK levels remained largely unchanged. Pharmacological activation of ERK partially restored FOXM1 expression, alleviated cell cycle disturbance and apoptosis, and reversed the growth-inhibitory effects of GPR19 depletion. In vivo, GPR19 knockdown suppressed xenograft growth, reduced Ki-67 staining, increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) positivity, and inhibited the ERK-FOXM1-CCNB1/PLK1 signaling cascade, all of which were partially rescued by ERK activation.GPR19 functions as a novel oncogenic driver and clinically relevant biomarker in breast cancer, particularly in TP53-mutant and TNBC subsets. By activating the ERK-FOXM1 axis, GPR19 sustains cell cycle progression and suppresses apoptosis, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in aggressive breast cancer.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, enabling tumor cells to meet their increased biosynthetic and energetic demands. Although cells possess the capacity for de novo serine biosynthesis, most transformed cancer cells preferentially rely on exogenous serine uptake to sustain their growth, yet the regulatory mechanisms driving this metabolic dependency remain poorly understood. Here, we uncover a mechanism by which Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), frequently overexpressed in prostate cancer, orchestrates a metabolic shift in serine and sphingolipid metabolism through phosphorylation of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), the rate-limiting enzyme of the serine synthesis pathway (SSP). Specifically, PLK1 directly phosphorylates PHGDH at S512, S513, and S517, leading to a marked reduction in its protein level and enzymatic activity. This downregulation of de novo serine biosynthesis forces cancer cells to increase their reliance on exogenous serine uptake via the ASCT2 transporter, which in turn fuels the biosynthesis of lipids, including sphingolipids essential for tumor growth and survival. Our findings suggest that targeting the SSP, serine uptake, or downstream lipid biosynthesis pathways may represent promising therapeutic strategies in advanced cancers characterized by PLK1 dysregulation.
Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) is a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which plays crucial roles in regulating cytoskeletal remodeling, and membrane trafficking. While previous studies implicated Cdc42 in controlling intestinal epithelial homeostasis, the involvement of this small GTPase in the process of intestinal fibrogenesis remains unexplored. Our study was designed to determine whether Cdc42 regulates the fibrogenic activation of intestinal myofibroblasts in vitro . The study was conducted using a CCD-18Co normal human colonic fibroblast cell line, and primary human intestinal myofibroblasts (HIMF) isolated from Crohn's disease (CD) patients. CCD-18Co and HIMF cells were stimulated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Cdc42 was inhibited either genetically, using siRNA-mediated knockdown, or pharmacologically using specific Cdc42 inhibitors, ML141 and CASIN. Genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of Cdc42 markedly reduced TGF-β1 induced expression of the major contractile cytoskeletal proteins, α-smooth muscle actin, calponin 1 and L-caldesmon. Furthermore, Cdc42 inhibition significantly attenuated expression of key extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, fibronectin and collagen I, in activated CCD-18Co cells and HIMF. Interestingly, decreased expression of contractile and ECM proteins in Cdc42-depleted myofibroblasts was not due to downregulation of the TGF-β1 signaling, decreased mRNA transcription or increased lysosomal or proteasomal degradation of these proteins. Such suppressed pro-fibrotic activation of Cdc42-deficient CCD-18Co cells and HIMF involved a selective inhibition of protein translation due to inactivation of the AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling module. These findings highlight Cdc42 as a key regulator of intestinal fibrosis that controls mTOR activation to enhance ECM production and contractile actomyosin cytoskeleton in intestinal myofibroblasts.Zafar et al. unravel a novel role of Cdc42 small GTPase in fibrogenic activation of human intestinal myofibroblasts. Genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of Cdc42 markedly reduced TGF-β induced expression of contractile cytoskeletal proteins and extracellular matrix proteins in activated myofibroblasts. The mechanisms underlying such profibrotic activity of Cdc42 involve regulation of de novo protein translation via activation of the AKT-mTOR signaling module.Cdc42 regulates TGF-β dependent activation of human intestinal myofibroblastsProfibrotic activity of Cdc42 involves regulation of de novo protein translationCdc42 regulates myofibroblast activation via AKT-mTOR signaling pathwayTargeting Cdc42-Akt-mTOR signaling may facilitate the development of novel antifibrotic therapies.
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are aggressive malignancies with poor clinical outcomes and limited treatment options. Brentuximab vedotin (BV), a CD30-targeted antibody-drug conjugate, has shown efficacy in CD30-positive PTCLs but is frequently associated with incomplete responses and relapse. To enhance its therapeutic effect, we previously identified defects in spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) regulation as key sensitizers to BV via a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen. Building on this, we conducted a cell cycle-focused chemical screen and identified polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) inhibitors as potent synergistic partners for BV. Among them, volasertib consistently enhanced BV-induced cytotoxicity across multiple CD30-positive PTCL cell lines. Mechanistically, the BV-volasertib combination induced sustained mitotic arrest through activation of the SAC, followed by mitotic catastrophe, apoptosis, and DNA damage. This SAC dependence was further supported by the use of a selective Mps1 inhibitor. Importantly, the combination significantly suppressed tumor growth and prolonged survival in both cell line-derived and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. These findings underscore the therapeutic potential of combining BV with PLK1 inhibition, and highlight SAC activation as a key mechanism to overcome therapeutic resistance in CD30-positive PTCL.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Gray is a dominant coat color phenotype in horses caused by a ~ 4.6 kb tandem triplication within intron 6 of syntaxin 17 (STX17). The copy number variation (CNV) of the duplicated segment influences the graying rate. The rare G2 allele (CNV = 2) is associated with a slower graying rate compared to the common G3 allele (CNV = 3) and is also relevant to melanoma risk. Current assays are limited because long and accurate PCR (LA-PCR) detects only the presence or absence of duplications, while droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) cannot reliably distinguish certain genotypes such as G3/g and G2/G2. We constructed a stepwise workflow combining (i) multiplex real-time PCR targeting the duplication junction for rapid gray/non-gray screening, (ii) ddPCR for copy number estimation, and (iii) LA-PCR for confirmatory genotyping of ambiguous copy-number classes. Using real-time PCR, we screened 4596 Japanese Thoroughbreds aged 2-7 years, of which 4374 were classified as non-gray and 222 as gray. Based on age and coat appearance, 23 Gy candidates were prioritized for slow-gray evaluation and analyzed by ddPCR; one was classified as G2/g, and 22 as G3/g or G2/G2. LA-PCR detected a g-derived band in all 22 cases, confirming that they were G3/g. Pedigree analysis suggested that the G2 allele was transmitted through the maternal line and that this lineage was distinct from the previously reported Japanese slow-gray family. This workflow enables practical molecular discrimination among non-gray, common gray, and slow-gray genotypes, supporting the surveillance of rare G2 alleles in the Japanese Thoroughbred population.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Obstructive nephropathy is frequently associated with downregulation of key renal water and sodium transporters, resulting in impaired urinary concentration and disrupted fluid balance. The present study aimed to investigate the role of Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1), a kinase traditionally recognized for its function in cell-cycle regulation, in modulating renal water and sodium transporters in a unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) model, and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.Plk1 function was inhibited pharmacologically using BI6727 or genetically using heterozygous Plk1 knockout mice. In vitro, renal collecting duct M1 cells were stimulated with TGF-β to examine mechanistic pathways.Inhibition of Plk1 with BI6727 preserved the expression of aquaporin 2 (AQP2) and sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter 2 (NKCC2) in UUO kidneys. Similarly, heterozygous Plk1 knockout mice exhibited higher AQP2 and NKCC2 levels than wild-type controls. Mechanistically, Plk1 regulated cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) activity, leading to elevated prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production. PGE2 subsequently upregulated the E3 ubiquitin ligases NEDD4 and NEDD4L, promoting ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation of AQP2 and NKCC2.These findings indicate that Plk1 contributes to the maladaptive downregulation of renal water and sodium transporters during obstruction. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic reduction of Plk1 preserves transporter expression, highlighting the Plk1-cPLA2-PGE2-NEDD4/NEDD4L axis as a potential therapeutic target for correcting water and sodium imbalance in obstructive nephropathy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta (YWHAZ, 14-3-3ζ), a key regulator of intracellular signaling and inflammatory responses, has not been investigated in Streptococcus pneumoniae (S.pn) infection.We first employed Western blotting to detect the expression and activation of YWHAZ in murine RAW264.7 macrophages and a mouse model of S.pn pneumonia. A small-molecule inhibitor BV02 was used to pharmacologically block YWHAZ function both in vitro and in vivo. Subsequent evaluations included the production of inflammatory cytokines via ELISA, the detection of autophagy-related biomarkers, bacterial clearance capacity by colony-forming units (CFU) enumeration, and lung pathological injury using HE staining. Furthermore, Western blot was applied to determine the activation of TLR4 and its downstream core signaling pathways, to further elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.S.pn infection induced YWHAZ phosphorylation, which further mediated the activation of the NF-κB and p38MAPK inflammatory signaling pathways. Pharmacological inhibition of YWHAZ with BV02 downregulated NLRP3 and IL-1β expression, and reduced the secretion of key pro-inflammatory cytokines including TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and IL-18. Moreover, BV02 modulated autophagic activity upon S.pn infection and enhanced host bacterial clearance ability. Mechanistically, YWHAZ functions as a pivotal molecular bridge linking TLR4 to downstream pro-inflammatory signaling cascades during host response against S.pn infection.During S.pn infection, YWHAZ undergoes phosphorylation and functions as a downstream effector of TLR4 signaling. It exacerbates macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses, impairs autophagy-associated bacterial clearance, and aggravates pulmonary immunopathology, highlighting YWHAZ as a promising therapeutic target for pneumococcal pneumonia.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta polypeptide (YWHAZ) is a member of the YWHA/14-3-3 family. YWHAZ is highly conserved in mammalian cells and generally mediates signal transduction through direct interactions with target proteins. YWHAZ has been reported as a crucial regulator of tumor immunity, inflammation, and apoptosis pathways. However, the precise role of YWHAZ in regulating host antiviral immune responses is not fully understood. Here, our study revealed that YWHAZ negatively regulated type 1 interferon (type 1 IFN) production in response to RNA viruses. Overexpression of YWHAZ inhibited type 1 IFN production triggered by RNA viruses, whereas knockout of YWHAZ increased type 1 IFN production. Mechanistically, YWHAZ interacted with IRF3 and suppressed the nuclear translocation of IRF3 by directly inhibiting IRF3 phosphorylation-dependent dimerization and disrupting the KPNA3-IRF3 interaction. Our findings demonstrated that YWHAZ played a crucial role in regulating IRF3-mediated type 1 IFN production.The activation of IRF3 induced by RIG-I-like receptors is pivotal for type 1 interferon (IFN) production in antiviral immunity. Virus infection leads to type 1 IFN production through inducing the dimerization and subsequent nuclear translocation of IRF3. Following its activation, IRF3 must be tightly regulated to prevent a dysregulated or excessive immune response. Here, we first found that YWHAZ, a member of the 14-3-3 protein family, is a negative regulator of type 1 IFN production by targeting IRF3 signaling. YWHAZ is bound to IRF3 to inhibit the formation of the TBK1-IRF3 complex, the phosphorylation and dimerization of IRF3, as well as the subsequent nuclear translocation. YWHAZ also impeded the KPNA3-IRF3 interaction by binding to KPNA3, thereby inhibiting IRF3 nuclear translocation. The aa 124-184 in YWHAZ was critical for YWHAZ-mediated suppression of type 1 IFNs. These findings reveal the mechanism by which YWHAZ promotes RNA virus replication, thereby advancing our understanding of how YWHAZ mediates innate immune responses.
High altitude has a considerable impact on the pathophysiology of the human cardiovascular system and disease occurrence. We aim to use an integrated approach of metabolomics and proteomics to reveal key pathways and biomarkers of hypertension at high altitude. Thirty Tibetan patients with hypertension and 30 healthy individuals residing on the Tibetan Plateau at a very high altitude (> 4500 m) were included in the study. Metabolomic analysis was conducted using Vanquish ultra-high performance liquid chromatography, while proteomic analysis utilized the timsTOF Pro2 mass spectrometer. Correlation analysis revealed key signaling pathways and biomarkers associated with hypertension in Tibetan patients. The results showed 87 differentially expressed metabolites and 61 differentially expressed proteins in individuals with hypertension at high altitude. The results of metabolomic differential metabolite pathway analysis indicated that Caffeine metabolism had the most significant impact. Specific metabolites like PI(16:0/16:0), Caffeine, and Plastoquinone 3 were found to be significantly up-regulated in hypertensive patients. The combination of five metabolites achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.871 for hypertension prediction. Proteomic analysis revealed that the identified differential proteins primarily functioned in signaling receptor binding. It was confirmed that Creatine kinase B (CKB) and Tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta (YWHAZ) could serve as a protein biomarker combination for hypertension in plateau regions, showing an AUC of 0.764 (0.585-0.944). Upon conducting an integrated analysis of metabolomics and proteomics, the combined AUC improved to 0.982 (0.949-1.000). A comprehensive analysis utilizing metabolomics and proteomics revealed that alterations in signal transduction-related pathways and lipid metabolism pathways were implicated in hypertension among plateau populations. Additionally, YWHAZ was observed as a potential biomarker for this condition.© 2026. The Author(s).
Accurate normalization of RT-qPCR data requires selecting stable internal control genes, particularly in models characterized by dynamic metabolic transitions, such as 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The current study compares the expression stability of nine widely used housekeeping genes (HKGs) (peptidylprolyl isomerase A (Ppia), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (Gapdh), beta-2 microglobulin (B2M), ribosomal protein, large, P0 (36b4), hydroxymethylbilane synthase (Hmbs), hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (Hprt), tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein, zeta polypeptide (Ywhaz), 18S ribosomal RNA (18S), and β-actin (Actb)) across key stages of differentiation (days 0, 9, and 18) and under treatments with palmitic acid and docosahexaenoic acid. Stability was assessed using four classical algorithms-geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and RefFinder-supplemented by the ΔCt method, conventional statistical testing, correlation, and regression analysis relative to two target genes, fatty acid-binding protein 4 (Fabp4) and sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (Srebf1). The obtained data indicate that no single HKG remains universally stable across these experimental conditions, and the expression of traditionally used reference genes (Gapdh, Actb, Hprt, 18S) is highly influenced by both the stage of adipogenesis and exposure to lipid-modulating factors. In contrast, Ppia, 36b4, and B2M-despite some of them being underestimated in use as references-consistently display the lowest variability across most analytical tools, forming a reliable and functionally diverse normalization panel. It should be noted that our initial stability assessment revealed apparent discrepancies among mathematical evaluation methods, emphasizing the need for a holistic, multiple-level approach strategy. The applied combination of algorithmic and statistical methods provides a more rigorous and objective framework for assessing the stability of reference genes, which is highly recommended in such a complex adipocyte-based model.
Cellular responses after oxidative stress-induced deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage (e.g., DNA double-strand break) control tumor cell proliferation, senescence, and apoptosis. The nuclear ubiquitous casein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase substrate 1 (NUCKS1) ensures replication feasibility by modulating double-strand break repair necessary to regulate tumor cell proliferation. However, the regulatory mechanism of NUCKS1 in oxidative stress-induced melanoma cell apoptosis is not well characterized. In this study, we reported reduced phosphorylation of NUCKS1 during oxidative stress-mediated melanoma A375 and A875 cell apoptosis, and silencing of NUCKS1 obviously promoted A375 and A875 cell apoptosis. Mechanistically, cyclin-dependent kinase 13 (CDK13) was identified as a major upstream kinase to phosphorylate NUCKS1 and downregulated via ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)/checkpoint kinase 2 (Chk2)/cell division cycle 25C (Cdc25C) axis during the process of oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. Moreover, we found that p-NUCKS1 could bind to tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein Zeta (YWHAZ) and subsequently regulate the level of BCL2-associated X (Bax), thereby leading to melanoma A375 and A875 cell apoptosis. Furthermore, we found that p-NUCKS1 was highly expressed in tumor specimens from melanoma patients, and silencing of NUCKS1 inhibited tumor growth in melanoma A375 and A875-bearing mouse models. Therefore, p-NUCKS1 could act as a potential target for melanoma treatment by mediating oxidative stress-induced apoptosis.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Validation of the reference gene (RG) stability during experimental analyses is essential for correct quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) data normalisation. Commonly, in an unreliable way, several studies use genes involved in essential cellular functions [glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), 18S rRNA, and β-actin] without paying attention to whether they are suitable for such experimental conditions or the reason for choosing such genes. Furthermore, such studies use only one gene when Minimum Information for Publication of Quantitative Real-Time PCR Experiments guidelines recommend two or more genes. It impacts the credibility of these studies and causes distortions in the gene expression findings. For tissue engineering, the accuracy of gene expression drives the best experimental or therapeutical approaches.To verify the most stable RG during osteogenic differentiation of human dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) by RT-qPCR.We cultivated DPSCs under two conditions: Undifferentiated and osteogenic differentiation, both for 35 d. We evaluated the gene expression of 10 candidates for RGs [ribosomal protein, large, P0 (RPLP0), TATA-binding protein (TBP), GAPDH, actin beta (ACTB), tubulin (TUB), aminolevulinic acid synthase 1 (ALAS1), tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein, zeta (YWHAZ), eukaryotic translational elongation factor 1 alpha (EF1a), succinate dehydrogenase complex, subunit A, flavoprotein (SDHA), and beta-2-microglobulin (B2M)] every 7 d (1, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35 d) by RT-qPCR. The data were analysed by the four main algorithms, ΔCt method, geNorm, NormFinder, and BestKeeper and ranked by the RefFinder method. We subdivided the samples into eight subgroups.All of the data sets from clonogenic and osteogenic samples were analysed using the RefFinder algorithm. The final ranking showed RPLP0/TBP as the two most stable RGs and TUB/B2M as the two least stable RGs. Either the ΔCt method or NormFinder analysis showed TBP/RPLP0 as the two most stable genes. However, geNorm analysis showed RPLP0/EF1α in the first place. These algorithms' two least stable RGs were B2M/GAPDH. For BestKeeper, ALAS1 was ranked as the most stable RG, and SDHA as the least stable RG. The pair RPLP0/TBP was detected in most subgroups as the most stable RGs, following the RefFinfer ranking.For the first time, we show that RPLP0/TBP are the most stable RGs, whereas TUB/B2M are unstable RGs for long-term osteogenic differentiation of human DPSCs in traditional monolayers.©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for more than 80% of lung cancer cases, and the 5-year survival rate of patients remains unsatisfactory. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous noncoding RNAs that are considered essential posttranscriptional regulators of tumorigenesis, including NSCLC. In this study, we aimed to investigate the biological role of miR-3074-5p in NSCLC cells and the underlying molecular mechanisms. We showed that miR-3074-5p expression was decreased in human NSCLC specimens and cell lines. Moreover, miR-3074-5p overexpression inhibited cell proliferation, migration and invasion and induced apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. In addition, miR-3074-5p overexpression not only suppressed tumor growth but also enhanced the antitumor effect of paclitaxel (PTX) on NSCLC cells in vitro and in vivo. A transcriptome sequencing assay revealed genes that were differentially expressed after miR-3074-5p overexpression, and among the genes whose expression levels were most significantly decreased, tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta (YWHAZ) was a target of miR-3074-5p. The regulatory effect of miR-3074-5p on YWHAZ expression was verified by Western blotting and dual-luciferase reporter assays. The inhibition of A549 cell growth, migration and invasion was reversed by YWHAZ overexpression. Furthermore, we showed that PTX stimulated the expression of the YWHAZ and Hsp27 proteins and promoted the phosphorylation of Hsp27 (at S15 and S78). YWHAZ was confirmed to interact with Hsp27 in A549 cells, and downregulating YWHAZ expression promoted the degradation of the Hsp27 protein. Taken together, these results suggest that the miR-3074-5p/YWHAZ/Hsp27 axis may be a novel therapeutic target for NSCLC treatment.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Wogonin (5,7-dihydroxy-8-methoxyflavone), a natural flavonoid compound in herbal plants, can suppress growth in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles that are influenced by wogonin have not been thoroughly described. To explore the novel miRNAs and the biological mechanism underlying the effect of wogonin on HCC cells. The effect of wogonin on Huh7 cell growth was assessed both in vitro and in vivo. The expression profiles of miRNAs were obtained by small RNA sequencing. Luciferase reporter experiment and bioinformatics analysis were conducted to determine whether tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta (YWHAZ) can bind to miR-27b-5p. Effects of the ectopic expression of YWHAZ and miR-27b-5p on Huh7 cells proliferation and apoptosis were evaluated. Furthermore, the cell cycle, apoptosis and multiple signaling pathway-related molecules were detected by Western blot analysis. Wogonin substantially inhibited the growth of Huh7 cells both in vitro and in vivo. Seventy miRNAs exhibited greater than twofold changes in wogonin-treated cells. Upregulation of miR-27b-5p inhibited Huh7 cell proliferation, and the anticancer effect of wogonin was reversed after miR-27b-5p knockdown. miR-27b-5p directly targeted YWHAZ in HCC cells. The proliferation-inhibiting effect of miR-27b-5p was revoked by YWHAZ overexpression. Meanwhile, inhibition of HCC growth was achieved by downregulating YWHAZ. Wogonin exerted antitumor activity through multiple signaling molecules, such as focal adhesion kinase, protein kinase B, mammalian target of rapamycin and molecules related to apoptosis and cell cycle by upregulating miR-27b-5p and downregulating YWHAZ. Our findings suggest that miR-27b-5p/YWHAZ axis contributes to the inhibitory effect of wogonin in HCC by targeting related genes and multiple signaling pathways.© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Lung cancer (LC) is one of the most frequent cancers worldwide, as well as the leading cause of cancer-related death. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC, which accounts for 85% of occurrences) is the main type of LC. MiRNAs appear to play a role in the occurrence and progression of many malignancies, according to mounting data. The underlying mechanism of miRNAs in regulating NSCLC cell biological activity and progression, on the other hand, is still being investigated.QRT-PCR were used to detect miR-185-5p expression and YWHAZ mRNA in NSCLC. The CCK-8 assay was used to determine the tumor cells' ability to proliferate. Transwall assay was used to test the migratory and invasive properties of cells. Cell apoptosis was detected using flow cytometry. Tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta (YWHAZ), E-Cadherin, N-Cadherin and cleaved-caspase3 protein expression were assessed using Western Blot. The bioinformatics analysis software StarBase2.0 predicted miR-185-5p downstream targets. To confirm the target association between miR-185-5p and YWHAZ, a luciferase experiment was used. In addition, an NCl-H1299 xenograft model was created to assess the anti-tumor impact of miR-185-5p in vivo. The expression level of YWHAZ in tumor tissues of small xenograft tumor model was detected by immunohistochemistry assay.Decreased miR-185-5p expression levels were observed in NSCLC. In vitro, over-expressed miR-185-5p decreased cell viability, proliferation, invasion/migration, and induced cell apoptosis, while inhibiting tumor growth in vivo. Dual-luciferase gene experiments confirmed that YWHAZ binds to miR-185-5p. Overexpression of YWHAZ partially restored the inhibitory effects of miR-185-5p on cell behaviors.MiR-185-5p was down-regulated in NSCLC, and that overexpressed miR-185-5p inhibited malignant behaviors of cells and tumor growth by negatively regulating YWHAZ.© 2023. The Author(s).
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by metastasis and invasion, as well as poor prognosis, with chemotherapy being the main treatment option. Cell adhesion regulates tumorigenesis and new blood vessel formation. Thus, accurately identifying effective targets for TNBC and cell adhesion is challenging. Herein, we screened for differentially expressed genes between TNBC and normal cancer-free tissues to identify genes contributing to TNBC.Microarray data were obtained using a comprehensive gene-expression database. We used Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Functional Enrichment (FunRich) to perform Gene Ontology functional enrichment and predict signal pathways. The protein interaction network was predicted using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins (STRING) and Cytoscape v. 3.8.2. for visualization of results. TargetScan, miRanda, miRDB, miRWalk and RNA22 were used to predict miRNAs regulating key genes, and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulating miRNAs were predicted using StarBase V2.0 from a comprehensive gene-expression database.Differentially expressed genes were mainly concentrated in the biological process of cell-cell adhesion. The protein-protein interaction network identified eight hub genes: Fibronectin 1 (FN1), Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1), heat-shock protein 90 alpha family class B member 1 (HSP90AB1), tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein zeta (YWHAZ), heat-shock protein family A member 8 (HSPA8), IQ motif containing GTPase-activating protein 1 (IQGAP1), CD44 molecule (CD44), and catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1). miRNAs related to TNBC occurrence and development were hsa-miR-142-5p, hsa-miR-144, hsa-miR-28-5p, hsa-miR-548d-3p, hsa-miR-587, hsa-miR-641, and hsa-miR-708. StarBase v2.0 predicted 12 lncRNAs, namely NEAT1, XIST, OIP5-AS1, MALAT1, AL035425.3, NORAD, AL391069.4, AC118758.3, AC026362.1, AC009065.4, AC016876.2, and AC093010.3, as upstream molecules that regulate miRNAs and which may regulate TNBC.Overall, mRNA-miRNA-lncRNA interactions appear to play a role in TNBC development.Copyright © 2023 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
With high incidence and mortality rates, lung cancer has brought a huge burden to patients' families and society. Sparganii Rhizoma, a famous anti-cancer herb, has demonstrated good effects on lung cancer. However, the underlying active ingredients and mechanism of Sparganii Rhizoma on lung cancer were not yet clear.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation to explore the active ingredients and mechanism of Sparganii Rhizoma on Lung Cancer.Three databases and several related studies were used to screen the ingredients and targets of Sparganii Rhizoma and lung cancer, respectively. The enrichment analyses were performed using the Matascape database, and the protein-protein interaction (PPI) and ingredient-target-pathway networks were constructed. Finally, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were used to verify the key active ingredients and targets of Sparganii Rhizoma in lung cancer.A total of 129 ingredients and 1101 targets of Sparganii Rhizoma, and 150 targets of lung cancer, were obtained. Network pharmacology identified 57 active ingredients, 27 targets, and 86 signaling pathways for Sparganii Rhizoma in lung cancer. The results of molecular docking indicated that the key active ingredients included sparstolonin B, emodin, adenosine, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, and so on, and the key targets were Cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2), Prostaglandin G/H synthase 2 (PTGS2), and Dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1). In a molecular dynamics simulation, sparstolonin B bound to CYP1A2, PTGS2, and MAP2K1 with good affinity.Based on the integration of network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation, this study revealed the potential active ingredients and mechanisms of Sparganii Rhizoma on lung cancer.
The hypercoagulable state is a major contributor to thromboembolic events and mortality in β-thalassaemia. The mechanisms underlying platelet-induced neutrophil activation leading to immunothrombosis remain poorly understood. Three-dimensional confocal microscopy demonstrated that platelets induced neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation through P-selectin- or high mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1)-mediated binding to P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1) or receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE), respectively, on neutrophils. Molecular signalling pathways involved in NETs-focusing on mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK) or mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MAP2K) (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), reactive oxygen species (ROS), ofnicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase complex 2 (NOX2), myeloperoxidase (MPO) and peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4)-were investigated in neutrophils from β-thalassaemia/haemoglobin E (HbE) patients (splenectomy and non-splenectomy) and from normal subjects by priming neutrophils with specific inhibitors before treatment with either platelets, recombinant P-selectin or disulphide HMGB1. In splenectomised patients, neutrophils primed with U0126, but not an ERK inhibitor, exhibited reduced web-like NETs and cell aggregation, associated with antioxidant effects. In non-splenectomised patients and normal subjects, P-selectin activated MEK/ERK, NOX2, MPO and PAD4 pathways, promoting web-like NETs and cell aggregation. HMGB1 activated neutrophils via MEK/ERK, NOX2, MPO and PAD4 pathways, in all groups, resulting in NETs without aggregation-associated NET morphology. These findings indicate that splenectomy alters P-selectin and HMGB1 expression on platelets, leading to altered signalling dynamics in neutrophils and promoting neutrophil-platelet aggregation. ROS pathway could be a key regulator of NET-driven thrombosis in splenectomised β-thalassaemia/HbE disease and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury (SIMI) has become an important cause of death in septic patients, and it is a multi-faceted pathophysiological process. The present study aims to understand how insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) regulates cardiomyocyte cuproptosis through an m6A-dependent regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1), and advance our knowledge of SIMI.In vivo and in vitro SIMI models were developed through lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration in mice and AC16 cardiomyocytes, respectively. The functions of IGF2BP2 and MAP2K1 in regulating cuproptosis under septic myocardial injury were explored through loss- and gain-of-function approaches. Furthermore, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) experiments as well as actinomycin D experiments confirmed the regulatory interaction of IGF2BP2 with MAP2K1.In SIMI models, the IGF2BP2 mRNA and protein expressions were all significantly upregulated, accompanied by myocardial pathological damage and poor cardiac function. Knockdown of IGF2BP2 considerably lessened LPS-induced myocardial injury, lowered copper levels in serum and myocardial tissue, and rectified the changed expression of key cuproptosis-related proteins such as MAP2K1, solute carrier family 31 member 1 (SLC31A1), ferredoxin 1 (FDX1), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (DLAT), and lipoyl synthase (LIAS). Mechanistically, IGF2BP2 interacts with MAP2K1 mRNA to improve the mRNA stability and protein expression of MAP2K1 through N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) modification. In addition, overexpression of MAP2K1 abrogated the suppressive effects of IGF2BP2 knockdown on cardiomyocyte cuproptosis.IGF2BP2 improves MAP2K1 expression stability via m6A modification, which promotes cardiomyocyte cuproptosis and worsens SIMI. This mechanism might give some possible therapy targets for curing septic myocardium injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42165258
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Malaria control remains constrained by an incomplete understanding of the molecular interactions that enable Plasmodium falciparum transmission within mosquito vectors. Although blood-stage parasite biology has been extensively studied, the mosquito-stage processes required for transmission are less well defined. Here, we characterize a previously unannotated Anopheles gambiae midgut factor, Midgut Ookinete Binding Protein 1 (AgMOBP1; AGAP008138), and define its role in parasite infection. AgMOBP1 is a membrane-associated protein localized predominantly to the apical surface of midgut epithelial cells, is induced by blood feeding, and appears restricted to anopheline mosquitoes. Functional infection assays showed that exogenous recombinant AgMOBP1 enhanced Plasmodium infectivity by increasing midgut oocyst burden, whereas anti-AgMOBP1 antibodies significantly reduced infection, establishing AgMOBP1 as a host factor that promotes transmission. Using biochemical interaction assays, we identified the parasite binding partner of AgMOBP1 as the P. falciparum syntaxin-5-like protein PfSyn5. Disruption of this interaction with anti-PfSyn5 polyclonal antibodies produced exceptionally potent transmission-blocking activity, with complete inhibition at 1 μg/mL and an estimated IC50 of ~3 ng/mL (~20 pM). This potency is approximately one million-fold lower than the total IgG concentration in normal human plasma. Together, these findings identify a critical mosquito-parasite molecular interface required for malaria transmission and establish the AgMOBP1-PfSyn5 axis as a promising target for transmission-blocking vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, and other intervention strategies.
Uncaria sessilifructus Roxb. (U. sessilifructus) remains largely unexplored in chemical constituents and antitumor bioactivities. Ten compounds were isolated and structurally elucidated from the hooked stems and branches of U. sessilifructus. Herein, a novel compound 1 was identified through various spectroscopic analyses. In vitro antitumor assays revealed that compound 1 exhibited broad-spectrum antiproliferative activity against six tumour cell lines, with potent efficacy against HL-60 (IC50 = 8.21 μM) and HeLa (IC50 = 9.04 μM) cells, while showing low cytotoxicity towards L02 human normal liver cells (IC50 > 40 μM). Network pharmacology analysis revealed that the enriched signalling pathways of compound 1 are mainly the MAPK and PI3K-AKT pathways, closely associated with the progression of leukaemia and cervical cancer. Molecular docking confirmed the stable binding of compound 1 to B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1) with binding free energies of -8.9 kcal mol-1 and -9.6 kcal mol-1, respectively. Overall, these results elucidate the dual antitumor mechanisms of compound 1, demonstrating its potential as a lead candidate for treating leukaemia and cervical cancer.
Background/Objectives: Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare myeloid neoplasm characterized by the clonal proliferation of Langerhans-like dendritic cells and constitutive activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK-ERK) signaling pathway. Nearly 80% of ERK pathway activation can be attributed to B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF V600E), and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1) variants, with BRAF V600E specifically detected in approximately 50% of pediatric LCH cases and associated with a higher risk of severe disease and treatment failure. The use of the HistioTrak clinical assay to detect the presence of BRAF V600E mutations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) has emerged as a useful diagnostic tool and biomarker. Methods: This study is a single-center retrospective study that explores the favorable outcomes of treatment with trametinib on a small number of patients with LCH. We retrospectively analyzed the records of 11 children with LCH treated with trametinib at diagnosis as front-line therapy (n = 6), due to progressive disease (n = 3) or intolerance (n = 1) to chemotherapy, or at relapse (n = 1). Results: HistioTrak identified the presence of BRAF V600E PBMCs in five patients. In this small single-center retrospective cohort, trametinib was associated with favorable short-term outcomes in all patients, and serial HistioTrak testing appeared feasible in selected patients. Conclusions: Prospective studies are needed before routine diagnostic or monitoring use can be recommended.
Obesity is associated with insulin resistance, a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D), yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely defined. We hypothesized that elevated transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFβ1) level is associated with impaired insulin sensitivity.Using primary hepatocytes, and mouse models with hepatic TGFβ1 overexpression or hepatic TGFβ1 signaling disruption, we examined the impact of TGFβ1 signaling on hepatic insulin signaling and glucose metabolism. We performed bulk RNA sequencing of liver samples identify potential mediator of obesity-induced insulin resistance. Immunoprecipitation, in vitro kinase assay, and mass-spec assay were used to explore the mechanisms underlying TGFβ1-induced insulin receptor substrate (IRS1) degradation. We further evaluated the therapeutic potential of targeting TGFβ1 signaling to improve glycemic control using the TGFβ1 signaling inhibitor LY2157299.Prolonged TGFβ1 exposure markedly reduced IRS1 protein abundance and impaired insulin-stimulated Akt activation in hepatocytes. Hepatic TGFβ1 overexpression exacerbated insulin resistance, whereas hepatic TGFβ1 signaling disruption improved insulin sensitivity by increasing IRS1 protein abundance. Mechanistically, TGFβ1 signaling increased Cullin 7 (CUL7) expression and promoted IRS1 phosphorylation at serine 685, leading to ubiquitin-dependent IRS1 degradation. Pharmacological inhibition of TGFβ1 signaling by LY2157299 improved insulin sensitivity in both lean and diabetic db/db mice.These findings identify TGFβ1 as a key driver of hepatic insulin resistance by promoting CUL7-dependent IRS1 degradation, establishing a mechanistic link between obesity-associated cytokine signaling and impaired insulin action and highlighting the TGFβ1-CUL7-IRS1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for T2D.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alternative splicing (AS) is increasingly recognized as a hallmark of cancer, contributing to tumor progression and therapeutic resistance. Zinc finger MYND-type containing 11 (ZMYND11), a critical reader of the histone modification H3.3K36me3, is frequently downregulated in various cancers. However, its specific role in regulating AS in prostate cancer (PCa) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which ZMYND11 modulates AS in PCa and evaluate its potential as a therapeutic target.The comprehensive AS analysis was conducted using two bioinformatics tools, SUPPA2 and rMATS, applied to data from ZMYND11 knockdown PCa cell lines and a large cohort of PCa patient samples. Candidate ZMYND11-mediated AS events were identified based on overlapping results from both tools. Experimental validation was performed in multiple PCa cell lines, and confirmed findings were classified as notable AS events.SUPPA2, with a threshold of an absolute ΔPSI >0.1 and p-value <0.05, was identified as the optimal tool for detecting ZMYND11-mediated AS events. A total of 19 candidate AS events were identified, with approximately 50% involving exon skipping. Experimental validation highlighted three notable AS events affecting mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4 (MAP4K4), golgin B1 (GOLGB1), and Dmx like 1 (DMXL1). These events are implicated in key pathways influencing tumor growth and metastasis, underscoring the tumor-suppressive role of ZMYND11 in PCa.This study systematically characterizes ZMYND11-mediated AS in PCa, revealing its pivotal role in modulating splicing events critical to tumor progression. The findings establish ZMYND11 as a potential biomarker and a promising source of novel therapeutic targets for PCa management.© 2026 Editorial Office of Asian Journal of Urology. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) is a multifactorially regulated age-related condition. Golgin B1 (GOLGB1) is a large Golgi-related transmembrane protein encoded by golgb1 gene. Since its discovery, GOLGB1 has been proved to be related to many diseases. However, its role in IDD is still unclear. The aim of this research was to examine whether GOLGB1 deficiency accelerates disc degeneration and to study its mechanism. We selected C57BL/6 male mice aged 8 weeks to isolate, culture and identify nucleus pulposus (NP) cells, and used a variety of experimental techniques, including plasmid transfection, western blotting (WB), real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), EdU staining, Tunnel staining, CCK8 and flow cytometry (FCM) to detect the effects of GOLGB1 on the degeneration, proliferation and apoptosis of NP cells in vitro. Then, 8-week-old C57BL/6 male mice were selected for caudal vertebra acupuncture to establish IDD model, and the role and mechanism of GOLGB1 in the development of IDD were studied by HE staining, Safranin O-Fast Green staining, Alcian Blue staining and immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining. Our results demonstrated lower expression of GOLGB1 in human tissues with NP degeneration. Additionally, GOLGB1 expression was reduced in NP tissue from aging adult mice and IDD model mice. We further verified that GOLGB1 knockdown worsened NP cell degeneration, disturbed the composition of the extracellular matrix (ECM), and upset the harmony between anabolism and catabolism. Moreover, GOLGB1 knockdown inhibited the proliferation of NP cells and increased the apoptosis of NP cells. Mechanistically, GOLGB1 knockdown elevated p-ERK and p-P38 levels and activated the MAPK pathway. A MAPK signaling pathway inhibitor (SCH772984) strongly reversed this phenomenon and rescued the degeneration of NP cells. These findings suggest that GOLGB1 may be a potential new target for IDD. GOLGB1 is a protective factor against disc degeneration, and knockdown of GOLGB1 accelerates IDD by activating the MAPK pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
3M syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in the cullin 7 (CUL7), obscurin-like 1 (OBSL1), and coiled-coil domain-containing protein 8 (CCDC8) genes and is characterized by pre- and postnatal growth retardation, short stature, dysmorphic facial features, and skeletal anomalies, with normal intelligence.In this study, we report a 6-year-old female patient from China diagnosed with 3M syndrome. The patient presented with typical clinical features of growth retardation and short stature, with normal intelligence. The patient's dysmorphic facial features included relative macrocephaly, a protruding forehead, a triangular face, a pointed chin, a flat nasal bridge, full lips, a long philtrum, and a broad lower jaw. The skeletal survey was normal except for clinodactyly of the fifth fingers of both hands. Growth hormone (GH) deficiency was excluded by normal serum hormone levels and the GH stimulation test results. Whole-exome sequencing identified two heterozygous variants in CUL7, NM_014780.5: c.1639_1640del (p.Leu547Alafs*6), and NM_014780.5: c.4505T>C (p.Ile1502Thr). Parental Sanger sequencing confirmed these as compound heterozygous variants, with one variant inherited from each parent. Neither variant has been previously reported. The patient has been treated with recombinant human IGF-1 for 2 years since she was 4 years old and has achieved a growth velocity of approximately 6-7 cm per year.Herein, we describe a Chinese patient with 3M syndrome caused by novel biallelic pathogenic variants in CUL7 from a non-consanguineous family, expanding the genetic spectrum of CUL7 in the Chinese population.© 2025 Liu, Liu, Suo, Han, Wang and Ding.
NCOA4, a dedicated autophagy receptor for mediating selective autophagy of ferritin (ferritinophagy), plays a vital role in maintaining cellular iron homeostasis. The cellular abundance of NCOA4 is regulated by the E3 ligase HERC2 that can specifically target NCOA4 for proteasomal degradation under iron-replete conditions. However, the detailed molecular mechanism governing the iron-dependent recognition of NCOA4 by HERC2 remains elusive. Here, using multidisciplinary approaches, we systematically characterize the HERC2-binding domain (HBD) of NCOA4 and its interaction with HERC2. We uncover that NCOA4 HBD harbors a [2Fe-2S] cluster and can exist in two different states, the apo-form state and the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound state. Moreover, we unravel that HERC2 can effectively recognize the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD through its Cullin-7-PARC-HERC2 (CPH) domain and iron-sulfur cluster-dependent NCOA4-binding domain (INBD) with a synergistic binding mode. The determined crystal structures of HERC2(2540-2700) and its complex with the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD together with relevant biochemical and cellular results not only elucidate how NCOA4 HBD specifically senses cellular iron level by binding a [2Fe-2S] cluster but also reveal the molecular basis underlying the specific interaction of HERC2 with the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD. In summary, our findings provide mechanistic insights into the iron-dependent turnover of NCOA4 by HERC2 and expand our understanding of the regulatory mechanism of NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy.
Emerging evidence suggests that aberrant alternative splicing plays a vital role in the development of tumors. However, the expression of splicing factors (SF) in colorectal cancer and its relationship with prognosis is still unclear. Here, we divided patients into high-risk and low-risk groups through univariate COX analysis and LASSO regression analysis, and selected 13 alternative splicing factors that are highly correlated with prognosis for subsequent analysis. We systematically analyzed the prognostic value of transcription levels of SFs in colorectal cancer (CRC) and found that RAB3A interacting protein (RAB3IP), programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4), golgin B1 (GOLGB1), and neuregulin 4 (NRG4) as the most predictive markers for the prognosis of CRC. After comparing the expression of four splicing factors in cancer tissues with normal tissues as well as OS analysis, it is strongly indicated that only RAB3IP demonstrates a significant positive correlation with favorable prognosis. Accordingly, we established a risk signature of transcription levels of RAB3IP as an independent prognostic marker for CRC. Moreover, by the Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), we demonstrated that the RAB3IP was correlated to Cell Cycle, WNT pathway and Spliceosome in cancer. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that SFs play a critical role in CRC pathogenesis, and identify RAB3IP as a novel prognostic biomarker for CRC.© The author(s).
Both social and physical environmental factors influence the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood. This study aims to investigate how an enriched environment (EE) alleviates the detrimental effects of early social isolation (SI) on AD-like pathophysiology.Four-week-old 5×FAD transgenic mice were randomly divided into group-housed and isolated groups. After 3 weeks, the mice were further raised in either a physical EE or a standard environment for an additional 3 weeks. Subsequently, these experimental subjects underwent a two-week of behavioral tests while maintaining their original housing conditions unchanged, followed by neuropathological analyses. A series of experiments were conducted on the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), including transcriptome sequencing, cellular localization, and knockdown and overexpression of a candidate gene, to identify the key molecules through which physical EE alleviates SI-induced AD-like alterations. The protective effects of the identified gene on cultured forebrain neurons exposed to β-amyloid stimulation, as well as its associated signaling pathways, were also investigated.EE enhanced cognitive function and alleviated anxiety-like behavior in SI-5×FAD mice, partially reversing dendritic and synaptic loss and glial cell activation in the mPFC. However, it did not mitigate deficits in social and cooperative behaviors, hypomyelination, or β-amyloid deposition. Notably, group-housed 5×FAD mice raised in the EE exhibited alleviation of the aforementioned AD-like phenotypes. Transcriptomic and bioinformatic analyses pinpointed Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 7 (Arhgef7) as a pivotal mediator of the beneficial effects of physical EE. Arhgef7 overexpression in mPFC neurons enhanced dendritic and synaptic growth and alleviated spatial cognitive impairments and anxiety-like behavior in SI-5×FAD mice, but it did not correct hypomyelination or social behavior deficits. Consistently, knockdown of Arhgef7 in mPFC neurons of group-housed 5×FAD mice selectively impaired neuronal processes and spatial cognition, and increased anxiety-like behavior. Mechanistically, Arhgef7 protected cortical neurons from β-amyloid toxicity by activating the Wnt signaling pathway.Arhgef7 in mPFC neurons is essential for the physical components of EE selectively alleviating spatial cognitive deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in early isolated AD model mice, serving as a potential target for the prevention and treatment of AD.© 2025. The Author(s).
In addition to the tumor suppressor role of Cullin 7 (Cul7), one of the proteins belonging to the Cullin (Cul) family, studies have also suggested that Cul7 may act as an oncogene under certain conditions. The role of the Cul7 molecule in breast cancer is still unclear, and understanding its function could have significant implications for identifying novel therapeutic targets or improving diagnostic strategies in breast cancer management. In this study, the levels of the Cul7 molecule in plasma and noninvasive material saliva were investigated, and its possibility as a marker for breast cancer was discussed. Protein levels of blood and saliva samples taken from breast cancer patients and a healthy control group were measured by the ELISA (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay) method. Gene expression levels between the two groups were analyzed by the qPCR (quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction) method. In our study, Cul7 mRNA and protein expression levels were examined in 60 breast cancer patients and 20 healthy female controls, and a statistically insignificant difference was found between the patient and control groups in both plasma and saliva samples (p > 0.05). No correlation was found between the clinical characteristics of the patients and plasma and saliva Cul7 gene expression and protein levels (p > 0.05). Considering the possibility of Cul7 being a biomarker at the protein and mRNA levels, plasma is thought to be a better study material for Cul7. Our findings suggest that in the context of a study on salivary material, the expression of Cul7 at the mRNA level may have better potential utility as a biomarker.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Heat stroke causes life-threatening systemic inflammation and multiorgan injury, but the intracellular mechanisms that sustain inflammatory amplification after heat exposure remain unclear. Here, using heat stroke mouse models, genetic NLRP3 deletion, pharmacological inhibition, myeloid-specific NLRP3 deficiency, macrophage depletion, and heat-stressed macrophage systems, we show that tissue macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome activation is a central driver of interleukin-1β/interleukin-18 release, organ injury, and mortality. Mechanistically, heat stroke enhances phospholipase C delta 4 signaling, promotes diacylglycerol accumulation at trans-Golgi network/Golgi-associated membranes, recruits protein kinase D1, and increases phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase β-dependent phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate production. This lipid remodeling supports NLRP3 recruitment, ASC speck formation, caspase-1 activation, and inflammatory cytokine release. Phospholipase C delta 4 knockdown preferentially suppresses NLRP3 activation induced by heat stroke, but not by canonical stimuli. These findings link heat stroke to membrane lipid remodeling and spatial inflammasome assembly, identifying a potential organ-protective pathway in heat stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by social communication deficits, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. Emerging evidence links several autism susceptibility genes to the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway, which maintains the homeostasis of gene transcription and protein translation in the nervous system. However, the role of Suppressor with morphogenetic effect on genitalia 7 (Smg7), an essential NMD factor, in brain function and ASD remains largely unknown. Here, we generated an Emx1-Cre-mediated conditional Smg7 knockout (Smg7cko) mouse model to investigate its neurological consequences. We found that both male and female Smg7cko mice exhibited autism-like behaviors, including impaired social interaction and communication, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-like traits, and learning and memory deficits. These phenotypes were accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased dendritic spine density in layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Notably, Smg7 deletion led to pronounced upregulation of Protein Kinase D1 (PKD1) transcripts, an NMD target, in these brain regions. Strikingly, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated PKD1 knockdown (AAVsh-PKD1) in the hippocampus and mPFC significantly rescued social deficits in Smg7-deficient mice. Together, these findings identify Smg7 as a key regulator of neuronal function and behavior, and reveal PKD1 upregulation as a pathogenic mechanism underlying ASD-like phenotypes, providing new insight into NMD deficiency in ASD pathophysiology and a potential therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42186337
There are four FDA-approved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) for treating metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. However, dose-limiting toxicities may reduce efficacy when treatment is de-escalated. Identifying modulators of PARPi sensitivity could enable combination strategies that enhance efficacy while minimizing toxicity. This study investigates whether Protein kinase D1 (PrKD1), recently discovered to modulate DNA repair, influences sensitivity to PARP inhibition.We used prostate cancer cell lines with altered PrKD1 expression to assess viability following olaparib and/or Compound-10, a selective PrKD1 inhibitor, treatment. Subcellular fractionation, immunoprecipitation, in silico modeling and Western blotting of lysates of cells and tumor samples harvested from patient-derived xenograft tumor engrafted mice treated with Compound-10 were used to evaluate protein expression, interaction, and localization.PrKD1-overexpressing C4-2 cells exhibited significantly increased sensitivity to growth inhibition by olaparib. Downregulation of PrKD1 in LNCaP cells conferred resistance. Biochemical inhibition of PrKD1 by Compound-10 also enhanced sensitivity. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that PrKD1 and PARP1 are present in the same immunocomplex, and PrKD1 transfection in C4-2 cells increased PARP1 membrane localization. Treatment of prostate cancer PDX models with Compound-10 increased PARP1 expression. In silico molecular modeling identified a site adjacent to the PARP1 WGR domain potentially binding to multiple PrKD1 domains.Our study identifies PrKD1 as a novel modulator of sensitivity to olaparib. Co-targeting PrKD1 using small molecular inhibitors may enhance olaparib efficacy at lower doses and improve PARPi tolerability and therapeutic index. The demonstration of PARP1 at the membrane is novel, introducing the possibility of targeting membranous PARP1 for theranostic applications.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Spliceosome abnormalities are implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) pathogenesis, but the role of the core component small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide F (SNRPF) remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the role and mechanism of SNRPF in HCC progression. SNRPF expression and clinical significance were analyzed using the DepMap and TCGA databases, alongside clinical HCC specimens. The results revealed that SNRPF was essential for HCC cell proliferation (CERES score = -3.02) and aberrantly overexpressed in HCC, correlating with poor prognosis. Functional validation via overexpression or knockdown in HCC cells demonstrated that SNRPF significantly promoted HCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, RNA immunoprecipitation and reporter gene assays showed SNRPF bound to the pre-mRNA of transmembrane P24 trafficking protein 2 (TMED2), preventing its Intron 2 retention and subsequent nonsense-mediated decay, thereby ensuring TMED2 protein abundance. Co-immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down assays revealed that TMED2 directly interacted with cGAS, promoting its activation and the subsequent STING/TBK1/IRF3 signaling cascade. This activation induced elevated levels of IFN-β, ISG15, and IFIT1/2, as well as the secretion of IFN-β, TNF-α, and IL-6. Rescue experiments using cGAS or STING inhibitors confirmed these findings. In vivo experiments using an orthotopic xenograft tumor model in mice further confirmed that the SNRPF/TMED2/cGAS-STING axis significantly promotes the growth and progression of HCC tumors. In conclusion, this study elucidates the pivotal oncogenic function of the SNRPF/TMED2/cGAS-STING signaling axis in HCC, providing novel strategies for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Protein kinase D1 (PRKD1) is a serine threonine kinase with roles in the regulation of embryonic development, contractility, vesicle transport and cytoskeleton organization. Consequently, variants in PRKD1 that alter its kinase activity are associated with severe anomalies, manifesting as syndromic congenital defects in patients. To investigate the molecular pathomechanisms underlying PRKD1 genetic variants, the patient-derived PRKD1 p.G592R (c.1774 G > A) mutation was introduced in heterozygous and homozygous configuration into the human induced pluripotent stem cell line (AICS-0031-035:WTC-mTagRFPT-TUBA1B) with CRISPR/Cas9 technology and were thoroughly validated. These hiPSC lines constitute a valuable platform for dissecting the molecular consequences of impaired PRKD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Protein kinase D1 (PRKD1), a serine/threonine kinase of the PKD family, has been implicated in tumor biology, but its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. We explored PRKD1 expression and function using immunohistochemistry, bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing, and in vitro functional assays. PRKD1 protein levels were significantly elevated in 339 HCC tissues compared to corresponding adjacent non-tumorous samples (11.390 ± 1.560 vs. 6.277 ± 2.357, P < 0.0001). Multicenter bulk transcriptomic data confirmed consistent PRKD1 mRNA overexpression (SMD = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.14-0.39), with single-cell transcriptomic profiling indicating specific enrichment in endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and hepatocytes. High PRKD1 expression was associated with advanced tumor stages and worse overall survival. Functionally, PRKD1-associated genes were enriched in extracellular matrix and focal adhesion pathways. Immune profiling revealed positive correlations with M2 macrophages, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and negative correlations with CD8+ T cells and CD4+ Th1 cells, suggesting an immunosuppressive role. Mechanistic experiments demonstrated that conditioned medium from PRKD1-knockdown HCC cells promoted M1 polarization and reduced M2 markers in THP-1 cells, while PRKD1 silencing increased PD-L1 and IDO1 expression. In contrast, IFN-γ treatment did not induce PRKD1 expression, indicating that PRKD1 actively contributes to, rather than responds to, immunosuppressive cues. PRKD1 knockdown markedly impaired HCC cell proliferation and migration. Pharmacologically, nitidine chloride significantly reduced PRKD1 expression in a dose-dependent manner, and molecular docking suggested a potential direct interaction. With respect to drug response, PRKD1-high HCC cases exhibited increased predicted sensitivity to multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), while in vitro PRKD1 knockdown reduced sorafenib sensitivity, and sorafenib treatment suppressed both PRKD1 and p-ERK1/2 levels. Collectively, our findings identify PRKD1 as a multifaceted contributor to HCC progression, immune microenvironment modulation, and TKI responsiveness. These results highlight PRKD1 as a promising therapeutic target warranting further mechanistic and translational investigation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Compromise in trabecular meshwork (TM) function due to extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation contributes to increased intraocular pressure (IOP) in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Our previous study demonstrated the role of cathepsin K (CTSK), a potent collagenase, on ECM homeostasis, actin bundling in TM, and IOP regulation. This study was designed to understand the response of TM cells to the loss of CTSK function.Normal primary human TM (HTM) cells transfected with either small interfering RNA (siRNA) against CTSK (siCTSK) or scrambled siRNA (siScr) as a control were screened using mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics for changes in protein levels. Immunofluorescence imaging was used to identify changes in the distribution of differentially expressed proteins. Flow cytometry analysis provided evidence for the cell death mechanism resulting from the loss of CTSK function. Biochemical analysis was performed to quantify filamentous actin, assess BMP1 activity, and measure calcium levels.CTSK loss significantly disrupted collagen biogenesis and ECM remodeling and increased intracellular calcium levels and the expression of calcium-regulatory proteins. Actin polymerization was increased due to protein kinase D1 (PRKD1) activation through the slingshot phosphatase 1 (SSH1)/cofilin pathway, promoting focal adhesion maturation. Despite increased apoptotic markers (CASP3, CASP7, TRADD, PPM1F), caspase-3/-7 activation was not induced, suggesting apoptosis-independent cellular remodeling. Notably, RhoQ and myosin motor proteins were significantly downregulated, indicating altered mechanotransduction.Our findings underscore the multifaceted role of CTSK in maintaining critical cellular processes within the TM. Specifically, we have shown that CTSK is closely involved in regulating ECM homeostasis, influencing calcium signaling, and governing cytoskeletal dynamics and TM cellularity.
Cardiac hypertrophy is an important risk factor for heart failure and is often accompanied by contractile dysfunction. While hypertrophic growth contributes to disease progression, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. A proposed contributor is a metabolic shift toward glucose uptake, suggesting that kinases regulating this process, such as protein kinase D1 (PKD1) and downstream target phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase IIIβ (PI4KIIIβ), might be effective targets to mitigate cardiac hypertrophy-induced contractile dysfunction. We investigated whether PI4KIIIβ inhibition downregulates enhanced glucose uptake in hypertrophic cardiomyocytes and thereby treats cardiac hypertrophy-induced contractile dysfunction. Hypertrophy was induced in cultured adult rat cardiomyocytes and human stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes using either phenylephrine (PE) or adenoviral PKD1 overexpression. PE-induced hypertrophy was associated with increased mRNA expression of BNP, activation of hypertrophic signaling, morphological alterations, enhanced protein synthesis and glucose uptake, and impaired contractile function. Treatment with the PI4KIIIβ inhibitor MI14 prevented and reversed PE-stimulated glucose uptake and contractile dysfunction, while hypertrophic signaling, cell size, and protein synthesis remained unaffected. Similar effects on glucose uptake were observed in the PKD1 overexpression model. These findings suggest that targeting myocardial substrate metabolism via the PI4KIIIβ pathway, rather than hypertrophic growth itself, could be a promising strategy to treat hypertrophy-induced contractile dysfunction.
In contrast to neurons in the central nervous system, neurons in the peripheral nervous system can regenerate axons after injury via activation of a pro-regenerative transcriptional programme. Pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, and several small-molecule LRRK2 kinase inhibitors have been developed, with some in clinical trials. However, the physiological role of endogenous, non-pathogenic LRRK2 remains largely unknown.LRRK2 expression was examined in murine dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) following sciatic nerve crush (SNC) injury. Regenerative axon growth was assessed using cultured adult DRG neurons after genetic or pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2. Axon regeneration after SNC injury was evaluated in vivo following oral administration of the LRRK2 inhibitors, MLi-2 or PF-06447475. Axonal trafficking experiments and phosphoproteomic analyses were performed to investigate mechanisms underlying axon growth promotion induced by LRRK2 inhibitors.SNC injury reduced LRRK2 expression in DRGs. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2 enhanced regenerative axon growth in culture. Oral administration of MLi-2 or PF-06447475 promoted axon regeneration in vivo after SNC injury. MLi-2 enhanced mitochondrial trafficking, and phosphoproteomic analyses identified cellular processes and kinase-substrate signalling networks associated with a pro-regenerative state triggered by LRRK2 inhibition.These findings identify endogenous, non-pathogenic LRRK2 as a suppressor of axon regeneration. They also support the potential repositioning of small-molecule LRRK2 inhibitors, including clinically advanced compounds and those in preclinical development, as therapeutic strategies to enhance peripheral nerve regeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Allelic variants in the leucine-rich repeat kinase-2 (LRRK2) gene are linked to Parkinson's disease, Crohn's disease and leprosy; however, a consensus role of LRRK2 in infection has not yet emerged. Parkinson's disease-linked p.G2019S mutation of LRRK2 results in increased kinase activity. We evaluated the impact of the p.G2019S mutation during the infection of mice with Salmonella typhimurium (ST) or Listeria monocytogenes. We demonstrate that the p.G2019S mutation promotes the phosphorylation of the p40phox and p47phox subunits of the NADPH oxidase-2 complex in the cytosol of neutrophils, leading to their relocation to lysosomes for enhanced bacterial control. Activation of Cathepsin B, Rab10 or PKC was not modulated by p.G2019S. Activation of the cytosolic subunits of NADPH oxidase-2 subunits was inhibited by the virulence factor SifA, which promotes the phagosomal localization of ST. Deletion of SifA resulted in an even greater effect of the p.G2019S mutation on the control of ST by neutrophils. These results suggest a mechanism by which the p.G2019S mutation promotes better control of infections at the cost of excessive tissue damage via NADPH oxidase-2 activity under chronic inflammatory conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Micropropagation of Selenicereus hybrids is a key tool for breeding and conservation; however, further refining the balance between high multiplication rates and morphological quality remains a complex challenge within conventional protocols. This study explores targeted signaling modulation using nine bioactive small molecules-including three mammalian glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) inhibitors (TDZD-9, VP3.15 and VP0.7), three leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) inhibitors (JZ1.24, JZ1.3 and IGS4.75), and three phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors-to complement traditional micropropagation. Explants were evaluated in two distinct contexts: a hormone-free basal medium (BM) and a plant growth regulator-supplemented medium (PIT2) and the response rates, yield, and quality were measured and integrated using a Global Efficiency Index (GEI). Results demonstrate that inhibitor efficacy is strictly context-dependent; while most molecules repressed budding in BM, they acted as response modulators by determining the specific type of morphogenic pathway in PIT2. Notably, the GSK3 inhibitor TDZD-9 reached the highest GEI (0.85) by maximizing productivity, whereas LRRK2 inhibitors effectively preserved architectural integrity. Flow cytometry confirmed cytogenetic stability across all treatments, with a 98.5% plantlet survival rate during acclimatization. In conclusion, the strategic integration of targeted signaling modulators and multi-parametric indices offers a refined and objective framework to enhance the efficiency of mass propagation protocols in pitahaya and other recalcitrant species. Furthermore, our findings provide new evidence of the strong potential of these small molecules as novel tools to improve plant micropropagation beyond traditional plant growth regulators.
LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) and Parkin (PRKN) act in shared pathways and are implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD), leprosy, and other diseases. While leprosy likely imposed strong evolutionary pressure, PD's relatively late onset renders it largely invisible to natural selection. We examined the evolutionary history of LRRK2 and PRKN in primates and human populations and found evidence of positive selection on both genes, alongside strong constraint at LRRK2 disease-associated sites. Gibbons were found to carry a pathogenic PRKN mutation (R33Q) causing protein instability. Using ancient DNA, we traced the dynamics of LRRK2 and PRKN variants in Europe and showed that the common PD risk allele LRRK2 G2019S-also protective against salmonellosis-was absent in Paleolithic populations but rose rapidly during the Early Neolithic, likely driven by selection from emerging human-adapted Salmonella. Four leprosy susceptibility variants in PRKN and other loci increased in frequency before the Middle Ages, with little evidence of strong selection during the medieval epidemic itself. Together, these results link a major PD mutation to ancient infectious pressures and suggest that pathogen-driven selection shaped leprosy susceptibility in Europe prior to its medieval peak.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). Strategies that directly inhibit the LRRK2 kinase active site have not demonstrated disease-modifying efficacy in recent clinical testing. A naturally occurring protective variant, R1398H, provides an alternative route for understanding how reduced disease risk may be achieved by tuning the regulatory GTPase domain rather than the kinase domain itself. Here, we combine structural, computational, biochemical, and cell-based analyses to define how R1398H alters the Ras of complex proteins (ROC) G domain of LRRK2. Purified ROC carrying R1398H is folded but resolves as a stable homodimer corresponding to the GDP-bound off state previously defined for wild-type ROC. A 2.0 Å A crystal structure shows unambiguous density for H1398 and reveals close superposition with the GDP-bound wild-type ROC dimer. Molecular dynamics modeling predicts that R1398 engages the γ-phosphate of GTP to stabilize switch-region interactions required for activation, whereas histidine at this position weakens γ-phosphate sensing. Consistent with this model, R1398H reduces GTP hydrolysis, selectively weakens GTP-state stabilization while preserving GDP binding, and decreases Rab29-dependent trans-Golgi recruitment of full-length LRRK2. These findings identify R1398 as a γ-phosphate sensor that couples nucleotide chemistry to ROC conformational switching and suggest a genetics-anchored strategy for stabilizing a protective off-state conformation of LRRK2.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly affecting substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine (DA) neurons. Here, we investigate how the R1441G mutation in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), a key genetic contributor to familial and sporadic PD, impacts mitochondrial function in midbrain DA neurons.We employed a BAC transgenic mouse model overexpressing human LRRK2-R1441G (BAC-hR1441G) and crossed it with TH-mito-roGFP mice to enable mitochondria-targeted redox imaging specifically in DA neurons. Acute midbrain slices from 3-, 6-, and 10-month-old mice were imaged using two-photon microscopy to assess mitochondrial oxidative stress. In parallel, mitochondrial respiratory function, membrane potential flickering events, and expression of uncoupling proteins (UCP4/UCP5) were analyzed. Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the GeoMx® Digital Spatial Profiler to uncover associated molecular alterations.We observed a progressive increase in mitochondrial oxidative stress in SNc DA neurons of BAC-hR1441G mice at 3, 6, and 10 months of age. This was accompanied by reduced respiratory complex activity, attenuated mitochondrial membrane potential flickering, and diminished expression of UCP4 and UCP5. Spatial transcriptomic analysis revealed dysregulation of genes linked to mitochondrial uncoupling, calcium signaling, and redox regulation in BAC-hR1441G SNc DA neurons.These findings reveal an age-dependent progression of mitochondrial dysfunction in BAC-hR1441G SNc DA neurons. Dysregulation of calcium channels and uncoupling proteins emerges as a key mechanism contributing to bioenergetic failure, suggesting potential therapeutic targets to mitigate PD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
The mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), a central regulator of cell growth, is activated by Rheb small GTPase. Our recent studies have demonstrated that polyubiquitinated Rheb enhances its interaction with mTORC1, resulting in the activation of mTORC1. Here, we demonstrate that the HECT, UBA, and WWE domain containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HUWE1), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, preferentially interacts with ubiquitinated Rheb and facilitates Rheb's binding to mTORC1 and its subsequent activation. The ablation of HUWE1 results in reduced ubiquitination of Rheb and decreased mTORC1 activity in cultured cells and mouse liver. HUWE1 is also necessary for Rheb to interact with carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 2, aspartate transcarbamoylase, dihydroorotase (CAD), a key enzyme in pyrimidine biosynthesis, and for CAD activation through the activation of the mTORC1-S6K1 pathway. Moreover, HUWE1 maintains CAD expression by increasing its transcript in cells and liver tissues. Therefore, HUWE1 acts as a key organizer of the ubiquitinated Rheb complex, playing a vital role in enhancing mTORC1 activity and pyrimidine synthesis by increasing both CAD activity and expression.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39113560 is a review article
Severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) open reading frame 9b (ORF9b) antagonizes the antiviral type I and III interferon (IFN) responses and is ubiquitinated and degraded via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. However, E3 ubiquitin ligases that mediate the polyubiquitination and degradation of ORF9b remain unknown. In this study, we identified 14 E3 ligases that specifically bind to SARS-CoV-2 ORF9b. Specifically, three E3 ligases, HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HUWE1), ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 4 (UBR4), and UBR5, induced K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation of ORF9b, thereby attenuating ORF9b-mediated inhibition of the IFN response and SARS-CoV-2 replication. Moreover, each E3 ligase performed this function independent of the other two E3 ligases. Therefore, the three E3 ligases identified in this study as anti-SARS-CoV-2 host factors provide novel molecular insight into the virus-host interaction.IMPORTANCEUbiquitination is an important post-translational modification that regulates multiple biological processes, including viral replication. Identification of E3 ubiquitin ligases that target viral proteins for degradation can provide novel targets for antagonizing viral infections. Here, we identified multiple E3 ligases, including HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HUWE1), ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 4 (UBR4), and UBR5, that ubiquitinated and induced the degradation of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) open reading frame 9b (ORF9b), an interferon (IFN) antagonist, thereby enhancing IFN production and attenuating SARS-CoV-2 replication. Our study provides new possibilities for drug development targeting the interaction between E3 ligases and ORF9b.
Trapped neutrophil syndrome (TNS) is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder found in Border Collies and is characterized by peripheral neutropenia and myeloid hyperplasia of bone marrow. The underlying cause of TNS is associated with a 4-base pair deletion mutation in the vacuolar protein sorting 13 homolog B (VPS13B) gene. In this study, we proposed and validated a novel multiplex allele specific-polymerase chain reaction (MAS-PCR) technique to assess the prevalence of TNS using VPS13B genotypes of Border Collies and Thai Ridgebacks in Thailand.We assessed the prevalence of TNS in 100 Border Collies and 30 Thai Ridgebacks using MAS-PCR-based allelic discrimination technique of the VPS13B gene. We then confirmed the VPS13B genotypes by direct DNA sequencing.A total of 130 samples were successfully genotyped using MAS-PCR assays. Of the two dog breeds examined, the VPS13B mutation was present in Border Collies, whereas Thai Ridgebacks were unaffected by this mutation. In Border Collies, 96% of dogs tested had an intact VPS13B genotype, whereas the remaining individuals had a heterozygous mutation genotype, with prevalence and mutated VPS13B allele frequencies of 4% and 2%, respectively.Using a novel MAS-PCR assay targeting the VPS13B gene, this study demonstrates for the first time that carriers of TNS exist in Border Collies in Thailand. This assay is a reliable and cost-effective tool for diagnosing TNS based on VPS13B genotypes and is suitable for routine clinical practice.Copyright: © Lerdkrai and Phungphosop.
Cohen syndrome (OMIM No. # 216550) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by homozygous mutation in the vacuolar protein sorting 13 homolog B (VPS13B) gene on chromosome 8q22.2. Clinical manifestations include hypermobile joints, microcephaly, intellectual disabilities, craniofacial and limb anomalies, and neutropenia. To date, more than 200 mutations of VPS13B have been reported in over 1,000 Cohen syndrome patients. This article reviews the clinical data of two cases of Cohen syndrome diagnosed by whole exome sequencing.Both children visited for psychomotor retardation. Gene detection showed a mutation in 8q22.2, NM_017890.4 Intron38 c.6940+1G > T and heterozygotic deletion of exon 3-19 of the VPS13B gene (Case 1), and a mutation in 8q22.2, NM_017890.4 Intron38 c.6940+1G > T and 8q22, NM_017890.4 Exon56 c10334_10335del in the VPS13B gene (Case 2). The variation was predicted to be pathogenic by related software, and they have not been reported.Cohen syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any child with developmental retardation and neutropenia. The present study increases the mutation spectrum of the VPS13B gene and could be helpful in genetic diagnosis and genetic counseling in Cohen syndrome patients.© 2023 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.
The ubiquitin ligase HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 is essential for the establishment and maintenance of spermatogonia. However, the role of HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 in regulating germ cell differentiation remains unclear, and clinical evidence linking HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 to male infertility pathogenesis is lacking.This study aims to investigate the role of HUWE1 in germ cell differentiation and the mechanism by which a HUWE1 single nucleotide polymorphism increases male infertility risk.We analyzed HUWE1 single nucleotide polymorphisms in 190 non-obstructive azoospermia patients of Han Chinese descent. We evaluated HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 regulation by retinoic acid receptor alpha using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, and siRNA-mediated RARα knockdown. Using C18-4 spermatogonial cells, we determined whether HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 participated in retinoic acid-mediated retinoic acid receptor alpha signaling. We performed luciferase assays, cell counting kit-8 assays, immunofluorescence, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and western blotting. We quantified HUWE1 and retinoic acid receptor alpha in testicular biopsies from non-obstructive azoospermia and obstructive azoospermia patients using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence.Three HUWE1 single nucleotide polymorphisms were significantly associated with spermatogenic failure in 190 non-obstructive azoospermia patients; one (rs34492591) was in the HUWE1 promoter. Retinoic acid receptor alpha regulates HUWE1 gene expression by binding to its promoter. HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 participates in retinoic acid/retinoic acid receptor alpha signaling pathway and regulates the expression of germ cell differentiation genes STRA8 and SCP3 to inhibit cell proliferation and reduce γH2AX accumulation. Notably, significantly lower levels of HUWE1 and RARα were detected in testicular biopsy samples from non-obstructive azoospermia patients.An HUWE1 promoter single nucleotide polymorphism significantly downregulates its expression in non-obstructive azoospermia patients. Mechanistically, HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 regulates germ cell differentiation during meiotic prophase through its participation in retinoic acid/retinoic acid receptor alpha signaling and subsequent modulation of γH2AX. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that the genetic polymorphisms of HUWE1 are closely related to spermatogenesis and non-obstructive azoospermia pathogenesis.© 2023 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Pathogenic variants in vacuolar protein sorting 13 homolog B (VPS13B) cause Cohen syndrome (CS), a clinically diverse neurodevelopmental disorder. We used whole exome and Sanger sequencing to identify disease-causing variants in a Pakistani family with intellectual disability, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, neutropenia, truncal obesity, speech delay, motor delay, and insomnia. We identified a novel homozygous nonsense variant c.8841G > A: p.(W2947∗) in VPS13B (NM_017890.5) which segregated with the disease. Sleep disturbances are commonly seen in neurodevelopmental disorders and can exacerbate medical issues if left untreated. We demonstrate that individuals with Cohen syndrome may also be affected by sleep disturbances. In conclusion, we expand the genetic and phenotypic features of Cohen syndrome in the Pakistani population.Copyright © 2023 Abrar Hussain et al.
Cohen syndrome (CS; OMIM 216550) is a rare syndrome with evident clinical heterogeneity. The diverse phenotype comprises early-onset hypotonia and developmental delays, intellectual disabilities, microcephaly, hypermobile joints, neutropenia, myopia, and characteristic facial features. The disease is rarely reported. Vacuolar Protein Sorting 13 Homolog B (VPS13B; OMIM 607817) is the only causative gene of CS.Blood samples sourced from both siblings and parents were sent to identify mutations by trio-WES, and changes in the patient's condition were understood through consultation data and follow-up.We reported two siblings affected by developmental delay, microcephaly, intellectual disability, and facial features. The siblings' WES detected compound heterozygous variants in the exon region of VPS13B (NM_017890): c.9337A>T and c.8551A>C.Two individuals were diagnosed with CS by genetic testing and clinical features. In addition, we conduct a brief review of the reports on the Chinese population with CS and reinforce the understanding of the correlation between genotype-phenotype.© 2022 The Authors. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Whole transcriptome analysis was conducted to identify differentially expressed RNAs and regulatory networks associated with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).A weighted gene co-expression network analysis based on high-throughput sequencing data for six pairs of PTC and adjacent tissue samples was conducted to understand the biological functions and regulatory networks involving long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), circular RNAs (circRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs), and messenger RNAs (mRNAs).We detected 131, 338, 31, and 556 differentially expressed circRNAs, lncRNAs, miRNAs, and mRNAs, respectively. We identified modules that were significantly positively and negatively related to cancer and lymph node metastasis. Gray and turquoise modules were positively correlated with cancer phenotypes (p < 0.05), whereas yellow, brown, and blue modules were negatively correlated with cancer (p < 0.05). Gray module was positively correlated with lateral lymph node metastasis (p = 0.02). Kaplan-Meier analyses revealed that the levels of transmembrane protein 63C (TMEM63C), lysyl oxidase-like 1 (LOXL1), collagen type V alpha 1 chain (COL5A1), ADAM metalloproteinase with thrombospondin type I motif 2 (ADAMTS2), and LysM-domain containing 3 (LYSMD3) were significantly associated with overall survival (p < 0.05). Significant increase in the expression of COL5A1 and LOXL1 in tumor tissues was validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (p < 0.05). COL5A1 and LOXL1 promoted PTC cell growth and invasion in vitro.We identified COL5A1 and LOXL1 as potential prognostic biomarkers, providing new insights into the occurrence and progression of PTC.© 2022 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
p53, the guardian of the genome, is a short-lived protein that is tightly controlled at low levels by constant ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation in higher organisms. p53 stabilization and activation are early crucial events to cope with external stimuli in cells. However, the role of p53 ubiquitination and its relevant molecular mechanisms have not been addressed in invertebrates. In this study, our findings revealed that both HUWE1 (HECT, UBA, and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase 1) and TRAF6 (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6) could serve as E3 ubiquitin ligases for p53 in mud crabs (Scylla paramamosain). Moreover, the expression of HUWE1 and TRAF6 was significantly downregulated during white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) infection, and therefore the ubiquitination of p53 was interrupted, leading to the activation of apoptosis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) signals through p53 accumulation, which eventually suppressed viral invasion in the mud crabs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to reveal the p53 ubiquitination simultaneously induced by two E3 ligases in arthropods, which provides a novel molecular mechanism of invertebrates for resistance to viral infection. IMPORTANCE p53, which is a well-known tumor suppressor that has been widely studied in higher animals, has been reported to be tightly controlled at low levels by ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation. However, recent p53 ubiquitination-relevant research mainly involved an individual E3 ubiquitin ligase, but not whether there exist other mechanisms that need to be explored. The results of this study show that HUWE1 and TRAF6 could serve as p53 E3 ubiquitin ligases and synchronously mediate p53 ubiquitination in mud crabs (Scylla paramamosain), which confirmed the diversity of the p53 ubiquitination regulatory pathway. In addition, the effects of p53 ubiquitination are mainly focused on tumorigenesis, but a few are focused on the host immune defense in invertebrates. Our findings reveal that p53 ubiquitination could affect ROS and apoptosis signals to cope with WSSV infection in mud crabs, which is the first clarification of the immunologic functions and mechanisms of p53 ubiquitination in invertebrates.
Fundamental changes in intracellular processes, such as overactive growth signaling pathways, are common in carcinomas and are targets of many cancer therapeutics. GRIP and coiled-coil containing 2 (GCC2) is a trans-Golgi network (TGN) golgin maintaining Golgi apparatus structure and regulating vesicle transport. Here, we found an aberrant overexpression of GCC2 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and conducted shRNA-mediated gene knockdown to investigate the role of GCC2 in NSCLC progression. shRNA-mediated GCC2 knockdown suppressed NSCLC cell growth, migration, stemness, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. In addition, GCC2 knockdown suppressed cancer cell exosome secretion and the oncogenic capacity of cancer cell-derived exosomes. Mechanistically, GCC2 inhibition decreased epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression and downstream growth and proliferation signaling. Furthermore, GCC2 inhibition compromised Golgi structural integrity in cancer cells, indicating a functional role of GCC2 in regulating intracellular trafficking and signaling to promote lung cancer progression. Together, these findings suggest GCC2 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of NSCLC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) plays crucial roles in maintaining Treg stability and function, yet the underlying mechanism remains largely unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that (Tmed4ΔTreg) mice with Treg-specific KO of ERS-related protein transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 4 (TMED4) had more Tregs with impaired Foxp3 stability, Treg signatures, and suppressive activity, which led to T cell hyperactivation and an exacerbated inflammatory phenotype and boosted antitumor immunity in mice. Mechanistically, loss of Tmed4 caused defects in ERS and a nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2-related (NRF2-related) antioxidant response, which resulted in excessive ROS that reduced the Foxp3 stability and suppressive function of Tregs in an IRE1α/XBP1 axis-dependent manner. The abnormalities could be effectively rescued by the ROS scavenger, NRF2 inducer, or by forcible expression of IRE1α. Moreover, TMED4 suppressed IRE1α proteosome degradation via the ER-associated degradation (ERAD) system including the ER chaperone binding immunoglobulin protein (BIP). Our study reveals that TMED4 maintained the stability of Tregs and their suppressive function through IRE1α-dependent ROS and the NRF2-related antioxidant response.
The fluctuation in temperature poses a significant challenge for poikilothermic organisms, notably insects, particularly in the context of changing climatic conditions. In insects, temperature adaptation has been driven by polygenes. In addition to genes that directly affect traits (core genes), other genes (peripheral genes) may also play a role in insect temperature adaptation. This study focuses on two peripheral genes, the GRIP and coiled-coil domain containing 2 (GCC2) and karyopherin subunit beta 1 (KPNB1). These genes are differentially expressed at different temperatures in the cosmopolitan pest, Plutella xylostella. GCC2 and KPNB1 in P. xylostella were cloned, and their relative expression patterns were identified. Reduced capacity for thermal adaptation (development, reproduction and response to temperature extremes) in the GCC2-deficient and KPNB1-deficient P. xylostella strains, which were constructed by CRISPR/Cas9 technique. Deletion of the PxGCC2 or PxKPNB1 genes in P. xylostella also had a differential effect on gene expression for many traits including stress resistance, resistance to pesticides, involved in immunity, trehalose metabolism, fatty acid metabolism and so forth. The ability of the moth to adapt to temperature via different pathways is likely to be key to its ability to remain an important pest species under predicted climate change conditions.© 2024 Royal Entomological Society.
Pleckstrin Homology And RUN Domain Containing M2 (PLEKHM2) [delAG] mutation causes dilated cardiomyopathy with left ventricular non-compaction (DCM-LVNC), resulting in a premature death of PLEKHM2[delAG] individuals due to heart failure. PLEKHM2 is a factor involved in autophagy, a master regulator of cellular homeostasis, decomposing pathogens, proteins and other cellular components. Autophagy is mainly carried out by the lysosome, containing degradation enzymes, and by the autophagosome, which engulfs substances marked for decomposition. PLEKHM2 promotes lysosomal movement toward the cell periphery. Autophagic dysregulation is associated with neurodegenerative diseases' pathogenesis. Thus, modulation of autophagy holds considerable potential as a therapeutic target for such disorders. We hypothesized that PLEKHM2 is involved in neuronal development and function, and that mutated PLEKHM2 (PLEKHM2[delAG]) neurons will present impaired functions. Here, we studied PLEKHM2-related abnormalities in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived motor neurons (iMNs) as a neuronal model. PLEKHM2[delAG] iMN cultures had healthy control-like differentiation potential but exhibited reduced autophagic activity. Electrophysiological measurements revealed that PLEKHM2[delAG] iMN cultures displayed delayed functional maturation and more frequent and unsynchronized activity. This was associated with increased size and a more perinuclear lysosome cellular distribution. Thus, our results suggest that PLEKHM2 is involved in the functional development of neurons through the regulation of autophagic flux.
No specific markers have been identified to detect non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell-derived exosomes circulating in the blood. Here, we report a new biomarker that distinguishes between cancer and non-cancer cell-derived exosomes. Exosomes isolated from patient plasmas at various pathological stages of NSCLC, NSCLC cell lines, and human pulmonary alveolar epithelial cells isolated using size exclusion chromatography were characterized. The GRIP and coiled-coil domain-containing 2 (GCC2) protein, involved in endosome-to-Golgi transport, was identified by proteomics analysis of NSCLC cell line-derived exosomes. GCC2 protein levels in the exosomes derived from early-stage NSCLC patients were higher than those from healthy controls. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis revealed the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of exosomal GCC2 to be 90% and 75%, respectively. A high area under the curve, 0.844, confirmed that GCC2 levels could effectively distinguish between the exosomes. These results demonstrate GCC2 as a promising early diagnostic biomarker for NSCLC.
Lysosomes, as primary degradative organelles, are the endpoint of different converging pathways, including macroautophagy. To date, lysosome degradative function has been mainly studied in interphase cells, while their role during mitosis remains controversial. Mitosis dictates the faithful transmission of genetic material among generations, and perturbations of mitotic division lead to chromosomal instability, a hallmark of cancer. Heretofore, correct mitotic progression relies on the orchestrated degradation of mitotic factors, which was mainly attributed to ubiquitin-triggered proteasome-dependent degradation. Here, we show that mitotic transition also relies on lysosome-dependent degradation, as impairment of lysosomes increases mitotic timing and leads to mitotic errors, thus promoting chromosomal instability. Furthermore, we identified several putative lysosomal targets in mitotic cells. Among them, WAPL, a cohesin regulatory protein, emerged as a novel SQSTM1-interacting protein for targeted lysosomal degradation. Finally, we characterized an atypical nuclear phenotype, the toroidal nucleus, as a novel biomarker for genotoxic screenings. Our results establish lysosome-dependent degradation as an essential event to prevent chromosomal instability.Abbreviations: 3D: three-dimensional; APC/C: anaphase-promoting complex; ARL8B: ADP ribosylation factor like GTPase 8B; ATG: autophagy-related; BORC: BLOC-one-related complex; CDK: cyclin-dependent kinase; CENPE: centromere protein E; CIN: chromosomal instability; ConcA: concanamycin A; CQ: chloroquine; DAPI: 4,6-diamidino-2-penylinole; FTI: farnesyltransferase inhibitors; GFP: green fluorescent protein; H2B: histone 2B; KIF: kinesin family member; LAMP2: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDS5B: PDS5 cohesin associated factor B; SAC: spindle assembly checkpoint; PLEKHM2: pleckstrin homology and RUN domain containing M2; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system; v-ATPase: vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase; WAPL: WAPL cohesion release factor.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40948788 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, characterized by its aggressive growth, high metastatic potential, and resistance to therapeutic interventions. Dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is recognized as a hallmark of cancer; however, its precise functional contributions to HCC pathogenesis remain incompletely elucidated. In the present study, we identify F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 8 (FBXW8), an F-box protein component of the Cullin-RING ligase (CRL) complex, as a pivotal tumor suppressor in HCC. Through a combination of in vitro and in vivo models, we demonstrate that FBXW8 depletion facilitates HCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), whereas FBXW8 overexpression exerts inhibitory effects on these malignant phenotypes. Proteomic and mechanistic analyses reveal that FBXW8 targets palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1), a lysosomal hydrolase, for ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Elevated PPT1 expression correlates with poor clinical prognosis in HCC patients and is positively associated with the activation of EMT and oncogenic signaling pathways. Our data further reveal that PPT1 promotes EMT in part by enhancing the expression of critical EMT transcription factors, notably Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 1 (SNAIL) and Zinc Finger E-box Binding Homeobox 1 (ZEB1), with a more pronounced effect on SNAIL. Mechanistically, FBXW8-mediated degradation of PPT1 inhibits EMT, reducing metastatic potential, whereas PPT1 silencing reverses the tumor-promoting effects of FBXW8 loss. These findings establish the FBXW8-PPT1 axis as a pivotal regulatory pathway linking UPS-mediated proteostasis to HCC progression and metastasis. Our study highlights the therapeutic potential of targeting PPT1 or restoring FBXW8 activity to disrupt oncogenic signaling and improve outcomes in HCC patients.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ischemic stroke is a kind of cerebrovascular disease with high mortality. The expression of ETS variant transcription factor 5 (ETV5) is down-regulated in ischemic stroke, but the specific role and mechanism remain unclear. In this study, the effects of ETV5 on ischemic stroke were investigated in vivo and in vitro by establishing the middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAO/R) animal model and oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) microglia model, respectively. We found that ETV5 reduced the infarct size, neurological deficit, microglia M1 polarization, and neuron pyroptosis level. Mechanistically, we further examined the expression of the HECT domain and ankyrin repeat-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HACE1) and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) based on animal and cellular models to assess whether ETV5 affects ischemic stroke through the HACE1/Nrf2 signaling pathway. We found that ETV5 promoted the expression of HACE1 and Nrf2 in microglia and that HACE1 was transcriptionally activated by ETV5, which in turn competed with the E3 ligase KEAP1 for binding of Nrf2 and enhances the protein stability and nuclear expression of Nrf2. Our results suggest that ETV5 can ameliorate brain injury caused by ischemic stroke and this is closely related to inducing the HACE1/Nrf2 pathway to inhibit microglia M1 polarization.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chemotherapy remains the primary treatment for unresectable or advanced postoperative colorectal cancers. However, its effectiveness is compromised by chemoresistance, which adversely affects patient outcomes. Dysregulated macroautophagy/autophagy is a proposed mechanism behind this resistance, with ubiquitination playing a key regulatory role. In this study, we identify the transcription factor HMBOX1 (homeobox containing 1) as a critical regulator of chemoresistance in colorectal cancer. RNA sequencing revealed that HMBOX1 is downregulated in drug-resistant colorectal cancer cells and tissues, with its low expression linked to poor prognosis. An integrated analysis of genes associated with autophagy and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) resistance was conducted, verified in the colorectal cancer tissues of patients by single-cell RNA sequencing and immunostaining. Mass-spectrometry-based proteomics and RNA sequencing were used to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Functionally, upregulation of HMBOX1 enhances the sensitivity of colorectal cancer cells to the first-line treatment with 5-FU by inhibiting autophagy. Mechanistically, HMBOX1 promotes the transcription of the E3 ubiquitin ligase HACE1, which in turn enhances ATG5 K63-ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation. This results in decreased ATG5 levels, inhibiting autophagy and thus reducing 5-FU resistance in colorectal cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, we confirm that HMBOX1 expression positively correlates with HACE1 expression and inversely correlates with autophagy levels in clinical colorectal cancer tissues. Our findings suggest that HMBOX1 downregulation drives 5-FU resistance through autophagy enhancement in colorectal cancer, highlighting HMBOX1 as a potential target for improving chemosensitivity and patient prognosis.Abbreviation: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; 5-FU: 5-fluorouracil; ATG: autophagy related; CASP3: caspase 3; C-CASP3: cleaved caspase 3; C-PARP: cleaved PARP; CCK8: cell counting kit-8; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CHX: cycloheximide; CNV: copy number variation; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COAD: colorectal adenocarcinoma; CQ: chloroquine; CRC: colorectal cancer; CR: complete response; FHC: fetal human colon; GEO: Gene Expression Omnibus; HACE1: HECT domain and ankyrin repeat containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1; HMBOX1: homeobox containing 1; IHC: immunohistochemistry; LC-MS/MS: liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; mIHC: multiplexed immunohistochemistry; MUT: mutant; NC: negative control; OS: overall survival; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PD: progressive disease; PFA: paraformaldehyde; PFS: progression-free survival; PR: partial response; qPCR: quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RAPA: rapamycin; SD: stable disease; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TF: translation factor; USP22: ubiquitin specific peptidase 22; WT: wild type.
Dynein cytoplasmic 2 heavy chain 1 (DYNC2H1) is reported to play a potential role in cancer immunotherapy. However, the association between DYNC2H1 mutation and the clinical benefit of immunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma remains to be elucidated. We collected data from three public immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-treated NSCLC cohorts (n = 137 in total) and seven ICI-treated melanoma cohorts (n = 418 in total) to explore the potential of DYNC2H1 mutation as a predictive biomarker. The clinical outcomes, including the objective response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival (PFS), of patients with DYNC2H1 mutations are significantly better than those of patients with wild-type DYNC2H1. Multivariate Cox regression analysis confirmed that DYNC2H1 mutation was an independent predictive factor for ICI efficacy in NSCLC and melanoma. In addition, DYNC2H1 mutation exhibited no prognostic value for NSCLC or melanoma. Tumour mutational burden (TMB) and tumour neoantigen burden (TNB) were significantly higher in patients with DYNC2H1 mutation than in those with wild-type DYNC2H1 in both NSCLC and melanoma cohort. The analysis of immune-related genes and immune cell enrichment revealed an association between DYNC2H1 mutation and increased immune infiltration, revealing a potential mechanism underlying the predictive role of DYNC2H1 mutation in immunotherapy efficacy. In conclusion, DYNC2H1 mutation serves as a predictive biomarker of ICI efficacy in NSCLC and melanoma.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
HECT domain and Ankyrin repeat Containing E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase 1 (HACE1) has been found to be associated with mitochondrial protection. Mitochondrial damage is a critical contributor to myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (I/RI). However, little is known about the role of HACE1 in the pathogenesis of myocardial I/RI.Male C57BL6 mice with HACE1 knockout (KO) were subjected to 30 min of ischemia via ligation of the left anterior descending artery, followed by 0, 2, 6, or 24 h of reperfusion. The mice were evaluated for myocardial histopathological injury, serum troponin I (cTnI) levels, oxidative stress injury, apoptosis and cardiac function. Prior to ischemia, Mdivi-1(1.2 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered.The study revealed that increased expression of HACE1 was associated with myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury (I/RI), and that knockout of HACE1 resulted in more severe myocardial damage and cardiac dysfunction during I/R(P < 0.05). The HACE1 knockout group exhibited higher levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), greater mitochondrial fission, and dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), leading to more apoptosis and severe cardiac dysfunction compared to the wild-type I/R group(P < 0.05). On the other hand, HACE1 knockout further reduced superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the myocardium(P < 0.05), further supporting the findings. However, the adverse effects were almost completely eliminated by pharmacological blockade of the dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) inhibitor, Mdivi-1, which inhibits mitochondrial fission during cardiac I/R(P < 0.05).Collectively, our data show that myocardial I/RI is associated with HACE1 downregulation and Drp1 activation, causing cardiomyocytes to undergo cell death. Therefore, HACE1 could be a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of myocardial I/RI.© 2025. The Author(s).
M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (M2-TAM) played an essential part in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression. Long intergenic noncoding RNA 00161 (LINC00161), is a long non-coding RNA, that was related to HCC development. However, the relationship between LINC00161 and TAM remains indistinct. HCC cells were cocultured with an M2-like conditioned medium (M2-CM). cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), plate cloning, cell scratch, and transwell assay evaluated cell biological activities of HCC cells. The interactions among molecules were analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation (CHIP), dual-luciferase reporter, and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP). The methylation status of HECT domain and ankyrin repeat-containing, E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HACE1) was evaluated using methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and bisulfite sequencing PCR (BSP). The xenograft model was established in vivo using subcutaneous nude mice. Histological analyses were performed using hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining. The expression of molecules was determined using immunohistochemistry (IHC), western blot and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). LINC00161 expression was promoted in HCC. LINC00161 knockdown significantly reduced HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Additionally, M2-TAM stimulated LINC00161 transcription and expression in HCC cells by secreting hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) to activate the Met/NFκB pathway. LINC00161 suppressed HACE1 expression, and knockdown of LINC00161 decreased the methylation on the HACE1 promoter. Meanwhile, a binding relationship between the enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) and HACE1 was observed. LINC00161 overexpression increased the binding of EZH2 on the HACE1 promoter region. Furthermore, LINC00161 knockdown suppressed tumor growth in vivo and induced HACE1 expression by inhibiting its methylation. LINC00161, induced by M2-TAM, played a pivotal role in contributing to HCC development by recruiting EZH2 to promote the methylation of HACE1. This underscores the significant involvement of LINC00161 in mediating the progression of HCC.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2024. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
HECT domain and Ankyrin repeat-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (HACE1) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase involving oxidative stress, an important contributor in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI). It was proposed to be associated with the PI3K/AKT pathway and Nrf2 nuclear translocation, which are important players of oxidative stress. Therefore, we supposed that HACE1 might affect CIRI by regulating the PI3K/AKT/Nrf2 pathway. Here, we used the transient middle cerebral artery occlusion-reperfusion (tMCAO/R) model to induce CIRI in rats and found lower HACE1 expression in ischemic rats compared with the control. To explore the exact role of HACE1, the lentivirus vector carrying the HACE1 sequence was administrated to rats by intracerebroventricular injection (1 × 109 TU/mL, 9 μL) one week before tMCAO/R operation. HACE1 overexpression alleviated tMCAO/R-induced brain damage in rats. Further studies revealed that it reduced oxidative stress via activating the PI3K/AKT/Nrf2 pathway, thereby inhibiting neuronal apoptosis in the ischemic penumbra of rats with CIRI. Then, differentiated PC12 cells were cultured in oxygen-glucose deprivation-reoxygenation (OGD/R) conditions (OGD: 1 % O2, 94 % N2, and 5 % CO2; R: normal atmosphere) to simulate CIRI in vitro. Similarly, HACE1 overexpression inhibited neuronal apoptosis caused by OGD/R treatment. The PI3K inhibitor LY294002 reversed the inhibitory effects of HACE1 overexpression on oxidative stress in OGD/R-injured cells, accompanied by the inactivated AKT/Nrf2 pathway. Altogether, our results suggest that HACE1 protects against oxidative stress-induced neuronal apoptosis in CIRI by activating the PI3K/AKT/Nrf2 pathway, providing a new insight into the CIRI treatment.Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cervical cancer, one of the prevalent malignancies among females, is closely associated with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Homologous to the E6-AP carboxyl terminus (HECT) domain and ankyrin repeat containing E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase 1 (HACE1) plays pivotal roles in various cancers. This study aimed to elucidate the expression of HACE1 in cervical cancer and its correlation with clinical features.From The Cancer Genome Atlas Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma and Endocervical Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-CESC) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO, GSE6791) datasets, we obtained RNA-Seq profiles and associated clinical information. Differential gene analysis was conducted using the R "limma" package. Implications for HPV infection and the overall survival (OS) of cervical cancer were determined by performing differential expression analysis and the Cox proportional hazards regression model. Immunohistochemical analyses were used to validate the expression in cervical cancer and normal cervical tissue. Further, nomogram was constructed to predict OS in cervical cancer. Whether the model was credible was evaluated according to receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and concordance curves. To further evaluate the potential functions of HACE1, we conducted functional enrichment analysis. Finally, we assessed methylation levels in HPV+ and HPV- patients in the TCGA-CESC dataset.Utilizing TCGA and GSE6791 datasets, we observed significant upregulation of HACE1 in cervical cancer patients, particularly linked to HPV infection. Immunohistochemical staining revealed enhanced HACE1 expression in tumor tissues. Further analysis demonstrated a significant positive correlation between elevated HACE1 and HPV-associated proteins (E1, E6, and E7). Moreover, high HACE1 expression was associated with adverse prognosis in cervical cancer patients. Multivariate Cox analysis indicated that HACE1 could serve as an independent prognostic factor. We developed a prognostic model integrating HPV subtypes, the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging, and HACE1, exhibiting strong predictive efficacy for cervical cancer prognosis. Gene enrichment analysis indicated HACE1's potential involvement in multiple signaling pathways during cervical cancer progression, while the demethylation of cg03002526 in HPV-positive patients might contribute to HACE1 upregulation.Our study reveals that HACE1 upregulation is associated with cervical cancer, particularly in HPV-positive patients. HACE1 emerges as an independent prognostic factor, linked to unfavorable outcomes.2024 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
The location of a patient's colorectal cancer (CRC) influences their outcome but inherited factors may also be involved. We studied 1899 patients with advanced CRC (514 had proximal colonic, 493 distal colonic and 892 rectal tumours) and carried out genome-wide association studies for survival. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) suggestive of association (P < 1.0 × 10-5) were tested for replication in 5078 CRC patients from the UK Biobank. We investigated the relationship between Phosphatidylinositol 4-Kinase Type 2 Beta (PI4K2B) expression in colorectal tumours and survival in 597 patients from The Human Protein Atlas (THPA). We also analysed 3 SNPs previously associated with survival by anatomical site. We found that SNPs at 54 independent loci were suggestive of an association with survival when stratified by tumour location. rs76011559 replicated in patients with proximal tumours (COIN, COIN-B and UK Biobank combined Hazard Ratio [HR] = 1.53, 95% Confidence Intervals [CI] = 1.19-1.86, P = 7.5 × 10-7) and rs12273047 replicated in patients with rectal tumours (combined HR = 1.27, 95% CI = 1.09-1.46, P = 4.1 × 10-7). In gene analyses, PI4K2B associated with survival in patients with distal cancers (P = 2.1 × 10-6) and increased PI4K2B expression in colorectal tumours was associated with improved survival (P = 9.6 × 10-5). No previously associated SNPs were replicated. Our data identify novel loci associated with survival when stratified by tumour location.© 2025. The Author(s).
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC), especially clear cell RCC (ccRCC), significantly impacts health, and results in particularly poor outcomes in patients at the advanced stage. Resistance to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway-targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) is a major barrier in effective ccRCC treatment. Herein, we aim to explore how decitabine mediates bridging integrator 1 (BIN1) and spectrin repeat containing nuclear envelope protein 1 (SYNE1) to impact resistance of ccRCC to sorafenib.Employing bioinformatics on datasets GSE64052 and CancerSea, we identified genes linked to TKI resistance, ultimately focusing on SYNE1. We assessed influences of SYNE1 overexpression and BIN1 knockdown via quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot. Assessment of cell viability and apoptosis was accomplished using cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assays and flow cytometry. The investigation into the potential interactions between SYNE1 and BIN1, as well as their impacts on sorafenib sensitivity was accomplished by Co-Immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) Pull-down.SYNE1 was substantially down-regulated in sorafenib-resistant ccRCC cells, and its overexpression increased sorafenib sensitivity, decreased viability and enhanced apoptosis. Interaction between BIN1 and SYNE1 was confirmed, with BIN1 level lower in resistant cells. BIN1 knockdown reduced the beneficial effects of SYNE1 overexpression on sorafenib sensitivity. Decitabine treatment elevated both SYNE1 and BIN1, while boosting apoptosis and reducing sorafenib resistance.SYNE1 contributes to the modulation of sorafenib resistance in ccRCC cells through interacting with BIN1. Decitabine treatment enhances expressions of these two proteins to improve TKI response, suggesting a potential strategy for counteracting resistance and bettering patient outcomes.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Childhood-onset essential hypertension (COEH) is an uncommon form of hypertension that manifests in childhood or adolescence and, in the United States, disproportionately affects children of African ancestry. The etiology of COEH is unknown, but its childhood onset, low prevalence, high heritability, and skewed ancestral demography suggest the potential to identify rare genetic variation segregating in a Mendelian manner among affected individuals and thereby implicate genes important to disease pathogenesis. However, no COEH genes have been reported to date. Here, we identify recessive segregation of rare and putatively damaging missense variation in the spectrin domain of spectrin repeat containing nuclear envelope protein 1 (SYNE1), a cardiovascular candidate gene, in 3 of 16 families with early-onset COEH without an antecedent family history. By leveraging exome sequence data from an additional 48 COEH families, 1,700 in-house trios, and publicly available data sets, we demonstrate that compound heterozygous SYNE1 variation in these COEH individuals occurred more often than expected by chance and that this class of biallelic rare variation was significantly enriched among individuals of African genetic ancestry. Using in vitro shRNA knockdown of SYNE1, we show that reduced SYNE1 expression resulted in a substantial decrease in the elasticity of smooth muscle vascular cells that could be rescued by pharmacological inhibition of the downstream RhoA/Rho-associated protein kinase pathway. These results provide insights into the molecular genetics and underlying pathophysiology of COEH and suggest a role for precision therapeutics in the future.
Although PIKFYVE phosphoinositide kinase inhibitors can selectively eliminate PIKFYVE-dependent human cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, the basis for this selectivity has remained elusive. Here we show that the sensitivity of cells to the PIKFYVE inhibitor WX8 is not linked to PIKFYVE expression, macroautophagic/autophagic flux, the BRAFV600E mutation, or ambiguous inhibitor specificity. PIKFYVE dependence results from a deficiency in the PIP5K1C phosphoinositide kinase, an enzyme required for conversion of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) into phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns[4,5]P2/PIP2), a phosphoinositide associated with lysosome homeostasis, endosome trafficking, and autophagy. PtdIns(4,5)P2 is produced via two independent pathways. One requires PIP5K1C; the other requires PIKFYVE and PIP4K2C to convert PtdIns3P into PtdIns(4,5)P2. In PIKFYVE-dependent cells, low concentrations of WX8 specifically inhibit PIKFYVE in situ, thereby increasing the level of its substrate PtdIns3P while suppressing PtdIns(4,5)P2 synthesis and inhibiting lysosome function and cell proliferation. At higher concentrations, WX8 inhibits both PIKFYVE and PIP4K2C in situ, which amplifies these effects to further disrupt autophagy and induce cell death. WX8 did not alter PtdIns4P levels. Consequently, inhibition of PIP5K1C in WX8-resistant cells transformed them into sensitive cells, and overexpression of PIP5K1C in WX8-sensitive cells increased their resistance to WX8. This discovery suggests that PIKFYVE-dependent cancers could be identified clinically by low levels of PIP5K1C and treated with PIKFYVE inhibitors.Abbreviations: DMSO: dimethylsulfoxide; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; LC3-I: microtubule associated protein light chain 3-I; LC3-II: microtubule associated protein light chain 3-II; MS: mass spectrometry; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns3P: PtdIns-3-phosphate; PtdIns4P: PtdIns-4-phosphate; PtdIns5P: PtdIns-5-phosphate; PtdIns(3,5)P2: PtdIns-3,5-bisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2/PIP2: PtdIns-4,5-bisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3/PIP3: PtdIns-3,4,5-trisphosphate; PIKFYVE: phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PI4KA: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase alpha; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PI4K2B: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 beta; PIP4K2A: phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PIP4K2B: phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 beta; PIP4K2C: phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 gamma; PIP5K1A: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 alpha; PIP5K1B: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 beta; PIP5K1C: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 gamma; WX8: 1H-indole-3-carbaldehyde (4-anilino-6-[4-morpholinyl]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)hydrazone.
Autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 (ARCA-1), also known as autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia type 8 (SCAR8), is caused by spectrin repeat containing nuclear envelope protein 1 (SYNE1) gene mutation. Nesprin-1, encoded by SYNE1, is widely expressed in various tissues, especially in the striated muscle and cerebellum. The destruction of Nesprin-1 is related to neuronal and neuromuscular lesions. It has been reported that SYNE1 gene variation is associated with Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy type 4, arthrogryposis multiplex congenita, SCAR8, and dilated cardiomyopathy. The clinical manifestations of SCAR8 are mainly characterized by relatively pure cerebellar ataxia and may be accompanied by upper and/or lower motor neuron dysfunction. Some affected people may also display cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome. It is conventionally held that the age at the onset of SCAR8 is between 6 and 42 years (the median age is 17 years). Here, we report a pedigree with SCAR8 where the onset age in the proband is 48 years. This case report extends the genetic profile and clinical features of SCAR8. A new pathogenic site (c.7578del; p.S2526Sfs*8) located in SYNE1, which is the genetic cause of the patient, was identified via whole exome sequencing (WES).Copyright © 2022 Qian, Wei, Yang, Wang, Zhang, Jin, Dong, Hao, Yang and Huang.
Unexpected high risk of synchronous/metachronous hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) co-occurrence has been discovered previously. Here, we searched for genetic variation contributing to the co-occurrence of this double primary cancer (DPC). Using targeted exome sequencing, a panel of variants associated with concurrent DPC was identified. However, only a nonsynonymous variant within the Spectrin Repeat Containing Nuclear Envelope Protein 1 (SYNE1) gene was associated with DPC occurrence (p = 0.002), compared with that in the healthy population. Further independent cohort verification analysis revealed that the SYNE1-rs9479297-TT genotype (versus TC + CC genotypes) was enriched in patients with DPC, compared with that in those with TCC alone (p = 0.039), those with HCC alone (p = 0.006), those with non-HCC/non-TCC (p < 0.001), and healthy population (p < 0.001). SYNE1 mRNA expression reduced in both patients with HCC and TCC, and its lower expression in HCC was associated with shorter recurrence-free (p = 0.0314) and metastasis-free (p = 0.0479) survival. SYNE1-rs9479297 genotypes were correlated with tissue SYNE1 levels and clinical outcomes in HCC patients. Finally, SYNE1 silencing enhanced the cell proliferation and migration of HCC/TCC cells. In conclusion, SYNE1-rs9479297 genotypes were associated with HCC/TCC DPC co-occurrence and correlated with SYNE1 expression, which in turn contributed to HCC/TCC cell proliferation and migration, thereby affecting clinical outcomes.
Esophageal cancer is a common malignancy worldwide and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality. Definitive concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) has been widely used to treat locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). In this study, we evaluated the predictive power of a 35-gene mutation profile and radiation parameters in patients with ESCC. Data from 44 patients with ESCC who underwent definitive CCRT were retrospectively reviewed. A 35-gene mutation profile, derived from reported ESCC-specific next-generation sequencing results, and radiation dosimetry parameters were examined using the Kaplan-Meier curve and Cox proportional hazards model. All patients were native Chinese and underwent CCRT with a median follow-up time of 22.0 months. Significant prognostic factors affecting progression-free survival in the multivariable Cox regression model were clinical nodal staging ≥2 (hazard ratio, HR: 2.52, 95% CI: 1.15-5.54, p = 0.022), ≥10% lung volume receiving ≥30 Gy (V30) (HR: 2.36, 95% CI: 1.08-5.17, p = 0.032), and mutation of fibrous sheath interacting protein 2 (FSIP2) (HR: 0.08, 95% CI: 0.01-0.58, p = 0.013). For overall survival, significant prognostic factors in the multivariable Cox regression model were lung V30 ≥10% (HR: 3.71, 95% CI: 1.48-9.35, p = 0.005) and mutation of spectrin repeat containing nuclear envelope protein 1 (SYNE1) (HR: 2.95, 95% CI: 1.25-6.97, p = 0.014). Our cohort showed higher MUC17 (79.5% vs. 5.7%), FSIP2 (18.2% vs. 6.2%), and SYNE1 (38.6% vs. 11.0%) mutation rates and lower TP53 (38.6% vs. 68.7%) mutation rates than the ESCC cohorts from The Cancer Genome Atlas. In conclusion, by using a combination of a 35-gene mutation profile and radiotherapy dosimetry, mutations in FSIP2 and SYNE1 as well as lung V30 were identified as potential predictors for developing a prediction model for clinical outcomes in patients with ESCC administered definitive CCRT.Copyright © 2021 Tang, Tan, Pang, Chi, Wang, Yuan, Huang and Chen.
Autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 (ARCA-1) or spinocerebellar ataxia autosomal recessive type 8 (SCAR8) is a slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder that occurs due to mutations in the spectrin repeat containing nuclear envelope protein 1 (SYNE1) gene. Previously considered a rare cause of ARCA, related to French-Canadian patients from Beauce, Quebec, Canada, SYNE1 ataxia is now known to be of worldwide distribution. We present the case report of a 54-year-old male patient with the genetic diagnosis of SYNE1 ataxia, presenting with a SYNE1 gene mutation never described in Chilean population before.© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC part of Springer Nature.
Axonal Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2) accounts for 24% of Hereditary Motor/Sensory Peripheral Neuropathies. CMT2 type GG, due to four distinct heterozygous mutations in the Golgi brefeldin A resistant guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GBF1) gene (OMIM 606483), was described in seven cases from four unrelated families with autosomal dominant inheritance. It is characterized by slowly progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy, primarily affecting the lower limbs. Here, we present two siblings sharing a novel GBF1 variant.Patient II.1 (male, 61 years at onset) presented lower limb hypoesthesia and walking difficulty; the examination revealed a postural tremor, a positive Romberg test, and muscle atrophy in the lower limbs and hands. Patient II.2 (his sister, 59 years at onset) had lower limb dysesthesias, hand paresthesia, and lower-limb stiffness. They underwent clinical evaluations, blood tests, and electroneurography. Their father represents a potentially affected individual, although a genetic analysis was not conducted.All tests for peripheral neuropathies were unremarkable, including metabolic and autoimmune screening. Both showed a mixed demyelinating-axonal sensory-motor neuropathy. Genetic analysis revealed a new heterozygous GBF1 variant of uncertain significance.Based on autosomal dominant inheritance, as well as clinical and physiological features, a possible novel CMT2GG was diagnosed. Further research, including functional assays and in vitro studies, is necessary to confirm this variant's causal link.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34625039 is a review article
The components and subprocesses underlying the formation of COPI-coated vesicles at the Golgi are well understood. The coating cascade is initiated after the small GTPase Arf1 is activated by the Sec7 domain-containing guanine nucleotide exchange factor GBF1 (Golgi brefeldin A resistant guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1). This causes a conformational shift within Arf1 that facilitates stable association of Arf1 with the membrane, a process required for subsequent recruitment of the COPI coat. Although we have atomic-level knowledge of Arf1 activation by Sec7 domain-containing GEFs, our understanding of the biophysical processes regulating Arf1 and GBF1 dynamics is limited. We used fluorescence recovery after photobleaching data and kinetic Monte Carlo simulation to assess the behavior of Arf1 and GBF1 during COPI vesicle formation in live cells. Our analyses suggest that Arf1 and GBF1 associate with Golgi membranes independently, with an excess of GBF1 relative to Arf1. Furthermore, the GBF1-mediated Arf1 activation is much faster than GBF1 cycling on/off the membrane, suggesting that GBF1 is regulated by processes other than its interactions Arf1. Interestingly, modeling the behavior of the catalytically inactive GBF1/E794K mutant stabilized on the membrane is inconsistent with the formation of a stable complex between it and an endogenous Arf1 and suggests that GBF1/E794K is stabilized on the membrane independently of complex formation.
Plasma-activated water (PAW) contains multiple active species that alter the structure of myofibrillar protein (MP) to enhance their gel properties. This work investigated the impact of PAW on the oxidation of cysteine in MP by label-free quantitative proteomics. PAW treatment caused the oxidation of 8241 cysteine sites on 2815 proteins, and structural proteins such as nebulin, myosin XVIIIB, myosin XVIIIA, and myosin heavy chain were susceptible to oxidation by PAW. Bioinformatics analysis, including Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway, subcellular localization, and STRING analysis, indicated that these proteins with differential oxidation sites were mainly derived from the cytoplasm and membrane, and were involved in multiple GO terms and KEGG pathways. This is one of the first reports of the redox proteomic changes induced by PAW treatment, and the results are useful for understanding the possible mechanism of PAW-induced oxidation of MP.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To elucidate the effect of electron beam irradiation (EBI) on the textural quality of Litopenaeus vannamei, the tandem-mass-tag labeled proteomic method was conducted to illustrate the protein changes in shrimp muscle. The results suggested that shrimp irradiated with 5 kGy exhibited optimum textural traits of hardness, springiness, and chewiness. In total, 486 proteins were identified as differentially abundance proteins (DAPs) in multiple comparison groups. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that most of DAPs participated in cellular process, binding, and catalytic. etc. Various signaling pathways, such as RNA transport and oxidative phosphorylation, were notably enriched by DAPs. The correlation analysis indicated that some DAPs such as Myosin-XVIIIa, projectin, and beta-thymosin 3 were remarkably correlated with the textural properties, which could be proposed as potential biomarkers to assess the irradiation-induced textural variation in shrimp. This study provided an insightful understanding at the protein level to improve the application of EBI to shrimp preservation.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35711736 is a review article
Primary dysfunction of autophagy due to Mendelian defects affecting core components of the autophagy machinery or closely related proteins have recently emerged as an important cause of genetic disease. This novel group of human disorders may present throughout life and comprises severe early-onset neurodevelopmental and more common adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders. Early-onset (or congenital) disorders of autophagy often share a recognizable "clinical signature," including variable combinations of neurological, neuromuscular and multisystem manifestations. Structural CNS abnormalities, cerebellar involvement, spasticity and peripheral nerve pathology are prominent neurological features, indicating a specific vulnerability of certain neuronal populations to autophagic disturbance. A typically biphasic disease course of late-onset neurodegeneration occurring on the background of a neurodevelopmental disorder further supports a role of autophagy in both neuronal development and maintenance. Additionally, an associated myopathy has been characterized in several conditions. The differential diagnosis comprises a wide range of other multisystem disorders, including mitochondrial, glycogen and lysosomal storage disorders, as well as ciliopathies, glycosylation and vesicular trafficking defects. The clinical overlap between the congenital disorders of autophagy and these conditions reflects the multiple roles of the proteins and/or emerging molecular connections between the pathways implicated and suggests an exciting area for future research. Therapy development for congenital disorders of autophagy is still in its infancy but may result in the identification of molecules that target autophagy more specifically than currently available compounds. The close connection with adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders highlights the relevance of research into rare early-onset neurodevelopmental conditions for much more common, age-related human diseases.Abbreviations: AC: anterior commissure; AD: Alzheimer disease; ALR: autophagic lysosomal reformation; ALS: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; AMBRA1: autophagy and beclin 1 regulator 1; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ASD: autism spectrum disorder; ATG: autophagy related; BIN1: bridging integrator 1; BPAN: beta-propeller protein associated neurodegeneration; CC: corpus callosum; CHMP2B: charged multivesicular body protein 2B; CHS: Chediak-Higashi syndrome; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CMT: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease; CNM: centronuclear myopathy; CNS: central nervous system; DNM2: dynamin 2; DPR: dipeptide repeat protein; DVL3: disheveled segment polarity protein 3; EPG5: ectopic P-granules autophagy protein 5 homolog; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: homotypic fusion and protein sorting complex; FIG4: FIG4 phosphoinositide 5-phosphatase; FTD: frontotemporal dementia; GBA: glucocerebrosidase; GD: Gaucher disease; GRN: progranulin; GSD: glycogen storage disorder; HC: hippocampal commissure; HD: Huntington disease; HOPS: homotypic fusion and protein sorting complex; HSPP: hereditary spastic paraparesis; LAMP2A: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2A; MEAX: X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy; mHTT: mutant huntingtin; MSS: Marinesco-Sjoegren syndrome; MTM1: myotubularin 1; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NBIA: neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation; NCL: neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis; NPC1: Niemann-Pick disease type 1; PD: Parkinson disease; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; RAB3GAP1: RAB3 GTPase activating protein catalytic subunit 1; RAB3GAP2: RAB3 GTPase activating non-catalytic protein subunit 2; RB1: RB1-inducible coiled-coil protein 1; RHEB: ras homolog, mTORC1 binding; SCAR20: SNX14-related ataxia; SENDA: static encephalopathy of childhood with neurodegeneration in adulthood; SNX14: sorting nexin 14; SPG11: SPG11 vesicle trafficking associated, spatacsin; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TBC1D20: TBC1 domain family member 20; TECPR2: tectonin beta-propeller repeat containing 2; TSC1: TSC complex subunit 1; TSC2: TSC complex subunit 2; UBQLN2: ubiquilin 2; VCP: valosin-containing protein; VMA21: vacuolar ATPase assembly factor VMA21; WDFY3/ALFY: WD repeat and FYVE domain containing protein 3; WDR45: WD repeat domain 45; WDR47: WD repeat domain 47; WMS: Warburg Micro syndrome; XLMTM: X-linked myotubular myopathy; ZFYVE26: zinc finger FYVE-type containing 26.
In humans, TDRD7 (tudor domain containing 7) mutations lead to a syndrome combining congenital cataracts (CCs) and non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA), characterized by abnormal lens development and spermiogenesis. However, the molecular mechanism underlying TDRD7's functions in eye and testicular development are still largely unknown. Here, we show that the depletion of this gene in mice and humans resulted in the accumulation of autophagosomes and the disruption of macroautophagic/autophagic flux. The disrupted autophagic flux in tdrd7-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) was caused by a failure of autophagosome fusion with lysosomes. Furthermore, transcriptome analysis and biochemical assays showed that TDRD7 might directly bind to Tbc1d20 mRNAs and downregulate its expression, which is a key regulator of autophagosome maturation, resulting in the disruption of autophagosome maturation. In addition, we provide evidence to show that TDRD7-mediated autophagosome maturation maintains lens transparency by facilitating the removal of damaged proteins and organelles from lens fiber cells and the biogenesis of acrosome. Altogether, our results showed that TDRD7 plays an essential role in the maturation of autophagosomes and that tdrd7 deletion results in eye defects and testicular abnormalities in mice, implicating disrupted autophagy might be the mechanism that contributes to lens development and spermiogenesis defects in human.Abbreviations: CB: chromatoid bodies; CC: congenital cataract; CTSD: cathepsin D; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LECs: lens epithelial cells; MAP1LC3/LC3/Atg8: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; NOA: non-obstructive azoospermia; OFZ: organelle-free zone; RG: RNA granules; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBC1D20: TBC1 domain family member 20; TDRD7: tudor domain containing 7; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; WT: wild type.
Golgi membrane-associated degradation (GOMED) is a protein degradation pathway that primarily targets proteins transiting through the trans-Golgi cisternae, and functions constitutively or in response to abnormalities in Golgi-trafficked cargos. Although GOMED is morphologically similar to macroautophagy/autophagy, its substrate recognition mechanism has remained unclear to date. In this study, we identified OPTN (optineurin) as an essential receptor protein for selective cargo recognition in GOMED. We found that OPTN binds K33-linked polyubiquitinated proteins that have passed through the Golgi apparatus and delivers them to GOMED structures for degradation. In vivo, OPTN-dependent GOMED is required for mitochondrial clearance during erythrocyte maturation, and Optn-deficient mice have erythrocytes that retain mitochondria. Taken together, our findings define the molecular basis of selective cargo recognition in GOMED.
Neurotrophic keratitis (NK) arises when trigeminal sensory dysfunction reduces corneal sensation and compromises epithelial maintenance. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) establishes latency in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) and is a common trigger of acquired NK, yet the host programs that determine whether inflamed ganglia recover or degenerate remain poorly defined. Moreover, experimental models that faithfully capture NK-like neuroimmune pathology are limited. Using a murine ocular HSV-1 infection model, we identify optineurin (OPTN) as a key regulator of trigeminal nerve preservation. Optn-/- mice developed severe corneal opacity and rapid, persistent loss of corneal and whisker sensitivity despite comparable corneal viral titers. Droplet-based single-cell RNA sequencing of TGs at 30 days postinfection revealed reduced recovery of peripheral neuronal transcriptomes and coordinated enrichment of chemokine/NF-κB and Th17/IL-17 gene signatures across neurons, endothelial cells, and myeloid/lymphoid populations. Consistent with these transcriptional programs, IL-17 was elevated in Optn-/- TGs at 30 days, whereas the cornea and draining lymph nodes did not exhibit increased IL-17 production early after infection. Neuronal staining demonstrated loss of the synaptic marker SNCG without increased neuronal death, implicating IL-17-associated inflammation in neuronal dysfunction rather than acute ablation. Together, these findings identify OPTN as a neuroimmune checkpoint that restrains chronic IL-17-linked ganglionic inflammation to preserve sensory function and suggest that OPTN deficiency provides a tractable experimental model for studying HSV-associated NK.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a globally prevalent pathogen that poses a significant health threat due to its lifelong latency. This persistence is driven by intricate immune evasion mechanisms, the deciphering of which remains a challenge. Here, we identified the HSV-1 tegument protein UL16 as a novel viral immunosuppressive factor, which significantly suppresses the RIGI-like receptor (RLR)-mediated antiviral immunity. We found that UL16 can interact with MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein) and induce its degradation, thereby inhibiting type I interferon (IFN-I) production. Further investigation revealed that UL16-induced MAVS degradation was facilitated via mitophagy involving the mitochondrial cargo receptor FUNDC1 (FUN14 domain containing 1). Knockout of FUNDC1 expression completely disrupted UL16-induced MAVS degradation and restricted HSV-1 replication. In contrast, overexpression of FUNDC1 augmented the suppressive effect of UL16 on MAVS-triggered IFN-I signaling and consequently benefited viral replication. Notably, the C-terminal domain (CTD) of UL16 primarily accounted for its immunosuppressive function, which was also demonstrated to be essential for UL16 engagement with MAVS, FUNDC1 and MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3). A conserved LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif within the UL16 CTD was identified to play a critical role in LC3 recruitment enhancement. Furthermore, the UL16-deficient HSV-1 exhibited markedly attenuated viral infectivity and pathogenicity in vivo. In summary, our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized pathway through which HSV-1 UL16 subverts host immunity by inducing mitophagy. This study provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions and establishes a rational foundation for developing novel therapeutics against HSV-1 infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CARD: caspase recruitment domain; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; CXCL10: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ds: double-stranded; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HEK: human embryonic kidney; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; IAV: influenza A virus; IFIH1/MDA5: interferon induced with helicase C domain 1; IFIT1/ISG56: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFN-I: type I interferon; IgG: Immunoglobulin G; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; kDa: kilodalton; KO: knockout; KSHV: Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; Mdivi-1: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; NanoBiT: NanoLuc Binary Technology; NC: negative control; NTD: N-terminal domain; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RIGI/RIG-I: RNA sensor RIG-I; RLR: RIGI-like receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SeV: Sendai virus; sgRNA: single guide RNA; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TM: transmembrane; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TRAF: TNF receptor associated factor; TUFM: Tu translation elongation factor, mitochondrial; UL16: unique long region 16; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD-FMK: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42369864 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42368330 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42357765 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42326008 is a review article
Optineurin (OPTN) is widely recognized as a multifunctional selective autophagy receptor involved in cargo turnover. However, our recent findings uncover an unexpected function of OPTN that challenges the conventional view of autophagy adaptors. In dendritic cells (DCs), OPTN binds to and stabilizes Rictor, a key component of the mTORC2 complex. Loss of OPTN leads to depletion of Rictor, reduced Akt2 activity, and activation of the mTORC1/p70S6K1 pathway, culminating in enhanced phosphorylation of STAT3 at Ser727. Activated STAT3 transcriptionally induces the E3 ubiquitin ligase MARCH1, which promotes MHC II internalization, resulting in a striking inverse relationship between MARCH1 and MHC II expression in Optn-deficient cells. Together, these findings identify an unexpected signaling function of OPTN, independent of its canonical autophagy activities. By stabilizing Rictor and maintaining mTORC2-Akt2 signaling, OPTN links a classical autophagy adaptor to the regulation of antigen presentation and adaptive immunity. More broadly, our findings raise the possibility that selective autophagy receptors preserve cellular homeostasis not only through cargo clearance but also through context-dependent, non-degradative regulation of protein stability and signaling networks.Abbreviation: OPTN: Optineurin; mTORC1: mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1; mTORC2: mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1; Rictor: Rapamycin-Insensitive Companion of mTOR.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract. This disease is characterized by a steadily increasing global incidence. Multiple susceptibility genes are implicated in IBD pathogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms linking epithelial barrier dysfunction to disease progression remain poorly understood. This study performs an integrative analysis of public bulk RNA-seq and single-cell transcriptomic datasets. Experimental validation is conducted using clinical samples. Analyses reveal that vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1) is significantly downregulated in IBD. This reduced expression correlates with disease severity. Functional studies demonstrate that VMP1 deficiency in intestinal epithelial cells disrupts tight junction integrity. This loss increases epithelial permeability and exacerbates intestinal inflammation. Mechanistically, VMP1 facilitates the recruitment of CORO1C to late endosomes. This recruitment promotes Retromer-mediated recycling of the tight junction protein Occludin to the plasma membrane. Impairment of this pathway shifts Occludin trafficking toward ESCRT-dependent microautophagic degradation. This shift results in the sustained loss of tight junctions. These findings identify VMP1 as a previously unrecognized regulator of epithelial tight junction recycling and barrier homeostasis. This discovery provides new mechanistic insights into IBD pathogenesis and highlights a promising therapeutic avenue for restoring intestinal barrier function.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Transmembrane protein 41B (TMEM41B) and vacuolar membrane protein 1 (VMP1) are endoplasmic reticulum (ER) scramblases whose roles in hepatic lipoprotein secretion and autophagy in metabolic-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) remain unclear.We undertook lipidomic and functional studies in liver- and hepatocyte-specific Tmem41b knockout (KO) mice; Tmem41b knock-in (KI) mice, Tmem41b/Vmp1 double KO (DKO); Tmem41b KO/Vmp1 KI, and Vmp1 KO/Tmem41b KI mice.TMEM41B protein levels decreased in the livers of human subjects with MASLD. Loss of hepatic Tmem41b impaired very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) secretion, with steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis, whereas hepatic TMEM41B overexpression mitigated these effects. Tmem41b/Vmp1 DKO mice showed further impairment in VLDL secretion compared with single Tmem41b KO. Lipidomic analysis revealed decreased phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine, with increased neutral lipids in Tmem41b KO mice. VMP1 and TMEM41B localize at the mitochondrial-associated membrane with reduced mitochondria-ER contact in Vmp1 and Tmem41b KO mice. Loss of hepatic VMP1 or TMEM41B increased levels of LC3B-II and p62/SQSTM1, which were not further changed in DKO mice. Restoring VMP1 in Tmem41b KO mice and TMEM41B in Vmp1 KO mice partially corrected defective VLDL secretion and hepatic steatosis in these single KO mice, respectively. Restoring VMP1 at a low but not a high dose corrected defective autophagy in Tmem41b KO mice, whereas overexpression of TMEM41B dose-dependently improved defective autophagy in Vmp1 KO mice.Loss of hepatic VMP1 or TMEM41B reduces VLDL secretion and promotes MASLD via overlapping but distinct mechanisms that regulate lipoprotein secretion and autophagy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The plant endomembrane system and vesicle trafficking are central to plant immunity, mediating the targeted delivery and recycling of defence molecules during pathogen attack. Here, we investigated the functional role of soybean Vacuole Membrane Protein 1 (GmVMP1) in mediating resistance against soybean cyst nematode (SCN, Heterodera glycines). GmVMP1 is a SNARE-associated protein whose expression was specifically and transiently upregulated in SCN-resistant soybean roots. Overexpression of GmVMP1 conferred near-complete resistance to SCN. Field-grown transgenic lines showed no developmental penalties and displayed modest gains in seed weight and protein content. GmVMP1 interacted with four key vesicle trafficking proteins, and silencing these interactors compromised GmVMP1-mediated resistance. Live-cell imaging revealed that GmVMP1 enhances endocytic vesicle formation and accelerates internalisation dynamics, pointing to a role in membrane trafficking during defence activation. Together, these results establish GmVMP1 as a novel SCN resistance gene that modulates vesicle trafficking to support early defence, with promising agronomic traits for soybean improvement.© 2026 The Author(s). Plant Biotechnology Journal published by Society for Experimental Biology and The Association of Applied Biologists and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bilirubin-induced brain damage represents a serious clinical consequence of hyperbilirubinemia, yet the role and underlying molecular mechanisms of autophagy the remain largely elusive. Here, we demonstrate that, for the first time, N6-methyladenosine (m6A) demethylase AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5) mediated dysregulated autophagic flux contributes to bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. Hyperdifferential differentiated PC12 cells and neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were employed as in vitro and in vivo models, respectively. In vivo experiments first showed a dysregulated autophagy and neuronal damage in hyperbilirubinemia. In vitro further experiments observed that bilirubin exposure inhibited autophagy as illustrated by the downregulated p62 and LC3-II protein expression and transmission electron microscopy results. Furthermore, we found that the autophagic flux impairment was due to the inhibition of initial stage following bilirubin exposure, which was pharmacologically validated using rapamycin and bafilomycin A1 and up-regulated protein expression of p-mTOR and BCL2. More importantly, we found that ALKBH5 overexpression can exacerbate bilirubin-induced autophagic flux damage, whereas ALKBH5 knockdown attenuated the inhibited autophagic flux damage. Mechanistically, Vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1), Ras-related GTP-binding protein C (RRAGC), and protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1) were identified as the target genes of ALKBH5 to impair autophagic flux with mRNA stability assay, RT-PCR analysis, and bioinfomatic analysis, thereby promoting bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. Collectively, our findings reveal that ALKBH5 participates in bilirubin-induced autophagic flux impairment, and propose m6A-dependent autophagy as a potential therapeutic target in hyperbilirubinemia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vacuole membrane Protein 1 (VMP1) is widely known to be an important mediator in the formation of autophagosomes, playing a crucial role in macroautophagic processes. Emerging evidence suggests that VMP1 may have context-dependent functions across diverse cancer types and different tumor microenvironments, both within the context of autophagy and beyond. Here, using glioblastoma as a cancer model, we found that VMP1 can promote tumor growth independent of its autophagic functions. We observed significant upregulation of VMP1 in glioblastoma, which was correlated with poorer prognosis, and its ability to promote tumor growth without altering autophagic flux. Bulk, single-cell, and spatial transcriptomics analyses revealed that the pro-angiogenic markers were enriched in glioblastomas with high VMP1 expression. We further validated that overexpression of VMP1 would enhance angiogenesis through VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling-mediated activation in endothelial cells. Treatment with bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody against VEGFA, significantly inhibited VMP1-driven tumor growth and prolonged survival in mice. Our study thus uncovered non-autophagic functions of VMP1 as an important mediator in glioblastoma angiogenesis with the potential for therapeutic targeting.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
BACKGROUND: Vacuolar membrane protein 1 (VMP1) is an endoplasmic reticulum - resident and multi - spanning membrane protein involved in various human cancers. However, its biological functions and molecular mechanisms in breast cancer remain underexplored. METHODS: Gene expression profiling was used to determine VMP1 levels. Western blot, qRT - PCR, and single - cell analysis were employed to confirm the findings. Functional assays such as knockdown and overexpression experiments were carried out to assess the effects on cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration. In vivo tumor growth experiments were also conducted. Additionally, clinical analysis of 117 breast cancer patient samples was performed to study the correlation between VMP1 expression and molecular subtypes. RESULTS: VMP1 was significantly upregulated in MCF − 7 cells line. Knockdown of VMP1 enhanced cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration, while overexpression suppressed tumor cell malignancy and inhibited tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, VMP1 was found to regulate key oncogenic signaling pathways, including PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK. Clinical analysis showed that VMP1 expression was correlated with molecular subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our findings suggest that VMP1 plays a crucial role in breast cancer progression, and modulation of its expression or activity may offer a therapeutic strategy.
Apicomplexan parasites, including Plasmodium falciparum and Toxoplasma gondii, contain specialized secretory organelles such as micronemes, rhoptries, and dense granules, which are essential for parasite motility, host cell invasion, development, and egress. DedA superfamily proteins are implicated in lipid mobilization, which is a key requirement for organelle biogenesis. Herein, we identify and investigate the vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1), a DedA superfamily member, of P. falciparum (PfVMP1) and T. gondii (TgVMP1). PfVMP1 and TgVMP1 are ER-localized lipid scramblases. TgVMP1 depletion adversely affects parasite development, motility, host cell invasion, and egress. These phenotypes are consistent with impaired rhoptry and dense granule biogenesis, and decreased secretion of micronemes and rhoptries in TgVMP1-depleted parasites, indicating a crucial role for TgVMP1 in the biogenesis and function of these organelles. TgVMP1 depletion impairs lipid droplet homeostasis and ER organization, and causes loss of intravacuolar network in the parasitophorous vacuole, which are key for parasite development. Restoration of the ER-localized lipid scramblase by complementing TgVMP1-depleted parasites with PfVMP1 or a homolog as distant as human VMP1 rescues the depleted parasites, indicating their functional conservation and a crucial role for ER-resident lipid scramblase activity in the biogenesis and function of secretory organelles.© 2025. The Author(s).
Protein ubiquitination modifications contribute to cardiomyocyte homeostasis and pathophysiology in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM). Yet the roles of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in DCM remain poorly defined. This study sought to delineate how valosin-containing protein interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1), a DUB, regulates DCM and to explore the molecular basis involved. We identify that VCPIP1 was significantly elevated in diabetic hearts, and upregulated VCPIP1 was mainly distributed in cardiomyocytes. Knockout of VCPIP1 specifically in cardiomyocytes ameliorated cardiac damage in mouse models of both type 2 and type 1 diabetes. Ubiquitinome and interactome profiling revealed AMPKγ1 as a substrate of VCPIP1 in cardiomyocytes. Mechanistically, VCPIP1 binds the cystathionine-β-synthase 2 domain of AMPKγ1 via its UBX-L domain and then catalyzes the K63-linked deubiquitination of AMPKγ1-K234 site through its catalytic residue C218. This VCPIP1-mediated AMPKγ1 deubiquitination disrupts AMPKα-γ heterodimer integrity, allosterically impairing AMPKα2-LKB1 interaction and limiting LKB1-mediated AMPKαT172 phosphorylation. RNA-seq analysis showed that AMPKγ1-K234 deubiquitination impaired mitochondrial respiration through inactivating AMPKα in cardiomyocytes, while VCPIP1 deficiency reversed hyperglycemia-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. Finally, AMPKγ1-K234R mutant phenocopied VCPIP1-mediated cardiac pathology in db/db mice. In conclusion, our findings unveil the VCPIP1-AMPKγ1 axis as a non-canonical regulatory mechanism for AMPKαT172 phosphorylation in cardiomyocytes, suggesting that inhibition of VCPIP1 represents a novel treatment approach for DCM.© 2026. The Author(s).
SPG4, the most common hereditary spastic paraplegia caused by SPAST variants, exhibits extreme age-at-onset variability, indicative of uncharacterized genetic modifiers. The GJA1R148Q variant (linked to oculodentodigital dysplasia) may modulate SPG4 pathogenesis, yet its underlying molecular mechanism remains undefined.We investigated the molecular mechanism by which GJA1R148Q accelerates early SPG4 onset in a proband with dual SPAST and GJA1 variants, and validated its function as a disease modifier for SPG4.We performed comprehensive clinical phenotyping, segregation analysis, coimmunoprecipitation, ubiquitination analyses, CRISPR-mediated correction in patient induced pluripotent stem cell2013derived organoids, and a targeted deubiquitinase screen.The GJA1R148Q enhanced the physical interaction between SPASTIN and GJA1, accelerated the degradation of deubiquitinase valosin-containing protein interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1), and thereby reduced SPASTIN levels. CRISPR-based reversion of the R148Q restored SPASTIN levels and rescued microtubule-severing function. Notably, maternal relatives carrying the GJA1R148Q allele alone exhibited no neurological abnormalities.The GJA1R148Q variant, although non-neurological in isolation, acts as a disease modifier that precipitates SPG4 by exacerbating SPASTIN haploinsufficiency through destabilization of VCPIP1, positioning GJA1-VCPIP1-SPASTIN signaling as a potential therapeutic axis for SPG4 treatment. © 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are increasingly being recognized to play important roles in cancer pathogenesis. However, the functional mechanisms of most lncRNAs remain poorly understood.RNA sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed lncRNAs between non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). In vitro and in vivo assays were conducted to investigate the functional role of lncRNA deoxyguanosine kinase 1 antisense RNA 1 (DGUOK-AS1). Meanwhile, RNA pull-down, RNA immunoprecipitation, co-immunoprecipitation, Western blot, and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays were performed to explore the potential regulatory mechanisms of DGUOK-AS1 on its target genes.Our analysis revealed a significant upregulation of lncRNA DGUOK-AS1 in MIBC compared with NMIBC. Functionally, DGUOK-AS1 was found to enhance the proliferation and invasion of bladder cancer (BC) cells by interacting with elongation factor Tu GTP binding domain containing 2 (EFTUD2), a 116-kDa U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein component. Mechanistically, DGUOK-AS1 directly binds to EFTUD2 and the deubiquitinating protein valosin-containing protein-interacting protein 1, thereby shielding EFTUD2 from ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. Furthermore, EFTUD2 orchestrates the exclusion of cassette exon 11 from macrophage-stimulating 1 receptor, leading to the production of the RON∆165 isoform. This isoform activates the Akt/PKB signaling pathway, which is crucial for cancer progression.DGUOK-AS1 drives BC progression via the EFTUD2/MST1R/Akt axis, offering a promising therapeutic target for BC treatment.
The host innate immune system is efficiently activated after recognizing microbial components, such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), by Toll-like receptors (TLRs). However, the molecular basis for the regulation of TLR-mediated signaling remains poorly understood. Here, we report that valosin containing protein interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1), a deubiquitinating enzyme, acts as a critical positive regulator of TLR4 signaling. TLR4 activation induces the upregulation and nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation of VCPIP1. The cytoplasmic VCPIP1 interacts with interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 and 2 (IRAK1/2) and maintains IRAK1/2 protein levels by reducing their degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Instead of directly deubiquitinating IRAK1/2 through the enzymatic activity, VCPIP1 blocks the K48 ubiquitination of IRAK1/2 in a non-catalytic manner. Ablation of VCPIP1 significantly attenuates LPS-induced inflammatory gene expression in macrophages. Consistently, VCPIP1-deficient mice are less susceptible to sepsis. Thus, this work reveals an essential role of VCPIP1 in TLR4 signaling and suggests that VCPIP1 may become a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory diseases.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301365
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301654
Dysregulation of Hippo signaling is observed in pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD). Moreover, overactivation of YAP is crucial for tumor progression. Although the inhibitory phospho-cascade is functional, the reason for YAP hyperactivation in PAAD remains unclear. Recent studies have revealed that the ubiquitin modification of YAP also plays an important role in the Hippo/YAP axis and cancer progression. To gain a better understanding of the potential mechanisms underlying the ubiquitination and deubiquitination of YAP, we carried out siRNA screening for critical deubiquitinases in PAAD. By using a deubiquitinase (DUB) library, we identified valosin-containing protein-interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1) as an important effector of YAP function and PAAD progression. Inhibition of VCPIP1 hampered PAAD progression via Hippo signaling. Clinical data revealed that VCPIP1 was elevated in PAAD and correlated with poor survival in PAAD patients. Biochemical assays demonstrated that VCPIP1 interacted with YAP, inhibiting K48-linked polyubiquitination and thereby increasing YAP stability. YAP directly binds to the VCPIP1 promoter region, enhancing its transcription in PAAD. Our study revealed a forward feedback loop between VCPIP1 and Hippo signaling in PAAD, indicating that VCPIP1 is a potential therapeutic drug target in PAAD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) remains an important public health challenge. Viral covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) persists in infected hepatocytes and serves as the template for transcribing all viral RNA species. HBV regulatory protein X (HBx) interacts with other viral and cellular proteins to play diverse functions in viral life cycle, including modulation of cccDNA transcription activity. Here, we used proximity labeling coupled with proteomic analysis to screen for HBx-interacting host proteins. One of the identified candidates, deubiquitinating enzyme valosin-containing protein-interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1), directly binds HBx and stabilizes HBx by reducing its proteasomal degradation, which corroborated a recent report. VCPIP1-mediated upregulation of HBV transcription, antigen expression, and genome replication was demonstrated using a series of HBV replication and infection models. More importantly, VCPIP1 was found to upregulate HBV in the absence of HBx. Mechanistic studies revealed that VCPIP1 HBx-independently associates with HBV enhancer I/X promoter (EnI/Xp) and positively modulates both its promoter and enhancer activities, partially through promoting the binding of YY1 transcription factor to EnI/Xp. Results presented here expand the recently described role of VCPIP1 in HBV life cycle and establish it as a multi-functional positive regulator of this virus.Hepatitis B virus (HBV) encodes the regulatory protein HBx that plays crucial roles in viral life cycle and cellular processes through interacting with viral and cellular proteins. Identifying HBx-interacting proteins may reveal novel aspects of host-virus interactions. In this work, proximity labeling coupled with proteomic analysis identified multiple HBx-interacting host factors, and among these, valosin-containing protein-interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1) was confirmed to directly bind HBx and reduce its proteasomal degradation, corroborating a recent report. In addition to upregulating HBx-expressing HBV, we showed that VCPIP1 also positively regulates mutant HBV lacking HBx expression. This novel HBx-independent function of VCPIP1 was shown to involve its association with one viral promoter/enhancer element, which upregulated the latter's promoter and enhancer activities. These results establish VCPIP1 as a positive regulator of HBV that acts through multiple, diverse mechanisms and might also contribute toward revealing novel cellular functions of VCPIP1.
The MYBL1 gene is a strong transcriptional activator involved in events associated with cancer progression. Previous data show MYBL1 overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). There are two parts to this study related to further characterizing the MYBL1 gene. We start by characterizing MYBL1 reference sequence variants and isoforms. The results of this study will help in future experiments in the event there is a need to characterize functional variants and isoforms of the gene. In part two, we identify and validate expression and gene-related alterations of MYBL1, VCIP1, MYC and BOP1 genes in TNBC cell lines and patient samples selected from the Breast Invasive Carcinoma TCGA 2015 dataset available at cBioPortal.org. The four genes are located at chromosomal regions 8q13.1 to 8q.24.3 loci, regions previously identified as demonstrating a high percentage of alterations in breast cancer. We identify alterations, including changes in expression, deletions, amplifications and fusions in MYBL1, VCPIP1, BOP1 and MYC genes in many of the same patients, suggesting the panel of genes is involved in coordinated activity in patients. We propose that MYBL1, VCPIP1, MYC and BOP1 collectively be considered as genes associated with the chromosome 8q loci that potentially play a role in TNBC pathogenesis.
To study the characteristics of selective polyadenylation (APA) in gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) by poly(A) site sequencing and to explore the role of APA process in the pathogenesis of GDM.Three pregnant women diagnosed as GDM in our hospital were randomly selected as the GDM group, and three healthy pregnant women at the same time as the control group. The placental tissues of two groups of pregnant women after delivery were collected for high-throughput transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) and poly(A) site sequencing (PAS-seq) to screen differentially expressed genes and variable 3'UTR genes in GDM. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and pathway analysis were used to analyze the functional classification and pathway of differential genes, and preliminarily explore the susceptible genes in GDM.Compared with the control group, there were 202 TTS loci in the GDM group, including 103 genes with shortened TTS loci and 99 genes with delayed TTS loci. There were 57 genes with significant difference in TTS (P<0.05). Subsequently, we found that VCPIP1 and LGR4 were differentially expressed in RNA-seq. The genes in advance of TTS locus were enriched in biological processes such as cell development, protein transport and phosphorylation, signal transduction, etc. Delayed TTS genes are enriched in biological processes such as transcriptional regulation, cell migration and cycle, DNA repair and damage.The abnormality of APA process may be involved in the occurrence and development of GDM. The genes with significantly different changes in TTS locus may become biomarkers or predictors for GDM to assess the incidence, disease progression and disease severity, and may also become potential targets for GDM treatment.© 2023 He and Wu.
Overexpression of PTP4A phosphatases are associated with advanced cancers, but their biological functions are far from fully understood due to limited knowledge about their physiological substrates. VCP is implicated in lysophagy via collaboration with specific cofactors in the ELDR complex. However, how the ELDR complex assembly is regulated has not been determined. Moreover, the functional significance of the penultimate and conserved Tyr805 phosphorylation in VCP has not been established. Here, we use an unbiased substrate trapping and mass spectrometry approach and identify VCP/p97 as a bona fide substrate of PTP4A2. Biochemical studies show that PTP4A2 dephosphorylates VCP at Tyr805, enabling the association of VCP with its C-terminal cofactors UBXN6/UBXD1 and PLAA, which are components of the ELDR complex responsible for lysophagy, the autophagic clearance of damaged lysosomes. Functionally, PTP4A2 is required for cellular homeostasis by promoting lysophagy through facilitating ELDR-mediated K48-linked ubiquitin conjugate removal and autophagosome formation on the damaged lysosomes. Deletion of Ptp4a2 in vivo compromises the recovery of glycerol-injection induced acute kidney injury due to impaired lysophagy and sustained lysosomal damage. Taken together, our data establish PTP4A2 as a critical regulator of VCP and uncover an important role for PTP4A2 in maintaining lysosomal homeostasis through dephosphorylation of VCP at Tyr805. Our study suggests that PTP4A2 targeting could be a potential therapeutic approach to treat cancers and other degenerative diseases by modulating lysosomal homeostasis and macroautophagy/autophagy.Abbreviations: AAA+: ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities; AKI: acute kidney injury; CBB: Coomassie Brilliant Blue; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; ELDR: endo-lysosomal damage response; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GST: ‎glutathione S-transferase; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IP: immunoprecipitation; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; LGALS3/Gal3: galectin 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; PLAA: phospholipase A2, activating protein; PTP4A2: protein tyrosine phosphatase 4a2; PUB: NGLY1/PNGase/UBA- or UBX-containing protein; PUL: PLAP, Ufd3, and Lub1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UBXN6/UBXD1: UBX domain protein 6; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; VCPIP1: valosin containing protein interacting protein 1; YOD1: YOD1 deubiquitinase.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer worldwide, and the viral X protein (HBx) is an etiological factor in HCC development. HBx is a high-turnover protein, but knowledge of the role of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) in maintaining HBx homeostasis is very limited. We used a 74-DUB library-based yeast two-hybrid assay and determined that a novel DUB, valosin-containing protein-interacting protein 1 (VCPIP1), interacted with HBx. VCPIP1 and its C-terminal amino acids 863 to 1221 upregulated the HBx protein expression, with or without HBV infection. Mechanistically, VCPIP1 stabilized HBx protein through a ubiquitin-independent pathway, which was validated by the HBx ubiquitination site mutant plasmid. Coimmunoprecipitation assays demonstrated the potency of VCPIP1 in recruiting 26S proteasome regulatory subunit 6A (PSMC3) and forming a ternary complex with HBx through mutual interaction. In vitro, purified His-tagged PSMC3 protein rescued HBx degradation induced by the 20S proteasome, and in vivo VCPIP1 synergized the mechanism. Functionally, HBx specifically binding to VCPIP1 significantly enhanced the transcriptional transactivation of HBx by activating NF-κB, AP-1, and SP-1 and inhibited hepatoma cell clonogenicity in Huh7 and HepG2 cells. Moreover, we further demonstrated that overexpression of VCPIP1 significantly affected the HBV covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) transcription in HBV-infected HepG2-NTCP cells. Altogether, our results indicate a novel mechanism by which VCPIP1 recruits PSMC3 to bind with HBx, stabilizing it in a ubiquitin-independent manner, which might be critical for developing DUB inhibitors in the future. IMPORTANCE HBx is a multifunctional viral oncoprotein that plays an essential role in the viral life cycle and hepatocarcinogenesis. HBx degradation occurs through the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). However, whether novel compartments of the DUBs in the UPS also act in regulating HBx stability is not fully understood. Here, for the first time, we defined VCPIP1 as a novel DUB for preventing HBx degradation by the 20S proteasome in a ubiquitin-independent manner. PSMC3, encoding the 26S proteasome regulatory subunit, directly stabilized HBx through physical binding instead of a common approach in protein degradation, serving as the key downstream effector of VCPIP1 on HBx. Therefore, the ternary binding pattern between VCPIP1, HBx, and PSMC3 is initiated for the first time, which eventually promotes HBx stability and its functions. Our findings provide novel insights into host-virus cross talk by targeting DUBs in the UPS.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical process for maintaining cellular homeostasis and has emerging implications in cancer biology. DRAM2 (DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2), a transmembrane protein enriched at lysosomal membranes, has been implicated in autophagy regulation; however, the upstream mechanisms governing its trafficking and function remain unclear. In this study, we identified RPS6KA3/RSK2, a stress-responsive kinase downstream of the MAPK pathway, as a novel upstream kinase of DRAM2. RPS6KA3/RSK2 interacted with and phosphorylated DRAM2 at Ser263 within its cytosolic tail. This phosphorylation was required for AP3D1/AP-3-dependent trafficking of DRAM2 to the late endosomal-lysosomal pathway, thereby facilitating autolysosome formation and sustaining autophagic flux. In contrast, the non-phosphorylatable DRAM2S263A mutant failed to bind AP3D1/AP-3, exhibited defective lysosomal trafficking, and was partially redistributed toward plasma membrane-proximal compartments, where it enhanced exosome secretion. Bioinformatic analyses revealed a strong positive correlation between RPS6KA3/RSK2 and DRAM2 expression in melanoma tissues, and elevated DRAM2 expression was associated with poor patient prognosis. Depletion of RPS6KA3/RSK2 or DRAM2 impaired autophagic flux and inhibited melanoma cell proliferation. Similarly, expression of the DRAM2S263A mutant suppressed melanoma progression in vitro and in vivo by disrupting autophagy. Moreover, DRAM2 protein levels were elevated in skin cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. Collectively, our findings uncover a phosphorylation-dependent trafficking switch that bifurcates DRAM2 function between autophagy and exosome secretion, and establish the RPS6KA3/RSK2-DRAM2 axis as a critical regulator of melanoma progression. This signaling pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target for autophagy-associated malignancies.Abbreviations: AGC: protein kinase A, G, and C families; AP-3: adaptor protein 3; CD: cytosolic domain; CSNK2/CK2: casein kinase 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CREB: cAMP responsive element binding protein; CTKD: C-terminal kinase domain; DRAM2: DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; GEPIA: gene expression profiling interactive analysis; GPS: global positioning system; GRK7: G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7; GSK3B: glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; NTKD: N-terminal kinase domain; PI4K2: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PRKAA2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; RPS6KA3/RSK2: ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3; SKCM: skin cutaneous melanoma; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1.
Dysfunction of the neuronal macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome system is a critical contributor to neuronal death following spinal cord injury (SCI), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Our study demonstrated that SCI induced impaired autophagic flux and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) in neurons. By combining in vivo bulk RNA sequencing with validation experiments, we observed the transient upregulation of the membrane repair factor PI4K2A, which was specifically enriched in lysosomes, after SCI. Crucially, ER-MS and IP-MS analyses revealed an interaction between PI4K2A and the endoplasmic reticulum lipid transfer protein OSBPL6/ORP6. This interaction led to the transport of phosphatidylserine (PS) to damaged lysosomal membranes, promoting LMP repair and subsequently reducing lipid droplet accumulation, which suppressed neuronal death. Furthermore, overexpression of neuronal PI4K2A in vivo, through an OSBPL6- and PS-dependent mechanism, reduced LMP-mediated lipid droplet accumulation and increased neuronal survival, thereby improving functional recovery after SCI. Collectively, our findings establish the PI4K2A-OSBPL6/ORP6-PS axis as a novel and essential mechanism for lysosomal membrane repair in neurons. This pathway is crucial for maintaining neuronal lipid homeostasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for reducing neuronal loss and improving functional recovery after central nervous system trauma.Abbreviations: AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BMS: Basso Mouse Scale; CNS: central nervous system; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DS5: DS55980254; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSPA5/GRP78: heat shock protein family A (HSP70) member 5; HT22: hippocampal neuronal cell line; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LD: lipid droplet; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; LGALS3/GAL3: lectin, galactoside binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LPC: lysophosphatidylcholine; LPE: lysophosphatidylethanolamine; MFGE8/lactadherin: milk fat globule EGF and factor V/VIII domain containing; MS: mass spectrometry; NAGLU: alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB); NEFH/NF200: neurofilament, heavy polypeptide; OSBPL6/ORP6: oxysterol binding protein-like 6; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein-like 8; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PLA2G4A/cPLA2: phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium dependent); PITT: phosphoinositide-initiated membrane tethering and lipid transport; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PLS-DA: partial least squares discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PTDSS1: phosphatidylserine synthase 1; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SCI: spinal cord injury; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TGs: triglycerides.
The autophagosomal SNARE STX17 (syntaxin 17) promotes lysosomal fusion and degradation, but its autophagosomal recruitment is incompletely understood. Notably, PtdIns4P is generated on autophagosomes and promotes fusion through an unknown mechanism. Here we show that soluble recombinant STX17 is spontaneously recruited to negatively charged liposomes and adding PtdIns4P to liposomes containing neutral lipids is sufficient for its recruitment. Consistently, STX17 colocalizes with PtdIns4P-positive autophagosomes in cells, and specific inhibition of PtdIns4P synthesis on autophagosomes prevents its loading. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that C-terminal positively charged amino acids establish contact with membrane bilayers containing negatively charged PtdIns4P. Accordingly, Ala substitution of Lys and Arg residues in the C terminus of STX17 abolishes membrane binding and impairs its autophagosomal recruitment. Finally, only wild type but not Ala substituted STX17 expression rescues the autophagosome-lysosome fusion defect of STX17 loss-of-function cells. We thus identify a key step of autophagosome maturation that promotes lysosomal fusion.Abbreviations: Cardiolipin: 1',3'-bis[1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho]-glycerol; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; GST: glutathione S-transferase; GUV: giant unilamellar vesicles; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; PA: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphate; PC/POPC: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-glycero-3-phosphocholine; PG: 1-palmitoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol); PI: L-α-phosphatidylinositol; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; POPE/PE: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine; PS: 1-stearoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine; PtdIns(3,5)P2: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1"-myo-inositol-3',5'-bisphosphate); PtdIns3P: 1,2- dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-myo-inositol-3'-phosphate); PtdIns4P: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1"-myo-inositol-4'-phosphate); SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; STX17: syntaxin 17.
VRK1 is a member of the vaccinia-related kinase (VRK) family of serine/threonine protein kinases, which is related to the occurrence and development of malignant tumors. The expression pattern, predictive value, and biological function of VRK1 in various cancers remain largely elusive and warrant further investigation.Public databases, such as TCGA, GTEx, and UCEC, were utilized to comprehensively analyze the expression of VRK1 across multiple cancer types. Prognostic significance was assessed through Univariate Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier analyses. Additionally, Spearman's correlation analysis was employed to explore the potential associations between VRK1 expression and various factors, including tumor microenvironment scores, immune cell infiltration, and immune-related genes. Moreover, to validate the findings, differential expression of VRK1 in HCC tissues and cell lines was further confirmed using qPCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry techniques.The upregulation of VRK1 was observed in most cancer types, and was associated with worse prognosis in ACC, KICH, KIRP, LGG, LIHC, LUAD, MESO, and PCPG. In various cancers, VRK1 expression exhibited positive correlations with immune infiltrating cells, immune checkpoint-related genes, TMB, and MSI. Furthermore, the promoter methylation status of VRK1 varied across different tumor types, and this variation was associated with patient prognosis in certain cancers. In our experimental analyses, we observed significantly elevated expression of VRK1 in both HCC tissues and HCC cells. Functionally, we found that the downregulation of VRK1 had a profound impact on HCC cells, leading to a significant decrease in their proliferation, migration, and invasion capabilities.The expression of VRK1 exerts a notable influence on the prognosis of several tumors and exhibits a strong correlation with tumor immune infiltration. Moreover, in the context of HCC, VRK1 may act as an oncogene, actively promoting tumor progression.
Jaw1/LRMP is a membrane protein that is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and outer nuclear membrane. Previously, we revealed that Jaw1 functions to maintain nuclear shape by interacting with microtubules as a Klarsicht/ANC-1/Syne/homology (KASH) protein. The loss of several KASH proteins causes defects in the position and shape of the Golgi apparatus as well as the nucleus, but the effects of Jaw1 depletion on the Golgi apparatus were poorly understood. Here, we found that siRNA-mediated Jaw1 depletion causes Golgi fragmentation with disordered ribbon structure in the melanoma cell, accompanied by the change in the localization of the Golgi-derived microtubule network. Thus, we suggest that Jaw1 is a novel protein to maintain the Golgi ribbon structure, associated with the microtubule network.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Biochemical Society. All rights reserved.
Dermatomyositis is an autoimmune disease characterized by damage to the skin and muscles. CD4+ T cells are of crucial importance in the occurrence and development of dermatomyositis (DM). However, there are few bioinformatics studies on potential pathogenic genes and immune cell infiltration of DM. Therefore, this study intended to explore CD4+ T-cell infiltration-associated key genes in DM and construct a new model to predict the level of CD4+ T-cell infiltration in DM.GSE46239, GSE142807, GSE1551, and GSE193276 datasets were downloaded. The WGCNA and CIBERSORT algorithms were performed to identify the most correlated gene module with CD4+ T cells. Matascape was used for GO enrichment and KEGG pathway analysis of the key gene module. LASSO regression analysis was used to identify the key genes and construct the prediction model. The correlation between the key genes and CD4+ T-cell infiltration was investigated. GSEA was performed to research the underlying signaling pathways of the key genes. The key gene-correlated transcription factors were identified through the RcisTarget and Gene-motif rankings databases. The miRcode and DIANA-LncBase databases were used to build the lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network.In the brown module, 5 key genes (chromosome 1 open reading frame 106 (C1orf106), component of oligomeric Golgi complex 8 (COG8), envoplakin (EVPL), GTPases of immunity-associated protein family member 6 (GIMAP6), and interferon-alpha inducible protein 6 (IFI6)) highly associated with CD4+ T-cell infiltration were identified. The prediction model was constructed and showed better predictive performance in the training set, and this satisfactory model performance was validated in another skin biopsy dataset and a muscle biopsy dataset. The expression levels of the key genes promoted the CD4+ T-cell infiltration. GSEA results revealed that the key genes were remarkably enriched in many immunity-associated pathways, such as JAK/STAT signaling pathway. The cisbp_M2205, transcription factor-binding site, was enriched in C1orf106, EVPL, and IF16. Finally, 3,835 lncRNAs and 52 miRNAs significantly correlated with key genes were used to build a ceRNA network.The C1orf106, COG8, EVPL, GIMAP6, and IFI6 genes are associated with CD4+ T-cell infiltration. The prediction model constructed based on the 5 key genes may better predict the level of CD4+ T-cell infiltration in damaged muscle and lesional skin of DM. These key genes could be recognized as potential biomarkers and immunotherapeutic targets of DM.Copyright © 2022 Huang, Tang, Zhang, Ren, Peng, Xiao, Xu, Mao, Liu and Liu.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) denotes genetically heterogeneous disorders characterized by leg spasticity due to degeneration of corticospinal axons. SPG11 and SPG15 have a similar clinical course and together are the most prevalent autosomal recessive HSP entity. The respective proteins play a role for macroautophagy/autophagy and autophagic lysosome reformation (ALR). Here, we report that spg11 and zfyve26 KO mice developed motor impairments within the same course of time. This correlated with enhanced accumulation of autofluorescent material in neurons and progressive neuron loss. In agreement with defective ALR, tubulation events were diminished in starved KO mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and lysosomes decreased in neurons of KO brain sections. Confirming that both proteins act in the same molecular pathway, the pathologies were not aggravated upon simultaneous disruption of both. We further show that PI4K2A (phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha), which phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol to phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PtdIns4P), accumulated in autofluorescent deposits isolated from KO but not WT brains. Elevated PI4K2A abundance was already found at autolysosomes of neurons of presymptomatic KO mice. Immunolabelings further suggested higher levels of PtdIns4P at LAMP1-positive structures in starved KO MEFs. An increased association with LAMP1-positive structures was also observed for clathrin and DNM2/dynamin 2, which are important effectors of ALR recruited by phospholipids. Because PI4K2A overexpression impaired ALR, while its knockdown increased tubulation, we conclude that PI4K2A modulates phosphoinositide levels at autolysosomes and thus the recruitment of downstream effectors of ALR. Therefore, PI4K2A may play an important role in the pathogenesis of SPG11 and SPG15.Abbreviations: ALR: autophagic lysosome reformation; AP-5: adaptor protein complex 5; BFP: blue fluorescent protein; dKO: double knockout; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; FBA: foot base angle; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSP: hereditary spastic paraplegia; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PtdIns4P: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate; RFP: red fluorescent protein; SPG: spastic paraplegia gene; TGN: trans-Golgi network; WT: wild type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 32255730 is a review article
The intensification of radiotherapy is an effective way to improve the therapeutic efficacy of radiation-sensitive malignancies such as esophageal cancer (EC). Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) accounts for 85% of all EC cases worldwide, with a relatively higher incidence and mortality in East Asia. In this study, we explored the functions and mechanisms of programmed cell death 10 (PDCD10) in the malignancy and radiotherapy sensitivity of ESCC cells. We observed that PDCD10 is highly expressed in ESCC tissues and is correlated with a poor prognosis in patients with ESCC. PDCD10 downregulation suppressed ESCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion but promoted apoptosis. In addition, it enhanced ionizing radiation (IR)-induced ESCC cell damage, whereas PDCD10 overexpression had the opposite effect. Mechanistically, PDCD10 increased the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase B (AKT) in ESCC cell lines. The administration of LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor, significantly inhibited the oncogenic functions of PDCD10, leading to an increase in IR-induced cell damage. These findings establish PDCD10 as a critical intrinsic regulator of the sensitivity of ESCC cells to IR through the modulation of the PI3K/AKT pathway.©The Author(s) 2025. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor survival rates. Effective molecular-targeted therapies are urgently needed. This study aimed to identify novel candidate tumor-associated genes in ESCC by analyzing chromosomal amplification regions.DNA copy number variation (CNV) and mRNA expression data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE). Single-cell RNA sequencing data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed using Scanpy. Immunohistochemistry was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) ESCC tissues. PDCD10 was identified as a potential tumor-associated gene, and its association with clinicopathological factors and prognostic impact was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival and Cox regression analyses. Pathway analysis was performed to investigate the biological processes, and drug sensitivity profiling was conducted to identify compounds whose efficacy correlated with PDCD10 expression in ESCC cell lines.PDCD10, a signaling protein involved in cell proliferation and vascular development, showed significant amplification and over-expression in ESCC cases. High PDCD10 expression was associated with poor prognosis. Single-cell RNA sequencing confirmed its tumor-specific expression. GSEA revealed enrichment of mTORC1 signaling, E2F, and Myc target pathways in high PDCD10-expressing tumors. Drug sensitivity analysis identified Azelaic acid and Rebamipide as compounds whose efficacy correlated with PDCD10 expression in ESCC cell lines.PDCD10 could be a novel tumor-associated gene associated with tumor progression and poor prognosis in ESCC. Azelaic acid and Rebamipide are candidate therapeutic agents targeting PDCD10.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Malignant progression of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is driven by transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 through extensive cross-talk with other signalling pathways. Prompted by the observation that the ubiquitous protein programmed cell death 10 (PDCD10) is more abundantly expressed in PDAC tumour tissue compared with normal pancreas and highly correlated with reduced patient survival, authors examined its function as a modulator of TGF-β signalling in PDAC. Cytotoxicity assays with PDAC-derived tumour cell lines, PaTu8902 (DPC4+/+) and PaTu8988t (DPC4-/-) engineered to homozygously lack PDCD10 showed that PDCD10 renders cells more chemoresistant to anticancer drugs. Moreover, PDCD10 promoted TGF-β1-dependent proliferation by inactivating the retinoblastoma 1 protein (pRb) via a SMAD4-dependent pathway, and TGF-β1-driven EMT by increasing ERK1/2 activation via a non-SMAD4 pathway. Phosphorylation of pRB and ERK by PDCD10 is facilitated by binding of PDCD10 to MST4. Targeting PDCD10 in PDAC patients may represent a promising new strategy to improve TGF-β targeted therapies.© 2025 The Author(s); published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the Biochemical Society.
Objectives. This study investigated the role and underlying regulatory mechanisms of circular RNA fibronectin type III domain containing 3B (circFNDC3B) in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Methods. The expression of circFNDC3B in AAA and normal tissues was assessed by quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). To evaluate the biological functions of circFNDC3B, assays were employed including 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT), flow cytometry, and Caspase-3 activity assays. Additionally, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), dual-luciferase reporter assay, Western blotting, and rescue experiments were utilized to elucidate the molecular mechanism of circFNDC3B. Results. Our findings revealed a significant upregulation of circFNDC3B expression in AAA clinical specimens compared to normal tissues. Functionally, overexpression of circFNDC3B inhibited vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) proliferation and induced apoptosis, contributing to AAA formation in the Ang II-induced AAA model. Mechanistically, circFNDC3B acted as a molecular sponge for miR-1270, leading to the upregulation of programmed cell death 10 (PDCD10). Decreased expression of PDCD10 abrogated the -promoting effects of circFNDC3B overexpression on AAA development. Conclusions. This study demonstrates that circFNDC3B promotes the progression of AAA by targeting the miR-1270/PDCD10 pathway. Our findings suggest that circFNDC3B as well as miR-1270/PDCD10 pathway may serve as a potential therapeutic target for AAA treatment.
Transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9 (TMED9) belongs to the TMED family, and its overexpression frequently induces cancer. Studies have demonstrated the association between the overexpression of TMED9 and cancer development and proliferative migration in cancers such as ovarian cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, and breast cancer. However, there has been no study investigating the clinical value, biological function, and anti-tumor immune effects of TMED9 from a pan-cancer perspective. The aim of this study is to evaluate the prognostic value and anti-tumor immunity role of TMED9 across pan-cancers.We utilized R language along with The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), UCSC Xena (University of California, Santa Cruz Xena Browser), Human Protein Atlas (HPA), and other datasets to investigate TMED9 expression in various tumors. The association between high TMED9 expression and clinical prognosis and patient survival was examined using the Kaplan-Meier method, log-rank test, as well as univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Tumor Immune Estimation Resource 2.0 (TIMER2.0) and various algorithms were employed to explore the relationship between TMED9 and the tumor microenvironment (TME). Additionally, the biological function of TMED9 in cancer was investigated through Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) analyses.TMED9 was over-expressed in the majority of cancers. Patients exhibiting elevated TMED9 expression typically experienced diminished survival rates and unfavorable clinical outcomes. TMED9 played a role as a mediator in the aggressive phenotype of numerous tumors, actively engaging in various biological and signaling pathways linked to cancer development. TMED9 demonstrated the capacity to modulate the anti-tumor immune response in pan-cancer patients, exerting its influence on the infiltration levels of immune cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs).TMED9 serves as a novel "cancer indicator" and "clinical prognostic marker", capable of reshaping the TME, impacting the immunotherapeutic response, and guiding precise treatments for cancers to a certain extent.2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Overcoming temozolomide (TMZ)-resistance is a major challenge in glioblastoma therapy. Therefore, identifying the key molecular player in chemo-resistance becomes urgent. We previously reported the downregulation of PDCD10 in primary glioblastoma patients and its tumor suppressor-like function in glioblastoma cells. Here, we demonstrate that the loss of PDCD10 causes a significant TMZ-resistance during treatment and promotes a rapid regrowth of tumor cells after treatment. PDCD10 knockdown upregulated MGMT, a key enzyme mediating chemo-resistance in glioblastoma, accompanied by increased expression of DNA mismatch repair genes, and enabled tumor cells to evade TMZ-induced cell-cycle arrest. These findings were confirmed in independent models of PDCD10 overexpressing cells. Furthermore, PDCD10 downregulation led to the dedifferentiation of glioblastoma cells, as evidenced by increased clonogenic growth, the upregulation of glioblastoma stem cell (GSC) markers, and enhanced neurosphere formation capacity. GSCs derived from PDCD10 knockdown cells displayed stronger TMZ-resistance and regrowth potency, compared to their parental counterparts, indicating that PDCD10-induced stemness may independently contribute to tumor malignancy. These data provide evidence for a dual role of PDCD10 in tumor suppression by controlling both chemo-resistance and dedifferentiation, and highlight PDCD10 as a potential prognostic marker and target for combination therapy with TMZ in glioblastoma.
Thyroid cancer incidence is rising globally, with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) being the most common subtype. While most patients have favorable outcomes, a subset develops aggressive, therapy-resistant disease, highlighting an urgent need to understand the molecular drivers of PTC progression. Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) has emerged as a potential oncogene in multiple solid tumors, yet its functional role and mechanistic basis in PTC remain poorly defined. This study aims to elucidate the biological function of GOLPH3 in PTC progression and investigate whether it exerts oncogenic effects through the TGF-β signaling pathway. qPCR and WB were utilized to determine the expression of GOLPH3 in PTC cells. The KEGG analysis was used to identify the signaling pathways enriched by GOLPH3. CCK-8, flow cytometry, and Transwell assays were respectively utilized to examine the viability, apoptosis level, as well as PTC cells' migration and invasion abilities. The proportion of senescent cells was analyzed through β-galactosidase staining. WB was applied to detect the expression of TGF-β signaling pathway markers (TGF-β1, SMAD2, p-SMAD2, p-SMAD3, SMAD3) as well as EMT markers (E-cadherin, N-cadherin, Snail). GOLPH3 expression was upregulated in PTC cells. GOLPH3 knockdown mitigated the viability, invasiveness, and motility of cancer cells and elevated the apoptosis rate and the proportion of senescent cells. KEGG analysis demonstrated that GOLPH3 was significantly enriched in the TGF-β signaling pathway, and that GOLPH3 knockdown could inhibit the TGF-β pathway and block the EMT process. Additionally, via activating this pathway, GOLPH3 overexpression promoted PTC progression. However, as an inhibitor of this pathway, LY2109761 could reverse the effects induced by GOLPH3 overexpression. Collectively, these findings establish GOLPH3 as a critical driver of PTC malignancy through TGF-β pathway activation, providing a mechanistic link between Golgi function and cancer signaling. This work not only advances our understanding of PTC pathogenesis but also identifies GOLPH3 as a potential therapeutic target for aggressive PTC, offering a paradigm for exploring Golgi-associated proteins in endocrine malignancies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The Golgi complex serves as the central hub of the biosynthetic pathway, where anterograde and retrograde trafficking converge. How cargo and Golgi-resident proteins traverse this organelle has long been debated. Recent studies have identified a molecular machinery that sorts resident proteins into retrograde-directed COPI vesicles during cisternal maturation. Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) is a key component of this system; however, its physiological relevance and regulatory mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here, we show that GOLPH3 depletion in mice alters both protein and lipid glycosylation, causes partially penetrant embryonic lethality, and severely impairs growth and bone mineralization. At the molecular level, we find that GOLPH3 is regulated by functionally antagonistic S-acylation events that control the topology of its membrane association. To mediate retrograde trafficking of Golgi-resident glycosyltransferases, GOLPH3 must bind their cytosolic tails. This occurs via a negatively charged surface region, which is correctly oriented only in one of the S-acylated GOLPH3 conformations. Together, these findings reveal a lipid-mediated regulatory mechanism for intra-Golgi trafficking and establish the critical role of GOLPH3 in vertebrate development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in extracellular matrix (ECM) regulation during cellular senescence remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the function of GOLPH3 in human dermal fibroblasts. Ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) treatment significantly reduced GOLPH3 protein levels, accompanied by decreased levels of collagen type I alpha 1 (COL1A1) and fibronectin, while p53 protein levels were increased. Similarly, replicative senescence resulted in reduced GOLPH3 and fibronectin levels. Knockdown of GOLPH3 using a recombinant adenovirus expressing microRNA targeting GOLPH3 markedly decreased fibronectin production, with minimal effects on collagen type I alpha 1, and increased p53 protein levels. Furthermore, GOLPH3 depletion attenuated TGF-β-induced ECM production and significantly suppressed SMAD2/3 phosphorylation. In contrast, Overexpression of GOLPH3 did not significantly alter ECM protein levels under basal condition. Overexpression of p53 reduced ECM protein levels without altering GOLPH3 protein levels, and co-knockdown experiments indicated that fibronectin reduction induced by GOLPH3 depletion occurs largely independently of p53. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that GOLPH3 plays a critical role in fibronectin production by modulating TGF-β/SMAD signaling in dermal fibroblasts, with a limited contribution from p53-associated pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42010615
Mycobacterial cell envelopes are rich in unusual lipids and glycans that play key roles during infection and vaccination. The most abundant envelope glycolipid is trehalose dimycolate (TDM). TDM compromises the host response to mycobacterial species via multiple mechanisms, including inhibition of phagosome maturation. The molecular mechanism by which TDM inhibits phagosome maturation has been elusive. We find that a clickable, photoaffinity TDM probe recapitulates key phenotypes of native TDM in macrophage host cells and binds several host Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-Sensitive Factor Attachment Proteins Receptor (SNARE) proteins, including Vesicle Transport through Interaction with t-SNAREs 1B (VTI1B), Syntaxin 8 (STX8), and Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 2 (VAMP2). VTI1B and STX8 normally promote endosome fusion by forming a complex with VAMP8. However, in the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, VTI1B and STX8 complex with VAMP2, which in turn decreases VAMP8 binding. VAMP2 acts together with mycolate structure to inhibit phagosome maturation and promotes intracellular M. tuberculosis replication. Thus one mechanism by which TDM constrains the innate immune response to M. tuberculosis is via noncanonical SNARE complexation.
Sacral agenesis (SA) consists of partial or complete absence of the caudal end of the spine and often presents with additional birth defects. Several studies have examined gene variants for syndromic forms of SA, but only one has examined exomes of children with non-syndromic SA.Using buccal cell specimens from families of children with non-syndromic SA, exomes of 28 child-parent trios (eight with and 20 without a maternal diagnosis of pregestational diabetes) and two child-father duos (neither with diagnosis of maternal pregestational diabetes) were exome sequenced.Three children had heterozygous missense variants in ID1 (Inhibitor of DNA Binding 1), with CADD scores >20 (top 1% of deleterious variants in the genome); two children inherited the variant from their fathers and one from the child's mother. Rare missense variants were also detected in PDZD2 (PDZ Domain Containing 2; N = 1) and SPTBN5 (Spectrin Beta, Non-erythrocytic 5; N = 2), two genes previously suggested to be associated with SA etiology. Examination of variants with autosomal recessive and X-linked recessive inheritance identified five and two missense variants, respectively. Compound heterozygous variants were identified in several genes. In addition, 12 de novo variants were identified, all in different genes in different children.To our knowledge, this is the first study reporting a possible association between ID1 and non-syndromic SA. Although maternal pregestational diabetes has been strongly associated with SA, the missense variants in ID1 identified in two of three children were paternally inherited. These findings add to the knowledge of gene variants associated with non-syndromic SA and provide data for future studies.© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved intracellular pathway for the degradation of cytoplasmic materials. Under stress conditions, autophagy is upregulated and double-membrane autophagosomes are formed by the expansion of phagophores. The ATG16L1 precursor fusion contributes to development of phagophore structures and is critical for the biogenesis of autophagosomes. Here, we discovered a novel role of the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTPN9 in the regulation of homotypic ATG16L1 vesicle fusion and early autophagosome formation. Depletion of PTPN9 and its Drosophila homolog Ptpmeg2 impaired autophagosome formation and autophagic flux. PTPN9 colocalized with ATG16L1 and was essential for homotypic fusion of ATG16L1+ vesicles during starvation-induced autophagy. We further identified the Q-SNARE VTI1B as a substrate target of PTPN9 phosphatase. Like PTPN9, the VTI1B nonphosphorylatable mutant but not the phosphomimetic mutant enhanced SNARE complex assembly and autophagic flux. Our findings highlight the important role of PTPN9 in the regulation of ATG16L1+ autophagosome precursor fusion and autophagosome biogenesis through modulation of VTI1B phosphorylation status.Abbreviations: csw: corkscrew; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; mop: myopic; NSF: N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor; PAS: phagophore assembly site; PolyQ: polyglutamine; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PTK: protein tyrosine kinase; PTM: posttranslational modification; PTP: protein tyrosine phosphatase; PTPN23/HD-PTP: protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 23; SNARE: soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptor; STX7: syntaxin 7; STX8: syntaxin 8; STX17: syntaxin 17; VAMP3: vesicle associated membrane protein 3; VAMP7: vesicle associated membrane protein 7; VTI1B: vesicle transport through interaction with t-SNAREs 1B; YKT6: YKT6 v-SNARE homolog; ZFYVE1/DFCP1: zinc finger FYVE-type containing 1.
Modern cattle belong to two subspecies, Bos taurus and Bos indicus. Since divergence, cattle types have accumulated different genetic variations, which have contributed to highly differentiated phenotypes. The mammalian inner ear possesses functional and morphological innovations that contribute to its unique hearing capacities. The spectrin beta, non-erythrocytic 5 (SPTBN5) gene has been shown to play an important function in the inner ear. Four missense mutations: rs522333459 (c.7232G > C:p.Cys2411Ser), rs718838405 (c.6568A > C:p.Met2190Leu), rs516536785 (c.6283C > T:p.Leu2095Phe) and rs480278206 (c.4201T > C:p.Cys1401Arg) were identified in the bovine SPTBN5 gene by whole genome resequencing (http://animal.nwsuaf.edu.cn/code/index.php/BosVar), which might be candidate mutations related with hearing of both taurine and indicine cattle. In our study, PCR and DNA sequencing were used to explore the allele frequencies of four mutations of 971 individuals belonging to 38 native Chinese cattle breeds. We find that four mutant alleles showing strong geographic distribution, consisting with the ancestry distribution of taurine and indicine in China. In addition, we identified four mutations of SPTBN5 were diverged in taurine and indicine cattle showing signatures of adaptive evolution in two subspecies, which might participate in bovine inner ear development.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and redox dyshomeostasis are considered crucial factors causally linked to the pathogenesis of Down syndrome (DS), a human genetic anomaly currently lacking a cure, associated with neurodevelopmental deficits in children and early onset symptoms of aging in adults. Several natural plant-derived polyphenolic compounds, known for their neurostimulator, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, have been proposed as dietary supplements to manage DS-linked phenotypic alterations. However, the poor bioavailability and rapid metabolism of these compounds have limited conclusive evidence regarding their clinical efficacy in individuals with DS. Polydatin (PLD), a natural polyphenolic glucoside precursor of resveratrol derived from Polygonum cuspidatum, is instead highly bioavailable and resistant to enzymatic oxidation. PLD supplementation has shown many therapeutic efficacies in several human diseases without side effects. In this study, we used fetal trisomy 21 human skin fibroblasts (DS-HSFs) to investigate, from a mechanistic point of view, whether PLD supplementation could prevent or counteract critical cellular alterations linked to both neurodevelopmental deficits and early aging in DS. Our findings demonstrate that PLD reactivates mitochondrial bioenergetics, reduces oxygen radical overproduction and prevents oxidative stress (OS)-induced cellular senescence and DNA damage in DS-HSF. Notably, we identified a novel mechanism of PLD action involving the chromosome-21-encoded microRNA-155 (miR-155) and its direct target genes casitas B-lineage lymphoma (CBL), BAG Cochaperone 5 (BAG5) and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM). These proteins play pivotal roles in regulating mitochondrial bioenergetics, biogenesis and mitophagy. Given that the deregulation of miR-155/CBL axis is also implicated in acute leukemias, which frequently occur in children with DS, PLD emerges as a promising candidate for translational application. Its ability to enhance mitochondrial bioenergetics and address critical DS-associated phenotypic alterations highlights its therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Study have shown that atrial fibrillation (AF) is a disease with genetic risk, and its pathogenesis is still unclear. This study sought to screen the gene microarray data of AF patients and to perform a bioinformatics analysis to identify AF signature diagnostic genes.The AF gene sets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were screened, and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified after the normalization of the data set by R software. We conducted a gene set enrichment analysis, a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, a gene-gene interaction (GGI) network analysis, and an immuno-infiltration analysis. The core genes were identified from the DEGs, and base on receiver operating characteristic, the top 5 core genes in the 2 data sets were selected as diagnostic factors and a nomogram was constructed. The miRNA of the core genes were predicted and an immune cell correlation analysis was performed.A total of 20 DEGs were identified. The functions of these DEGs were mainly related to muscle contraction, autophagosome, and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) binding, and focused on the calcium signaling pathway, ferroptosis, the extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, and other pathways. A total of 5 core genes [i.e., GPR22 (G protein-coupled receptor 22), COG5 (component of oligomeric golgi complex 5), GALNT16 (polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 16), OTOGL (otogelin-like), and MCOLN3 (mucolipin 3)] were identified, and a linear model for risk prediction was constructed, which has good prediction ability. Plasma cells and Macrophages M2 were significantly increased in AF, while T cells follicular helper and Dendritic cells activated were significantly decreased.In our study, we identified 5 potential diagnostic key genes (i.e., GPR22, COG5, GALNT16, OTOGL, and MCOLN3). Our findings may provide a theoretical basis for susceptibility analyses and target drug development in AF.2022 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.
Given that esophageal cancer is highly malignant, the discovery of novel prognostic markers is eagerly awaited. We performed serological identification of antigens by recombinant cDNA expression cloning (SEREX) and identified SKI proto-oncogene protein and transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 5 (TMED5) as antigens recognized by serum IgG antibodies in patients with esophageal carcinoma. SKI and TMED5 proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli, purified by affinity chromatography, and used as antigens. The serum anti-SKI antibody (s-SKI-Ab) and anti-TMED5 antibody (s-TMED5-Ab) levels were significantly higher in 192 patients with esophageal carcinoma than in 96 healthy donors. The presence of s-SKI-Abs and s-TMED5-Abs in the patients' sera was confirmed by western blotting. Immunohistochemical staining showed that the TMED5 protein was highly expressed in the cytoplasm and nuclear compartments of the esophageal squamous cell carcinoma tissues, whereas the SKI protein was localized predominantly in the nuclei. Regarding the overall survival in 91 patients who underwent radical surgery, the s-SKI-Ab-positive and s-TMED5-Ab-negative statuses were significantly associated with a favorable prognosis. Additionally, the combination of s-SKI-Ab-positive and s-TMED5-Ab-negative cases showed an even clearer difference in overall survival as compared with that of s-SKI-Ab-negative and s-TMED5-Ab-positive cases. The s-SKI-Ab and s-TMED5-Ab biomarkers are useful for diagnosing esophageal carcinoma and distinguishing between favorable and poor prognoses.© 2024 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Transmembrane P24 trafficking protein 5 (TMED5) is highly expressed in cervical and bladder cancer cell lines. Moreover, TMED5 promotes nuclear autophagy and the malignant behavior of cervical cancer cells. However, the role of TMED5 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been extensively reported.To investigate the role of TMED5 in HCC cells.Bioinformatics was used to analyze the messenger-ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of TMED5 in HCC and its relationship with overall survival and disease-free interval of HCC patients. After TMED5 was decreased in SMMC-7721 and Hep3B cells, they were assayed for proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosis, migration, and invasion.The expression of TMED5 mRNA in HCC tissues was higher than in adjacent normal tissues, and the overall survival of HCC patients with high TMED5 transcription levels was worse. Moreover, the overexpression of TMED5 was associated with HCC progression. The downregulation of TMED5 suppressed cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and enhanced apoptosis. Therefore, TMED5 may be involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, the mammalian target of rapamycin signaling pathway, and the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling pathway.The TMED5 has the potential to promote HCC progression. Therefore, lowering TMED5 levels could represent a potential strategy for the treatment of HCC.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer type and one of the deadliest cancers worldwide. Transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 3 (TMED3) has previously been indicated to suppress CRC metastasis, but its clinical significance has remained undetermined. In the present study, the expression of TMED3 was indicated to be elevated at the mRNA and protein levels in CRC tumor samples relative to that in para-cancerous healthy tissue samples (P<0.05). Furthermore, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed a significant negative association between elevated TMED3 protein levels and overall survival of patients with CRC (P<0.001, log-rank test). Multivariate Cox regression analysis additionally determined that elevated TMED3 expression in primary CRC tumors was an independent predictor of poor prognosis (P<0.05). These results revealed that elevated TMED3 expression in CRC was associated with patient survival outcomes, suggesting that TMED3 may be a potential prognostic biomarker for this cancer type.Copyright: © Wang et al.
Background: Gastric cancer (GC) is a common gastrointestinal malignancy. Evidence suggests that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) influence mRNA expression to induce GC progression. We aim to investigate the function and regulatory mechanism of TP73-AS1 in GC. Materials and methods: We detected TP73-AS1, miR-27b-3p, and TMED5 (Transmembrane P24 Trafficking Protein 5) by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Similarly, the protein levels of TMED5 and wnt/β-catenin were detected by western-blot. The colony formation and Cell-Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay detected cell proliferation. Transwell and scrape assay tested cell migration and invasion. Dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed directed binding targets. Tumor xenograft in nude mice checked the result in vivo. Results: TP73-AS1 over-expressed in GC. Suppressed TP73-AS1 inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. However, down-regulated miR-27b-3p could reverse the effects of weakenTP73-AS1 on the progression of GC. Moreover, TMED5 was also up-regulated in GC. Both TP73-AS1 and TMED5 were the direct target of miR-27b-3p. Meanwhile, miR-27b-3p was a negative correlation with TP73-AS1 and TMED5. The TP73-AS1/miR-27b-3p/TMED5 axis regulate wnt/β-catenin pathway. Conclusion: TP73-AS1 promoted GC proliferation, migration, and invasion by sponging miR-27b-3p to regulate TMED5. TP73-AS1 was a potential onco-lncRNA in GC.© The author(s).
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are increasingly implicated in regulating human carcinogenesis. Previous work showed the oncogenic activity of circ_0018289 in cervical cancer. However, the molecular basis underlying the modulation of circ_0018289 in cervical carcinogenesis is still not fully understood.The levels of circ_0018289, microRNA (miR)-183-5p, and transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 5 (TMED5) were measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) or western blot assay. Ribonuclease (RNase) R and subcellular localization assays were used to characterize circ_0018289. Cell proliferation was detected by the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (Edu) assays. Cell apoptosis and tube formation were assessed by flow cytometry and tube formation assays, respectively. A dual-luciferase reporter assay was performed to confirm the direct relationship between miR-183-5p and circ_0018289 or TMED5. The role of circ_0018289 in tumor growth was gauged by mouse xenograft experiments.Circ_0018289 was overexpressed in cervical cancer tissues and cells. Circ_0018289 silencing impeded cell proliferation, enhanced cell apoptosis, and suppressed angiogenesis in vitro, as well as diminished tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, circ_0018289 targeted and regulated miR-183-5p by binding to miR-183-5p, and circ_0018289 regulated cervical cancer development and angiogenesis partially through miR-183-5p. Moreover, TMED5 was directly targeted and inhibited by miR-183-5p through the perfect complementary sites in TMED5 3'UTR, and TMED5 knockdown phenocopied miR-183-5p overexpression in suppressing cervical cancer development and angiogenesis. Furthermore, circ_0018289 induced TMED5 expression by competitively binding to shared miR-183-5p.Our observations identified the circ_0018289/miR-183-5p/TMED5 regulatory network as a novel molecular basis underlying the modulation of cervical carcinogenesis.© 2021. The Author(s).
Tumor-derived exosomal microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) serve a vital biological role in tumorigenesis and development, but the effects and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. To explore the impact of exosomal miR-433 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and understand its mechanism of action in NSCLC progression, the present study isolated the exosomes from the plasma of patients with NSCLC after chemotherapy and found that miR-433 expression was lower in plasma of patients with resistant NSCLC compared with in plasma of patients with sensitive NSCLC and in normal serum. Additionally, miR-433 expression was markedly negatively associated with a large tumor size, distant metastasis, advanced TNM stage and a poor prognosis in patients with NSCLC. miR-433 inhibited tumor growth by blocking the cell cycle in vitro and in vivo, as well as by promoting apoptosis and T-cell infiltration in the tumor microenvironment. Additionally, miR-433 inhibited chemoresistance to cisplatin by regulating DNA damage. Moreover, miR-433 inactivated the WNT/β-catenin signaling pathway by targeting transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 5 in NSCLC. Overall, the current findings may provide a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for patients with NSCLC.Copyright: © Liu et al.
With the advent of exome sequencing, a growing number of children are being identified with de novo loss-of-function mutations in the dynamin 1-like (DNM1L) gene, which encodes the large GTPase essential for mitochondrial fission, dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1). Mutations in DRP1 result in severe neurodevelopmental phenotypes, such as developmental delay, optic atrophy, and epileptic encephalopathies. Though it is established that mitochondrial fission is an essential precursor to the rapidly changing metabolic needs of the developing cortex, it is not understood how identified mutations in different domains of DRP1 uniquely disrupt cortical development and synaptic maturation. We leveraged the power of human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) harboring DRP1 mutations in either the GTPase or stalk domains to model early stages of cortical development in vitro. High-resolution time-lapse imaging of transport in neuronal projections revealed mutation-specific changes in mitochondrial motility of severely hyperfused mitochondrial structures. Transcriptional profiling of mutant DRP1 cortical neurons during maturation also implicated mutation-dependent alterations in synaptic development and gene expression of calcium-regulatory genes. Disruptions in calcium dynamics were confirmed using live functional recordings of 65-200 days in vitro (DIV) mutant DRP1 cortical neurons. These findings strongly suggest that altered mitochondrial morphology in DRP1 mutant neurons leads to pathogenic dysregulation of synaptic development and activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic autoimmune disease primarily characterized by symmetrical synovial inflammation, leading to joint swelling, pain, and progressive cartilage and bone destruction. Unfortunately, the clinical treatment of RA still faces numerous challenges. Although melatonin (MT), the circadian rhythm hormone, is known to relieve the pathological process of RA, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Herein, we assess the impacts of MT on collagen or K/BxN serum-induced arthritis (two well-established models of RA) and confirm its excellent therapeutic effect. Mechanistically, MT activates MTNR1A (melatonin receptor 1A) to promote mitophagy for the elimination of reactive oxygen (ROS) and leaked mitochondrial DNA triggered by damaged mitochondria, which in turn limits NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Mice with deletion of the autophagy-related gene Atg5 in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2/LysM-cre) barely display any benefits of MT in K/BxN serum-induced arthritis. Our results indicate that mitophagy promoted by MT is essential to deactivate NLRP3 inflammasome and alleviate the development of arthritis, which provides a candidate for the treatment of RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG5: autophagy releated 5; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow derived macrophages; BV:TV: bone volume to tissue volume; CASP1: caspase 1; CYCS: cytochrome c; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GSDMD: gasdermin D; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL18: interleukin 18; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MT: melatonin; MTNR1A: melatonin receptor 1A; MTNR1B: melatonin receptor type 1B; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mt-DNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NT-GSDMD: N-terminal gasdermin D; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; Ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKAA/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen; SD: standard deviation; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal liver cancer with complex pathogenesis intertwined with metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction. MEN1/menin is a protein with context-dependent functions in liver diseases. While MEN1 has been linked to HCC progression and mitochondrial homeostasis, its precise regulatory mechanism in these processes remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that MEN1 localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) in HCC cells, which is mediated by its N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence and the TOMM20 translocase complex. In a genetically engineered DEN- and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model, hepatocyte-specific men1 deficiency significantly suppressed tumorigenesis, a phenotype associated with impaired mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, MEN1 deficiency disrupted mitochondrial function by manifesting as promoted mitochondrial fission, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP levels, and elevated reactive oxygen species during energy stress. Critically, MEN1 loss inhibited mitophagy via downregulating the PINK1-PRKN/Parkin pathway, which impaired clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and promotes their cytotoxic accumulation. Moreover, MEN1 expression was upregulated in human HCC tissues, correlated with poor clinical outcomes and was positively associated with autophagy signatures. Notably, pharmacological activation of mitophagy reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of MEN1 deficiency in vitro and in vivo. These findings identified a noncanonical role of mitochondrial MEN1 in driving HCC progression via regulating mitophagy homeostasis, and highlight the MEN1-mitophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target for HCC.Abbreviations: Alb-Cre: albumin promoter-driven recombinase Cre; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; CCl4: carbon tetrachloride; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DEN: diethylnitrosamine; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; DQ-BSA: self-quenched BODIPY-conjugated bovine serum albumin; Gal: galactose; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; WT: wild type; HMKO: hepatocyte-specific men1 knockout; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MEN1-FL: full-length MEN1; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MTS: mitochondrial targeting sequence; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: RNA extraction and quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; shMEN1: small hairpin RNA-mediated MEN1 knockdown; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
To determine whether physalin A (PA) safeguards the outer blood-retinal barrier under diabetic stress by engaging nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) to restore redox balance and restrain ferroptosis in human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells and C57BLKS/J Iar -+Leprdb/+Leprdb mice.In high-glucose challenged hRPE cells, PA dose-dependently preserved viability, maintained claudin-1/occludin/zonula occludens-1 abundance and membrane localization, and reversed ferroptosis hallmarks (restored solute carrier family 7 member 11 [SLC7A11], SLC3A2, and glutathione peroxidase 4; reduced ferrous iron [Fe2+] overload and lipid peroxidation). PA restored glutathione levels, reduced malondialdehyde (MDA), and enhanced the antioxidant defense pathway mediated by Nrf2, including upregulation of heme oxygenase 1, NAD(P)H quinone dehydrogenase 1, and superoxide dismutase 2. Silencing Nrf2 abolished the effects of PA on barrier integrity and ferroptosis suppression, with rebounds in reactive oxygen species, MDA, Fe2+, and tight junction loss. In db/db mice treated systemically for 20 weeks, PA reduced Evans Blue leakage, increased retinal thickness, restored RPE tight junction proteins, and normalized mitochondrial architecture by transmission electron microscopy. PA rebalanced mitochondrial dynamics (dynamin 1-like, optic atrophy 1, fission 1, mitofusin 1, FUN14 domain containing 1), increased retinal mitochondrial DNA copy number, and partially stabilized glycemia and weight.PA restores redox tone, restrains ferroptosis, and preserves junctional integrity to protect the diabetic retina, with Nrf2 being indispensable for these benefits. These findings position PA as a promising adjunctive candidate for early diabetic retinopathy and support Nrf2-centered strategies to reinforce the outer blood-retinal barrier. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 45, 5-27.
Mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation play a critical role in the occurrence and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been studied recently as potential therapeutic approaches for AD. In this study, we examined the function and underlying mechanism of microRNA-25802 (miR-25802), a newly discovered miRNA in an AD model. In order to evaluate the levels of oxidative stress, mitochondrial damage and neuroinflammation in neuroblastoma cells, four experimental groups were created: control group (neuroblastoma cells, SH-SY5Y), amyloid beta (Aβ)-induced neuroblastoma cells (SY5Y-Aβ), small extracellular vesicles (sEVs)-only group and miR-25802-loaded small extracellular vesicles (sEV-miR25802) administered group. Neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial damage, tau hyperphosphorylation, and Aβ accumulation were evaluated in Aβ-induced neuroblastoma cells. Oxidative stress was analyzed by measuring reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1). Inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA levels, a neurotrophic factor, were evaluated by RT-qPCR. Neurofilament light chain (NfL), vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and cytochrome c (Cyt-c), mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) and dynamin-1-like protein (DNM1L) protein levels were determined by ELISA. Mechanistically, sEV-miR25802 were shown to provide anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects by regulating neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. These findings reveal the regulatory role of miR-25802 on neuroinflammation, mitochondrial damage, and oxidative stress and suggest that it may be a potential therapeutic target for AD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major cause of acute kidney injury, involving complex mechanisms of metabolic dysregulation and immune inflammation. This study investigated the role and molecular mechanism of acyl-CoA thioesterase 8 (ACOT8) in IRI by integrating multi-omics data with multi-level experimental validation. A pQTL-based Mendelian randomization analysis identified 456 genes with putative causal associations with AKI. Integrated analysis of multiple transcriptomic datasets, combined with machine learning algorithms (LASSO and SVM-RFE), identified four core candidate genes. Among them, ACOT8 was highly expressed specifically in renal tubular epithelial cells and showed a significant positive correlation with M1 macrophage infiltration. In vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that ACOT8 was upregulated during IRI. Single-cell RNA sequencing and lipidomics revealed suppressed mitochondrial oxidative metabolism and significant lipid accumulation, particularly palmitate, in injured proximal tubules. Mechanistically, ACOT8 was found to modulate palmitate levels in tubular epithelial cells, thereby altering the local lipid milieu. This palmitate subsequently activated the cGAS-STING signaling pathway in macrophages, promoting their polarization toward a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype and exacerbating the inflammatory response. Using an AAV9 vector with a kidney-specific promoter to knock down ACOT8 in tubular epithelial cells in a mouse model, we demonstrated that inhibiting ACOT8 significantly attenuated renal palmitate accumulation, reduced M1 macrophage infiltration, lowered serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, and improved renal function. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that ACOT8-mediated tubular palmitate accumulation promotes macrophage M1 polarization via the cGAS-STING pathway, thereby contributing to renal ischemia-reperfusion injury. ACOT8 represents a potential therapeutic target for ischemic kidney injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Our previous study showed that chronic exposure to caffeine sodium benzoate (CSB) can cause endothelial cell dysfunction, but the specific mechanism is unclear. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs), as precursors of endothelial cells, can differentiate into vascular endothelial cells and assist in blood vessel repair. This study aimed to investigate the potential impact of CSB on EPC function. CSB containing serum (CSB-CS) were obtained from patients receiving long-term CSB abuse. RAW264.7 macrophages were treated with different concentrations of CSB-CS, and the resulting conditioned medium (CSB-CS_CM) was applied to EPCs to assess its effects. CSB-CS significantly induced M1 polarization of RAW264.7 macrophages. Furthermore, CSB-CS_CM remarkably led to endothelial dysfunction in EPCs, as evidenced by inhibited angiogenesis, increased cell senescence, and elevated levels of the dysfunction markers ET-1 and VCAM-1. Concurrently, CSB-CS_CM also triggered mitochondrial impairment in EPCs, characterized by decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, reduced mitochondrial fusion and increased fission. Notably, these adverse effects on endothelial and mitochondrial function were partially reversed by MASM7, an activator of mitochondrial fusion. Additionally, CSB-CS_CM remarkably reduced the levels of the mitochondrial fusion protein OPA1 in EPC. Mechanistically, let-7a-5p, which targets OPA1 mitochondrial dynamin like GTPase (OPA1), was upregulated by CSB-CS_CM, leading to OPA1 suppression and subsequent mitochondrial and endothelial dysfunction. Collectively, pro-inflammatory macrophages induced by CSB-CS may contribute to EPC dysfunction by impairing mitochondrial function via the let-7a-5p/OPA1 pathway. These findings could provide a foundation for future treatments aimed at addressing endothelial dysfunction caused by CSB.
Mitochondria serve as the cellular "power plants," supplying energy and regulating metabolism, signal transduction, and other physiological processes. To successfully replicate within host cells, viruses have evolved multiple strategies to hijack mitochondrial functions. The oncolytic Newcastle disease virus (NDV) causes severe organelle damage in tumor cells; however, how it manipulates mitochondrial architecture to facilitate its own replication remains poorly understood. Here, we provide evidence that NDV infection disrupts mitochondrial spatial distribution and imbalances mitochondrial fusion and fission, leading to mitochondrial structural damage. The resulting accumulation of fragmented mitochondria is cleared via PRKN-dependent mitophagy, a process that supports NDV replication. Interestingly, although MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein) is degraded along with mitophagy, genetic ablation of PRKN - while blocking MAVS degradation - does not restore downstream innate immune responses. This indicates that NDV exploits mitophagy to enhance replication through mechanisms not entirely dependent on the suppression of MAVS-mediated immunity. Given the central role of mitochondria, we further explored the link between amino acid metabolism and viral proliferation after NDV infection. Our results show that NDV-induced mitophagy leads to the accumulation of free amino acids in host cells, and this metabolic reprogramming promotes viral replication. In summary, we show that NDV drives its replication by remodeling mitochondrial dynamics to induce mitophagy, which in turn triggers an amino acid metabolic reprogramming that benefits the virus. This provides new insights into the mechanisms supporting efficient oncolytic NDV replication, offering potential avenues for therapeutic intervention in oncolytic virus therapy.Abbreviations: CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; COX4/COX IV: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CQ: chloroquine; DENV: dengue virus; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 lik;ETC: electron transport chain; FIS1: fission, mitochondrial 1; HBV: hepatitis B virus; IAV: influenza A virus; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; JEV: japanese encephalitis virus; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MV: measles virus; NDV: Newcastle disease virus; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OPA1: OPA1 mitochondrial dynamin like GTPase; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RLR: RIG-I-like receptor; SDHA: succinate dehydrogenase complex flavoprotein subunit A; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TCID50: tissue culture infective doses; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TIMM23: translocase of inner mitochondrial membrane 23; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
To evaluate IA autologous platelet-derived mitochondrial preparation versus vehicle control in a bilateral lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced model of equine synovitis.2 ng of LPS was injected into bilateral intercarpal joints of 6 horses over 3 months. Autologous mitochondria, isolated with a commercial kit, were injected into one joint, while the contralateral joint received a vehicle control, a within-subject controlled experimental design. Mitochondrial organelle appearance was visualized on transmission electron microscopy. Outcome measures included synovial fluid and whole-blood cytology, synovial fluid and serum multiplex cytokine assays, and synovial fluid leukocyte gene expression via quantitative real-time PCR from 0, 4, 8, 24, and 48 hours. Data were analyzed using linear mixed-effects models with nonparametric tests when normality assumptions failed.No significant differences were observed between treated and control joints in synovial fluid cytology, cytokine expression, or gene expression. Following LPS, increased total nucleated cells were observed in synovial fluid. Systemic changes included elevation in IL-12 and reduction in IL-10. In synovial fluid, FGF-2 decreased and interferon-γ, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-18, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) increased compared to baseline. Gene expression of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, IL-1β, IL-5, IL-6, IL-18, matrix metallopeptidase 13, and PTEN-induced kinase 1 were upregulated whereas OPA1 mitochondrial dynamin-like GTPase and TNF-α were downregulated over time.The bilateral LPS-induced synovitis model produced minimal systemic inflammation and moderate local joint inflammation. No benefit of this mitochondrial preparation was identified.While in concept there is potential for mitotherapy, our study design was unable to demonstrate benefits from this preparation in ameliorating the inflammatory effects of LPS-induced synovitis.
Osteosarcoma is the most common primary malignant bone tumor in children and adolescents and is often characterized by resistance to chemotherapy. Although RNA 5‑methylcytosine (m5C) modification is known to contribute to tumor progression, its exact role in osteosarcoma drug resistance remains poorly understood. Here, we identify NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase family member 6 (NSUN6) as an m5C methyltransferase that positively correlates with osteosarcoma progression. Mechanistically, the E3 ubiquitin ligase membrane‑associated RING‑CH‑type finger 8 (MARCH8) ubiquitinates NSUN6 at Lys271 and Lys462, leading to its proteasomal degradation. Reduced NSUN6 expression lowers m5C modification on peroxisomal biogenesis factor 1 (PEX1) and peroxisomal biogenesis factor 3 (PEX3) mRNAs, destabilizing them through loss of binding by the m5C reader YBX1. In turn, this downregulates peroxisome synthesis and catalase (CAT) protein production, causing increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), DNA damage, and heightened sensitivity of osteosarcoma cells to cisplatin. Furthermore, elevated ROS levels reinforce NSUN6 ubiquitination and degradation by enhancing the NSUN6-MARCH8 interaction, establishing a positive feedback loop. Collectively, these findings highlight an intricate NSUN6-m5C-YBX1-PEXs signaling axis that governs peroxisome biogenesis, ROS accumulation, and cisplatin responsiveness in osteosarcoma. Our work not only clarifies the role of m5C in osteosarcoma drug resistance but also offers a potential therapeutic angle for targeting NSUN6 and its peroxisome‑regulating network to overcome chemoresistance.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40307696 is a review article
The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of rare inherited autosomal recessive diseases characterized by motor and cognitive neurological dysfunction, hypotonia, seizures, feeding difficulties, retinopathy, sensorineural hearing loss, hepatic and renal abnormalities, and chondrodysplasia punctata of long bones, and the clinical expression is variable. Exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were used to identify the genetic defect for PBDs in a two-generation non-consanguineous Han-Chinese pedigree. Compound heterozygous variants, a novel splicing variant c.113-2A>G and a reported substitution c.890T>C (p.Leu297Pro), in the peroxisomal biogenesis factor 10 gene (PEX10) were detected. The splicing variant c.113-2A>G led to a canonical splice acceptor site inactivation, exon 2 skipping, and in-frame deletions (p.Ala39_Gly65del). The three patients had similar phenotypes of milder PBDs, which were further genetically determined as PBD6B. The findings extend the PEX10 variant spectrum and may provide new insights into PBDs causation and diagnosis, with implications for genetic counseling and clinical management.Copyright: © 2025 Huang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Mitochondrial damage and dysfunction are hallmarks of neuronal injury during cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (I/R). Critical mitochondrial functions including energy production and cell signaling are perturbed during I/R, often exacerbating damage and contributing to secondary injury. The integrity of the mitochondrial proteome is essential for efficient function. Mitochondrial proteostasis is mediated by the cooperative forces of mitophagy and intramitochondrial proteolysis. The aim of this study was to elucidate the patterns of mitochondrial protein dynamics and their key regulators during an in vitro model of neuronal I/R injury. Utilizing the MitoTimer reporter, we quantified mitochondrial protein oxidation and turnover during I/R injury, highlighting a key point at 2 h reoxygenation for aged/oxidized protein turnover. This turnover was found to be mediated by both LONP1-dependent proteolysis and PRKN/parkin-dependent mitophagy. Additionally, the proteostatic response of neuronal mitochondria is influenced by both mitochondrial fusion and fission machinery. Our findings highlight the involvement of both mitophagy and intramitochondrial proteolysis in the response to I/R injury.Abbreviations: cKO: conditional knockout; CLPP: caseinolytic mitochondrial matrix peptidase proteolytic subunit; DIV: days in vitro; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; ETC: electron transport chain; hR: hours after reoxygenation; I/R: ischemia-reperfusion; LONP1: lon peptidase 1, mitochondrial; mtUPR: mitochondrial unfolded protein response; OGD: oxygen glucose deprivation; OGD/R: oxygen glucose deprivation and reoxygenation; OPA1: OPA1 mitochondrial dynamin like GTPase; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; ROI: region of interest; WT: wild-type.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) comprises a group of highly malignant tumors of the pancreas. Metabolic reprogramming in tumors plays a pivotal role in promoting cancer progression. However, little is known about the metabolic alterations in tumors that drive cancer drug resistance in patients with PDAC. Here, we identified acyl-CoA thioesterase 8 (ACOT8) as a key player in driving PDAC gemcitabine (GEM) resistance. The expression of ACOT8 is significantly upregulated in GEM-resistant PDAC tissues and is closely associated with poor survival in patients with PDAC. Gain- and loss-of-function studies have shown that ACOT8 drives PDAC GEM resistance both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, ACOT8 regulates cellular cholesterol ester (CE) levels, decreases the levels of phosphatidylethanolamines (PEs) that bind to polyunsaturated fatty acids and promote peroxisome activation. The knockdown of ACOT8 promotes ferroptosis and increases the chemosensitivity of tumors to GEM by inducing ferroptosis-associated pathway activation in PDAC cell lines. The combination of orlistat, an ACOT8 inhibitor, and GEM significantly inhibited tumor growth in PDAC organoid and mouse models. This study reveals the biological importance of ACOT8 and provides a potential combination therapy for treating patients with advanced GEM-resistant PDAC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Caveolin-1 (CAV1), a principal structural component of caveolae, plays a pivotal role in the regulation of lipid metabolism, signal transduction, and cellular homeostasis. Dysregulation of CAV1 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases, particularly non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the precise molecular mechanisms responsible for CAV1 in NAFLD remain largely unclear. In vitro experiments were performed using THLE-3 or HepG2 cells treated with palmitic acid (PA) to establish a lipotoxic model. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to detect mRNA levels, whereas western blotting was performed to analyze protein expression. Cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, and lipid deposition were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), flow cytometry, and Oil Red O staining, respectively. Ferroptosis was evaluated by measuring Fe2+ levels, malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and lipid peroxidation. Molecular interactions, including ubiquitination, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays, were used to analyze the association among m6A methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3), tripartite motif containing 37 (TRIM37) and CAV1. An in vivo NAFLD model was generated in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD). In the animal study, liver injury and steatosis were visualized by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and Oil Red O staining. Serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), as well as hepatic triglyceride (TG) and total cholesterol (TC) levels, were quantified to assess liver function and lipid accumulation. CAV1 expression was downregulated in blood samples of NAFLD patients. PA treatment significantly downregulated CAV1 expression, inhibited cell proliferation, increased apoptosis, and enhanced ferroptosis and lipid deposition; however, all of which were significantly reversed by CAV1 overexpression. Mechanistically, the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM37 was identified as a negative regulator of CAV1; TRIM37 was found to interact with CAV1 and promote its ubiquitination and degradation. Furthermore, METTL3 upregulated TRIM37 expression by binding to its mRNA transcript in an IGF2BP1-dependent manner, thereby enhancing TRIM37 mRNA stability. Knockdown of TRIM37 or METTL3 mitigated PA-induced cellular damage, but these protective effects were abolished by CAV1 silencing or TRIM37 overexpression, respectively. Consistent with the in vitro findings, in vivo experiments confirmed that CAV1 overexpression attenuated HFD-induced liver injury. This study unveils a novel METTL3/TRIM37/CAV1 regulatory axis that represents an important pathway contributing to NAFLD exacerbation. Restoring CAV1 expression represents a promising therapeutic strategy for NAFLD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tripartite motif-containing 37 protein (TRIM37), a member of the TRIM protein family, functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase. It was implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous malignancies. Nonetheless, its precise function in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still insufficiently understood. This study aims to elucidate the regulatory function of TRIM37 in HCC progression and to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms.Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and reverse transcription quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were conducted to estimate TRIM37 concentrations in HCC cell lines. Notably, HCCLM3 and Huh7 cell lines were utilized to establish models of TRIM37 upregulation and downregulation, respectively. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation, and Transwell assessments were carried out to observe the TRIM37 effects on cellular growth and invasion. The expression of proteins linked to the AKT/GSK-3β/β-Catenin signaling pathways and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) was assessed using Western blot (WB). In addition, ubiquitination assays and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) tests were performed to examine the TRIM37-PTEN association and the ubiquitination status of PTEN.Significant TRIM37 overexpression was shown in HCC tissues and cell lines. Functional analyses demonstrated that TRIM37 promotes cell proliferation and invasion. Further analyses showed that TRIM37 enhances these malignant behaviors by promoting PTEN degradation through ubiquitination, thereby stimulating the AKT/GSK-3β/β-Catenin pathway.TRIM37-triggered post-translational modification of PTEN via ubiquitination may have a vital function in promoting HCC progression. These findings suggest that targeting the TRIM37/PTEN/AKT/GSK-3β/β-Catenin axis may offer a promising therapeutic approach for the management of HCC.© AME Publishing Company.
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), an oncogenic virus associated with several malignancies, including Kaposi sarcoma (KS), primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), and multicentric Castleman disease, harbors a DNA replication helicase encoded by ORF44 that is crucial for viral replication and pathogenesis. In this study, we identified the host PFN1 (profilin 1), a well-known actin-binding factor, as an inhibitor of KSHV lytic replication functioning via the macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosomal degradation pathway targeting ORF44. Mechanistic analyses revealed that PFN1 interacts with ORF44, leading to enhanced polyubiquitination of PFN1. Notably, the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM37 (tripartite motif containing 37) facilitates the polyubiquitination of lysine residues at position 116 of PFN1, which serves as a critical recognition motif for the cargo receptor SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1), which is pivotal for the subsequent autophagic degradation of ORF44. Overall, our findings revealed a previously uncharacterized antiviral function of PFN1, highlighting its potential as a novel therapeutic avenue for the treatment of KSHV-associated malignancies.Abbreviations: ALS: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; KSHV: Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpes virus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; PFN1: profilin 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TRIM37: tripartite motif containing 37; UBA: ubiquitin-associated domain.
Cardiorenal syndrome in dogs, particularly those with myxomatous mitral valve degeneration (MMVD), involves complex neurohormonal interactions, yet molecular mechanisms linking heart and kidney dysfunction remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify serum peptide and protein signatures that differentiate disease stages and clarify pathophysiology. We hypothesized that alterations in the serum peptide mass fingerprint and protein profile would serve as sensitive biomarkers for kidney disease progression in MMVD-affected dogs. Dogs were classified into five groups following ACVIM consensus guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of myxomatous mitral valve disease in dog and IRIS Staging of chronic kidney disease (CKD): Healthy, MMVD Stage B1, MMVD Stage C without azotemia, MMVD Stage C with azotemia, and CKD IRIS Stage 2. Serum peptide profiling was performed using Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization - Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) for peptide mass fingerprint analysis and Nanoscale Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry for protein identification. MALDI-TOF MS effectively discriminated healthy dogs from diseased groups through discrete clustering in Partial Least-Squares Discriminant Analysis plots. Proteomic profiling identified 100 statistically significant proteins, with a critical subset of shared proteins including Peroxisomal biogenesis factor 14, Glutaredoxin-2, Creatine kinase mitochondrial 2, and Selenocysteine insertion sequence-binding protein identified between the MMVD C WAZ and CKD Stage 2 groups. These proteins are associated with the arginine and proline metabolism and peroxisome pathways, which were found to be influenced by standard medications such as pimobendan, furosemide, spironolactone, benazepril, and sildenafil. These findings reflect a systemic failure of cellular redox and energetic homeostasis driven by renin angiotensin aldosterone system activation and oxidative stress. The convergence of peroxisomal and mitochondrial dysfunction suggests a unifying mechanism for parallel cardiac and renal deterioration. These proteomic markers persist despite standard medical therapy, highlighting their potential as auxiliary tools for risk stratification and the monitoring of treatment efficacy in canine cardiorenal syndrome.Copyright: © 2026 Pichayapaiboon et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Tripartite motif-containing 37 (TRIM37) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that epigenetically silences tumor suppressors in DNA repair, regulates polo-like kinase 4, promotes chromosomal instability, and functions as an oncogenic driver in breast cancer (BC). Preclinical studies have implicated TRIM37 in chemotherapy resistance, particularly in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), and TRIM37-targeted therapy is in development. However, TRIM37 has not been fully investigated in patients with BC, so its prognostic and therapeutic significance remains unclear.TRIM37 expression was analyzed in 6558 patients across four large, independent cohorts with transcriptome data (METABRIC, TCGA, SCAN-B, and GSE25066).TRIM37 expression was higher in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative BC than in TNBC, and it was associated with worse disease-free, disease-specific, and overall survival in ER-positive/HER2-negative BC but not in TNBC. TRIM37 expression was significantly associated with DNA repair pathways, homologous recombination deficiency, mutation rates, and enhanced cancer cell proliferation, as evidenced by Nottingham histological grade, Ki67 expression, and gene set enrichment analysis. TRIM37 expression correlated with reduced immune activity, lower cytolytic activity, and decreased response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in ER-positive/HER2-negative BC, whereas TRIM37-high TNBC displayed higher neoantigen burden and improved chemotherapy response.TRIM37 expression is associated with increased cell proliferation, regardless of subtype; however, it is strongly associated with reduced immune activity, worse response to chemotherapy, and poor prognosis in ER-positive/HER2-negative BC, whereas it was associated with better response to chemotherapy and no relationship with survival in TNBC. Our results provide critical insights into the clinical application of TRIM37-targeted therapies.© 2025. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Endothelial cell apoptosis and oxidative stress are pivotal drivers of atherosclerosis (AS) progression. It was revealed that spectrin beta, non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1) levels were remarkably decreased in the atherosclerotic plaque vessels of advanced lesions. This study aimed to elucidate the roles of SPTBN1 in endothelial dysfunction during AS progression.SPTBN1 levels in the plasma samples of AS patients and aortic tissues of AS mouse model were tested. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were stimulated with oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) to mimic atherosclerotic conditions. After transfection of SPTBN1 overexpression plasmids, cell viability, apoptosis, oxidative stress marker including reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), and inflammatory molecules including vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) were examined. Then, the interaction of SPTBN1 and methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) was examined using co-immunoprecipitation assay. The m6A methylation level of tripartite motif-containing 37 (TRIM37) was determined using methylated RNA immunoprecipitation-qPCR (MeRIP-qPCR). Additionally, the effects of SPTBN1 overexpression on atherosclerotic plaque formation were assessed in a high-fat diet-induced AS mouse model.SPTBN1 was downregulated in plasma samples of AS patients andaortic tissues of AS mouse model. SPTBN1 overexpression suppressed apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation in ox-LDL-treated HUVECs. Mechanistically, SPTBN1 inhibited TRIM37 expression by promoting METTL14-mediated TRIM37 m6A methylation. TRIM37 overexpression abolished the protective effects of SPTBN1 on ox-LDL-treated HUVECs. TRIM37 promoted K63-linked ubiquitination of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) and activated the NF-κB pathway in HUVECs. Furthermore, SPTBN1 overexpression alleviated atherosclerotic plaque formation, arterial lesions and inflammation in AS mice.SPTBN1 overexpression suppressed apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation in ox-LDL-treated HUVECs by regulating the TRIM37/TRAF2/NF-κB pathway, thereby inhibiting AS development in mice. Our findings advance understanding of the molecular basis of endothelial homeostasis and identify a potential therapeutic target for AS.© 2025. The Author(s).
Accumulating evidence highlights the critical role of dysregulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling in colorectal cancer (CRC) pathogenesis. However, the clinical translation of therapeutics targeting this pathway remains challenging. While ABCD3 is known to modulate the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and influence CRC progression, its precise molecular regulatory mechanisms and prognostic significance require further elucidation. This study further elucidates the mechanism by which the ABCD3 gene mediates CRC progression through regulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway.Integrated analysis of TCGA transcriptomic data using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified ABCD3 as a hub gene within the CRC prognostic model. ABCD3 downregulation in CRC was systematically validated through three complementary approaches: Western blot for protein quantification, RT-PCR for transcriptional profiling, and immunohistochemical evidence from the Human Protein Atlas database. To investigate its functional role, ABCD3 knockdown was performed using siRNA in HT29 and HCT15 cell lines. Subsequent functional characterization revealed that ABCD3 suppression significantly attenuated cellular proliferation (CCK-8 assay) and concomitantly reduced invasive and migratory capacities in Transwell assays.Based on the CRC prognostic model, ABCD3 was identified as a significant prognostic factor, with low expression associated with poorer prognosis. Functional analysis demonstrated an anti-tumor role for ABCD3 in CRC pathogenesis, mediated through suppression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, which effectively mitigates malignant CRC behavior. These findings suggest that targeting this ABCD3-Wnt/β-catenin regulatory axis represents a novel strategy for precision treatment of CRC.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cervical cancer (CC), a prevalent gynecological malignancy, shows high global incidence and mortality. Tripartite motif-containing 37 (TRIM37), a significant ubiquitinating enzyme, is overexpressed in CC, fueling its progression, but its role in ferroptosis here is unknown.TRIM37 expression in CC tissues was first predicted using bioinformatics software. Then, RT-qPCR and Western blot were utilized to confirm TRIM37 expression in CC tissues and cells. Subsequently, cellular behaviors were examined by EdU, flow cytometry, and Transwell assay. Besides, ferroptosis-related indicators were detected by using corresponding kits. The dual luciferase reporter assay was conducted to identify the binding between TRIM37 and Activating Transcription Factor 6 (ATF6). Additionally, the Co-IP assay was applied to validate the interaction between TRIM37 and Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long-Chain Family Member 4 (ACSL4). Finally, the functions of TRIM37 in vivo were investigated by establishing a xenograft tumor model.TRIM37 expression was increased in CC tissues and cells. Silencing TRIM37 suppressed cell malignant behaviors and promoted ferroptosis. ATF6 activated TRIM37 transcription, with TRIM37 upregulation counteracting ATF6 knockdown effects. TRIM37 degraded ACSL4, and silencing ACSL4 reversed TRIM37 knockdown effects. TRIM37 overexpression counteracted ATF6 knockdown's impact on tumor growth in vivo.ATF6 regulated the expression of TRIM37, which in turn promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of ACSL4, facilitating the progression of CC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neutrophilic asthma (NA) is associated with more severe symptoms and poor responsiveness to inhaled corticosteroid therapy. Macrophages are the most abundant immune cells in the airway, but the role of macrophages in NA pathogenesis has not been fully studied. We hypothesized that dysregulation of peroxisome metabolism in macrophages may drive NA.We retrieved microarray datasets from the GEO Gene Expression Omnibus database by using induced sputum samples from eosinophilic and neutrophilic asthma patients as well as healthy controls. We identified key molecules in NA and validated the expression of the key genes in our cohort of asthma patients using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Furthermore, immunofluorescence staining was performed to detect the expression and localization of the key molecule in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells from asthma patients and the murine model of neutrophilia-dominant allergic airway inflammation. The expression of the key molecule was also examined in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) by quantitative PCR and western blotting.Enoyl-CoA hydratase and 3-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase (EHHADH), sterol carrier protein 2, and peroxisomal biogenesis factor 14 were identified as the key molecules and were downregulated in patients with NA or severe asthma. The peroxisomal fatty acid metabolism pathway was significantly downregulated in NA. In our cohort of asthma patients, the expression of EHHADH, a key enzyme of the peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation, was significantly decreased in non-eosinophilic asthma patients and positively correlated with airflow limitation. EHHADH was primarily expressed in macrophages in BAL cells. EHHADH was downregulated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced M1-like macrophages in mouse BMDMs. Fenofibrate, an agonist of the peroxisome pathway, significantly inhibits LPS-induced macrophage M1 polarization.EHHADH expression and the peroxisome metabolism pathway are downregulated in macrophages in patients with NA. This downregulation may contribute to macrophage M1 polarization and neutrophilic airway inflammation in asthma.Copyright © 2025 The Korean Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Clinical Immunology • The Korean Academy of Pediatric Allergy and Respiratory Disease.
Peroxisomes are vital cellular organelles that play critical roles in metabolism, immune regulation, and disease pathogenesis. As a key receptor for peroxisomal membrane proteins, peroxisomal biogenesis factor 19 (PEX19) is essential for peroxisome biogenesis. In this study, we identify PEX19 as a novel host restriction factor against porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV), an emerging enteropathogenic coronavirus with zoonotic potential. Overexpression of PEX19 significantly inhibits PDCoV replication, while knockout of PEX19 enhances viral propagation. Interestingly, the anti-PDCoV effect of PEX19 largely depends on its farnesylation modification, as PEX19 mutants with deleted or mutated farnesylation sites exhibit only marginal anti-PDCoV activity. Mechanistically, PEX19 restricts PDCoV infection through three distinct pathways: (i) reducing cellular cholesterol levels in a farnesylation-dependent manner, (ii) targeting the viral nonstructural protein 2 (nsp2) for autophagy-lysosome-mediated degradation, which is also dependent on farnesylation, and (iii) inducing low-level interferon production independently of farnesylation. Taken together, these findings define a new antiviral role for PEX19 and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for combating PDCoV infection.IMPORTANCEPeroxisomes are increasingly recognized as critical regulators of virus-host interactions; however, their roles during coronavirus infection remain poorly understood and controversial. By screening the peroxins (PEXs) that regulate the replication of porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV), we identify PEX19, a key peroxisomal biogenesis factor, as a novel antiviral host protein, whose anti-PDCoV activity is largely dependent on farnesylation modification. Our findings demonstrate that farnesylated PEX19 restricts PDCoV replication by reducing cellular cholesterol levels and promoting autophagy-lysosome-mediated degradation of the viral nsp2 protein, while also inducing low-level interferon production independently of farnesylation. These results provide new molecular insights into PDCoV-host interactions and highlight PEX19 as a potential therapeutic target against PDCoV infection.
The peroxisomal biogenesis factor 19 (PEX19) is necessary for early peroxisomal biogenesis. PEX19 has been implicated in the replication of a variety of viruses, but the details pertaining to the mechanisms of how PEX19 engages in the life cycle of these viruses still need to be elucidated. Here, we demonstrated that the C terminus of PEX19 interacted with the cytoplasmic tail region of the M2 protein of the influenza A virus (IAV) and inhibited the viral growth titers. IAV infection or PEX19 knockdown triggered a reduction in the peroxisome pool and led to the accumulation of ROS and cell damage, thereby creating favorable conditions for IAV replication. Moreover, a reduction in the peroxisome pool led to the attenuation of early antiviral response mediated by peroxisome MAVS and downstream type III interferons. This study also showed that the interaction between IAV M2 and PEX19 affected the binding of PEX19 to the peroxisome-associated protein PEX14 and peroxisome membrane protein 24 (PMP24). Collectively, our data demonstrate that host factor PEX19 suppresses the replication of the IAV, and the IAV employs its M2 protein to mitigate the restricting role of PEX19.
Phellodendri Amurensis Cortex (PAC), a traditional Chinese medicine exhibit diverse pharmacological activities, including anticancer effects. Lipid metabolic reprogramming in the tumor microenvironment (TME) drives prostate cancer (PCa) progression and represents a promising therapeutic target; however, the effects of PAC on TME lipid metabolism remain unclear.To investigate the anti-PCa efficacy of PAC and its underlying mechanisms by evaluating targeting lipid metabolic dysregulation in the TME.A 22RV1 xenograft model was established in male BALB/c-nude mice. The therapeutic effects of PAC were evaluated using tumor growth inhibition, biochemical assays, histopathological analyses (Hematoxylin & Eosin and Oil Red O staining), TUNEL apoptosis analysis, and immunohistochemistry (Ki-67, CD31). Lipidomics was used to identify PAC-regulated lipid biomarkers and pathways. Chinmedomics and molecular docking were used to validated interactions between PAC bioactive components and core lipid-metabolizing enzymes.PAC suppressed tumor growth, reduced intratumoral lipid accumulation, inhibited proliferation (Ki-67↓) and angiogenesis (CD31↓), and induced apoptosis (TUNEL↑). Thirty dysregulated lipid markers were identified in PCa, and PAC reversed 27 of them involved in glycerophospholipid, arachidonic acid, and sphingolipid metabolisms. Chinmedomics identified nine PAC components (e.g., berberine, magnoflorine) targeting phosphatidylserine synthase 1 (PTDSS1), phospholipase A and acyltransferase 3 (PLAAT3), phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT), and phospholipase D family member 4 (PLD4), confirmed by molecular docking. These interactions disrupted phospholipid homeostasis and energy metabolism.PAC exerts anti-PCa effects by reprogramming lipid metabolism via multi-component targeting of PTDSS1/PLAAT3/PEMT/PLD4, thereby inhibiting proliferation, promoting apoptosis, and remodeling the TME. This study reveals a novel lipid-centric mechanism for PCa intervention using PAC.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) is one of the most common malignant tumors in female, and estrogen can affect its progression. However, the targets and mechanisms of estrogen action in PTC remain unclear. Therefore, this study focuses on the relationship between estrogen-related genes (ERGs) expression and prognosis in PTC, particularly neuropeptide U (NMU), and its important role in tumor progression. Based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) predominantly enriched in ERGs were identified between PTC and normal tissue. Then, we identified ERGs that contributed most to PTC prognosis, including Transducer of ERBB2 1 (TOB1), trefoil factor 1 (TFF1), phospholipase A and acyltransferase 3 (PLAAT3), NMU, kinesin family member 20A (KIF20A), DNA topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A), tetraspanin 13 (TSPAN13), and carboxypeptidase E (CPE). In addition, we confirmed that NMU was highly expressed in PTC and explored the effect of NMU on PTC cells proliferation in vitro and in vivo. The results showed that the proliferative capacity of PTC cells was significantly reduced with NMU knockdown. Moreover, the phosphorylation levels of the Kirsten rat sarcoma virus (KRAS) signaling pathway were significantly lower with NMU knockdown. These results suggest that ERGs, especially NMU, may be novel prognostic indicators in PTC.
Mutated genes of the RAS family encoding small GTP-binding proteins drive numerous cancers, including pancreatic, colon and lung tumors. Besides the numerous effects of mutant RAS gene expression on aberrant proliferation, transformed phenotypes, metabolism, and therapy resistance, the most striking consequences of chronic RAS activation are changes of the genetic program. By performing systematic gene expression studies in cellular models that allow comparisons of pre-neoplastic with RAS-transformed cells, we and others have estimated that 7 percent or more of all transcripts are altered in conjunction with the expression of the oncogene. In this context, the number of up-regulated transcripts approximates that of down-regulated transcripts. While up-regulated transcription factors such as MYC, FOSL1, and HMGA2 have been identified and characterized as RAS-responsive drivers of the altered transcriptome, the suppressed factors have been less well studied as potential regulators of the genetic program and transformed phenotype in the breadth of their occurrence. We therefore have collected information on downregulated RAS-responsive factors and discuss their potential role as tumor suppressors that are likely to antagonize active cancer drivers. To better understand the active mechanisms that entail anti-RAS function and those that lead to loss of tumor suppressor activity, we focus on the tumor suppressor HREV107 (alias PLAAT3 [Phospholipase A and acyltransferase 3], PLA2G16 [Phospholipase A2, group XVI] and HRASLS3 [HRAS-like suppressor 3]). Inactivating HREV107 mutations in tumors are extremely rare, hence epigenetic causes modulated by the RAS pathway are likely to lead to down-regulation and loss of function.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer (PC) development involves epigenetic DNA methylation changes that occur in the tumor. However, distinct DNA methylation changes have been previously found to encompass a widespread cancer field defect involving normal prostate tissue. In the current study, we analyzed a series of DNA methylation field markers to determine if they predict the presence of PC in urine. Urine samples were collected from patients undergoing prostate biopsy with biopsy-proven PC (90), and without PC (77). From the urine pellet, methylated DNA was quantified across several previously identified CpG island regions near the caveolin 1 (CAV1), even-skipped homeobox 1 (EVX1), fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1), natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 2 (NCR2) and phospholipase A and acyltransferase 3 (PLA2G16) genes using bisulfite pyrosequencing. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed. Urine cell pellets show significant increases in methylation in four of the markers from patients with PC compared to those without PC including EVX1 12.2 vs. 7.7%, CAV1 15.7 vs. 10.36%, FGF1 12.0 vs. 7.1%, and PLA2G16 12.2 vs. 8.3% [all P<0.01]. Area under the ROC Curve (AUCs) were generated for EXV1 (0.74, Odds ratios (OR) 1.09; 95% confidence intervals (CI) 0.94-1.25, CAV1 (0.72, OR 1.18; 95% CI 1.09-1.28) and PLA2G16 (0.76, OR 1.35; 95% CI 1.199-1.51). In combination, a two-marker assay performs better than prostate specific antigen (PSA), AUC 0.77 vs. PSA AUC of 0.6 (P = 0.01) with the lowest error. In addition, FGF1 distinguished between grade group 1 (GG1) and higher grade cancers (P<0.03). In conclusion, applying methylation of field defect loci to urine samples provides a novel approach to distinguish patients with and without cancer.AJCEU Copyright © 2021.
Peroxisomes are important membrane-bound organelles that are involved in a multitude of metabolic processes. Peroxisomal biogenesis factor 3 (Pex3) is a crucial peroxisomal membrane protein (PMP) that plays a vital role in many of these processes through the specific recruitment of several binding partners. In the yeast Hansenula polymorpha, Pex3 recruits PMP import receptor Pex19, the receptor for newly synthesized PMPs; autophagy-related protein 30 (Atg30), a protein involved in the selective breakdown of peroxisomes (pexophagy); and inheritance of peroxisomes protein 1 (Inp1), a protein important for peroxisome retention in mother cells. Here, we show that the overexpression of any of these proteins affects peroxisomal processes, with the level of overexpression being the primary determinant of competition. This finding is confirmed by our analysis based on the crystal structure model of the H. polymorpha Pex3-Pex19 complex and AlphaFold2 predictions. It shows that the interaction regions of Pex3 with these proteins overlap. These results provide a crucial insight into the complex role of Pex3 in regulating different processes in peroxisome biology.© 2025 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Toxoplasma gondii, an obligate intracellular protozoan, utilizes dense granule proteins to modulate host cell processes. Dense granule protein 23 (GRA23) facilitates molecular trafficking between the parasitophorous vacuole and host cell cyto-plasm, though its specific host protein interactions remain poorly characterized.This study employed pull-down assays coupled with mass spectrometry to identify host proteins interacting with GRA23.Among 35 proteins identified, peroxisomal biogenesis factor 3 (PEX3) and TNF receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP1) were validated through bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses revealed significant enrichment of these interacting proteins in metabolic pathways and cellular processes related to reproduction, growth, and development.The interaction between GRA23 and PEX3 suggests potential parasite modulation of peroxisomal functions, while its association with TRAP1 indicates possible exploitation of host chaperone mechanisms. This study provides the first evidence that GRA23 interacts with host proteins implicated in key cellular functions, offering novel insights into T. gondii pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets for toxoplasmosis treatment.Copyright © 2025 Fan, Zhang, Zhang, Li, Fu, Sun, Ma, Khan and Jiang.
The genetic and environmental determinants of serum propionylcarnitine concentrations (PC) remain largely unexplored. This study investigated the impact of genetic and environmental factors on serum propionylcarnitine levels in middle-aged and elderly participants from the Ansan/Ansung cohort of the Korean Genome and Epidemiology Study. Our goal was to understand the role of PC on the risk of metabolic syndrome (MetS) leading to cardiovascular disease, particularly concerning branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism. We analyzed participants' demographic, lifestyle, and biochemical data with and without MetS. Serum metabolite concentrations, including carnitine, acylcarnitine, and amino acid concentrations, were measured, and the components of MetS were evaluated. Genetic variants associated with low and high PC were selected using genome-wide association studies after adjusting for MetS-related parameters. Further, genetic variants and lifestyle factors that interacted with the polygenic risk score (PRS) were analyzed. Participants with MetS were older and less educated, and their alcohol intake was higher than non-MetS participants. PC was significantly associated with the MetS risk and increased the serum levels of BCAAs and other amino acids. Higher PC positively correlated with MetS components, insulin resistance, and cardiovascular risk factors. Intake of calcium, sodium, and vitamin D were inversely associated with PC, but coffee consumption was positively linked to PC. Multiple C2 And Transmembrane Domain Containing-1 (MCTP1)_rs4290997, Kinesin Family Member-7 (KIF7)_rs2350480, Coagulation Factor-II (F2)_rs2070850, Peroxisomal Biogenesis Factor-3 (PEX3)_rs223231, TBC1 Domain Family Member-22A (TBC1D22A)_rs910543, and Phospholipase A2 Group-IV-C (PLA2G4C)_rs7252136 interact with each other to have a threefold influence on PC. The PRS for the six-genetic variant model also interacted with age; the diet rich in beans, potato, and kimchi; and smoking status, influencing PC. In conclusion, elevated PC was associated with MetS and cardiovascular disease risk, suggesting their potential as disease biomarkers.
Lung cancer is a common cancer type, and has the highest mortality rate in the world. A genome‑wide association study suggests that the genetic marker rs9390123 is significantly associated with DNA repair capacity (DRC) in lung cancer. Analysis of the data derived from the 1000 Genomes Project indicated that there is another single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), rs9399451, in strong linkage disequilibrium with rs9390123 in Caucasian individuals, thus suggesting that this SNP could be associated with DRC. However, the causal SNP and mechanism of DRC remain unclear. In the present study, dual luciferase assay results indicated that both SNPs are functional in lung cells. Through chromosome conformation capture, an enhancer containing the two functional SNPs was observed to bind the promoter of peroxisomal biogenesis factor 3 and phosphatase and actin regulator 2 antisense RNA 1 (PHACTR2‑AS1). Knockdown of PHACTR2‑AS1 could significantly influence lung cell proliferation, colony formation, migration and wound healing, which verified that PHACTR2‑AS1 is a novel oncogene for lung cancer. Through chromatin immunoprecipitation, the transcription factor POU class 2 homeobox 1 (POU2F1) was identified to bind to the surrounding segments of these two SNPs, and their interaction was investigated. The present study identified the mechanism via which rs9390123 and rs9399451 could influence DRC.
Oxidative stress (OS) is one of the primary factors leading to male infertility. Oral administration of antioxidants has thus far been found to significantly improve the quality of human sperm. Therefore, antioxidant treatment has become the consensus among international experts on male infertility. In this study, peroxisomal biogenesis factor 3 (Pex3)-knockout (KO, -/-) mice were used as a model to compare the efficacy of three types of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) granules (Epimedium [YYH], Cuscuta [TSZ], and Rhodiola [HJT]) for male reproductive function rescue. YYH was revealed to be the best and exerted a rescue effect on Pex3-/- mice with spermatogenesis defects. In addition, YYH prominently reduced ROS levels in the testes, inhibited DNA oxidative damage in spermatogenic cells, promoted the proliferation of spermatogenic cells, and inhibited apoptosis in Pex3-/- male mice. Furthermore, the mechanism by which YYH ameliorated dyszoospermia was confirmed via the establishment of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2 A (P16Ink4a)-KO mice. Specifically, Pex3-/- mice produced elevated amounts of ROS, which damaged germ cell DNA and further activated the signaling pathway of the cell senescence regulatory protein P16-CDK6, resulting in cell cycle arrest and eventually contributing to spermatogenesis dysfunction. YYH supplementation partially corrected the associated phenotype in gene KO mice by affecting P16 expression levels, thus improving the reproductive outcome to a certain extent.© 2022. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 32048886 is a review article
Increases in body mass are associated with the development of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Caloric restriction (CR) is the primary non-pharmacological defense against MASLD; however, poor CR maintenance induces partial body mass regain (PR), leading to MASLD progression. We conducted an in vivo study to investigate the effects of PR following 2 weeks of CR on the hepatic lipidome during Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) using the male Otsuka Long Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rat and the Long Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rat as strain control (Ctrl). PR reduced hepatic acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1) and carnitine palmitoyl transferase II (CPT2) protein expression compared to OLETF CR. The lipidome indicated that PR maintained reduced total TAGs primarily MUFA and PUFA TAGs, while SFA-TAGs were elevated. Additionally, OLETF PR demonstrated a negative correlation with cholesteryl ester and an elevation in HDL levels vs. OLETF CR. These findings suggest that PR may promote hepatic steatosis by reducing fatty acid utilization and potentially associated with dysfunctional HDL, which can induce hepatic inflammation and injury. This study highlights the detriments of PR during MetS, suggesting that careful health monitoring is necessary for individuals with compromised metabolism when using dietary interventions to ameliorate MASLD.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Serum biomarkers play a key role in the early diagnosis and risk stratification of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP). Our previous study showed that acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1) was elevated in the serum and placenta of ICP patients. In this study, a pair of commercially available anti-ACOX1 antibodies was purchased and used to develop a double-antibody sandwich time-resolved fluorescent nanomicrosphere immunochromatographic (TRFNI) strip for the quantitative detection of ACOX1 in serum. Methodological evaluation showed that the strip exhibited good linearity over a calibration set consisting of a blank and standards from 0.25 to 20 ng/mL, with intra-assay and inter-assay coefficients of variation (CVs) below 10% and 15%, respectively. The buffer-based LOD was 0.19 ng/mL, and the lower limit of the reportable quantitative range should not be set below the calculated LOQ of 0.29 ng/mL. In a preliminary accelerated storage assessment, the T/C ratio at 1 ng/mL remained relatively stable during 20 days at 37 °C. The TRFNI assay also showed correlation with a commercial ELISA kit and exhibited recovery rates of 85.5-100.5%. Furthermore, ACOX1 demonstrated an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.731 for distinguishing severe from mild ICP and an AUC of 0.700 for discriminating adverse perinatal outcomes. This assay may warrant further evaluation as an exploratory adjunctive approach for measuring serum ACOX1 in ICP, pending prospective validation against disease-control cohorts and full serum-matrix analytical characterisation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the intestinal microbiota participates in the progression of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) through microbiota-host interaction. However, the beneficial role of commensal mycobiota in MASLD progression remains poorly understood. By comparing the gut microbiome differences, we demonstrated that the deficiency of Caspase Recruitment Domain-containing protein 9 (CARD9), an adaptor protein for a microbiota recognition receptor, exacerbated high-fat diet (HFD)-induced MASLD in a gut fungi-dependent manner. CARD9 deficiency reduced the abundance of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae), which was a probiotic alleviating MASLD progression. S. cerevisiae promoted a significantly greater abundance of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the intestine through Toll-like receptor 1 (TLR1), which reduced body weight in mice and alleviated MASLD phenotypes via the "gut-liver" axis. Particularly, 5-HIAA directly binds to aryl-hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and stimulates its nuclear translocation, subsequently inducing fatty acid oxidation via carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A) and acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1) transactivation. MASLD patients exhibited decreased levels of S. cerevisiae and 5-HIAA, and S. cerevisiae effectively reduced hepatic steatosis and improved glucose homeostasis in patients with MASLD. In summary, our findings identified a novel pathway of fungi-S. cerevisiae stimulating intestinal 5-HIAA production and indicated that S. cerevisiae and 5-HIAA might alleviate MASLD progression, highlighting that the mycobiota-dependent gut-liver axis was a promising target for the prevention of MASLD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Omega-3 (ω-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids are well recognized for their potential to influence metabolic adaptation in dairy cows during the transition period. This study evaluated the effects of calcium salts enriched with ω-3 fatty acids, including α-linolenic acid and long-chain ω-3 fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids, on hepatic lipid metabolism-related proteins, oxidative stress biomarkers, and liver function in postpartum dairy cows. Prior to calving, cows received a total mixed ration supplemented with 0.400 kg dry matter (DM)/day of calcium salts derived from a flaxseed oil-fish oil mixture (60:40). After calving, cows were fed a partial mixed ration and received 0.650 kg DM/day of the same supplement mixed with a commercial concentrate during milking. Control cows received isoenergetic diets in which calcium salts were replaced with ground corn. Blood, urine, and liver samples were collected at -21 days relative to calving (used as a baseline covariate) and at +7, and +21 (±3) days postpartum, when treatment effects were evaluated. No differences were observed between treatments in conventional biochemical markers of liver function or hepatic triacylglycerol concentration. Plasma malondialdehyde concentrations were higher in ω-3-supplemented cows, whereas other oxidative stress parameters were not affected. Supplementation with ω-3 fatty acids was associated with changes in the abundance of selected hepatic proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism, including increased acyl-CoA oxidase 1 and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase and reduced diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 abundance, whereas carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha abundance were not affected. These findings indicate that ω-3-enriched calcium salts induce molecular adjustments in hepatic lipid metabolism during early lactation without evidence of adverse effects on liver function.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This experiment investigated the effects of dietary Artemisia ordosica Krasch. (AOK) supplementation on the n3-polyunsaturated fatty acid (n3-PUFA) profile of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SADT) in Arbas cashmere goats and explored the underlying transcriptional mechanisms. Forty healthy, weaned kids (120 ± 10 days of age; similar body weight) were randomly allocated to two groups (n = 20): a control group (CON, basal diet) and an AOK group (AOK, basal diet with 3% of the roughage replaced by AOK). The feeding trial spanned 104 days, consisting of a 14-day adaptation period and 90 days of data acquisition. Compared with the CON group, AOK significantly reduced the content of saturated fatty acids (SFAs) and n6-polyunsaturated fatty acids (n6-PUFAs)/n3-PUFAs (n6/n3). In contrast, the levels of n3-PUFAs in the SADT of cashmere goats increased markedly (p < 0.05). Compared with the CON group, AOK exhibited significantly higher activities of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) (p = 0.027), adenylyl cyclase 2 (ADCY2) (p = 0.010), adenylyl cyclase 5 (ADCY5) (p = 0.046), cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36) (p = 0.013), solute carrier family 27 member 4 (SLC27A4) (p = 0.021), and fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4) (p = 0.040), along with significantly lower activities of fatty acid synthase (FAS) (p = 0.002), lipoprotein lipase (LPL) (p = 0.048), and stearoyl-coa desaturase (SCD) (p = 0.026) in SADT. Compared with the CON group, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) (p = 0.032), catalase (CAT) (p = 0.010), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) (p = 0.029), and total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) (p = 0.002) were significantly increased in the AOK group. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that AOK supplementation downregulated mRNA levels of ADCY2, ADCY5, LPL, FAS, SCD, stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), stearoyl-CoA desaturase 2 (SCD2), glycogen synthase 1 (GYS1), acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1), acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), fatty acid desaturase 1 (FADS1), solute carrier family 27 member 2 (SLC27A2), erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 4 (ERBB4), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1B (CPT1B) (p < 0.05). It also markedly induced acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4) (p < 0.01) in SADT. Genes significantly enriched in the adenosine-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling pathway included LPL, SCD1, CPT1B, and GYS1 (p = 0.010). Genes significantly enriched in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-akt (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway included GYS1 and ERBB4 (p = 0.015). CPT1B, ADCY2, and GYS1 were identified as the genes significantly enriched in the insulin resistance signaling pathway (p = 0.048). LPL was the only gene significantly enriched in the cholesterol metabolism pathway (p = 0.049). Genes showing a tendency toward significant enrichment in the peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway included ACSL4, CPT1B, SCD1, and LPL (p = 0.051). These interconnected cascades improve insulin sensitivity, stimulate triglyceride (TG) hydrolysis, and modulate n3-PUFA levels. Supplementation with AOK enhances n3-PUFA content by accelerating TG breakdown while simultaneously restraining FA oxidation in SADT. Consequently, AOK supplementation can be effectively used to enhance the nutritional value of cashmere goat meat through improved n3-PUFA deposition in SADT.
YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F1 (YTHDF1) enables N6-methyladenosine-containing RNA binding activity, involved in mRNA destabilization and positive regulation of translational initiation. Here we aimed to investigate the main molecular events associated with YTHDF1 during the course of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). YTHDF1 expression was detected by western blotting and real-time PCR. Ythdf1 hepatocyte-specific knockout mice were generated in this study. RNA sequencing and proteomic analyses were performed to investigate potentially involved molecular pathways. The protein levels of YTHDF1 were increased during MASLD progression. Under high-fat diet intervention, hepatocyte-specific Ythdf1-knockout mice exhibited a pronounced increase in both liver weight and liver-to-body weight ratio, accompanied by significant hepatic steatosis. YTHDF1 depletion promotes the progression of MASLD through enhanced peroxisome activation and mitochondria dysfunction, which are independent of its RNA N6-methyladenosine reader activity. In particular, decreased YTHDF1 enhances the expression of acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1), and peroxisome activation in a manner relies on YTHDF1 facilitating the formation of stress granules in MASLD. In addition, YTHDF1 was localized in the mitochondria and interacted with SLC25A11, affecting mitochondrial glutathione transport and its homeostasis. Finally, the identified lysine 191 methylation modification can reduce the stability of YTHDF1 protein, thereby achieving its protein expression regulation during MASLD progression. YTHDF1 inhibits MASLD progression by modulating stress granule sequestration of ACOX1 mRNA and maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulated autophagy contributes to liver steatosis, yet its regulation under distinct metabolic contexts remains poorly defined. Here, we identify bile acids (BAs) as critical modulators of hepatic autophagy. Circulating BA levels are elevated in human subjects with liver steatosis and independently associated with increased hepatic steatosis risk. High-fat diet (HFD) feeding increases circulating BA levels, while simultaneously reducing hepatic autophagic flux in mice, whereas pharmacological inhibition of farnesoid X receptor (FXR) enhances autophagy and alleviates steatosis in the livers of HFD-fed mice. Mechanistically, circulating BAs promote hepatic acetyl-CoA production through FXR-induced acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1), which in turn suppresses autophagy by increasing the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling. Similar to HFD feeding, prolonged fasting elevates BA levels and hepatic lipid accumulation, while concurrently upregulating hepatic miR-378, a positive regulator of BA synthesis. Although miR-378 exerts a cell-autonomous pro-autophagic effect during short-term fasting, it paradoxically drives lipid accumulation by suppressing hepatic autophagy via BA/FXR/ACOX1/acetyl-CoA axis in a non-cell-autonomous manner during either HFD feeding or prolonged fasting when BA action becomes considerable. Together, our study uncovers BAs as a previously unrecognized class of inhibitors of hepatic autophagy during prolonged fasting and in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), providing novel insights into context-dependent autophagic regulation of hepatic lipid metabolism and potential therapeutic strategies for MASLD.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Organophosphorus flame retardants (OPFRs) have various health risks. Their recently reported contribution to obesity prevalence earned even more concerns on their hazards. Presently, the obesogenic effects of triphenylphosphine oxide (TPPO), a prevalent OPFR, were investigated in mice. Despite of non-significant influences at 0.1 and 1 µg/(kg·day), TPPO at 10 and 100 µg/(kg·day) significantly increased the body weight gain by 44.5 % and 35.0 % compared with the control, respectively. TPPO at 0.1 µg/(kg·day) stimulated glucose tolerance, while at 100 µg/(kg·day) it declined glucose tolerance. TPPO increased levels of triglycerides and cholesterol. At the low dose, TPPO stimulated high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in serum and inhibited low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), while at the high dose it inhibited both HDL-C and LDL-C. TPPO stimulated acyl-CoA oxidase 1, long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase, and adipose triglyceride lipase, while it inhibited glycerol-3-phosphateacyl transferases 1, long-chain fatty acid transport protein 1, and acetyl-CoA carboxylase. Simultaneously, TPPO reduced the expressions of Grm3, Gnal, and Cebpa but activated the expression of Ppara in liver. Especially, TPPO's effects on Ppara expressions were different in fat and liver tissues. Moreover, TPPO significantly disturbed the levels of neurotransmitters including acetylcholine, dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and γ-aminobutyric acid and also the composition of the microbiota (e.g., ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes). Summing up, TPPO caused obesogenic effects through multiple aspects including disturbances on enzyme activities, genetic expression, neural regulation and microbiota composition. Further studies are needed to elucidate the interactions among the multiple aspects.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by epidermal hyperplasia and dermal T cell infiltration. Epidermal keratinocytes function not only as the primary targets of the inflammatory response but also play a pivotal role in initiating and maintaining the inflammatory state. Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), an NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase, is critical for various cellular processes, including proliferation, metabolic homeostasis, and inflammation. However, its role in psoriasis remains elusive.To investigate the role of SIRT7 in psoriasis pathogenesis and its underlying mechanism.Expression of SIRT family members was evaluated in lesions from psoriasis patients. Afterward, the effects of SIRT7 on psoriasis were investigated utilizing an imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like mouse model with KRT5cre; SIRT7fl/fl and cellular models involving siRNA transfection or overexpression through plasmid. The deacetylation target of SIRT7 was elucidated in vitro analyses, including identification of SIRT7 substrates, validation of deacetylation sites via site-specific acetylation-mimetic and null mutants.Among the SIRT family members, the expression of SIRT7 was significantly increased in the epidermal keratinocytes of patients with psoriasis compared to healthy controls. This finding was confirmed using an imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like mouse model, where SIRT7 deficiency in keratinocytes alleviated the psoriatic phenotype. In vitro studies revealed that SIRT7 contributes to keratinocyte proliferation, the expression of inflammatory cytokines, and glycolytic processes. Furthermore, we identified hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) as a novel substrate of SIRT7, which undergoes deacetylation at lysine 674 (K674). The deacetylated form of HIF-1α exhibited enhanced K63-linked polyubiquitination while reducing K48-linked ubiquitination, thereby avoiding proteasomal degradation and maintaining stability through interaction with ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9 x-linked (USP9X).Our findings reveal a novel SIRT7-HIF-1α signaling pathway that regulates keratinocyte metabolism, proliferation, and inflammation, which is involved in promoting psoriasis progression. This finding identifies a potential therapeutic target for psoriasis management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41635813 is a review article
Excessive macrophage-mediated inflammation following myocardial infarction (MI) exacerbates infarct expansion and impairs cardiac repair; however, the regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, it is reported that ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9 X-linked (USP9X) was significantly downregulated in macrophages during early post-MI inflammation. Macrophage-specific deficiency of USP9X enhanced expression of pro-inflammatory genes, thereby impeding cardiac functional recovery. Mechanistically, USP9X deubiquitinated and stabilized tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF)-type zinc finger domain containing 1 (TRAFD1), a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling, thereby restraining inflammatory responses. Moreover, inflammatory stimuli triggered acetylation of USP9X at K2414, exposing a latent KFERQ motif that promoted its recognition by the molecular chaperone heat shock cognate protein 70 (HSC70) and facilitated subsequent lysosomal degradation via chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA). Consistently, both genetic inhibition of HSC70 and pharmacological blockade of lysosomal degradation prevented USP9X degradation following inflammatory stimulation. Furthermore, a cell-penetrating peptide mimicking the KFERQ sequence of USP9X that blocked its interaction with HSC70 and the subsequent CMA-mediated degradation, thereby promoting inflammation resolution and cardiac repair post-MI. Collectively, these findings establish the USP9X-TRAFD1 axis and its CMA-mediated degradation as critical checkpoints in post-MI inflammation, highlighting USP9X stabilization as a therapeutic strategy for ischemic heart disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Follicular atresia, a complex degenerative process regulated by multiple molecular mechanisms, significantly affects female reproductive performance in animals. While granulosa cell (GC) apoptosis has been well established as a primary mechanism underlying follicular atresia, the potential involvement of ferroptosis, which is an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, remains largely unexplored in chickens.Using a tamoxifen (TMX)-induced avian model of follicular atresia, we demonstrated that ferroptosis plays a critical role in follicular degeneration. Inhibition of ferroptosis through pharmacological agents significantly restored follicular function, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target. Notably, we observed a significant upregulation of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9, X-linked (USP9X) in GCs during atresia. Through comprehensive in vitro and in vivo investigations, we confirmed that USP9X facilitates follicular atresia by promoting ferroptosis in GCs. Mechanistically, USP9X induces ferroptosis by stabilizing Beclin1 through deubiquitination, thereby activating autophagy-dependent ferroptosis. This pathway was effectively suppressed by autophagy inhibitors, emphasizing the essential role of autophagy in USP9X-mediated ferroptosis.Our findings provide the evidence that the USP9X-Beclin1 axis regulates autophagy-dependent ferroptosis during avian follicular atresia. These insights reveal novel molecular targets and potential genetic markers for improving reproductive efficiency in chicken breeding programs.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ubiquitin removal by deubiquitinases (DUBs) is crucial for protein activity and homeostasis. While tumor cells adapt to treatment and environmental stress, the role of DUBs in sensing mechanical signals from the extracellular matrix (ECM) remains an unexplored area. Using melanoma cells cultured on collagen matrices of varying stiffness and activity-based ubiquitin probe profiling combined with quantitative proteomics, we identify ubiquitin specific peptidase 9 X-linked (USP9X) as a stiffness-sensitive DUB acting through the discoidin domain receptor (DDR)/actomyosin signaling pathway. USP9X regulates levels of the mechanosensor YAP by preventing its proteasomal degradation via deubiquitination. Inhibition or knockdown of USP9X reduced YAP expression, impaired tumor cell migration, invasion, and ECM contraction, and decreased metastatic potential in vivo. Targeting USP9X also enhanced the effectiveness of BRAF-targeted therapies by limiting YAP-mediated mechanosensing, drug resistance, and tumor relapse. These findings establish USP9X as a mechanoresponsive DUB essential for cancer cell adaptation to mechanical cues, proposing it as a targetable mechanosensitive therapeutic target in cancer.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer progression and immune evasion are closely linked to mitochondrial and peroxisomal metabolic reprogramming, yet the role of peroxisomes remains underexplored. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the contribution of peroxisomal metabolism to colorectal cancer biology and identify potential metabolic vulnerabilities for therapeutic targeting. METHODS: Transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA-COAD and GEO (GSE39582) served as training and validation cohorts. Of 106 shared peroxisome-related genes (PRGs), seven were identified via univariate Cox and refined using LASSO regression to build a prognostic model. Tumor microenvironment features were assessed using ESTIMATE, MCP-counter, and CIBERSORT. Single-cell RNA-seq data (TISCH; EMTAB8107) were used to examine cell-type-specific PRG expression. For experimental validation, qPCR and Western blotting assessed gene expression in colon cancer cell lines. FNDC5 was silenced via siRNA in SW480 and HCT116 cells, followed by CCK-8 and colony formation assays. IHC evaluated protein levels in clinical specimens. Analyses were conducted in R. RESULTS: A seven-gene PRG risk signature was constructed, including four risk-associated genes: ABCD1 (ATP Binding Cassette Subfamily D Member 1), FNDC5 (Fibronectin Type III Domain Containing 5), HAO2 (Hydroxyacid Oxidase 2), and PEX5L (Peroxisomal Biogenesis Factor 5 Like), as well as three protective genes: ABCD3 (ATP Binding Cassette Subfamily D Member 3), ACOX1 (Acyl-CoA Oxidase 1), and NOS2 (Nitric Oxide Synthase 2). COAD patients were stratified into high- and low-risk groups based on PRG risk signature, with the high-risk group showing significantly worse survival in both cohorts. The high-risk group was linked to advanced stage, higher MSI, CMS4 subtype enrichment, distinct mutation patterns, and increased genome integrity pathway mutations (79% vs. 66%). It also showed greater stromal infiltration, including fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and monocytes. Single-cell RNA-seq confirmed differential PRG expression across tumor, stromal, and immune cells. Among the PRG risk genes, FNDC5 and ACOX1 were identified as key biomarkers. FNDC5 was markedly upregulated in cancer cells, and western blot confirmed its elevated protein levels (p < 0.001). Functional assays following FNDC5 knockdown in SW480 and HCT116 cells demonstrated efficient silencing by qPCR and western blot, significantly reduced cell viability (CCK-8 assay), and impaired colony formation, supporting its role as a potential oncogene in colorectal cancer. CONCLUSION: FNDC5 and ACOX1 were identified as key peroxisome-related biomarkers with opposing roles in colon adenocarcinoma, highlighting peroxisomal metabolism’s contribution to tumor progression. FNDC5 promotes tumor growth, while ACOX1 appears protective, offering potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40663270 is a review article
This study investigates the link between ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9 X-linked (USP9X) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, aiming to identify potential targets for AD diagnosis, treatment, and drug development.We constructed a USP9X-inhibited expression mouse model and assessed cognitive and memory functions. We also measured Tau phosphorylation and APP levels in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and analyzed neuronal functions, dendritic spine features, late apoptosis, and autophagy.Mice with USP9Xinhibition exhibited impaired cognitive and memory functions. An increase in the APP levels and Tau hyperphosphorylation in the DG resembled AD-like pathology. Neurons exhibited abnormal functions, altered dendritic spine morphology, increase in neuronal apoptosis, and dysfunctions, similar to neuron loss observed in AD.Investigating the role of USP9X in AD could provide valuable insights for developing novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for AD.© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hormone receptor-positive and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative breast cancer (HR+/HER2- BC) is the most common subtype, with a high risk of long-term recurrence and metastasis. Endocrine therapy (ET) combined with cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 (CDK4/6) inhibitors is a standard treatment for advanced/metastatic HR+/HER2- BC, but resistance remains a major clinical challenge. We report that kinesin family member C2 (KIFC2) was amplified in approximately 50% of patients with HR+/HER2- BC, and its high expression was associated with poor disease outcome, increased tumor protein p53 (TP53) somatic mutation, and active pyrimidine metabolism. Functional assays revealed that depletion of KIFC2 suppressed growth and enhanced sensitivity of HR+/HER2- BC cells to tamoxifen and CDK4/6 inhibitors. Mechanistically, KIFC2 stabilized CDK4 by enhancing its interaction with ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9 X-linked (USP9X). Importantly, reexpression of CDK4 in KIFC2-depleted cells partially rescued the decreased growth and increased sensitivity to tamoxifen and CDK4/6 inhibitors caused by KIFC2 depletion. Clinically, high KIFC2 mRNA expression was negatively associated with the survival rate of patients with HR+/HER2- BC who received adjuvant ET alone or in combination with CDK4/6 inhibitors. Collectively, these findings identify an important role for KIFC2 in HR+/HER2- BC growth and therapeutic resistance, and support its potential as a therapeutic target and predictive biomarker.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and the deadliest brain cancer. Glutamine anabolism mediated by glutamine synthetase (GS) is beneficial for GBM cell growth, especially under glutamine deprivation. However, the molecular mechanism underlying GS homeostasis in GBM remains undisclosed. Here, it is reported that histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) promotes GS deacetylation, stabilizing it via ubiquitin-mediated pathway. It is found that deubiquitination of GS is modulated by ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9, X-linked (USP9X). USP9X stabilizes GS by removing its K48-linked polyubiquitination on lysine 91 and 103. Accordingly, targeting HDAC6 and USP9X in vitro and in vivo represses GBM tumorigenesis by decreasing GS stability. Metabolic analysis shows that silencing HDAC6 and USP9X disrupts de novo nucleotide synthesis, thereby attenuating GBM cell growth. Furthermore, GS modulation by targeting HDAC6 and USP9X restrains the self-renewal capacity. These results suggest that HDAC6 and USP9X are crucial epigenetic enzymes that promote GBM tumorigenesis by modulating glutamine metabolism.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Exercise stimulates skeletal muscle signalling and mitochondrial metabolism. Emerging evidence shows that mitochondrial dynamics (i.e. fission and fusion) could be regulated by exercise. Yet, key gaps remain in identifying (i) the signals that drive fission vs. fusion; (ii) how energy status and reactive oxygen species (ROS) shift control between dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) and mitofusin (MFN)/optic atrophy 1 (OPA1); and (iii) which intensity-duration combinations yield similar cytosolic signals but different mitochondrial remodelling. Therefore, we developed an integrative computational framework connecting exercise regimens to mitochondria fission-fusion machinery by linking blood-myofibre energetics in cytosol and mitochondria to signalling pathways. The influence of sprint, resistance and endurance exercise regimens on mitochondrial fission and fusion has been simulated. Classified qualitative validation of the signalling network model achieved 80% accuracy. The model predicts regimen-specific dynamics starting with an acute DRP1-driven fission during exercise followed by MFN1/2-OPA1-mediated re-fusion as energy stress declines, consistent with a cyclical triage-then-rebuild paradigm. Changes are most pronounced and sustained with endurance, sharp but brief with sprint, and minimal with resistance. Global sensitivity analysis identified AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1α→MFN1/2 as dominant fusion drivers, ROS and AMPK→mitochondrial fission factor/DRP1 as primary fission switches, and Ca2+-calmodulin, extracellular-signal-regulated kinase and liver kinase B1/AMPK as shared regulators. The model predicts that an endurance base, augmented with one or two weekly high intensity interval training/sprint interval training sessions could maximize AMPK-ROS pulses and mitochondrial fission-fusion. This framework unifies muscle's signalling logic with energetic state to explain how intensity-volume combinations, bout spacing and kinase modulation tune mitochondrial remodelling, yielding testable predictions for optimizing training and adjuvant therapies to enhance mitochondrial quality and performance. KEY POINTS: Different exercise regimes such as sprint, resistance, and endurance can trigger different signalling pathways. Exercise also triggers mitochondrial remodelling in skeletal muscle. Using a systems biology model, we developed a systems biology model for skeletal muscle signalling and mitochondrial metabolism for exercise. Our model predicts the dynamics of mitochondrial fusion and fission in different exercise regimes and identifies which signalling pathways dominassste these remodelling mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology © 2026 The Physiological Society.
Aim: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) display high metabolic plasticity, supporting tumor aggressiveness and therapeutic resistance. Here, we investigated the role of the mitochondrial chaperone TRAP1 in regulating mitochondrial architecture, metabolism, and adhesion in CSCs. Methods: We studied an in vitro model of CSCs using Panc1 cells and the corresponding stable TRAP1-knockout cells (TRAP1-KO). Molecular techniques used were quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), Western blot, transmission electron microscopy, and Seahorse technology. Results: CSCs showed increased TRAP1 expression after 2 weeks of culture, reflecting a preferential metabolic shift toward glycolysis. TRAP1 deletion impaired the ability of CSCs to form compact spheroids without altering canonical CSC traits, such as reduced proliferation, increased stem marker expression, and enhanced chemoresistance. We demonstrate that TRAP1 deletion increases CDH1, an effect that was reversed by succinate supplementation, indicating that the TRAP1-succinate-CDH1 axis controls adhesion-related properties. Ultrastructural analyses revealed profound mitochondrial remodeling in the absence of TRAP1: parental cells displayed enlarged, elongated mitochondria with wider cristae, whereas CSCs developed fragmented mitochondria with thinner cristae and tighter crista junctions. These alterations were closely associated with the differential regulation of mitochondrial fission factor (MFF). Functionally, loss of TRAP1 enhanced oxidative phosphorylation, leading to increased mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, elevated maximal respiration, and reduced proton leak. Conclusion: Collectively, these findings identify TRAP1 as a critical regulator of mitochondrial organization, respiratory efficiency, and CDH1-mediated adhesion in PDAC CSCs, highlighting metabolic and structural vulnerabilities that may be exploited therapeutically to destabilize CSC homeostasis and enhance treatment response.© The Author(s) 2026.
Lung Adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality, driving the need for novel prognostic markers and therapeutic targets. Mitochondrial dynamics, particularly fission, have emerged as a crucial regulator of tumor progression. Emerging evidence highlights the interplay between mitochondrial proteins and immune modulation, yet the role of Mitochondrial Fission Factor (MFF) in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment, particularly its involvement in non-canonical immune checkpoints, remains largely unexplored in LUAD. Herein, we investigate the expression and clinical significance of MFF in LUAD, and explore its potential associations with mitochondrial dynamics, metabolic reprogramming, and immune modulation.Gene expression and clinical data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) LUAD cohort for bioinformatics analysis. Validation at the protein level was performed using Immunohistochemistry (IHC) on a Tissue Microarray (TMA) containing 42 evaluable paired LUAD and adjacent normal tissues. Bioinformatics analyses included differential expression, survival (Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression), Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and immune infiltration profiling.MFF was significantly overexpressed in LUAD at both transcript and protein levels and correlated with advanced disease stages, male gender, and poor survival. It served as a robust prognostic biomarker even in early-stage and node-negative subgroups. Beyond its expected association with mitochondrial dynamics regulators (DNM1L/DRP1, MFN1), MFF expression strongly correlated with a hyperactive OXPHOS transcriptional program, identifying a distinct metabolic phenotype. MFF high tumors were characterized by a distinctive immune checkpoint landscape, with reduced expression of PD-1 and CTLA-4, but marked upregulation of B7-H3 (CD276), coupled with broad suppression of immune infiltration and the antigen presentation machinery.Our findings establish MFF as a multifunctional hub linking mitochondrial plasticity to metabolic adaptation and immune evasion in LUAD. The strong OXPHOS association suggests MFF-high tumors may act as metabolic sinks, creating a nutrient-deprived microenvironment hostile to infiltrating immune cells. The distinct B7-H3-dominant checkpoint profile further defines a non-inflamed "immune desert" phenotype, offering a potential explanation for resistance to conventional PD-1/CTLA-4 blockade. While our data do not establish causation, we propose three testable hypotheses for this immunosuppressive phenotype: metabolic competition, shared upstream regulation (e.g., androgen receptor signaling), and stress-induced checkpoint switching.MFF drives LUAD progression by orchestrating mitochondrial plasticity and fostering a metabolically distinct, B7-H3-dominant "cold" tumor microenvironment. This positions MFF as a robust prognostic biomarker and identifies MFF-high patients as a specific subgroup that may resist conventional immunotherapy but could benefit from emerging B7-H3-directed therapies, including antibody-drug conjugates or chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells. Further functional studies are warranted to distinguish whether MFF actively regulates these processes or serves as a marker of this aggressive tumor niche.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Mitochondria represent central regulators of neuronal function, and their network is dynamically restructured via fission and fusion. The mitochondrial fission factor (MFF) serves as an adaptor protein that recruits and organizes the core fission machinery at the outer mitochondrial membrane. Here, we investigated the role of MFF in Agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARC) in their regulation of systemic energy homeostasis. We demonstrated that mice lacking MFF in AgRP neurons exhibited increased mitochondrial size, both in AgRP neuron somata and their axonal compartments. This translated into increased mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake capacity, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, and a shift toward a more reduced mitochondrial NAD(P)H redox state. Ultimately, these changes resulted in increased neuronal excitability and neurotransmitter release to functionally enhance dynamic food intake during energy state transitions. Collectively, MFF-dependent mitochondrial fission links cell-type-specific neuronal mitochondrial dynamics via mitochondrial Ca2+ handling to control systemic metabolism.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mitochondrial biogenesis plays a vital role in various types of hepatocyte injury. Schisandrol B (SolB), a bioactive lignan isolated from Schisandra sphenanthera, exerts a significant hepatoprotective effect against lithocholic acid (LCA)-induced cholestatic liver injury. Whether mitochondrial biogenesis is involved in the anti-cholestasis effect of SolB remains unknown.A mouse model of cholestatic liver injury was induced by intraperitoneal injection of LCA. SolB was administered orally twice a day. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), total bile acids (TBA) and total bilirubin (TBILI), as well as hepatic superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were measured. Liver pathology was evaluated by toxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Mitochondrial morphology was examined using electron microscopy. Furthermore, the expression of mitochondrial biogenesis-related genes or proteins was analyzed by RT-qPCR or Western blot.We confirmed that SolB pretreatment (200 mg/kg/d) alleviated LCA-induced liver injury as evidenced by histological and biochemical analyses. SolB alleviated LCA-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in mice, as evidenced by increased mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content, superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ co-activator 1α (PGC-1α) and mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (MTCO1) expression, together with decreased fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) and growth differentiation factor 15 (Gdf15) gene levels. Transmission electron microscope analysis showed that LCA elicited small, fragmented mitochondria, which were not reversed after SolB pretreatment. However, western blot analysis showed that the expression of mitochondrial dynamics-related proteins, such as dynamin-related protein1 (DRP1), optic atrophy 1 (OPA1), mitofusin 1 (MFN1), and MFN2, was significantly decreased after LCA treatment. Pretreatment with SolB could significantly upregulate DRP1, mitochondrial fission factor (MFF), and fission1 (FIS1) which are crucial to regulate mitochondrial fission. It is worth noting that the protective effect of SolB against LCA-induced liver injury was independent of parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase (PARKIN)-mediated mitophagy as evidenced by decreased PARKIN and microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3)-II.In summary, this study demonstrated that SolB improved mitochondrial function but had no effect on LCA-induced mitochondrial fragmentation, which provides new insights into better understanding hepatoprotective mechanism of SolB against cholestatic liver injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
DHODH (dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (quinone)) has been demonstrated as a critical regulator of programmed cell death, yet its role in macroautophagy/autophagy remains poorly defined. Flaviviridae pose a significant threat to global public health, and their replication is closely associated with autophagy. Building upon our previous findings that DHODH was a broad-spectrum target for Flaviviridae and a key regulator of Pestiviruses replication, this study employed RNA-seq screening coupled with functional validation to demonstrate that DHODH affected Pestiviruses replication by regulating mitophagy. Notably, we observed remarkable virus genus specificity in this regulatory mechanism. For autophagy-dependent Pestiviruses, DHODH deficiency impaired autophagosome-lysosome fusion, thereby suppressing viral replication. Conversely, in autophagy-inhibiting Flaviviruses, the blockade of autophagy flux facilitated viral replication. These observations underscore the specificity of DHODH-mediated viral replication regulation. Additionally, compound supplementation assays indicated that DHODH regulated autophagy via pyrimidine nucleotide metabolism, as exogenous pyrimidine precursors restored autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Furthermore, our research uncovered a novel mechanism whereby classical swine fever virus (CSFV) non-structural protein 4A (NS4A) recruited DHODH to mitochondria, facilitating its interaction with MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3) through the LC3-interacting region (LIR) domain to activate mitophagy. Collectively, our findings highlight DHODH as a promising antiviral target within the metabolism-autophagy axis, providing novel insights for antiviral drug development.Abbreviation: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATF4: activating transcription factor 4; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BVDV: bovine viral diarrhea virus; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX4: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CQ: chloroquine; CSFV: classical swine fever virus; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DHO: DHODH substrate dihydroorotate; DHODH: dihydroorotate dehydrogenase; DTMUV: duck tembusu virus; FIS1: fission mitochondrial 1; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GO: gene ontology; HSPA/HSP70: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70); JEV: Japanese encephalitis virus; KEGG: kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; Mdivi-1: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; MITO: mitochondria; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTS: mitochondrial targeting signal; OPTN: optineurin; ORO: DHODH product orotate; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PYR: pyrazofurin; RAPA: rapamycin; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RNA-seq: RNA sequencing; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription-quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; SD: standard deviation; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; UMP: uridine monophosphate; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1.
In brief It remains unclear whether mitochondrial fission in granulosa cells contributes to polycystic ovary syndrome pathogenesis and mitochondrial dysfunction, and what role melatonin plays. This study elucidates the mechanism by which melatonin ameliorates mitochondrial function in polycystic ovary syndrome by suppressing excessive mitochondrial fission. Abstract Mitochondrial dysfunction in granulosa cells (GCs) has been implicated in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) pathogenesis. Dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1)-mediated mitochondrial fission is critical for maintaining intact mitochondrial function. This study aims to investigate whether mitochondrial fission contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction in the GCs of individuals with PCOS and the molecular effects of melatonin on mitochondrial fission. Transmission electron microscopy of human GCs showed that the mitochondria exhibited a condensed and small spherical morphology with a tendency toward fragmentation in PCOS patients. At the molecular level, GCs from patients with PCOS presented significant increases in both the p-Drp1(Ser616)/(Ser637) ratio and mitochondrial fission factor (MFF). In a dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced PCOS-like mouse model, excessive mitochondrial fission in GCs was similarly observed, characterized by fragmented mitochondrial morphology via transmission electron microscopy and increased expression of the mitochondrion-localized Drp1 (mito-Drp1) protein. Similarly, in vitro experiments demonstrated that DHT treatment increased the expression of mito-Drp1, the p-Drp1(Ser616)/(Ser637) ratio, and MFF in KGN cells. Melatonin treatment effectively reversed these abnormalities, restoring mitochondrial morphology, reducing fission markers (mito-Drp1, the p-Drp1 ratio, and MFF), decreasing mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, and enhancing mitochondrial membrane potential. Mechanistically, melatonin upregulated sirtuin-1, which restored the imbalance of Drp1 phosphorylation and blocked its MFF-dependent mitochondrial recruitment, thereby attenuating Drp1-mediated excessive mitochondrial fission. Our findings reveal a novel protective mechanism of melatonin in PCOS via the sirtuin-1-Drp1 signaling axis, offering a potential therapeutic target for PCOS management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To investigate whether the protective effect of moxibustion on ovarian function in mice with premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) was associated with mitochondrial dynamics and function in ovarian granulosa cells, using a mitochondrial fission activator.Eighty female ICR mice with regular estrous cycles were randomly divided into a blank group, a tripterygium glycosides group (TG group), a moxibustion group, and a carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone plus moxibustion group (CCCP+moxibustion group), with 20 mice in each group. Except for the blank group, POI model was established in the remained groups by intragastric administration of TG suspension for 14 consecutive days. In the moxibustion group, moxibustion was applied at bilateral "Shenshu" (BL23) or alternately at "Zhongwan" (CV12) and "Guanyuan" (CV4) 1 hour after TG administration, once every day for 14 days. The CCCP+moxibustion group received intraperitoneal injection of CCCP (2.9 mg·kg-1·d-1) after TG administration, followed by the same moxibustion protocol as the moxibustion group. Estrous cycles were recorded, and the ovarian index was calculated. Ovarian morphology was observed with HE staining, and follicle counts were conducted. Serum levels of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol (E2), and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) were measured using ELISA. Immunohistochemistry and real-time quantitative PCR were used to detect the protein and mRNA expression of mitochondrial dynamics-related factors (dynamin-related protein 1 [Drp1], mitochondrial fission factor [Mff], optic atrophy 1 [Opa1], and mitofusin 1 [Mfn1]) in the ovaries, respectively. ATP concentration in granulosa cells was determined by luciferase assay, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorescence intensity was detected using DCFH-DA fluorescent probe method.Compared with the blank group, the mice in the TG group showed a significantly higher rate of estrous cycle disorder (P<0.01), smaller ovarian volume, lower ovarian index (P<0.01), reduced numbers of primordial, growing, and antral follicles (P<0.01), increased number of atretic follicles (P<0.01), and loose and disordered arrangement of granulosa cells; serum FSH level was elevated (P<0.01), while serum AMH and E2 levels were reduced (P<0.01). Drp1 and Mff protein staining in ovarian granulosa cells was intensified, while Opa1 and Mfn1 protein staining was lighter. The average optical densities of Drp1 and Mff and the mRNA expression of Drp1 and Mff were significantly increased (P<0.01), while the average optical densities of Opa1 and Mfn1 and the mRNA expression of Opa1 and Mfn1 were significantly decreased (P<0.01). ATP concentration was reduced (P<0.01), and ROS fluorescence intensity was decreased (P<0.01). Compared with the TG group, the mice in the moxibustion group exhibited lower rate of estrous cycle disorder (P<0.01), larger ovarian volume, higher ovarian index (P<0.01), increased numbers of primordial, growing, and antral follicles (P<0.01), reduced number of atretic follicles (P<0.01), and a more compact and orderly arrangement of granulosa cells; serum FSH level was decreased (P<0.01), while serum AMH and E2 levels were increased (P<0.01). Opa1 and Mfn1 protein staining was deepened, Drp1 and Mff protein staining was lightened, average optical densities and mRNA expression of Opa1 and Mfn1 were increased (P<0.01, P<0.05), and those of Drp1 and Mff were decreased (P<0.05, P<0.01). ATP concentration was increased (P<0.01), and ROS fluorescence intensity was decreased (P<0.01). Compared with the moxibustion group, the mice in the CCCP+moxibustion group showed an increased estrous cycle disorder rate (P<0.05) and a decreased ovarian index (P<0.05). The numbers of primordial, growing, and antral follicles were reduced (P<0.01, P<0.05), while the number of atretic follicles was increased (P<0.01). The arrangement of ovarian granulosa cells became looser and more disordered. Serum FSH level was elevated (P<0.01), while serum E2 and AMH levels were decreased (P<0.05). In the ovaries of mice in the CCCP+moxibustion group, Drp1 and Mff protein staining was intensified, whereas Opa1 and Mfn1 protein staining was lighter. The average optical densities of Drp1 and Mff, as well as the mRNA expression levels of Drp1 and Mff in granulosa cells, were increased (P<0.05), while the average optical densities of Opa1 and Mfn1 and the mRNA expression levels of Opa1 and Mfn1 in granulosa cells were decreased (P<0.05, P<0.01). Additionally, the ATP concentration in ovarian granulosa cells was reduced (P<0.01), and the ROS fluorescence intensity was elevated (P<0.01).Moxibustion may alleviate TG-induced ovarian damage by inhibiting mitochondrial fission and promoting mitochondrial fusion, thereby improving impaired mitochondrial function; this protective effect can be blocked by CCCP.
Background/Objectives: Cytological analysis of pleural and peritoneal effusions is minimally invasive but may show limited sensitivity for malignancy detection because tumor cells can be scarce or morphologically difficult to identify. Proteomics-based mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) enables direct molecular profiling of cytological specimens and may improve the distinction between malignant and benign samples. This study investigated whether MALDI-based MSI profiling of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) cytology cell blocks could discriminate high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) from benign effusions and identify discriminatory peptide signatures. Methods: Forty-one FFPE cytological specimens derived from pleural and peritoneal effusions were analyzed, including 18 malignant samples and 23 benign control specimens with reactive or inflammatory cytological backgrounds. MALDI-MSI analyses were performed using proteomic profiling. In a preliminary comparative experiment, two section thicknesses (3 µm and 5 µm) were evaluated to optimize ion peak intensity yield. Classification analyses using linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and support vector machine (SVM) models were performed to identify discriminatory peptide signatures. Results: Comparative analysis of average mass spectra identified multiple differentially expressed ions with significant discriminatory performance (AUROC ≥ 0.7 or ≤0.3; Wilcoxon/Kruskal-Wallis, p < 0.001). Classification analyses achieved accuracy ranged from 91% to 94% for the discrimination of malignant and benign samples. Differential proteomic profiling identified Complement C3, Perilipin-3, arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase, Leukotriene A-4 hydrolase, fibrinogen beta and gamma chains, and serotransferrin as discriminatory proteins associated with immune modulation, lipid metabolism, cytoskeletal and extracellular matrix organization, and metabolic regulation. Notably, Complement C3 was found to be overexpressed in malignant tumor cells, supporting its potential role as a marker of tumor presence and progression. Conclusions: Proteomics-based mass spectrometry imaging enabled reliable discrimination of HGSOC from benign cytological specimens and revealed cancer-associated proteins linked to relevant biological processes. These findings support MALDI-MSI as a complementary molecular approach for the classification of challenging cytological specimens in routine diagnostic pathology.
Viruses hijack host metabolic resources for replication. Previous studies have shown that classical swine fever virus (CSFV) infection induces host lipid metabolic reprogramming.However, research into the exact regulatory mechanisms between CSFV and lipid metabolism remains limited. Lipophagy refers to the degradation of lipid droplet contents to release free fatty acids(FFAs), CSFV induces autophagy to promote its replication, the regulatory mechanism between CSFV and lipophagy is unclear. In this study, we found that lipid droplets(LDs) initially accumulate and then decrease following CSFV infection. Autophagy activity was negatively correlated with lipid drople levels. Subsequent experiments revealed that CSFV induces lipophagy in Hepatic stellate cells(HSCs)and upregulates perilipin3(PLIN3) expression, a LD-associated protein that facilitates viral replication. Further studies demonstrated that PLIN3 activates the AMPK signaling pathway to promote lipophagy-mediated FFAs release. This FFA increase could be blocked by autophagy inhibitors. Notably, exogenous FFA addition reversed the shPLIN3-induced impairment of CSFV replication. Overall, this finding provides new insights into the mechanisms of virus-host lipid metabolism interactions.
To investigate the fillet quality traits (texture, flavor, nutritional value) formation and the mechanism of muscular lipid deposition in triploid rainbow trout, low (20%) and high (30%) lipid diets were manufactured and fed market-size triploid rainbow trout (∼3.2 kg) for 77 days. Results showed that the width of the myosepta (MS) was significantly increased, and nonanal, (E, Z)-2,6-nonadienal, octanal, 1-octen-3-ol, and hexanal emerged as the top five contributors to the overall odor profile of the fish fillets, following exposure to the high-lipid (HL) diet. Lipidomic profiling demonstrated that triglycerides (TG) were the predominated lipid class in both muscle fibers (MF) and MS fractions. The HL diet differentially modulated lipid composition: it upregulated TG content in MF, while reducing TG content and promoting the accumulation of phosphatidylcholine (PC) in MS. Gene expression analysis showed tissue-specific regulation of lipid metabolism. In MF, the upregulation of fatty acid binding protein 1 (fabp1) and perilipin-3 (plin3), and the downregulation of fabp2, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor α (pparα), pparβ, acyl-CoA oxidase (acox), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (cpt1), were induced by the HL diet, which collectively promoted TG synthesis and storage, which may be one of the underlying mechanisms contributing to the formation of a more intense odor profile in MF. In MS, HL diet exposure induced the upregulation of fabp2, pparα, pparβ, acox, and cpt1, and the downregulation of fabp1 and plin3, thereby promoting TG mobilization and catabolism, and stimulating PC accumulation, and represent a potential mechanism contributing to the increased width of MS. The findings of this study will lay a theoretical foundation for elucidating the quality formation and the heterogeneity of muscular lipid deposition in rainbow trout.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) has currently emerged as the predominant form of chronic liver diseases nowadays, with a high morbidity. Nevertheless, the general remission rate of current treatments for MAFLD remains unsatisfactory. The traditional Chinese medicine formulation Xiaochaihu decoction (XCHD) alleviates triglyceride (TG) and total cholesterol (TC) in patients with fatty liver disease, but the precise mechanisms remain to be determined.This study aimed to investigate the effects and underlying mechanisms of XCHD on MAFLD.The components of XCHD and XCHD-containing serum were characterized by UPLC/MS. High-fat diet and glucose-fructose water-induced MAFLD model in mice was established to evaluate the effects of XCHD. Non-targeted metabolomics, RNA-sequencing, and Network pharmacology were performed and integrated in the mice liver. Molecular biology experiments, like Western blot, were taken to investigate its potential mechanisms. Finally, the effects of PPARγ, perilipin 2 (PLIN2), and perilipin 3 (PLIN3) were detected by over-expressed PPARγ or suppressed PPARγ.XCHD markedly alleviates MAFLD by reducing lipid droplets, TC, and TG accumulation in MAFLD mice and free fatty acid induced HepG2 and AML12 cells. Non-targeted metabolomics suggested that XCHD reduced hepatic lysophospholipid, and RNA-sequencing revealed that the underlying mechanism would be related to lipid droplet formation. Molecular biology experiments indicated that XCHD decreased PLIN2 and PLIN3 in vivo and in vitro. Network pharmacology analysis revealed that the mechanism of XCHD against MAFLD involves the PPARγ signaling pathway. Molecular biology experiments indicated that XCHD decreased PPARγ in vivo and in vitro. Overexpression of PPARγ indicated that XCHD exert regulatory effects through PPARγ-mediated inhibition of PLIN2 and PLIN3. However, the inhibitory effects of XCHD on PLIN2 and PLIN3 are not solely dependent on this pathway.XCHD alleviates MAFLD by decreasing lysophospholipid, regulating liver lipid droplets formation, and targeting PLIN2/PLIN3. PPARγ was one of the cross in for PLIN2/PLIN3 pathway, which provides novel insights for MAFLD therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pigmented diseases can significantly impact people's quality of life, with melanogenesis playing a key role. In this study, we first analysed the relationship between peroxisomes, peroxisomal biogenesis factor 16 (PEX16), and melanin synthesis using omics data and clinical samples. Our results showed that peroxisome function and PEX16 expression were negatively associated with melanogenesis. Overexpression of PEX16 in the melanin-producing MNT1 cell line resulted in an increase in peroxisome production and the inhibition of key genes related to melanogenesis, such as microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), tyrosinase (TYR), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), and dopachrome tautomerase (DCT). Consistently, when PEX16 was overexpressed in melanocytes, there was a significant reduction in melanin content. The expression of PEX16 was detected in skin tissues. We found that PEX16 expression was higher in the areas with relatively lower pigmentation and decreased following ultraviolet B (UVB) irradiation. Furthermore, our findings suggest that PEX16 can inhibit melanogenesis by suppressing the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway. In conclusion, PEX16 can inhibit the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway, thereby reducing melanogenesis. Our research provides new insights for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of skin pigmentation disorders.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
FURIN cleaves a subset of proproteins into functional mature fragments. Evidence suggests that FURIN is involved in brain development and the associated diseases, whereas the potential mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we report that cerebral FURIN-deficient mice exhibit cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. Lipid droplets (LDs) that are preferentially accumulated in astrocytes correlate with an increase of the LD markers PLIN2 and PLIN3, and conversely a decreased level of autophagic proteins including ATG5, BECN1 and MAP1LC3/LC3 as well as LAMP1. Accordingly, silencing of Furin in astrocytic cells impairs lipophagic flux with alterations in lipid metabolites. We then demonstrate that cytosolic ITGAV (integrin alpha V) is a principal substrate of FURIN. An ITGAV mutant that prevents FURIN-mediated maturation diminishes lysosomal puncta and lipophagic processing, in which a translational mechanism contributes to the reduction of autophagic proteins. We finally show that the mature but not mutant ITGAV rescues LD accumulation in FURIN-defective cells. Collectively, these data highlight the fact that ITGAV maturation is a key event in astrocytic lipophagy regulation which is involved in neurodegeneration of FURIN-deficient mice.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin, beta; AD: Alzheimer disease; ADAM10: a disintegrin and metallopeptidase domain 10; ADGGA: acyl diacylglyceryl glucuronide; AHexSIS: acylhexosyl sitosterol; AHexSTS: acylhexosyl stigmasterol; AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; APP: amyloid beta precursor protein; ATG5: autophagy related 5; Aβ: amyloid β-protein; BACE1: beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1; BASulfate: bile acid sulfate; BMP: bismonoacylglycerophosphate; CAR: acylcarnitine; CE: cholesteryl ester; Cer_NS: ceramide non-hydroxyfatty acid-sphingosine; CL: cardiolipin; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DCAE: esterified deoxycholic acid; DEP: differentially expressed protein; DG: diacylglycerol; DGCC: diacylglyceryl-3-O-carboxyhydroxymethylcholine; DLG4/PSD95: discs large MAGUK scaffold protein 4; ECM: extracellular matrix; EtherLPC: ether-linked lysophosphatidylcholine; EtherLPE: ether-linked lysophosphatidylethanolamine; EtherMGDG: ether-linked monogalactosyldiacylglycerol; EtherOxPC: ether-linked oxidized phosphatidylcholine; EtherPC: ether-linked phosphatidylcholine; EtherPE: ether-linked phosphatidylethanolamine; EtherPG: ether-linked phosphatidylglycerol; EtherSMGDG: semino lipid; EtherTG: ether-linked triacylglycerol; FA: fatty acyls; FA: free fatty acid; FAHFA: fatty acid ester of hydroxyl fatty acid; FJC: fluoro-Jade C; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GDCAE: esterified glycodeoxycholic acid; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; GL: glycerolipids; GP: glycerophospholipids; HBMP: hemibismonoacylglycerophosphate; HexCer_NS: hexosylceramide non-hydroxyfatty acid-sphingosine; HSPA8/HSC70: heat shock protein 8; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2A; LDGCC: lysodiacylglyceryl-3-O-carboxyhydroxymethylcholine; LDs: lipid droplets; LNAPE: N-acyl-lysophosphatidylethanolamine; LNAPS: N-acyl-lysophosphatidylserine; LPA: lysophosphatidic acid; LPC: lyso-phophatidylcholine; LPE: lysophosphatidylethanolamine; LPG: lysophosphatidylglycerol; LPI: lysophosphatidylinositol; LPS: lysophosphatidylserine; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MGDG: monogalactosyldiacylglycerol; MWM: Morris Water Maze; OA: oleic acid; OFT: Open Field Test; OxPC: oxidized phosphatidylcholine; OxPG: oxidized phosphatidylglycerol; OxPI: oxidized phosphatidylinositol; OxPS: oxidized phosphatidylserine; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PE_Cer: ceramide phosphoethanolamine; PG: phosphatidylglycerol; PI: phosphatidylinositol; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PLIN3: perilipin 3; PMeOH: phosphatidylmethanol; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PS: phosphatidylserine; PSEN1/PS1: presenilin 1; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; SHexCer: sulfatide; SL: sulfonolipid; SM: sphingomyelin; SP: sphingolipids; ST: sterol lipids; TDCAE: esterified taurodeoxycholic acid; TG: triacylglycerol; TLCAE: esterified taurolithocholic acid; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41255526 is a review article
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) plays a critical role in regulating RNA Ostability, localization, and gene expression. m6A modification is also important for modulating the expression of viral and cellular genes during HIV-1 infection. However, the function of m6A modification in regulating HIV-1 infection of primary CD4+ T cells remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that HIV-1 infection of activated primary CD4+ T cells promotes the interaction between the m6A writer complex subunits methyltransferase-like 3 and 14 (METTL3/METTL14). Using single-base m6A-specific RNA sequencing, we identified differentially m6A-modified cellular mRNAs in HIV-1-infected primary CD4+ T cells, including perilipin 3 (PLIN3). We also identified 30 m6A sites in HIV-1 RNA from infected primary CD4+ T cells. HIV-1 infection increased PLIN3 mRNA level and nuclear accumulation but decreased PLIN3 protein expression in primary CD4+ T cells. Polysome profiling revealed that PLIN3 mRNA was less actively translated during HIV-1 infection of primary CD4+ T cells. Furthermore, PLIN3 knockdown in primary CD4+ T cells significantly reduced HIV-1 release but enhanced virion infectivity. Our results highlight the importance of m6A RNA modification during HIV-1 infection and suggest PLIN3 as a regulatory protein of HIV-1 replication in primary CD4+ T cells.IMPORTANCEm6A is a common chemical modification on mRNA that regulates RNA stability, localization, and gene expression. m6A modification of viral and cellular RNA is important for HIV-1 infection. We found that HIV-1 infection of primary CD4+ T cells promotes the interaction between the m6A writer complex subunits that add m6A modification. Using m6A-specific RNA sequencing, we identified several cellular mRNAs with altered m6A modifications during HIV-1 infection, including PLIN3. Interestingly, HIV-1 infection increased PLIN3 mRNA levels and nuclear localization but reduced PLIN3 protein expression in primary CD4+ T cells. When we knocked down PLIN3 in primary CD4+ T cells, it decreased HIV-1 release but made the HIV-1 more infectious. Our findings show the importance of m6A RNA modification in HIV-1 infection by regulating host genes like PLIN3 and suggest a unique regulatory mechanism in HIV-1-infected primary CD4+ T cells.
Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) represents a critical pathogen that causes substantial economic losses to the swine industry and heavily relies on host lipid metabolic reprogramming during infection. However, the detailed regulatory mechanisms governing CSFV-induced lipid metabolic remodeling remain poorly understanding. In this study, we systematically investigated how CSFV reprograms lipid metabolism to facilitate viral replication. Our results demonstrated that CSFV infection significantly promotes the accumulation of triglycerides (TG), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), and phosphatidylglycerol (PG), with pathway enrichment analysis revealing pronounced activation of cholesterol metabolism and autophagy pathways. Administration of autophagy inhibitor chloroquine resulted in prominent alterations in TG metabolites, with integrative analyses demonstrating that TG constituted 56.36% of the shared differential metabolites, underscoring the pivotal role of TG metabolism in CSFV infection. Notable, the lipid droplet-associated protein Perilipin 5 (PLIN5) was significantly upregulated following CSFV infection, and the viral nonstructural protein NS5B was found to directly interact with PLIN5 and promote its expression. Functional assays revealed that CSFV RNA localizes to lipid droplets, and overexpression of PLIN5 significantly enhanced viral replication. Collectively, this study uncovers a mechanism by which CSFV hijacks TG metabolism through the NS5B-PLIN5 axis and exploits lipid droplets as platforms for viral replication.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Peptidylprolyl isomerase A (PPIA) catalyzes cis-trans isomerization of proline residues, a key process regulating protein folding and signal transduction. Its aberrant secretion is closely associated with tumor metastasis and progression, making it a promising biomarker. However, currently available immunoassays often suffer from insufficient sensitivity for low-abundance PPIA detection. Herein, we present an electrochemical biosensor that integrates self-propelled nanocarriers with DNA cascade amplification strategy for ultrasensitive PPIA detection. The biosensor employs PtNPs@COF particles that catalyze H2O2 decomposition to generate O2. This autonomous propulsion accelerates target binding in homogeneous solution and helps mitigate diffusion-limited binding kinetics. After PPIA binding, the liberated DNAzyme catalytically cleaves the co-immobilized substrate strands, generating numerous triggers for the catalytic hairpin assembly (CHA) reaction. The biosensor achieves a wide linear range from 1 pg/mL to 10 μg/mL with a detection limit of 0.330 pg/mL. It also exhibits excellent specificity and performs reliably in clinical lung adenocarcinoma serum specimens, demonstrating its promising applicability for early diagnosis of this malignancy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains a major global health challenge. Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced lipotoxicity is an important contributor to podocyte injury. Perilipin 5 (PLIN5) is a lipid droplet-associated protein that helps maintain cellular metabolic homeostasis. However, how PLIN5 protects podocytes from lipotoxic stress remains incompletely understood. In this study, we generated podocyte-specific PLIN5 knockout mice using the Cre-loxP system and induced PLIN5 overexpression in vivo and in vitro. We found that Ang II markedly downregulated PLIN5 expression in podocytes both in vivo and in vitro. Podocyte-specific deletion of PLIN5 aggravated Ang II-induced lipid accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis, whereas PLIN5 overexpression alleviated these abnormalities. Proteomic screening identified FK506-binding protein 8 (FKBP8), an outer mitochondrial membrane protein, as a PLIN5-interacting partner. Co-immunoprecipitation and proximity ligation assays showed that the PLIN5-FKBP8 interaction was reduced under Ang II stimulation. Functionally, FKBP8 knockdown disrupted lipid droplet-mitochondria contact and exacerbated Ang II-induced podocyte lipotoxicity. Domain-mapping and rescue experiments further demonstrated that the 70-200 amino acid region of FKBP8 is required for PLIN5 binding and for preservation of lipid droplet-mitochondria contact under lipotoxic stress. In addition, disruption of the PLIN5-FKBP8 axis was associated with impaired fatty acid utilisation and altered mitochondrial homeostasis. Collectively, these findings support a model in which PLIN5 protects podocytes, at least in part, by interacting with FKBP8 and preserving lipid droplet-mitochondria contact, thereby limiting Ang II-induced lipotoxic injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42353410 is a review article
Aerobic exercise serves as an effective non-pharmacological strategy for alleviating high-fat diet (HFD)-induced ectopic lipid deposition and insulin resistance (IR) in skeletal muscle. Vitamin D receptor (Vdr) is involved in the alleviation of ectopic lipid deposition in skeletal muscle by exercise, yet the underlying mechanisms remain to be further elucidated. In our study, twenty-four C57BL/6 J male mice were fed with vitamin D (VD) - deficient diet to establish a VD deficiency model and conduct aerobic exercise; lentivirus transfection was used to knockdown Vdr in C2C12 cells; skeletal muscle-specific knockout of Vdr (Vdr-MKO) male mice were fed a HFD to establish a model of ectopic lipid deposition in skeletal muscle and IR, followed by aerobic exercise intervention. We evaluated the blood, energy metabolism of mice, and conducted histological analysis, immunofluorescence staining, RT-qPCR, Western blotting and Co-Immunoprecipitation on the muscle of mice. We found that the decrease in Vdr weakened the beneficial effects of exercise on lipid metabolism in skeletal muscles. Vdr-MKO aggravates HFD-induced ectopic lipid deposition and IR in skeletal muscle, and impairs the protective effects of aerobic exercise on lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity. Mechanistically, Vdr ablation leads to downregulated of Pparα and Plin5, reduced interaction between Plin5 and Cgi-58, as well as impaired lipid droplet protection and mitochondrial oxidative capacity in myocytes. The lipid droplet dynamics regulated by Vdr exerts a protective effect in aerobic exercise-mediate alleviation of HFD-induced ectopic lipid deposition and IR in skeletal muscle of mice.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to characterize systemic molecular signatures in the serum of patients with age-related cataracts and explore specific variations through integrated proteomic and metabolomic profiling.Serum samples from 17 cataract patients and 24 healthy controls were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for proteomic and metabolomic profiling. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and metabolites (DEMs) were identified using multivariate statistics. Functional enrichment and multi-omics integration analyses were performed to identify key biological pathways. Key proteins were validated via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in an independent cohort (n=136).We identified 257 DEPs and 51 significant DEMs in cataract patients. Downregulated proteins included peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), biliverdin reductase B (BLVRB), glycolytic enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1), and chaperone peptidylprolyl isomerase A (PPIA), while oxidative stress-related metabolites were elevated. Age-stratified analysis showed distinct profiles in younger patients (45-55 years). Multi-omics integration demonstrated strong correlation between proteome and metabolome, with co-enrichment in pathways such as prolactin signaling and diabetic cardiomyopathy. ELISA validation confirmed decreased levels of PGK1 and PPIA in an independent cohort.Our findings reveal systemic molecular alterations in age-related cataracts, highlighting oxidative stress and metabolic dysregulation with age-specific patterns. These results provide insights into cataract pathogenesis and potential biomarkers for personalized risk assessment.© 2026 The Authors.
Cholesterol metabolism is critical in cancer biology, yet its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. We investigated the expression and prognostic significance of cholesterol homeostasis genes in HCC to identify potential biomarkers for risk stratification. Using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we identified differentially expressed cholesterol-related genes (logFC ≥ 1.5, false discovery rate < 0.05), intersecting them with genes annotated in the Molecular Signatures Database. Prognostic biomarkers were evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression. A predictive model was constructed to assess survival outcomes. Cholesterol homeostasis genes, particularly fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5) and alcohol dehydrogenase 4 (ADH4), are key prognostic biomarkers in HCC. The proposed model provides a novel approach for predicting outcomes and may inform therapeutic strategies. Further studies are needed to validate these findings and explore their clinical utility. Nine cholesterol homeostasis genes were differentially expressed, including 6 upregulated (choline kinase alpha, FABP5, fatty acid synthase, farnesyl diphosphate synthase, mevalonate diphosphate decarboxylase, and squalene epoxidase) and 3 downregulated (ADH4, activating transcription factor 5, and arginine vasopressin receptor 1A). FABP5 and ADH4 emerged as independent prognostic factors: high FABP5 expression was associated with poor prognosis, while high ADH4 expression predicted improved survival. A prognostic model integrating FABP5 and ADH4 and clinical characteristics achieved a concordance index of 0.683, effectively stratifying patients into high-risk and low-risk groups (χ2 = 20.60, P < .001) with median survival times of 1135 and 2532 days, respectively.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Previous studies demonstrate that the protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2 (AMPKα2), one of two isoforms of catalytic subunit of AMPK encoded by PRKAA2, is highly expressed and contributes to cell survival and chemo-resistance in TNBC. However, the mechanisms underlying AMPKα2 upregulation is poorly understood. Here, we found that AMPKα2 expression was decreased in primary TNBC but paradoxically increased in doxorubicin (DOX) resistant TNBC cancer stem cells (TBCSCs). DOX treatment led to an enrichment of TBCSCs and a concomitant increase in AMPKα2 expression. Mechanistically, enhanced AMPKα2 expression in TBCSCs was driven by H3K27 acetylation at PRKAA2 promoter. This epigenetic modification was facilitated by the histone acetyltransferases CBP/p300. Moreover, CITED2 was essential for CBP/p300-mediated H3K27 acetylation. Loss of CITED2 disrupted CBP/p300 localization and reduced H3K27 acetylation at PRKAA2 promoter. CITED2 directly bound to p300 via its C-terminal LPEL domain, promoting the formation and localization of the CBP/p300/CITED2 complex at PRKAA2 promoter. Disruption of CITED2/p300/CBP complex using an exogenous LPEL peptide inhibited H3K27 acetylation at the PRKAA2 promoter, decreasing AMPKα2 expression. Up-regulation of AMPKα2 promoted stemness properties and conferred DOX resistance in both cell line-derived and patient-derived TBCSCs. Further, we found LPEL peptide significantly suppressing TBCSCs stemness properties. Importantly, this approach sensitized DOX-resistant TBCSCs to DOX treatment. Our findings revealed a critical role of CITED2-dependent p300/CBP mediated H3K27 acetylation in promoting AMPKα2 expression within TBCSCs and contributing to DOX resistance. Targeting the CITED2/p300/CBP complex with an exogenous LPEL peptide represents a promising strategy to overcome DOX resistance in TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Amyrins arе pеntacyclic tritеrpеnoids with valuablе pharmacеutical and cosmеtic applications; howеvеr, thеir low abundancе in plants and complеx еxtraction procеssеs hindеr sustainablе supply. Hеrе, Yarrowia lipolytica was еnginееrеd to еnhancе α- and β-amyrin biosynthеsis using mеtabolic and еnzymе еnginееring stratеgiеs. First, thе multifunctional amyrin synthasе gеnе (CrMAS) from Catharanthus rosеus was intеgratеd into a superior squalene-producing chassis, еstablishing α-amyrin and β-amyrin production. Squalene epoxidase (ERG1) displayed low native activity and represented a major rate-limiting step in squalene conversion. Structure-guided engineering identified key activity-regulating residues, where T202V improved hydrophobic complementarity and substrate stabilization, and M308L relieved steric constraints at the substrate access tunnel. The T202V/M308L mutant enhanced catalytic efficiency, increasing squalene conversion and reducing its accumulation. Sеcond, thе copy numbеrs of ERG1 and CrMAS wеrе optimizеd, and еnhancеd NADPH supply increased α- and β-amyrin production, while decreasing squalene accumulation. Finally, thе glucosе ratio was optimizеd, and rеstoration of auxotrophic markеrs lеd to improvеd α-amyrin and β-amyrin titеrs of 220.81 ± 6.74 mg/L and 85.41 ± 2.61 mg/L, rеspеctivеly, through fed-batch fermentation in a 5 L fermenter, the titer 1.7 g/L α-amyrin and 0.5 g/L β-amyrin, which is the highest reported to date in Y. lipolytica. This study provides an effective framework for overcoming enzymatic bottlenecks and achieving sustainable microbial production of high-value pentacyclic triterpenoids.© 2026 The Authors.
Antifungal drug resistance in Trichophyton interdigitale reinforces the need for new drugs with multiple targets. The antifungal activity of Eruca sativa seed oil, clove oil, and ethanolic extract of Fusarium chlamydosporum was evaluated against a clinically isolated T. interdigitale Accession No. ON564615 that was later molecularly confirmed. The Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry GC MS method was used to profile the bioactive constituents. In order to analyze their high affinity binding to several important enzymes of the ergosterol pathway such as squalene epoxidase ERG1, C 24 sterol methyltransferase ERG6, and lanosterol 14α demethylase ERG11, their multi target effects were systematically analyzed using integrated molecular docking simulations. In this study E. sativa oil exhibited significant activity yielding an inhibition zone of 57.7 mm and an MIC of 6.25 mg/mL. The effect of F. chlamydosporum extract in combination with clove oil was remarkably strong showing 72.67 mm of inhibition which is higher than that of the first line drug terbinafine 61 mm. In addition the presence of eugenol in clove oil and of ethyl iso allocholate in E. sativa and the fungal extracts was detected by GC MS analysis. The present data are limited to in vitro and in silico testing of a single clinical isolate; however the findings are highly suggestive of the potential of using E. sativa oil and or certain specific combinations of fungal and plant extracts as promising multi target antifungals. In vivo studies are required in the future to fully confirm their clinical translatability against resistant dermatophytosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is an aggressive primary bone malignancy with poor prognosis for metastatic and recurrent cases, highlighting an urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies. The human cathelicidin peptide LL-37 exerts context-dependent anti-tumor effects, yet its functional role in OS remains largely undefined. This study aimed to explore the anti-OS activity and underlying mechanisms of LL-37.In vitro experiments were performed using OS cell lines and normal human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) to assess cell viability, clonogenic survival, migration, invasion, cell cycle distribution, cell death, and cholesterol metabolism. Transcriptomic profiling, siRNA-mediated knockdown, plasmid overexpression, and rescue experiments were conducted to validate key signaling pathways. The in vivo therapeutic efficacy of LL-37 was evaluated using a 143B cell xenograft model.LL-37 selectively inhibited the viability of OS cells with minimal toxicity to hBMSCs. It significantly suppressed clonogenic survival, migration, and invasion, induced S-phase cell cycle arrest, and triggered both mitochondrial apoptosis and caspase-1/GSDMD-dependent pyroptosis. Transcriptomic analysis identified cholesterol biosynthesis as a key pathway downregulated by LL-37, with the rate-limiting enzyme squalene epoxidase (SQLE) markedly reduced. Mechanistically, LL-37 upregulated the tumor suppressor PTEN, thereby inhibiting the AKT/mTOR pathway and suppressing SREBP2/SQLE-mediated cholesterol synthesis. Rescue experiments confirmed that SQLE inhibition was required for the pro-apoptotic effects of LL-37. In vivo, LL-37 dose-dependently inhibited the growth of OS xenografts with efficacy comparable to cisplatin, without causing obvious systemic toxicity.LL-37 exerts anti-OS effects by targeting the PTEN/AKT/mTOR-SREBP2/SQLE axis to suppress cholesterol synthesis and induce dual cell death. It represents a promising and selective candidate, providing a theoretical basis for cholesterol metabolism-targeted therapy in osteosarcoma.© 2026 The Authors.
In this investigation, we focused on generating innovative antifungal agents inspired by terbinafine, a prominent allylamine that inhibits squalene epoxidase and is a crucial enzyme in the biosynthesis of fungal ergosterol. Utilizing computational methods such as molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we designed and synthesized a collection of enyne derivatives featuring aromatic side chains. The choice of these compounds was influenced by their anticipated interactions with squalene epoxidase, informed by comprehensive in silico assessments. The synthesized derivatives were analyzed using 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, and mass spectrometry techniques. Among the synthesized series, Compound 2b (1,6-bis[(4-methylphenyl)methyl] (2E)-hex-2-en-4-ynedioate) exhibited potent antifungal activity, demonstrating a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 0.0391-0.7176 μM/mL against Candida albicans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Aspergillus niger. These findings highlight the promising strategy of applying these novel compounds, based on the structural design of terbinafine, as viable candidates for antifungal treatment. This approach demonstrates a significant advancement in the design of antifungal agents targeting squalene epoxidase and suggests promising avenues for further development.Copyright © 2026 Mohadese Mohammadi et al. BioMed Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Trichophyton indotineae has recently emerged as a major etiological agent of treatment-resistant dermatophytosis, particularly in India and Iran. Resistance to terbinafine is predominantly associated with point mutations in the squalene epoxidase (SQLE) gene. This study investigated the antifungal susceptibility of clinical dermatophyte isolates from Iran and characterized SQLE mutations in terbinafine-resistant strains. Over a 6-month period, 176 clinical dermatophyte isolates comprising 134 T. indotineae and 42 non-indotineae species were collected and identified by internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing. In vitro antifungal susceptibility testing to eight antifungal agents was assessed according to CLSI M38 guidelines. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) ranges, MIC₅₀, MIC₉₀, and geometric mean MICs were calculated. SQLE gene sequencing was performed for isolates exhibiting reduced terbinafine susceptibility. Out of 176 dermatophyte isolates, 66 (37.5%) demonstrated terbinafine MICs ≥ 0.5 µg/ml. Among these 66 isolates, 64 were T. indotineae (out of 134 total T. indotineae isolates, 47.76%), and 2 were T. tonsurans (out of 21 total T. tonsurans isolates, 9.52%). High-level terbinafine resistance (MIC ≥ 16 µg/ml) was observed in 50% (32/64) of T. indotineae isolates. Among the 66 resistant isolates, only 3 were wild-type: one T. indotineae and two T. tonsurans. The most prevalent SQLE alterations were the double mutation Phe397Leu + Ala448Thr (34.38%) and the single mutation Leu393Ser (32.81%), followed by the 1192 C→A substitution (10.94%). Notably, Ala448Thr also occurred in phenotypically susceptible isolates, yet correlated with increased MICs of itraconazole and voriconazole. Fluconazole showed poor activity (geometric mean MIC: 43.5072 µg/ml), whereas posaconazole exhibited the highest in vitro activity. Terbinafine remained effective for non-T. indotineae species, but is ineffective for T. indotineae-associated dermatophytosis due to widespread resistance. None of the isolates identified as T. interdigitale/mentagrophytes, T. rubrum, Microsporum canis, and Trichophyton benhamiae were resistant to TRB. This multicenter survey reveals high terbinafine resistance in Iranian T. indotineae isolates, linked to SQLE mutations and azole cross-resistance. Routine antifungal susceptibility testing, molecular screening, and alternative therapies are essential, prioritizing non-terbinafine options for T. indotineae (while it remains effective against other dermatophytes). Continued surveillance, accurate species identification, and tailored management are critical to control recalcitrant dermatophytosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The International Society for Human and Animal Mycology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic and recalcitrant dermatophytosis has become increasingly problematic in dermatology practice, largely due to emerging antifungal resistance, affecting not only terbinafine but also azoles. Among the causative agents, Trichophyton indotineae has emerged as a key pathogen associated with treatment failure, extensive disease, and frequent relapse, even in immunocompetent patients.This study aimed to evaluate and compare two rapid molecular diagnostic approaches: A commercial multiplex qPCR assay (DermaGenius Resistance Multiplex PCR, DermaGenius RMP) and a T. indotineae-specific in-house qPCR assay, focusing on their practical value for early detection of recalcitrant dermatophyte infections and terbinafine resistance in routine dermatology practice.Sixty-four dermatophyte isolates obtained from patients with chronic or treatment-resistant dermatophytosis in Türkiye wereanalysed. Species identification and detection of squalene epoxidase (SQLE) gene mutations associated with terbinafine resistance were performed using DermaGenius RMP and the in-house T. indotineae-specific qPCR assay, with confirmatory ITS/SQLE sequencing and CLSI microbroth dilution antifungal susceptibility testing.Overall concordance between the two qPCR methods was 93.8% (κ = 0.74, z = 5.99, p < 0.001) for T. indotineae identification. Most recalcitrant cases were caused by T. indotineae, and SQLE mutations were detected in > 90% of these isolates, consistent with the observed clinical resistance. DermaGenius RMP enabled rapid, standardised detection of terbinafine resistance-associated mutations suitable for routine diagnostics, whereas the in-house qPCR provided highly specific identification of T. indotineae. Notably, 10 T. indotineae isolates harboured the SQLE F397L substitution despite terbinafine susceptibility.Rapid molecular diagnostics, particularly qPCR-based assays, provide actionable information early in the course of infection. In this study, both assays showed comparable performance for T. indotineae detection. Prompt identification of T. indotineae and associated resistance mutations may help avoid ineffective antifungal therapy, reduce chronicity, and support rational treatment decisions in routine clinical practice.© 2026 The Author(s). Mycoses published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Dermatophytosis is a common superficial fungal infection that affects the keratinised tissues. This study examines the antifungal resistance mechanisms and molecular detection of squalene epoxidase gene alterations in clinical isolates from patients.A cross-sectional study conducted from January 2019 to December 2020 included 110 clinically suspected dermatophytosis specimens. Microscopy, culture, CLSI M38-A2 broth microdilution testing, and PCR-based ITS and SQLE (520 bp) amplification were performed. MIC50, MIC90, geometric mean, and ranges were analysed using SPSS version 19 with P < 0.05.A total of 110 suspected cases were evaluated, with 78 (70.9%) males. KOH positivity reached 100%, while culture positivity was 47.3% (52/110). Trichophyton rubrum accounted for 38.5% isolates. Fluconazole MICs were ≥64 μg/mL. 39/52 isolates showed terbinafine resistance, with 23 expressing the 520 bp SQLE gene.Terbinafine and caspofungin showed consistent in vitro activity, while fluconazole showed limited activity. Routine susceptibility testing guides drug selection, improves treatment outcomes, and supports rational management of resistant dermatophytosis cases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
This study aimed to investigate the characteristics, predictors, and clinical significance of periventricular anastomosis (PA) regression following revascularization in moyamoya disease (MMD).We conducted a longitudinal cohort study involving patients with MMD treated at our hospital between 2019 and 2023. Demographic, radiological findings, and clinical outcomes were recorded. C-terminal region of ring finger protein 213 (RNF213) was sequenced. Additionally, structural changes of the RNF213 variants were evaluated using a three-dimensional model of the human RNF213 protein.Of 305 eligible patients, 103 experienced postoperative PA regression. Among the subtypes of PA, those derived from the lenticulostriate, anterior choroidal, and thalamotuberal arteries exhibited significant regression. Multivariate analysis identified age (p = 0.030), Suzuki stage (III-IV) (p = 0.043), preoperative PA score (p < 0.001), RNF213 p.R4810K variant (p = 0.019), other RNF213 rare variants (p = 0.004), and postoperative Matsushima grading (p < 0.001) were associated with postoperative PA regression. The risk of future hemorrhage was significantly higher in the non-PA regression group (p = 0.040). 80% of rare variants without structural changes did not exhibit PA regression.RNF213 variants in the C-terminal region are associated with PA regression, underscoring a broader genotype-phenotype correlation. Furthermore, PA regression might be considered a potential radiological marker to predict the risk of future hemorrhage in MMD patients.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The pathophysiological mechanisms of Moyamoya angiopathy (MA) are still largely unknown, although a dysfunctional vasculogenesis has been hypothesized to contribute to it. The association between this rare cerebrovascular condition and variants of Ring Finger Protein 213 (RNF213) strengthens the role of genetic factors in MA pathogenesis.To investigate the molecular mechanisms of MA, we carried out RNA interference (RNAi) targeting RNF213 in human endothelial cells (ECs) and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). The combined effect of RNAi and/or hypoxia on expression of key angiogenic factors was analyzed through qRT-PCR and Western blot. Functional assays were performed to characterize the impact of RNAi on vasculogenesis. Gene-expression arrays were performed on vessel walls of MA patients and controls.RNF213-RNAi impaired angiogenic capability in ECs, whereas the simultaneous silencing of RNF213 and its phosphatase PTP1B restored angiogenesis function in ECs but worsened it in VSMCs. Angiogenic factor expression appeared to be modulated in ECs by the combined effects of RNAi and/or hypoxia, and in pathological vessels of MA patients as compared with controls.Our findings contribute to associating the relevance of RNF213 in MA cellular models and highlight the importance of EC-VSMC crosstalk for vascular integrity. Additionally, the study could lay the foundations for improving experimental models of MA pathophysiology.
Aplastic or twig-like middle cerebral artery (Ap/T-MCA) is a rare cerebrovascular anomaly characterized by unilateral stenosis of the proximal middle cerebral artery (MCA) with a plexiform arterial network along the horizontal (M1) segment, requiring distinction from moyamoya disease. Genetically confirmed cases remain rare.We report the cases of 3 patients with Ap/T-MCA carrying the RNF213 (ring finger protein 213) variant. The first patient, a man in his 60s, presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. The second patient, a woman in her 20s, developed involuntary movement of the left upper limb. The third patient, the older sister of the second patient, experienced transient left hemiparesis in her 40s. In all patients, MR angiography demonstrated unilateral MCA abnormalities, and digital subtraction angiography revealed M1 stenosis with a plexiform arterial network in the subarachnoid space. All patients were managed conservatively, and targeted sequencing confirmed the RNF213 p.R4810K variant in each case. Only 2 Ap/T-MCA patients with this variant have been previously reported.The presence of the RNF213 p.R4810K variant in all 3 patients supports a relationship between twig-like MCA and the RNF213 variant. These findings suggest that Ap/T-MCA may represent the RNF213-related vasculopathy spectrum, and the occurrence in two sisters indicates a hereditary predisposition. https://thejns.org/doi/10.3171/CASE26186.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42116864 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41977444 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) infection induces a type I interferon (IFN) response in host cells, which exerts antiviral effects by upregulating interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). However, the ISG response to IAV remains incompletely understood. Here, we systematically identify antiviral ISGs in A549 cells following type I and type II IFN treatment. We demonstrate that ring finger protein 213 (RNF213) strongly inhibits IAV replication in vitro. Notably, RNF213 knockout (KO) mice exhibit heightened susceptibility to IAV infection, with exacerbated disease severity. Mechanistically, RNF213, which is induced by both IFN signaling and IAV infection, amplifies IFN production by enhancing melanoma-differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) signaling. We further show that RNF213 interacts with MDA5 via its AAA+ ATPase and E3 ligase domains, promoting K63-linked polyubiquitination of MDA5 at Lys137 and Lys743. Additionally, RNF213 mediates K48-linked polyubiquitination of viral nucleoprotein (NP), targeting it for proteasomal degradation. Our findings identify RNF213 as a critical antiviral ISG that bridges innate immune activation and direct viral restriction. Our study reveals a dual mechanism of RNF213 in antiviral immunity, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target against influenza.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Sepsis-induced myocardial dysfunction (SIMD), a severe sepsis complication, is characterized by immune dysregulation, with neutrophils playing a central role. While the immunity-related GTPase family M protein (IRGM) in humans and its murine ortholog Irgm1 are key immune regulators, the precise contribution of neutrophil Irgm1 to SIMD pathogenesis remains unclear. This study aims to explore the involvement of neutrophil Irgm1 in SIMD and uncover its mechanisms. This research found that IRGM expression was upregulated in peripheral blood neutrophils from patients with SIMD and inversely correlated with disease severity. In mice, neutrophil-specific Irgm1 deficiency worsened CLP-induced cardiac dysfunction and myocardial inflammation. Mechanistically, Irgm1 interacted with the E3 ubiquitin ligase RING finger protein 213 (RNF213) to facilitate 15-lipoxygenase (Alox15) ubiquitination and degradation, thereby inhibiting neutrophil ferroptosis and suppressing the production of 15-HETE, which alleviates SIMD. In patients with SIMD, the expression levels of Alox15 and the concentrations of 15-HETE were positively correlated with disease severity. Notably, intraperitoneal administration of Alox15-targeting drug PD146176 significantly improved cardiac function in SIMD mice. Collectively, this study highlights the pivotal role of the Irgm1 in attenuating SIMD by restraining neutrophil ferroptosis and 15-HETE production. Irgm1 may serve as a promising prognostic biomarker and a valuable therapeutic target for SIMD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Growing evidence suggests that the gut microbiome plays a role in carcinogenesis for early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC). The novel Ring Finger Protein 213 (RNF213) gene has broad antimicrobial properties. Our study aimed to compare RNF213 mutation rates in EOCRC and late-onset colorectal cancer using data from the cBioPortal for Cancer Genomics.All participants from the cBioPortal with CRC samples that profiled the RNF213 gene were included. Multivariable logistic regression was used to assess the association between EOCRC and primary tumor RNF213 mutation. Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the influence of RNF213 mutation on all-cause mortality risk. All tests were two-sided.1594 participants with CRC from six cohorts were included, of which 7.8% (N = 125) had EOCRC. Participants with EOCRC were more likely to have late-stage CRC (p < 0.001) and left-sided tumors (p < 0.001). Participants with a mutation in exon 29 of RNF213 had significantly increased odds of EOCRC diagnosis (adjOR 3.82, 95% CI 1.82, 7.54) compared to participants with wild-type RNF213, while mutations in other exons did not confer significantly increased odds of EOCRC diagnosis (adjOR 1.61, 95% CI 0.72, 3.22). There was no significant difference in all-cause mortality risk by RNF213 mutation status.Primary tumor mutations in exon 29 of the RNF213 gene are associated with significantly increased odds of EOCRC diagnosis in a multicohort sample of participants with CRC. Future studies of germline and precancerous RNF213 mutations are needed to elucidate its possible role in EOCRC tumorigenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41775379
Lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) plays a critical role in epigenetic regulation and is closely associated with the progression of various cancers, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma. However, convenient and portable methods for monitoring KAT5 activity remain limited. Herein, we report a coordination-regulated colorimetric sensing platform based on the localized surface plasmon resonance of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) for KAT5 activity detection. In this strategy, Zn2+ coordinates with ethylenediamine (en) to form Zn(en)22+ complexes, which induce AuNPs aggregation and a distinct plasmonic color change. In the presence of coenzyme A (CoA), generated during the KAT5-catalyzed acetylation reaction, Zn2+ preferentially binds to thiol-containing CoA, suppressing Zn(en)22+ formation and inhibiting AuNPs aggregation. As a result, KAT5 activity is indirectly converted into a measurable colorimetric signal with a detection limit of 1.9 pg/mL (3σ/slope). To enable portable analysis, smartphone-based image processing was integrated, using the blue-to-red (B/R) ratio for quantification. The platform was further applied to investigate histone acetylation in cancer cells and circulating tumor cell (CTCs)-like models during epithelial-mesenchymal transition, revealing dynamic changes in KAT5 activity. This coordination-mediated AuNPs strategy provides a simple and portable tool for monitoring cancer-related enzymatic activity, with potential applications in liquid biopsy, early cancer diagnosis, and precision medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hyperuricemia closely correlates with obesity, yet high uric acid (UA) is largely viewed as a consequence or biomarker of obesity rather than a causal driver. Integrating human clinical analyses with animal studies, we redefine UA as a liver-derived endocrine regulator that drives obesity by modulating gut ecology. UA remodels the gut microbiota, selectively depleting Lactobacillus johnsonii by disrupting peptidoglycan synthesis. This depletion reduces microbial phenyllactic acid (PLA)-a metabolite produced by L. johnsonii lactate dehydrogenase that we identify as an endogenous suppressor of intestinal peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) signaling. Consequently, PPARα disinhibition upregulates fatty acid transporters, accelerating lipid absorption and promoting obesity. Leveraging human genetic data, we pinpoint lysine acetyltransferase 5 (TIP60) as a master regulator of hepatic UA production. Hepatic TIP60 ablation lowers UA, restoring the L. johnsonii-PLA axis and conferring obesity resistance. These findings establish a UA-driven liver-gut axis and nominate TIP60 inhibition as a dual-target therapy for obesity and hyperuricemia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
OBJECTIVE: Breast cancer continues to be a major contributor to cancer-associated deaths among the female population globally. This study aims to investigate the functional role, underlying mechanisms, and clinical relevance of Cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector C (CIDEC) in breast cancer pathogenesis. METHODS: Integrated bioinformatics analysis of three gene expression datasets identified hub genes via protein-protein interaction network and multiple machine learning algorithms. The tumor-suppressive effects of CIDEC were evaluated in vitro using breast cancer cell lines by assessing viability, proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis, and in vivo via a xenograft model. Mitochondrial function, autophagy, and the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)/protein kinase G (PKG) signaling pathway were assessed using a pathway agonist and an autophagy inhibitor. RESULTS: A marked reduction in CIDEC expression was observed in breast cancer tissues and cellular models. CIDEC effectively curtailed tumor progression by impeding proliferation, migration, and invasive capacity, coupled with the induction of apoptotic cell death. Mechanistically, CIDEC impaired mitochondrial fitness, characterized by reduced adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, dissipated mitochondrial membrane potential, and elevated reactive oxygen species. Concurrently, CIDEC blocked protective autophagy. These effects were mediated through the suppression of the cGMP/PKG pathway. Activating this pathway with 8-Br-cGMP reversed the tumor-suppressive phenotypes and mitochondrial dysfunction induced by CIDEC, whereas inhibiting autophagy attenuated this rescue. CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that CIDEC functions as a novel tumor suppressor in breast cancer by disrupting mitochondrial fitness and inhibiting protective autophagy via the cGMP/PKG pathway. The CIDEC-cGMP/PKG axis represents a promising therapeutic target for breast cancer intervention. CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.
Breast cancer (BC) remains the leading cause of global female cancer-related mortality, with poor survival in advanced stages driven largely by metastasis. Ubiquitination, a key post-translational modification, critically regulates the stability and function of various proteins, including oncoproteins and tumor suppressors, and deubiquitinases (DUBs) reversing this process are emerging therapeutic targets. In this study, we report that haploid germ cell-specific nuclear protein kinase (HASPIN) is highly expressed in BC and is closely associated with poor prognosis. We identify the DUB Otubain-2 (OTUB2) as a critical regulator of the oncogenic kinase HASPIN in BC. We demonstrate that OTUB2 binds to and deubiquitylates HASPIN, specifically counteracting its K48-linked polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Acetylation of HASPIN at lysine 751 by acetyltransferase lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) enhances its affinity for OTUB2, promoting HASPIN stability. Functionally, OTUB2 depletion reduces HASPIN protein levels, while OTUB2 overexpression-induced HASPIN upregulation drives BC cell proliferation and invasion both in vivo and in vitro. These findings establish OTUB2 as a novel DUB for HASPIN and reveal a previously unknown regulatory axis involving KAT5, acetylation, OTUB2, ubiquitination, and HASPIN, which is crucial for BC progression. Consequently, HASPIN acts as an oncogene in BC and represents a promising new therapeutic target for intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a type of progressive interstitial lung disease characterized by varying degrees of lung interstitial fibrosis. Lung alveolar regeneration failure in PF is critical for mediating this incurable disease. Here, we report that chronic lung injury induces the release of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from alveolar macrophages (AMs) to promote PF development by inhibiting alveolar regeneration. Mechanistically, the acetylation of mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL), which is mediated by the upregulation of acetylase lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) following chronic lung injury, enhances its capacity to facilitate endosomal trafficking and the production of EVs from AMs. Those EVs, which are taken up by type 2 alveolar epithelial cells (AEC2s), release miR-148a-3p to repress the endogenous β-catenin agonist Wnt10b and exert an inhibitory effect on AEC2 renewal. Disruption of the KAT5-MLKL interaction or pharmacological inhibition of miR-148a-3p expression restores the regenerative capacity of AEC2s, with potent therapeutic efficacy in PF. Our study suggests a potential therapeutic option for PF.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study characterized phenotypic distinctions between high- and low-motility sperm from 40-week-old Yufen1 roosters and the alteration in epididymal transcriptional networks underlighting sperm motility. Temperature challenge tests (4 °C and 37 °C) revealed that high-viability sperm maintained significantly better survival rates at both temperatures compared to low-viability samples, and high-motility sperm consistently exhibited lower morphological abnormality rates across temperature conditions (P < 0.05), which was further confirmed by extended fertilization windows (P < 0.05) and produced more fertilized eggs (P < 0.05) compared to the low-motility group. Transcriptomic analysis of the epididymis showed 723 differentially expressed genes between the low- and high- motility groups, with functional enrichment indicating significant alterations in lipid metabolism pathways and ATP synthesis-related processes. Accordingly, genes related to fat deposition such as acyl-CoA synthetase bubblegum family member 1 (ACSBG1), glycerate kinase (GLYCTK), and CDP-diacylglycerol synthase 1 (CDS1) were downregulated (all P < 0.05), whereas the mRNA level of β-oxidation gene acyl-coenzyme A thioesterase 6 (ACOT6) was increased (P < 0.05) in the high motility group as compared to the low motility group. In addition, when compared to the low motility group, the high motility semen exhibited decreased levels of both reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde in seminal plasma (both P < 0.05). In conclusion, the maintenance of sperm motility is associated with lipid metabolism remodeling, where these metabolic adaptations enhance ATP production while simultaneously reducing ROS generation in Yufen1 roosters.
Excessive lipolysis and inflammatory response are critically involved in the pathogenesis of ketosis in periparturient dairy cows. Evidence has been growing for participation of the growth hormone (GH) in the metabolic regulation of adipose tissue. However, the potential role of GH in promoting lipolysis and proinflammatory signaling activation in bovine adipocytes remains to be elucidated. The objective of this study was to investigate the regulatory effects of GH on the lipolysis and inflammatory response of bovine adipocytes. Subcutaneous adipose tissue and blood samples were collected from 10 healthy cows (blood BHB concentration <1.2 mM) and 10 cows with clinical ketosis (CK; blood BHB concentration >3.0 mM). For in vitro experiments, adipocytes were isolated from healthy Holstein cows. Differentiated adipocytes were used for (1) treatment with 0, 5, 10, or 15 ng/mL of GH for 8 h, or 15 ng/mL of GH for 0, 4, 8 or 12 h; (2) co-treatment with 15 ng/mL GH and 0.1 ng/mL tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α); (3) pretreatment with 10 μM BAY 11-7082, a nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) inhibitor, and then treatment with 15 ng/mL GH. The CK cows displayed higher serum GH concentration. The protein abundance of phosphorylated lipolysis-limiting enzyme hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) was higher and mRNA abundance of lipid droplet coating proteins cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector c and perilipin 1 was lower in adipose tissue of CK cows versus healthy cows. The protein abundance of phosphorylated inhibitor of kappa B α (IκBα) and NF-κB, mRNA abundance of proinflammatory cytokines TNFA, NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), IL-18 (IL18), caspase 1 (CASP1) and IL-1B (IL1B), and the activity of caspase 1 were greater in adipose tissue of CK cows, but protein abundance of IκBα was lower. In bovine adipocytes, GH induced lipolysis and inflammatory response, as evidenced by increased glycerol content in the supernatant and decreased cellular triglyceride content, as well as elevated phosphorylation levels of IκBα and NF-κB, decreased protein abundance of IκBα, upregulated mRNA abundance of TNFA, NLRP3, IL18, CASP1, and IL1B, and enhanced caspase 1 activity. Furthermore, TNF-α exacerbated GH-induced lipolysis and inflammation, whereas inhibition of NF-κB signaling pathway partially reverses these metabolic alterations of GH-treated adipocytes. These findings suggested that GH promote lipolysis in bovine adipocytes by activating inflammatory pathways.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Cardiovascular disease remains a leading cause of mortality globally, with the adult mammalian heart exhibiting limited regenerative capacity. The chromatin regulatory network plays a crucial role in the dynamic changes in gene expression that orchestrate the regenerative response in the neonatal heart. This study aims to identify key chromatin regulators in neonatal cardiomyocytes and to elucidate their roles in heart regeneration.We generated genetic knockout mouse models by crossing Mrg15fl/fl and Tip60fl/fl mice with various Cre-driver lines such as Isl1-Cre and Myh6-MerCreMer to evaluate the function of MRG15 (MORF-related gene 15)/TIP60 in cardiac progenitor cells and cardiomyocytes during heart development and regeneration. The epigenetic regulation of cardiomyocyte proliferation by MRG15/TIP60 was investigated through a variety of methods, including histological, cellular, genomic, transcriptomic, computational, and pharmacological approaches. In addition, we assessed the regulation of transient MRG15 induction in the regenerating neonatal heart by CD4+ regulatory T cells through both adoptive transfer and monoclonal antibody-based depletion in mice.MRG15, but not its cofactor TIP60, was transiently expressed in neonatal cardiomyocytes, with its expression downregulated as the regenerative potential of the heart declined. We generated knockout mice targeting Mrg15 in cardiac progenitor cells and cardiomyocytes, revealing that MRG15 is critical for neonatal heart regeneration and plays a key role in regulating cardiomyocyte proliferation. Mechanistically, MRG15 forms an activator complex with TIP60, p300, and RNA polymerase II, facilitating histone acetylation at the Ccnd1 enhancer region. Furthermore, regulatory T cells were shown to induce MRG15 expression, promoting cardiomyocyte proliferation through paracrine signaling. Notably, adeno-associated virus 9-mediated overexpression of Mrg15 rescued the impaired heart regeneration after Treg depletion in vivo. Furthermore, recapitulating MRG15 expression into the juvenile heart promoted regeneration by enhancing cardiomyocyte proliferation.This study elucidates the critical role of regulatory T cells in regulating the transient expression of MRG15 in regenerating cardiomyocytes and its subsequent control of cardiomyocyte proliferation and heart regeneration through TIP60-mediated chromatin modification. Our findings highlight the important interplay between the cardiac and the immune system during neonatal development, particularly through the MRG15/TIP60 axis regulated by regulatory T cells. This cross-talk suggests promising therapeutic strategies for enhancing cardiac repair by targeting these pathways.
Lysine acetyltransferase 5 (Kat5) is a member of the histone acetyltransferase family. In addition to modifying histones, Kat5 also acetylates non-histone proteins, thereby regulating their activity, stability, and localization. However, the roles of Kat5 remain largely unknown in lower vertebrates, particularly in teleosts. Here, our study identified an ortholog of Kat5 in Ctenopharyngodon idella (CiKat5). Notably, CiKat5 was induced by poly (I:C), GCRV and SVCV. Overexpression of Cikat5 led to the increase of several apoptosis-related genes, including bax, caspase3 and caspase9, whereasits knockdown downregulated these genes. Moreover, overexpression of Cikat5 can induce CIK cells apoptosis. Further assays revealed that CiKat5 interacted with P53, and this interaction was attributed to the acetyltransferase (MYST) domain of CiKat5 and the DNA-binding domain of P53. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that CiKat5 promoted P53 acetylation via its MYST domain, thereby cooperatively inducing apoptosis. In addition, CiKat5 suppressed Ifn i expression and enhanced the replication of GCRV. Thus, our study not only demonstrated that CiKat5 promoted P53-mediated apoptosis by acetylation but also indicated that CiKat5 is required for GCRV replication by suppressing Ifn i response. This research provides the novel insights into the role of fish Kat5 in apoptotic and immune signaling pathways.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a foundation antiepileptic medication, implicated in dose-dependent hepatotoxicity via mitochondrial dysfunction, progression of oxidative-inflammatory cascade, and steatosis. LXRα/PPARγ are crucial regulators of hepatic lipogenesis, representing a pertinent therapeutic target. Dapagliflozin, a SGLT2 inhibitor and pioglitazone, a PPARγ agonist, are emerging therapies for metabolic hepatic steatosis; however, while pioglitazone confers notable anti-inflammatory benefits, its hepatic PPARγ signaling remains a recognized concern. The current study targets the individual or combined modulatory effects of both drugs on the hepatic LXRα and PPARγ pathways in VPA-induced steatohepatitis in rats. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into five groups: Control, VPA (500 mg/kg/d given orally), PIO + VPA (10 mg/kg/d pioglitazone), DAPA + VPA (1 mg/kg/d dapagliflozin), and COMB (1 mg/kg/d dapagliflozin and 10 mg/kg/d pioglitazone). All prophylactic treatments were orally given 1 h prior to VPA. Spectrophotometry, RT-PCR, histopathological and immunohistochemical parameters were used to assess hepatic injury across groups. The results indicated that hepatocytes are nudged toward increased lipogenesis in the VPA group via activation of hepatic PPARγ (P < 0.001), LXRα (P < 0.01), SREBP1c (P < 0.001), and perilipin 2 (P < 0.05). VPA was associated with impaired LFTs, dyslipidemia, altered MDA/GSH equilibrium, and intense NF-κB immunoreactivity (all P < 0.001), besides significant fibrosis (P < 0.001) and elevated histopathology scores (P < 0.01). Relative to VPA, PIO + VPA exhibited significant hepatic anti-inflammatory and antioxidative benefits, restoring LFTs (P < 0.001) and MDA/GSH equilibrium (P < 0.001), alongside inhibiting NF-κB immunoreactivity (P < 0.001), however; it failed to significantly improve histopathological scores or lipogenic effectors (P > 0.05). Relative to VPA, DAPA + VPA and COMB groups showed a downregulation of hepatic lipogenic effectors (PPARγ at P < 0.001, LXRα at P < 0.01, SREBP1c at P < 0.001, and perilipin 2 at P < 0.05), with additional improvement of histopathological scores (P < 0.05), fibrosis (P < 0.001), and lipid profiles (P < 0.001) while simultaneously restoring LFTs and hepatic redox status (P < 0.001). Within the scope of the available literature, this study is the first to elucidate the divergent effects of pioglitazone and dapagliflozin on VPA-induced steatosis through the intricate hepatic LXRα/PPARγ signaling, underscoring the pronounced hepatoprotective capacity of dapagliflozin, effectively rescuing pioglitazone's pro-steatotic signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
Background: Dietary protein optimization is an important nutritional strategy for improving growth and physiological responses, and antioxidant homeostasis in fish. Methods: In this study, 540 black carp (initial body weight: 10.50 ± 1.00 g) were randomly assigned into recirculating tanks (500 L) fed with six dietary protein levels (30-44% crude protein) for an 8-week feeding trial with triplicates per treatment and 30 fish per replicate. After the trial, fish body, blood, hepatopancreas, and intestinal samples were collected for body composition, serum biochemical parameters, metabolism, and antioxidant indices' analyses. Results: Results showed fish fed 38% protein (PT38) exhibited the highest weight gain (p < 0.05), with no further improvement at higher protein levels. Compared with PT30 group, PT38 group significantly promoted protein deposition by upregulating transcript levels of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) via activating mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. PT38 could improve fatty acid oxidation by heightening levels of carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1α (CPT1α), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) and PPARδ. Meanwhile, PT38-PT41 significantly inhibit expression of fatty acid synthesis and lipid droplet deposition-related genes, including acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), fatty acid synthase (FAS), and perilipin 2 (p < 0.05). PT38 significantly enhanced antioxidant homeostasis by increasing levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) via activating nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway. Conclusions: Overall, Under the current experimental conditions, 38% dietary protein is suitable for promoting growth performance, improving protein and lipid metabolism, and enhancing antioxidant homeostasis in black carp.
To investigate whether vitamin D (VD) affects lipid metabolism in granulosa cells in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) through the FABP3-associated PI3K/Akt pathway.PCOS rat models were established using letrozole, followed by ovarian transcriptome sequencing, which revealed significant enrichment of lipid metabolism- and PI3K/Akt signaling-related pathways and identified FABP3 as a candidate gene for further investigation. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)-treated KGN cells were used as a PCOS cell model. FABP3 knockdown/overexpression, VD treatment, and PI3K/Akt inhibition were used to investigate the FABP3-associated PI3K/Akt pathway. Lipid metabolism-related regulators, including FABP3, FASN, ATGL, PPARγ, p-PI3K, and p-Akt, as well as cell viability and proliferation, free fatty acid (FFA) levels, and perilipin-2 expression, were evaluated. In vivo validation in VD-treated PCOS rats and ovarian tissue metabolomics were also performed.Immunohistochemical analysis revealed increased FABP3 and perilipin-2 immunoreactivity in ovarian tissues from PCOS rats. In DHEA-treated KGN cells, DHEA upregulated FABP3, FASN, and PPARγ, downregulated ATGL, inhibited PI3K/Akt phosphorylation, elevated FFA levels and perilipin-2 expression, and reduced cell viability and proliferation. Knockdown of FABP3 largely reversed these DHEA-induced alterations. Similarly, VD treatment alleviated DHEA-induced fatty acid metabolic disorders by decreasing FABP3, FASN, and PPARγ expression, increasing ATGL expression and PI3K/Akt phosphorylation, reducing FFA levels and perilipin-2 expression, and enhancing KGN cell viability and proliferation. The protective effects of VD were abolished by FABP3 overexpression or PI3K/Akt inhibition. In vivo, VD markedly attenuated polycystic ovarian changes and reduced FABP3 and perilipin-2 immunoreactivity in PCOS rats, accompanied by decreased FABP3, FASN, and PPARγ expression and increased ATGL expression and PI3K/Akt phosphorylation in ovarian tissues. Ovarian tissue metabolomics further demonstrated that VD significantly altered lipid metabolite profiles in PCOS.VD ameliorates lipid metabolic dysregulation in PCOS by modulating the FABP3-associated PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby alleviating granulosa cell dysfunction and ovarian pathological changes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Perilipins (PLINs) are lipid droplet-associated proteins that regulate lipid storage, mobilization, and metabolism, yet their roles in invertebrates remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to investigate the evolutionary conservation and functional adaptation of PLIN2 in the sea cucumber Apostichopus japonicus. Phylogenetic analysis placed A. japonicus PLIN2 within the PLIN2 clade, forming an echinoderm-specific branch distinct from vertebrate PLIN2s. Structural prediction revealed an N-terminal PAT domain containing an amphipathic helix that was required for lipid droplet targeting, as deletion of this region abolished its localization to lipid droplet. Functionally, PLIN2 abundance positively correlated with lipid droplet formation, and its knockdown reduced triacylglycerol accumulation while upregulating lipolysis-related genes. Pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays identified interactions between PLIN2 and the endoplasmic reticulum protein ERP44, as well as the mitochondrial protein TRXR2, suggesting a role in lipid droplet-organelle coupling. Consistently, disruption of the PLIN2-TRXR2 module impaired fatty acid transfer from lipid droplets to mitochondria, leading to suppressed β-oxidation and decreased ATP production. In addition, PLIN2 mediates the protective role of lipid droplets against Vibrio splendidus-induced ER stress. Together, these findings establish A. japonicus PLIN2 as a multifunctional lipid droplet-associated protein that coordinates lipid droplet stability with organelle communication, energy metabolism, and ER homeostasis.
Volumetric muscle loss (VML) results in persistent functional and metabolic deficits, yet the influence of biological sex and ovarian hormones on these outcomes remains poorly understood. Here, we examined male, intact female, and ovariectomized (OVX) female mice at 12 wk following VML to determine how biological sex and the loss of ovarian hormones affect whole body metabolism, functional recovery, and tissue remodeling. Males postinjury relied on greater lipid oxidation postprandially, whereas females maintained robust carbohydrate oxidation and dynamic metabolic flexibility. The loss of ovarian hormones increased adiposity and impaired the sex-specific advantage in glucose responsiveness. Biological sex did not influence maximal isometric torque or contractile properties following VML, which accompanied similarities in mitochondrial content [i.e., citrate synthase, pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity]. Females exhibited greater complex II activity than males, whereas the loss of ovarian hormones decreased complex I and PDH activity. Despite comparable lipid accumulation in females with and without ovarian hormones, maximal isometric torque and contractile properties were impaired with the loss of ovarian hormones. Proximity to VML defect influenced lipid droplet proteins, specifically perilipin 2, though not affected by biological sex or ovarian hormone loss. Collectively, these findings indicate that sex-specific differences in substrate utilization and mitochondrial function, mediated in part by ovarian hormones, may underlie the divergent metabolic and functional trajectories following VML. These results highlight the importance of considering biological sex and ovarian hormones in preclinical studies and therapeutic strategies for regenerative interventions.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study combined ovariectomy and volumetric muscle loss injury model to investigate if ovarian hormones play a protective role in females during the sequelae of traumatic skeletal muscle injury. The loss of ovarian hormones induces whole body and cellular metabolic inflexibility and worsened functional recovery, identifying ovarian hormones as key regulators of VML-induced metabolic pathophysiology.
Bovine alphaherpesvirus 1 (BoAHV-1) is one of the most important viruses that infects cattle and leads to significant economic losses to cattle industry. We have recently reported that both carnitine palmitoyl-transferase 1 A (CPT1A), a rate-limiting enzyme of mitochondrial fatty acid β-oxidation, and the lipogenic enzyme fatty acid synthase (FASN) are involved in viral productive infection. Excessive fatty acids are typically re-esterified into triacylglycerol (TAG), which are then deposited into lipid droplets (LDs), the primary form of lipid storage in cells. TAG acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) and DGAT2 are key enzymes involved in TAG synthesis, while adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) is a key enzyme involved in breakdown of TAG stored in LDs. To further reveal the roles of fatty acid played in BoAHV-1 life cycles, we investigated the interplay between LDs and viral infection both in vivo and in vitro. Here, we found that the viral lytic infection in bovine trigeminal ganglia (TG) neurons increased perilipin 2 (PLIN2) protein levels, indicative of an increase in LDs. Similarly, viral productive infection in bovine kidney (MDBK) cells increased LD accumulation, as determined using the lipophilic dye BODIPY493/503. Although viral infection differentially altered the expression of ATGL, DGAT1, and DGAT2, the consistently reduced expression of ATGL both in vivo and in vitro would be expected to decreased lipolysis and consequently the decreased LD degradation. Interestingly, we observed that a proportion of LDs co-localize well with virion-associated proteins, such as viral protein gD, and chemical inhibition of LD accumulation reduced viral productive infection in MDBK cells, which was partially attributed to the reduced levels of virion-associated proteins. Taken together, we provide an evidence that LDs may facilitate BoAHV-1 productive infection both in vivo and in vitro.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The Sewa sheep has an important economic value. This study selected mammary gland tissues from Sewa sheep during summer (S) and autumn (A) for transcriptome sequencing to explore the molecular regulatory mechanisms affecting lactation performance. In this experiment, 3566 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 1837 were up-regulated, and 1729 were down-regulated. DEGs were implicated in the 20 most highly enriched pathways, according to analyses using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology, such as cell adhesion molecules and Rap1 signalling pathways, which are involved in mammary gland development and milk fat production. Using RT-qPCR, we analysed the expression levels of eight genes across two distinct lactation periods. Our results indicated that butyrophilin subfamily 1 member A (BTN1A1), fatty acid binding protein 3 (FABP3), perilipin 2 (PLIN2) and stearoyl-coA desaturase (SCD) were downregulated. Conversely, stearoyl-coA desaturase 5 (SCD5), cluster of differentiation 52 (CD52), perilipin 1 (PLIN1) and potassium inwardly-rectifying channel, subfamily j, member 3 (KCNJ3) exhibited upregulated expression. These genes are primarily related to protein and fat metabolism, synthesis and milk fat formation, indicating the performance differences in mammary glands during various lactation periods may be due to the differential expression of related genes. These findings provide foundational data for mining candidate genes related to sheep lactation regulation and mammary gland development and provide insights into the mechanism of lactation regulation in sheep.
Fatty acids (FAs) are transported from lipid droplets (LDs) to mitochondria for β-oxidation during cell starvation. Starvation also triggers engulfment of LDs by autophagosomes and their subsequent degradation by lysosomes (lipophagy). The mechanisms coordinating these pathways remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that PISD-LD, an LD-localized isoform of phosphatidylserine decarboxylase, facilitates FA transfer while inhibiting lipophagy. PISD-LD mediates LD-mitochondrion (LD-mito) contacts via interaction with mitochondrial PISD. In PISD-LD KD cells, LDs are larger, and FA trafficking and mitochondrial FA β-oxidation are suppressed. The lipid transfer proteins ATG2A/B are recruited by PISDs to mediate FA transfer from LDs to mitochondria. Disruption of PISD-LD-mediated LD-mito contacts activates lipophagy, aiding LD degradation. PISD-LD binds the lipophagy receptor Spartin and inhibits lipophagy by impeding Spartin-LC3 interaction. PISD-LD also regulates LD-mito contacts and lipid metabolism in mouse liver. Thus, PISD-LD serves as a switch between LD-to-mitochondrion FA transfer and lipophagy, ensuring efficient energy production.© 2026 Xue et al.
Marine dinoflagellates are gaining attention as sustainable bioresource for polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), particularly omega-3 such as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). In the present study, we analyzed the FAs and transcriptomic profiles of marine dinoflagellates Amphidinium carterae (D-044) and Prorocentrum minimum (D-127) to evaluate their potential as FAs producers. Gas chromatography-FA methyl ester (GC-FAME) analysis showed that A. carterae is a superior omega-3 producer, yielding a total FA content of 67.6 mg/g DW. DHA accounted for 26.7% of the total FAME profile, which is significantly higher than that of P. minimum (18.1 mg/g DW; DHA 13.1%). Gene Ontology (GO) annotation revealed genes related to FAs and lipid metabolism in A. carterae (1,217 genes) and in P. minimum (2,317 genes), which provide a molecular basis for dinoflagellates with high lipid productivity. Notably, three lipid droplet-associated hydrolase (LDAH) genes with diverse evolutionary origins were identified from A. carterae. These findings suggest a potential expansion of the genetic repertoire related to lipid storage and metabolism, highlighting A. carterae and LDAH as candidates for future biotechnological applications and microalgal metabolic engineering.
The improvement of meat quality by selenium (Se) supplementation has been well documented; however, the effects and underlying mechanisms by which Se-enriched yeast modulates meat quality remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Se-enriched yeast on meat quality and its molecular characteristics in finishing pigs. All pigs were fed a Se-deficient diet (SeD) or the same diet supplemented with 0.3, 1, 3, or 5 mg Se/kg (CT, SY1, SY3, and SY5).Compared with SeD, Se-enriched yeast supplementation, especially SY3, improved marbling score, intramuscular fat content, antioxidant capacity, and fatty acid composition in the LD muscle (P < 0.05). Lipidomic analysis revealed that Se-enriched yeast supplementation altered the abundances of multiple lipid species, while transcriptomic analysis showed significant enrichment of pathways related to unsaturated fatty acid and glycerophospholipid metabolism (P < 0.05). Integrated analyses further identified glycerophospholipid metabolism as a key pathway associated with major lipids, including phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), along with regulatory genes glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 (GPAT3) and phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (PISD). Correlation analysis indicated that stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD), elongation of very long chain fatty acids protein 4 (ELOVL4), and GPAT3 play crucial roles in lipid synthesis.Se-enriched yeast supplementation at 3 mg/kg improved meat quality, primarily through the regulation of glycerophospholipid metabolism, enhancement of membrane stability, and lipid homeostasis. These findings offer mechanistic insights into the role of Se-enriched yeast and highlight its potential as an effective feed additive for improving meat quality in finishing pigs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatitis E virus (HEV), a leading cause of viral hepatitis globally, is associated with adverse outcomes during pregnancy. Despite its clinical significance, the mechanisms driving enhanced HEV replication during pregnancy remain poorly understood. In this study, we uncover a lipid-mediated pathway that facilitates HEV replication, with potential implications for pregnancy-associated pathogenesis. Lipidomic profiling reveals a marked upregulation of oleic acid during HEV infection in both human liver cells and in HEV-3ra-infected pregnant rabbits. We showed that oleic acid significantly enhances HEV replication, possibly through interaction with a predicted fatty acid-binding domain (FABD) located within the papain-like cysteine protease region of the HEV ORF1 polyprotein. We further demonstrated that phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) levels are elevated during HEV-3ra infection in pregnant rabbits, and that inhibition of PE biosynthesis by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockdown and silencing of phosphatidylserine decarboxylase/phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase genes that are responsible for PE synthesis resulted in decreased HEV replication, indicating that PE is important for HEV replication. Additionally, we found that placental lactogen hormone, which is elevated during late pregnancy, stimulated fatty acid accumulation and potentiated HEV replication, therefore providing a potential explanation for pregnancy-associated adverse outcomes. Collectively, our findings reveal an important role of host lipid metabolism in HEV replication and offer mechanistic insights into lipid-dependent enhancement of HEV replication and a potential role of lipid reprogramming in HEV pathogenesis. The results may inform potential future anti-HEV therapeutic strategies targeting lipid pathways.
In the original publication [...].
The distinct compositions of the two mitochondrial membranes are generated through a combination of phospholipids that mitochondria can make and those they take; both processes depend on a series of distinct lipid trafficking steps. Mitochondria make phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) through the action of the phosphatidylserine decarboxylase Psd1, an intermembrane space (IMS)-facing integral inner membrane (IM) protein. Psd1 has been proposed to act on its endoplasmic reticulum-derived substrate, phosphatidylserine (PS), after its transport to the mitochondrial outer membrane (OM) and either following its Ups2/Mdm35-mediated transport across the IMS to the IM or instead, on the IMS-side of the OM in a process enabled by the mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS). Here, we implement a two-pronged Psd1 rewiring-based strategy predicted to either (1) circumvent the need for Ups2/Mdm35 and/or MICOS; or (2) selectively ablate the ability of Psd1 to work in trans. Our results with yeast harboring Psd1 targeted to the OM demonstrate that, with respect to mitochondrial PE production, Ups2/Mdm35 and MICOS indeed function within the IMS. Using yeast expressing a topologically inverted Psd1 chimera that faces the matrix, we identify previously unappreciated transbilayer lipid trafficking steps within the IM and show that Psd1 does not operate via a MICOS-organized in trans mechanism. Further, retained flux through inverted Psd1 when both Ups2/Mdm35 and MICOS are absent strongly implicates the existence of a major, yet presently unknown, mediator(s) of lipid movement across the IMS. Collectively, these data suggest a new model of how mitochondrial membrane diversity is established and maintained.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The lipid droplet-associated hydrolase (LDAH) is a lipid droplet-associated protein with an uncharacterized role in human adipose tissue (AT) and obesity; we aimed to investigate its role in human AT and its relevance for childhood obesity.LDAH variant rs13385191 and gene expression were analyzed in a cross-sectional study of subcutaneous AT samples from 296 children (120 girls, 176 boys; ages 0-18; BMI SDS -2.7 to 4.3), and an association with obesity and AT biology was studied. An effect of LDAH on adipogenesis was investigated in SGBS preadipocytes.Minor allele carriers of rs13385191 showed lower AT LDAH expression compared to non-carriers (p < 0.001) and a trend toward higher BMI SDS, which was, however, not statistically significant (p = 0.062). Consistently, study participants with lower LDAH expression showed higher BMI SDS (p = 0.005). A negative correlation was found between LDAH and macrophage infiltration into AT after controlling for age (R = -0.132; p = 0.039), and high LDAH expression was associated with lower circulating TNFα (p = 0.017). LDAH expression increased during SGBS adipocyte differentiation, while its knockdown did not alter differentiation. In line with results from AT, TNFα significantly reduced LDAH expression in SGBS cells (p = 0.009).LDAH seems to have a role in AT inflammation and the development of obesity in children.© 2026 The Author(s). Obesity published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Obesity Society.
The distinct compositions of the two mitochondrial membranes are generated through a combination of phospholipids that mitochondria can make and those they take; both processes depend on a series of distinct lipid trafficking steps. Mitochondria make phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) through the action of the phosphatidylserine decarboxylase Psd1, an intermembrane space (IMS)-facing integral inner membrane (IM) protein. Psd1 has been proposed to act on its endoplasmic reticulum-derived substrate, phosphatidylserine (PS), after its transport to the mitochondrial outer membrane (OM) and either following its Ups2/Mdm35-mediated transport across the IMS to the IM or instead, on the IMS-side of the OM in a process enabled by the mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS). Here, we implement a two-pronged Psd1 rewiring-based strategy predicted to either 1) circumvent the need for Ups2/Mdm35 and/or MICOS; or 2) selectively ablate the ability of Psd1 to work in trans. Our results with yeast harboring Psd1 targeted to the OM demonstrate that, with respect to mitochondrial PE production, Ups2/Mdm35 and MICOS indeed function within the IMS. Using yeast expressing a topologically inverted Psd1 chimera that faces the matrix, we identify previously unappreciated transbilayer lipid trafficking steps within the IM and show that Psd1 does not operate via a MICOS-organized in trans mechanism. Further, retained flux through inverted Psd1 when both Ups2/Mdm35 and MICOS are absent strongly implicates the existence of a major, yet presently unknown, mediator(s) of lipid movement across the IMS. Collectively, these data suggest a new model of how mitochondrial membrane diversity is established and maintained.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a major global health burden, and increasing evidence suggests that ferroptosis plays an important role in regulating tumor cell survival. Phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (PISD) is a key mitochondrial enzyme responsible for phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) synthesis; however, its molecular function in GC remains poorly understood. In this study, we suggest that downregulation of PISD is associated with enhanced ferroptosis in GC cells by disrupting mitochondrial PE homeostasis and impairing mitochondrial function. Mechanistically, PISD depletion reduces PE levels, is accompanied by a reduction in signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, and decreases GPX4 expression, leading to enhanced lipid peroxidation, iron accumulation, and redox imbalance. Pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis using Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1), activation of STAT3 by ML115, or supplementation with lysophosphatidylethanolamine (LPE) partially rescues PISD knockdown-induced ferroptosis. In vivo, PISD downregulation is significantly accompanied by a reduction in tumor growth in GC xenograft models. Collectively, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized role of PISD in linking mitochondrial phospholipid metabolism to STAT3/GPX4-dependent ferroptosis, providing mechanistic insights into the regulation of ferroptosis in gastric cancer.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary malignant bone cancer. Hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (HILPDA) promotes tumor growth, migration, and ferroptosis resistance in OS. However, the oncogenic mechanisms of HILPDA in OS are largely unexplored. Glycolytic activity was assessed by measuring glucose uptake and lactate release. Ferroptosis was evaluated by measuring ROS, MDA, Fe2+, and total iron contents. Cell proliferation was assessed via EdU incorporation assay, and tube formation ability was analyzed. Animal experiments were used to test the function in vivo. Expression analysis was performed using quantitative PCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry. The regulation of Wilms' tumor 1-associating protein (WTAP) in HILPDA was detected by methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) assay. HILPDA and WTAP were upregulated in OS tissues. Overexpression of HILPDA or WTAP was associated with poor prognosis in OS patients. HILPDA deficiency impaired OS cell proliferation and glycolysis while promoting ferroptosis, concurrently attenuating HUVEC tube formation in vitro. Moreover, HILPDA depletion constrained the in vivo growth of HOS OS xenografts. Mechanistically, WTAP regulated HILPDA expression through an m6A-dependent manner. Additionally, HILPDA re-expression reversed sh-WTAP-mediated alterations in OS cell glycolysis and ferroptosis and HUVEC tube formation. Our findings identify the WTAP/HILPDA axis as a key regulator of OS development through coordinated control of glycolysis, ferroptosis, and angiogenesis, offering new avenues for multi-targeted therapeutic intervention in OS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Each year, tens of millions of individuals sojourn to high-altitude environments (>2500 m), where they face the significant physiological challenge of hypoxia, a condition that often induces a range of gastrointestinal disorders. While our prior studies linked this damage to ferroptosis, the role of hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (HILPDA), a hypoxia inducible factor-1α/2α (HIF-1α/2α) downstream regulator, in this process remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the role and mechanism of HILPDA in regulating ferroptosis of normal human gastric and small intestinal epithelial cells (NGEC and HIEC) under hypoxic conditions. Our results found that overexpression of HIF-1α, HIF-2α, and HILPDA exacerbated hypoxia-induced cell death, which was reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1. Knockdown of HIF-1α/2α inhibited HILPDA expression. Furthermore, knockdown of HILPDA led to a reduction of the hypoxia-induced lipid peroxidation, and the ferroptotic characteristics of cellular mitochondria observed under transmission electron microscopy. Conversely, HILPDA overexpression reversed the protective effects of HIF-1α/2α knockdown. Lipidomic analysis further revealed that HILPDA knockdown significantly decreased the levels of polyunsaturated fatty acid-phosphatidylcholines (PUFA-PCs) and phosphatidylethanolamines (PEs) under hypoxia. Compared to HIF-1α knockdown, HILPDA knockdown led to a slight difference in PUFA-PEs without significant difference in PCs and phosphatidylinositols (PIs) under hypoxia. Compared to HIF-2α knockdown, HILPDA knockdown resulted in negligible differences in PEs, PCs, and PIs. In addition, HILPDA knockdown downregulated Lysophosphatidylcholine Acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), and overexpression of LPCAT3 significantly attenuated the inhibitory effect of HILPDA knockdown on hypoxia-induced ferroptosis. In conclusion, HILPDA enhanced susceptibility to hypoxia-induced ferroptosis in NGEC and HIEC by enriching PUFA-containing phospholipids through LPCAT3. These findings identified the HIF-1α/2α-HILPDA-LPCAT3 axis as a pivotal pathway driving hypoxia-induced ferroptosis, therefore providing potential therapeutic targets for gastric and small intestinal mucosal injury associated with hypoxia.Copyright: © 2026 Song et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The H129 strain (H129) of neurotropic herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) is the only known HSV-1 strain that spreads transneuronally in a predominantly anterograde direction, leading to wide use for anterograde tracing in neural circuit mapping. However, it remains unclear whether H129 spreads in a synapse-specific manner or what mechanisms underlie its transmission. Here a microfluidic culture system for primary mouse cortical neurons and several engineered tool viruses were used to visualize the synapse-specific transmission of H129. We show that H129 particles are packaged into 'virion vesicles' that exploit the molecular machinery of Ca2+-dependent neurotransmitter release, including voltage-gated calcium channels, synaptotagmin-7 and the SNARE complex, to exit the presynaptic bouton. Subsequently, H129 enters the postsynaptic neuron through gD/nectin-1 and clathrin-mediated endocytosis at the perisynaptic site. These findings clearly illustrate the molecular mechanistic sequence of HSV-1 transsynaptic spread, advance our understanding of the viral infection in the nervous system and provide design principles for further optimizing H129-derived anterograde neural tracers.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is an intracellular pathogen that can be sensed by T cells, which are essential for the control of infection. In comparison to viral infections, Mtb antigens are relatively limited and hence, challenging to sample. Specialized antigen presentation pathways enable the presentation of such scarce antigens to CD8+ T cells, which are, thus, uniquely poised to survey intracellular environments. A subset of CD8+ T cells prevalent in the airways, known as mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, can be activated through the presentation of Mtb antigens via the major histocompatibility complex class I-related protein 1 (MR1) molecule. Prior work demonstrates that endosomal calcium signaling is critical for MR1-mediated presentation of Mtb-derived antigens. Here, we show that the calcium-sensing trafficking proteins Synaptotagmin (Syt) 1 and Syt7 specifically promote MAIT cell activation in response to Mtb-infected cells. In bronchial epithelial cells, Syt1 and Syt7 localize to late endo-lysosomes and MR1 vesicles. Loss of Syt1 and Syt7 results in enlarged MR1 vesicles and an increased number of MR1 vesicles in close proximity to Mtb-containing vacuoles during infection. This study identifies a specialized pathway in which Syt1 and Syt7 facilitate the translocation of MR1 from Mtb-containing vacuoles, potentially to the cell surface for antigen presentation.
Ly6Chigh monocytes, previously recognized as a pro-inflammatory subset, play critical roles in secondary neuroinflammation in the stroke brain. Growing evidence reveals increased infiltration of myeloid cells with substantial heterogeneity, raising the question of how Ly6Chigh monocyte-derived macrophages in the stroke brain adapt to the ischemic environment. Here, by combining analysis of stroke patient samples with in vivo and in vitro murine studies and single-cell transcriptomic profiling, we identify hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (Hilpda)/hypoxia-inducible protein 2 (HIG2) as a critical mediator of anti-inflammatory property of Ly6ChighLy6Glow monocyte-derived macrophages in the stroke brain. Mechanistically, HIG2 promotes phosphatidylcholine synthesis via Hif1α-dependent transcriptional regulation of choline kinase α, initiating lipid metabolism reprogramming that underpins the anti-inflammatory phenotype of Ly6ChighLy6Glow monocyte-derived macrophages in the ischemic brain after stroke. Intranasal delivery of recombinant HIG2 protein improves neurological outcomes after stroke. These findings suggest that targeting HIG2 might represent a novel immunometabolic strategy to mitigate poststroke neuroinflammation.© 2026 Chen et al.
Emerging evidence highlights the pivotal role of ferroptosis in the pathophysiology of diabetic nephropathy (DN). This study aimed to identify potential ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) in DN through bioinformatics and experimental validation.Datasets for diabetic nephropathy (DN) and ferroptosis-related gene sets were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and the Ferroptosis Database, respectively. Differential expression analysis identified ferroptosis-related genes (DE-FRGs) in DN, and machine learning was applied to screen key genes. The risk model's accuracy was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Potential small chemical compounds associated with DE-FRGs and DN were also explored. Expression of DE-FRGs was measured by Quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) in kidneys of DN mice and by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in serum from DN patients versus non-DN controls.Analysis identified 125 DE-FRGs enriched in ferroptosis and DN-related pathways. Machine learning pinpointed nine diagnostic biomarkers, which were validated by ROC curves, and 13 potential therapeutic compounds. Among the DE-FRGs, qRT-PCR verified dysregulation of interleukin-33 (IL-33), retinoic acid receptor responder protein 2 (RARRES2), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), gap junction protein alpha 1 (GJA1), and hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet associated (HILPDA) in DN kidneys. Importantly, serum levels of EZH2 and IL-33 were significantly elevated in DN patients, underscoring their critical role in pathogenesis and potential as therapeutic targets.In conclusion, this study identified IL-33 and EZH2 as key DE-FRGs in DN, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Presynaptic short-term plasticity is thought to play a major role in the process of spike transfer within local circuits. Mossy fiber (Mf) synapses between the axons of dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells (GCs) and cornu ammonis area 3 pyramidal cells (CA3-PCs) (Mf-CA3 synapses) display a remarkable extent of presynaptic plasticity. Here, we have investigated the role of short-term presynaptic facilitation at Mf synapses in the operation of CA3 circuits in vivo and in memory encoding by analyzing mice with selective abrogation of synaptotagmin 7 (Syt7) in DG granule cells (DG-Syt7 knockout [KO] mice), hence in all presynaptic Mf targets, including mossy cells and interneurons (INs). We extend previous studies to show that short-term presynaptic facilitation is suppressed at Mf-CA3 PC synapses in the absence of Syt7, without any impact on basal synaptic properties and on long-term potentiation (LTP). Short-term plasticity was found to be crucial for spike transfer between the DG and CA3 in conditions of naturalistic patterns of presynaptic firing. At the network level, in awake head-fixed mice, the abrogation of short-term facilitation was associated with reduced co-activity of CA3-PCs. Finally, DG-Syt7 KO mice show deficits in spatial memory tasks that rely on the process of pattern completion, but not on pattern separation, and display altered emotional processes. These results give important insights into how short-term presynaptic facilitation of DG-CA3 synapses may contribute to hippocampal function at the circuit and behavioral levels.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Short-term facilitation of recurrent excitatory synapses within the cortical network has been proposed to support persistent activity during working memory tasks, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. We characterized short-term plasticity at the local excitatory synapses in layer 2/3 of the rat medial prefrontal cortex and studied its presynaptic mechanisms. Low-frequency stimulation induced slowly developing facilitation, whereas high-frequency stimulation initially induced strong depression followed by rapid facilitation. This non-monotonic delayed facilitation after a brief depression resulted from a high vesicular fusion probability and slow activation of Ca2+-dependent vesicle replenishment, which led to the overfilling of release sites beyond their basal occupancy. Pharmacological and gene knockdown (KD) experiments revealed that the facilitation was mediated by phospholipase C/diacylglycerol signaling and synaptotagmin 7 (Syt7). Notably, Syt7 KD abolished facilitation and slowed the refilling rate of vesicles with high fusion probability. Furthermore, Syt7 deficiency in layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons impaired the acquisition of trace fear memory and reduced c-Fos activity. In conclusion, Ca2+- and Syt7-dependent overfilling of release sites mediates synaptic facilitation at layer 2/3 recurrent excitatory synapses and contributes to temporal associative learning.© 2025, Shin et al.
Rationale: High-intensity psychological and physiological stress contributed greatly to development of cardiac disorders in contemporary society. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Synaptotagmin-7 (Syt7), a Ca²⁺ sensor with high affinity, has been associated with synaptic transmission and tumor progression, but its role in cardiac stress responses remains poorly defined. Methods: Corticosterone (CORT) was used to induce stress injury in vivo and in vitro. The expression of Syt7 was modulated by genetic knockout, injection of adenoviral siRNA or injection of adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) shRNA. Cardiac function and remodeling were evaluated by echocardiography, electrocardiography, and histological staining. Necroptosis was analyzed by propidium iodide (PI) staining, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release detection, and necroptosis marker levels. Ca²⁺ overload, ROS production, mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening, and bioenergetic profiling were assessed to evaluate mitochondrial function. Co-IP assay was performed to detect protein interaction, and ChIP- qPCR was performed to assess transcriptional regulation. Results: Syt7 expression was significantly upregulated in both cardiomyocytes and heart tissues exposed to CORT. Both genetic knockout and cardiomyocyte-specific knockdown of Syt7 significantly preserved cardiac function and rhythm, and alleviated myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis in CORT-treated mice. Mechanistically, Syt7 regulated necroptosis by promoting calcium overload, ROS production, mitochondrial ΔΨm dissipation, and mPTP prolonged opening. Notably, Syt7 interacted with transcription factor p53 and enhanced p53- mediated transcription of Bcl-2 homologous antagonist/killer (Bak). Syt7, p53 and Bak constitute a novel signaling axis to regulate mitochondrial dysfunction and necroptosis. Therapeutically, cardiac delivery of Syt7-targeting siRNA via adenoviral vectors significantly alleviated structural remodeling, electrophysiological instability, and myocardial necrosis in CORT-challenged mice. Conclusions: The study identified Syt7 as a novel upstream regulator involved in cardiomyocyte necroptosis triggered by stress stimuli through a p53-Bak-mPTP pathway. Therapeutic targeting of Syt7 offers a promising strategy for protecting the heart against psychological or neuroendocrine stress-related injury.© The author(s).
The case report describes a novel finding of a homozygous variant in the coronin 1A (CORO1A) gene, associated with atypical severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in a 9-year-old female patient with recurrent infections and unique immunological features, including periodic T-cell lymphocytosis and T- and B-cell lymphopenia.A 9-year-old female with a known history of recurrent pneumonia presented to the emergency department with a 2-week history of intermittent fever, progressive lethargy, and pallor. Her past medical history was remarkable for multiple hospital admissions secondary to community-acquired pneumonia and urinary tract infections, totaling four admissions to date. Family history was significant for consanguinity between parents and a healthy 4-year-old younger male sibling. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated bilateral diffuse centrilobular nodules, scattered ground-glass opacities, and left lower lobe consolidation, in addition to a tree-in-bud pattern. Immunological evaluation revealed T-cell lymphocytosis, B-cell lymphopenia, and a decreased CD4/CD8 ratio. Based on these findings, the pediatric allergy and immunology team recommended genetic testing for primary immunodeficiency. The panel identified a homozygous variant of uncertain significance (VUS) in the CORO1A gene. Pathogenic variants in CORO1A are associated with autosomal recessive CORO1A-related SCID.The novel homozygous variant in the CORO1A gene suggests the likelihood of an atypical form of SCID, characterized by periodic T-cell lymphocytosis, T-cell lymphopenia, B-cell lymphopenia, and a low CD4/CD8 ratio, expanding the spectrum of CORO1A deficiency.Copyright © 2026 Alanoud Aljohani et al. Case Reports in Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) recurrence is driven by therapy-resistant cells that escape surgical detection and withstand subsequent chemoradiotherapy. However, the molecular basis connecting invasion, metabolic detectability, and treatment resistance remains elusive. Here, we identify Coronin-1A (Coro1A), a cytoplasmic actin-associated regulator, as a multidirectional modulator of cancer stemness in GBM. Across six patient-derived GBM lines, Coro1A mRNA expression strongly correlated with both cell motility and the proportion of 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA)-negative cells, and high Coro1A levels predicted significantly poorer prognosis in recurrent GBM cases. To assess its function, Coro1A-knockdown clones were generated from a recurrent GBM-derived culture (PDM123). Silencing Coro1A significantly reduced migration and modestly decreased proliferation, with the extent of motility reduction correlating with residual Coro1A expression. Importantly, knockdown enhanced intracellular accumulation of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) under 5-ALA treatment, even in highly motile cells, indicating that Coro1A simultaneously governs invasiveness and intraoperative fluorescence detectability. Furthermore, Coro1A depletion increased sensitivity to temozolomide (TMZ) and X-ray irradiation, revealing its critical contribution to therapy resistance. Collectively, these findings establish Coro1A as a central cytoskeletal regulator that unifies invasion, diagnostic escape, and therapeutic resilience-highlighting its potential as a curative target capable of dismantling the multifaceted resistance of GBM.© 2026. The Author(s).
Programmed cell death (PCD) governs tissue homeostasis and shapes tumor-immune interactions. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), apoptosis evasion drives resistance and poor outcomes, yet the PCD landscape and the role of Coronin 1A (CORO1A) remain insufficiently defined.We integrated AML bone marrow single-cell RNA-seq (GSE154109) with bulk RNA-seq from TCGA (training) and GSE71014 (testing), and GTEx normal marrow. After batch correction, we profiled 3,524 PCD- related genes. Single-cell analyses (Seurat, Harmony) resolved hematopoietic and malignant populations; pathway activity was quantified by ssGSEA/GSVA. Survival modeling used a multi-algorithm framework (10 learners, 117 combinations). Immune features were inferred via IOBR; immunotherapy response via TIDE; drug sensitivity via OncoPredict. We analyzed DepMap AML cell lines (n = 29), correlating CORO1A CRISPR dependency (CERES) with CORO1A expression (log2 TPM) by Pearson's correlation in R. CORO1A function was tested by shRNA knockdown in HL-60 and THP-1 cells with CCK-8, Annexin V, and Western blot.Malignant cells and monocytes/macrophages showed higher PCD enrichment than lymphoid clusters. Malignant cells upregulated MYC/E2F targets, DNA repair, fatty acid metabolism, with attenuated interferon signaling. From 3,524 genes, we derived a five-gene prognostic signature-CORO1A and PECAM1 (risk), and CLEC11A, ITGA4, AGTPBP1 (protective)-via optimal LASSO plus stepwise Cox (mean C-index 0.72; TCGA 0.74; GSE71014 0.70). Discrimination was strong (AUCs: training 0.816/0.803/0.887 at 1/3/5 years; testing 0.711/0.765/0.749) and independent of age and sex. Risk score-associated transcripts were enriched for apoptosis, FoxO signaling, senescence, proteoglycans in cancer, and HTLV-1 pathways; GSEA indicated hematopoietic stemness and NRF2-upregulated programs. High-risk tumors had higher stromal/immune scores, lower purity, increased monocytes/macrophages/neutrophils, and reduced B/T/NK infiltration; the risk score correlated with cytokines (CXCR3, IL10, PF4, PPBP). TIDE predicted greater immunotherapy benefit in high-risk patients. OncoPredict suggested higher sensitivity in the high-risk group to 5-fluorouracil, PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors (afuresertib, pictilisib, taselisib, dactolisib), and the MET inhibitor savolitinib. CORO1A was highly expressed in AML cell lines; knockdown reduced proliferation, decreased Bcl-2/Bax ratio by 1.5-fold, and increased apoptosis.Multi-omic integration of PCD-related genes delineates PCD-driven heterogeneity in AML and yields a robust five-gene prognostic model with therapeutic implications. CORO1A emerges as a potential apoptosis-associated oncogene that promoting AML cell survival.©2026 Yang et al.
Glioma-associated microglia/macrophages (GAMs) have traditionally been described as immunosuppressive. However, within their highly heterogeneous repertoire, pro-phagocytic and cytotoxic subsets with anti-tumoral properties exist. Although macrophages (MACs) can exhibit tumor-suppressive functions, their anti-glioma properties largely remain elusive. To identify anti-glioma myeloid cell effectors, we performed directionally concatenated ligand-receptor (L-R) interactome analyses from dendritic cells (DCs) and microglia (MG) to lymphoid (CD4+T, Tregs, CD8+T, NK, and NKT) cells identified by our recent single-cell transcriptomics interrogation of tumor-associated CD45+ leukocytes from tumor brains of eighteen isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-stratified glioma patients. Within DC-specific and MG-specific interactomes, we identified LGALS9, which encodes Galectin-9, as a key mediator of cell-cell interactions in IDH-wild type (IDH-wt) gliomas. Spectral cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting analyses confirmed the abundant expression of Galectin-9 in glioma-associated MG, but not in tumor cells. Furthermore, differential gene enrichment analyses revealed transcripts associated with cellular adhesion (coronin 1A, integrin) and phagocytosis (FcγR, phospholipase D, Rab family proteins, etc.) pathways that were significantly upregulated in Galectin-9+ compared to Galectin-9- MG and MACs. Using an ex-vivo primary human microglia (pMG) and patient-derived glioma stem cells (GSCs) co-culture system, we evaluated the functional role of Galectin-9. Confocal imaging analyses of co-cultured pMG with GSCs revealed that siRNA-mediated knockdown or antibody-based neutralization of Galectin-9 significantly impaired pMG-GSC adhesion. In addition to reduced adhesion, phagocytosis of GSCs was dramatically attenuated across all Galectin-9 silenced or neutralized pMG. Altogether, our study underscores the unappreciated non-canonical role of Galectin-9 in MG as a regulator of glioma cell adhesion and phagocytosis that can be harnessed for glioblastoma immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Gupta, Valdebenito-Silva, Kumar, Chakrapani, Oberai, Dang, Katayama, Wang, Eugenin and Bhat.
Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease that affects the oral mucosa, with tongue lesions being clinically significant due to their association with oral cancer risk and taste dysfunction. However, the layer-specific molecular heterogeneity of the basal layer (BL), spinous layer (SL) and lamina propria (LP) in tongue OLP remains poorly characterized, limiting mechanistic understanding and therapeutic development.We used spatial proteomics combined with laser capture microdissection to analyse layer-specific protein expression in tongue OLP lesions (with lymphocyte infiltration) and adjacent nonlesional tissues from three patients. Histopathological validation via immunohistochemistry was performed on samples from an expanded cohort of 10 patients with OLP and 10 healthy tongue dorsum tissue samples. Multiplex fluorescent staining was used to analyse the spatial associations between keratin 17 (KRT17) and relevant immune cells and cytokines. In vitro functional assays, including tumour necrosis factor/interferon (IFN)-γ or lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation models, scratch wound healing, apoptosis detection and KRT17 knockdown, were done in human oral keratinocytes (HOKs) to explore the mechanistic roles of key proteins.A total of 4434 proteins were identified, revealing distinct layer-specific dysregulation: 183 upregulated and 98 downregulated proteins in the BL; 262 upregulated and 330 downregulated in the LP; and 91 upregulated and 112 downregulated in the SL. In the BL, immune activation markers (lymphocyte cytosolic protein 1, RAC2, KRT17) were enriched, while metabolic enzymes (argininosuccinate synthetase 1, phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase) were suppressed. The LP showed upregulated proinflammatory mediators [coronin-1A, interleukin (IL)-16] and downregulated extracellular matrix proteins (tenascin X, keratin 9). The SL exhibited disrupted differentiation markers (transglutaminase 3, keratin 13) and innate immune molecules (IFN-induced GTP-binding protein, IFN-stimulated gene 15). Functional enrichment analyses confirmed layer-specific pathogenic axes: immune-metabolic crosstalk in the BL, inflammatory-stromal loops in the LP and differentiation defects in the SL. Multiplex staining revealed spatial correlation between KRT17, T-cell infiltration and IL-1β. In vitro, KRT17 knockdown attenuated LPS-induced inflammation (IL-6, IL-1β), was accompanied by restored HOK migration and reduced apoptosis.Our study uncovers layer-specific molecular landscapes in tongue OLP and identifies KRT17 as a candidate implicated in immune-epithelial crosstalk, providing novel insights into pathogenesis and a potential direction for future therapeutic exploration.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
CD4+IFN-γ+IL-17+ T cells and their secreted cytokines play a critical role in the anti-mycobacterial response. However, the underlying synergistic mechanism of IFN-γ and IL-17 is little known. This study demonstrates that the downregulation of coronin-1A retention on the phagosome is a synergistic pathway for IFN-γ and IL-17 that kills Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) in macrophages. IL-17 alone does not play a role in intracellular Mtb killing but potentiates the anti-mycobactericidal pathway of IFN-γ. Co-treatment of IFN-γ/IL-17 inhibited phosphorylation of STAT3, induced LRG47 expression, and reduced retention of coronin-1A on phagosome, thereby eliciting phagolysosomal fusion and bacterial killing, which was proved through response analysis of IFN-γ/IL-17 in Mtb-infected macrophages transfected with small interfering RNA of coro1a, lrg47, or stat1. Determination of adjunctive therapeutic effect of IFN-γ, IL-17, or both with anti-mycobacterial drugs showed that the bacterial load in the tissue of mice co-treated with IFN-γ/IL-17, even at 1 ng/mL concentration each, was more rapidly reduced compared to those of IFN-γ injection or chemotherapy alone. It inhibited the re-growth after treatment termination. Our results shed new light on the synergistic mechanisms of IFN-γ/IL-17 for anti-mycobacterial responses, which might be targeted as an adjunctive chemotherapeutic method against tuberculosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Neuronal morphogenesis depends on extracellular guidance cues accurately instructing intracellular cytoskeletal remodeling. Here, we describe a novel role of the actin binding protein coronin 1A (Coro1A) in neuronal morphogenesis, where it mediates responses to the axon guidance cue netrin-1. We found that Coro1A localizes to growth cones and filopodial structures and is required for netrin-dependent axon turning, branching, and corpus callosum development. We previously discovered that Coro1A interacts with TRIM67, a brain-enriched E3 ubiquitin ligase that binds the netrin receptor DCC, and is also required for netrin-mediated neuronal morphogenesis. Loss of Coro1A and loss of TRIM67 shared similar phenotypes, suggesting that they may function together in the same netrin pathway. A Coro1A mutant deficient in binding TRIM67 was unable to rescue loss of Coro1A phenotypes, indicating that the interaction between Coro1A and TRIM67 is required for netrin responses. Together, our findings reveal that Coro1A is required for proper neuronal morphogenesis, where it collaborates with TRIM67 downstream of netrin.© 2025 Ho et al.
Coronin-1A deficiency, caused by mutations in the CORO1A gene, is an autosomal recessive immunodeficiency characterized by T-cell dysfunction and is classified as severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). This condition presents with lymphopenia, hypogammaglobulinemia, recurrent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infections, EBV-associated B-cell lymphoma and epidermodysplasia verruciformis. This case report presents a 32-year-old female with Coronin-1A deficiency, who developed IgM-dominant membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) alongside recurrent viral infections. This is the first reported case linking Coronin-1A deficiency with MPGN. The patient was treated with corticosteroids, which improved her renal function, but she succumbed to recurrent infections within a year. This case emphasizes the potential for renal disease in immunodeficient patients with persistent infections.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Nephrology.
Despite extensive advances in understanding sepsis pathophysiology, treatment outcomes have not substantially improved. In this issue, Takahama and colleagues identified phospholipase A2 Group V (PLA2G5) as a contributor to sepsis lethality in mouse models of endotoxemia and sepsis. Whole-mouse spatial profiling generated bodywide maps of systemic inflammation and uncovered intestinal goblet cells as a source of pathogenic PLA2G5. Pairs of inflammatory cytokines (TNF and IFN-γ, or TNF and IL-18) induced PLA2G5 expression in goblet cells. Mechanistically, circulating PLA2G5 triggered intravascular hemolysis through its lipolytic activity on erythrocyte membranes and contributed to organ failure and death. PLA2G5's deleterious effects were blocked by specific antibodies and were absent in Pla2g5-deficient mice. In humans with bacterial or fungal sepsis or severe COVID-19, plasma PLA2G5 levels were elevated and predicted disease severity. This discovery highlights the contribution of hemolysis to sepsis, suggesting that PLA2G5 inhibitors, hemoglobin, or heme antagonists could represent valuable therapeutic tools.
This study aimed to evaluate genotype-phenotype correlations of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with phospholipase A2 group V (PLA2G6) variants. We analyzed the DNA of 798 patients with PD, including 78 PD patients reported previously, and 336 in-house controls. We screened the exons and exon-intron boundaries of PLA2G6 using the Ion Torrent system and Sanger method. We identified 21 patients with 18 rare variants, such that 1, 9, and 11 patients were homozygous, heterozygous, and compound heterozygous, respectively, with respect to PLA2G6 variants. The allele frequency was approximately equal between patients with familial PD and those with sporadic PD. The PLA2G6 variants detected frequently were identified in the early-onset sporadic PD group. Patients who were homozygous for a variant showed more severe symptoms than those who were heterozygous for the variant. The most common variant was p.R635Q in our cohort, which was considered a risk variant for PD. Thus, the variants of PLA2G6 may play a role in familial PD and early-onset sporadic PD.Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To explore the molecular mechanisms of fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) in laying hens, an experiment was conducted to reveal the differences in histopathological observation and gene expression between FLHS group and normal group.We compared the histopathological difference using hematoxylin and eosin staining and proceeded with RNA sequencing of adipose tissue to search differentially expressed genes and enriched biological processes and pathways. Then we validated the mRNA expression levels by real-time polymerase chain reaction and quantified protein levels in the circulation by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.We identified 100 differentially expressed transcripts corresponding to 66 genes (DEGs) were identified between FLHS-affected group and normal group. Seven DEGs were significantly enriched in the immune response process and lipid metabolic process, including phospholipase A2 group V, WAP kunitz and netrin domain containing 2, delta 4-desaturase sphingolipid 2, perilipin 3, interleukin-6 (IL-6), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3). And these genes could be the targets of immune response and be involved in metabolic homeostasis during the process of FLHS in laying hens. Based on functional categories of the DEGs, we further proposed a model to explain the etiology and pathogenesis of FLHS. IL-6 and SOCS3 mediate inflammatory responses and the satiety hormone of leptin, induce dysfunction of Jak-STAT signaling pathway, leading to insulin resistance and lipid metabolic disorders. Conversely, CNTF may reduce tissue destruction during inflammatory attacks and confer protection from inflammation-induced insulin resistance in FLHS chickens.These findings highlight the therapeutic implications of targeting the JAK-STAT pathway. Inhibition of IL6 and SOCS3 and facilitation of CNTF could serve as a favorable strategy to enhance insulin action and improve glucose homoeostasis, which are of importance for treating obesity-related disorders for chickens.
Mounting evidence have indicated that long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) muscleblind like splicing regulator 1 antisense RNA 1 (MBNL1-AS1) play a crucial regulatory role in cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction (MI) included. In this research, we sought to probe into the biological function and potential mechanism of MBNL1-AS1 in MI.Cardiomyocytes were treated under hypoxic conditions for 0-12 h. Functional assays including CCK-8 and flow cytometry were performed to assess hypoxia-stimulated cardiomyocyte viability and apoptosis, respectively. Moreover, bioinformatics analysis and mechanical assays were conducted to reveal the competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) mechanism of MBNL1-AS1.The upregulation of MBNL1-AS1 was found in hypoxia-stimulated cardiomyocytes. Functionally, the downregulation of MBNL1-AS1 dramatically promoted hypoxia-induced cardiomyocyte viability and inhibited apoptosis. Mechanistically, miR-132-3p bound to MBNL1-AS1 in hypoxia-induced cardiomyocytes, and miR-132-3p directly targeted RAB14, member RAS oncogene family (RAB14) and calmodulin binding transcription activator 1 (CAMTA1). Furthermore, MBNL1-AS1 upregulates the expression of RAB14 and CAMTA1 in hypoxia-stimulated cardiomyocytes via targeting miR-132-3p.The current study revealed the critical role of the MBNL1-AS1/miR-132-3p/RAB14/CAMTA1 axis in MI, indicating MBNL1-AS1 as an innovative therapeutic target for MI.Copyright © 2023 Yanbing Li et al.
Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a major cause of infant morbidity as well as mortality. Neural stem cells (NSCs) is essential for brain development and function, and the role of NSCs in HIE is crucial and deserves further study. Sushi repeat-containing protein X-linked 2 (SRPX2) is a novel chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan which has multiple biological functions, such as cell growth and adhesion. However, SRPX2 is rarely reported in HIE process, and the mechanism is unclear. Herein, we aimed to uncover the role of SRPX2 in the progression of HIE. The oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) model was established as a HIE cell model. We revealed that SRPX2 improves survival of OGD/R-stimulated NSCs. SRPX2 inhibited apoptosis of OGD/R-stimulated NSCs. Further data confirmed SRPX2 restrained oxidative stress of OGD/R-stimulated NSCs. Mechanically, SRPX2 activated the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, and therefore suppressed the apoptosis as well as oxidative stress of OGD/R-stimulated NSCs. Collectively, SRPX2 suppressed apoptosis as well as oxidative stress of OGD/R-stimulated NSCs by activating Wnt/β-Catenin pathway.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a key contributor to septic cardiomyopathy, driving myocardial inflammation and apoptosis. This study found that Sushi-repeat containing protein X-linked 2 (Srpx2) is associated with mitochondrial damage and is downregulated in the myocytes of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated rats. Sprague Dawley rats were intraperitoneally injected with LPS (10 mg/kg) to establish a septic cardiomyopathy model. Adeno-associated viruses (8.5 × 1011 vg/mL) containing Srpx2-overexpressing plasmids were injected into rats through their tail vein. Srpx2 overexpression improved hemodynamics and decreased myocardial damage in LPS-treated rats. H9C2 cells were treated with LPS (10 μg/mL) to establish an in vitro septic model. The cells were then transfected with Srpx2-overexpressing plasmids. Srpx2 overexpression ameliorated mitochondrial damage, which was evidenced by restoring mitochondrial morphology, enhancing the complex activities, and elevating ATP and mitochondrial membrane potential levels in cardiomyocytes. Srpx2 overexpression reduced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species levels and superoxide generation in cardiomyocytes. Srpx2 overexpression decreased cleaved caspase-3 and 9 protein levels. Tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1 beta levels were also reduced in cardiomyocytes with Srpx2 overexpression, suggesting reversal of inflammation. The RNA-sequencing data indicated that Srpx2 might regulate the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) pathway to protect cardiomyocytes. Srpx2 overexpression increased the p-PI3K and p-AKT protein levels. The treatment of H9C2 cells with 10 μM LY294002, a PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitor, reversed the protective effects of Srpx2 against mitochondrial damage and apoptosis. In conclusion, Srpx2 alleviates mitochondrial damage by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway, thereby reducing apoptosis and inflammation in septic cardiomyopathy.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignant tumor regulated by the immune system. Immunotherapy using checkpoint inhibitors has shown encouraging outcomes in a subset of HCC patients. The main challenges in checkpoint immunotherapy for HCC are to expand treatment options and to broaden the beneficiary population. Therefore, the search for potential signatures of immune cells is meaningful in the development of immunotherapy for HCC. The HCC related datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Differential expression analysis and functional analysis were performed first. Then support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), random forests (RF), least absolute shrinkage and selection operation (LASSO), and weighed gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were employed to screen for critical genes, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to compare diagnostic performance. Subsequently, single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) was used to explore the relationship between signatures and immune cells. Finally, we validated the expression of these biomarkers in human HCC samples. 531 overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Furthermore, enrichment analysis revealed pathways associated with immune activation processes, immune cell involvement and inflammatory signaling. After using multiple machine-learning strategies, extracellular matrix protein 1 (ECM1), leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR), sushi repeat containing protein X-linked (SRPX), and thromboxane A2 receptor (TBXA2R) were identified as critical signatures, and exhibited high expression in tumor-adjacent normal tissues. According to the ssGSEA results, ECM1, LIFR, SRPX and TBXA2R were all significantly associated with diverse immune cells, such as monocytes and neutrophils. Moreover, immunostaining of human HCC samples showed that these critical signatures all colocalized with CD14-positive monocytes. Our findings report the potential signatures of immune cells in HCC and confirm that they localize in monocytes of tumor-adjacent normal tissues. ECM1, LIFR, SRPX and TBXA2R could become new potential targets for predictive diagnosis, early intervention and immunotherapy of HCC in the future.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Diabetes is an incurable, chronic disease that can lead to many complications, including angiopathy, peripheral neuropathy, and erectile dysfunction (ED). The angiopoietin-Tie2 signaling pathway plays a critical role in blood vessel development, formation, remodeling, and peripheral nerve regeneration. Therefore, strategies for activating the Tie2 signaling pathway have been developed as potential therapies for neurovascular diseases. Here, we developed a human Tie2-agonistic antibody (MT-100) that not only resists Ang-2 antagonism and activates Tie2 signaling but also regulates a novel target, sushi repeat-containing protein X-linked 2 (Srpx2). This regulation led to the survival of vascular and neuronal cells, a reduction in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), activation of the PI3K/AKT/eNOS signaling pathway, increased expression of neurotrophic factors, and ultimately alleviation of ED in diabetic mice. Our findings not only provide conclusive evidence that MT-100 is a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of diabetic ED but also suggest it has substantial clinical applications for other complications associated with diabetes.© 2025. The Author(s).
Radiotherapy of prostate cancer (PC) can lead to the acquisition of radioresistance through molecular mechanisms that involve, in part, cell adhesion-mediated signaling. To define these mechanisms, we employed a DU145 PC model to conduct a comparative mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of the purified integrin nexus, i.e., the cell-matrix junction where integrins bridge assembled extracellular matrix (matrisome components) to adhesion signaling complexes (adhesome components). When parental and radioresistant cells were compared, the expression of integrins was not changed, but cell radioresistance was associated with extensive matrix remodeling and changes in the complement of adhesion signaling proteins. Out of 72 proteins differentially expressed in the parental and radioresistant cells, four proteins were selected for functional validation based on their correlation with biochemical recurrence-free survival. Perlecan/heparan sulfate proteoglycan 2 (HSPG2) and lysyl-like oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2) were upregulated, while sushi repeat-containing protein X-linked (SRPX) and laminin subunit beta 3 (LAMB3) were downregulated in radioresistant DU145 cells. Knockdown of perlecan/HSPG2 sensitized radioresistant DU145 RR cells to irradiation while the sensitivity of DU145 parental cells did not change, indicating a potential role for perlecan/HSPG2 and its associated proteins in suppressing tumor radioresistance. Validation in androgen-sensitive parental and radioresistant LNCaP cells further supported perlecan/HSPG2 as a regulator of cell radiosensitivity. These findings extend our understanding of the interplay between extracellular matrix remodeling and PC radioresistance and signpost perlecan/HSPG2 as a potential therapeutic target and biomarker for PC.Copyright © 2024 Samaržija, Lukiyanchuk, Lončarić, Rac-Justament, Stojanović, Gorodetska, Kahya, Humphries, Fatima, Humphries, Fröbe, Dubrovska and Ambriović-Ristov.
Hypoxia plays an important role in the heterogeneity, relapse, metastasis, and drug resistance of breast cancer. In this study, we explored the hypoxia-related biological signatures in different subtypes of breast cancer and identified the key prognostic factors by bioinformatics methods.Based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Breast Cancer datasets, we divided the samples into immune-activated/suppressed populations by single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and then used hierarchical clustering to further identify hypoxic/non-hypoxic populations from the immune-suppressed samples. A hypoxia related risk model of breast cancer was constructed.Nuclear factor interleukin-3 regulated (NFIL3), serpin family E member 1 (SERPINE1), FOS, biglycan (BGN), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and sushi-repeat-containing protein, X-linked (SRPX) were identified as key hypoxia-related genes. Margin status, American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stage, hypoxia status, estrogen receptor/progesterone receptor (ER/PR) status, NFIL3, SERPINE1, EGFR, and risk score were identified as independent prognostic indicators for breast cancer patients. The 3- and 5-year survival curves of the model and immunohistochemical staining on the breast cancer microarray verified the statistical significance and feasibility of our model. Among the different molecular types of breast cancer, ER/PR+ and HER2+ patients might have higher hypoxia-related risk scores. ER/PR-negative samples demonstrated more activated immune-related pathways and better response to most anticancer agents.Our study revealed a novel risk model and potential feasible prognostic factors for breast cancer and might provide new perspectives for individual breast cancer treatment.Copyright © 2024 Li, Yu, Han and Pan.
Thyroid cancer is the most common form of endocrine cancer around the world, and among which papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most ubiquitous pathological sub-kind. Sushi repeat-containing protein X-linked 2 (SRPX2) was reported to be an independent prognostic factor and significantly overexpressed in advanced PTC patients. However, the biological functions of SRPX2 remain ambiguous in PTC. Here, we explored SRPX2 expression profiles and functions in PTC, finding that SRPX2 expression was remarkably upregulated in PTC tissues and cell lines. Further colony formation, CCK-8, as well as transwell assay, suggested that SRPX2 silencing remarkably dampened PTC growth and migration. Mouse xenograft models were established to find that SRPX2 silence remarkably suppressed PTC proliferation and migration in vivo. Following mechanism studies revealed that SRPX2 realized its functions in the PTC process partially through activating the Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) phosphorylation. In conclusion, this study investigated the functions and mechanisms of the SRPX2/FAK pathway in PTC progression. SRPX2 could act as a prospective biologic signature and therapeutic target molecule for PTC.Copyright © 2022 Ning Luo et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35935582 is a review article
Hypoxia plays a major role in various tumor types. However, few studies have concentrated on the prognostic model of hypoxia-related genes in rectal cancer and the effect of hypoxia on neutrophil-mediated immunosuppression. We performed Kaplan-Meier analysis, random survival forest analysis, and Cox regression analysis on 342 hypoxia-related genes, constructed hypoxia score in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) cohort, and verified them in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) cohort. Then the patients were divided into two groups according to the risk level. The overall survival rate of the high-risk (HRisk) group was significantly higher than that of the low-risk (LRisk) group (GEO, p < 0.001; TCGA, p = 0.016). Through receiver operating characteristic and decision curve analysis, the nomogram based on hypoxia score has excellent prediction ability. Functional enrichment analysis showed that hypoxia, metastasis, inflammation, immunity, and other related pathways were enriched. The HRisk group was associated with lower tumor purity, higher immune and stromal score, higher neutrophils, and lower activated memory CD4 + T cells. More importantly, the checkpoint of neutrophil-mediated immunosuppression increased in the HRisk group. In conclusion, a hypoxia score based on 5 hypoxia-related genes can be used to predict the prognosis of rectal cancer and ANLN with a cancer-suppressing effect and SRPX (Sushi Repeat Containing Protein X-Linked) with a cancer-promoting effect may be potential therapeutic targets for rectal cancer.Copyright © 2022 Yang, Shen, Yin, Quan, Wang and Gao.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic and progressive fatal interstitial lung disease characterized by abnormal transition and proliferation of fibroblasts. The uncontrolled transition of fibroblasts, commonly known as myofibroblasts, are the principal source of the enormous extracellular matrix (ECM) depositing in lung parenchyma, leading to gradual failure of gas exchange and mortality of the patients. However, up to now, rare effective therapeutic strategies have been developed to blockade fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition (FMT) in IPF. Method: We illustrated that the lungs originated from IPF patients and mice with pulmonary fibrosis are characterized by the overexpression of sushi-repeat-containing protein, X-linked 2 (SRPX2). Further functionality studies identified the pivotal role of SRPX2 in FMT. Mechanistically, SRPX2 was involved in a TGFβR1/SMAD3/SRPX2/AP1/SMAD7 positive feedback loop. Specifically, SRPX2 was upregulated by TGF-β1 in a TGFβR1/SMAD3-dependent manner, after which SRPX2 in turn repressed the expression of AP1, subsequently minimized SMAD7 expression, through which it reduced the formation of inhibitory complex with TGFβR1 and enhanced SMAD signaling pathway to promote FMT and exacerbate pulmonary fibrosis. Notably, intratracheal administration of siRNA-loaded liposomes could effectively suppress the expression of Srpx2 in the lung and remarkably protect mice against BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis, concomitant with a significant reduction of FMT. Results: Accordingly, these data indicate that Srpx2 plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis and suggests the strategy aiming at silencing Srpx2 could be a promising therapeutic approach against pulmonary fibrosis in clinical settings.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42002234 is a review article
Lysosomal dysfunction exacerbates cardiomyocyte damage in myocardial infarction (MI) by impairing cellular degradation. However, the precise molecular mechanisms driving this pathologic process remain unclear. Lysosomal transmembrane protein 175 (TMEM175) is critical for regulating lysosomal homeostasis. But its pathophysiological implications in post-infarction cardiac dysfunction are not fully understood. By using both gain and loss of function approaches in vivo and in vitro, we discovered that TMEM175 overexpression conferred cardioprotection in MI models. This was evidenced by reduced infarct size, collagen deposition, and myocardial injury, accompanied by restored lysosomal function characterized by increased biogenesis, normalized pH, enzyme activities, and autophagic flux. Conversely, TMEM175 knockdown exacerbated these pathologies. Under hypoxic stress, TMEM175 overexpression in neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes (NMCMs) improved cell viability and corrected lysosomal dysfunction, whereas its knockdown worsened the aforementioned effects. Mechanistically, the reduction of TMEM175 induced by MI increases mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) phosphorylation on lysosomal membranes and suppresses the nuclear translocation of transcription factor EB (TFEB), thereby impairing TFEB's transcriptional regulation of lysosome-associated genes. Meanwhile, TMEM175 restoration reversing this cascade, and restoring lysosomal function and autophagic flux.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Discovering more targets is of great importance for developing alternative interventions for tumor therapy. The roles of transmembrane protein 175 (TMEM175) in neurodegeneration diseases have been reported, however its functions in tumor immune surveillance are not known. We show that TMEM175 conditional knockout in macrophages inhibits the tumor growth and metastasis through promoting the anti-tumor immunity in the tumor microenvironment (TME), including elevated M1-like polarization, reduced M2-like polarization, and facilitated recruitment and activation of T cells and nature killer cells (NKs). The anti-tumor immunity is abrogated by caspase-1 inhibitor VX-765, anti-IL-1β, and anti-IL-18. Tmem175-/- bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) show enhanced tumor antigen cross-presentation that is further strengthened by IL-1β and IL-18. NLRP3 is robustly elicited in Tmem175-/- BMDMs by the tumor cell debris through lysosomal permeabilization and cathepsin B leakage. Finally, Tmem175-/- mice are more responsive to anti-PD-1. Our works implies TMEM175 to be a potential target for immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Studies documented the association of melanoregulin (MREG), a cargo-sorting protein, with its binding partner, the autophagic protein, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3B (LC3B) in macrophages which could affect bone physiology due to the importance of autophagy in osteoclast function. Herein we propose to test the hypothesis that MREG modulates bone remodeling. Therefore, we analyzed the Mreg dsu/dsu mutant mice for bone mass, growth plate microarchitecture, and bone marrow-derived osteoclast function to understand how lack of MREG affects bone and mass at two different time points.Mice femurs from wild type and MREG-/- male mice (on C57BL6)/J background) were harvested at 4 and 10 months and imaged by microcomputed tomography to assess bone mass parameters. Femurs were processed for histology by H&E and TRAP staining for assessment of osteoclast numbers. Primary bone marrow-derived macrophages from 3-week-old mice were harvested to assess osteoclast differentiation and function via TRAP, resorptive assay and Western Blot for osteoclast differentiation markers. In addition, a separate cohort of mice were analyzed via EchoMRI to characterize total lean vs. fat whole body mass.There was a statistically significant difference in bone volume of 10-month old mice in wild type vs. MREG-/- with MREG mutation suggesting a preservative effect on phenotypical bone parameters as the mice age. A reduction in adipose tissue but an increase in osteoclast numbers was found histologically in MREG mutant femurs. Bone marrow-derived cells, however, showed reduced osteoclastic function in MREG-/-. The mutant mice presented a total lean mass significantly increased compared to wild type per EchoMRI.MREG deficiency seems to impact osteoclast numbers in vivo but not in vitro, although in vitro function was reduced. MREG deficiency favors lean mass preservation over fat accumulation in bones and body composition as mice age. This study provides the foundation for a more in-depth investigation of MREG's role in bone and systemic metabolism. It is possible that MREG can be a future target for new therapeutic modalities in inflammatory and metabolic bone diseases.
The upregulation of transmembrane protein 175 (TMEM175) has the potential to improve Parkinson's disease (PD) by aiding in the removal of α-synuclein aggregates. Understanding the structural basis of TMEM175 agonisms is crucial for uncovering its therapeutic potential for PD. Here, we have identified the first cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of human TMEM175 complexes with three agonists: DCY1020, DCY1040, and TUG-891. An open state of TMEM175 is unequivocally captured, laying the groundwork for designing more effective agonists. Further investigations using surface plasmon resonance, systematic mutagenesis, whole-endolysosome patch-clamp techniques, and molecular dynamics simulations consistently revealed that DCY1020/1040 binds at the interface between two subunits, inducing an open conformation further augmented by the synergistic agonist TUG-891. Notably, these agonists facilitate the removal of pathological α-synuclein and restore functions of PD-related TMEM175 variants in neurons. Our findings provide proof of concept that drug discovery targeting TMEM175 can develop agonists capable of effectively reducing pathological α-synuclein levels in PD.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39902728 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 39834146 is a review article
Red tilapia has gained increasing popularity worldwide in the commercial aquaculture production due to its rapid growth and delightful taste. However, the occurrence of skin colour variation poses a significant challenge to the advancement of commercial culture. Furthermore, the molecular regulatory mechanism and genetic basis for the distinct skin colouration in red tilapia remain undisclosed. In this study, a comprehensive transcriptome analysis was conducted on red tilapia with different skin colour by integrating PacBio Iso-seq technology with Illumina short-read sequencing methods. A total of 41.38 Gb of clean data was generated, resulting in the acquisition of 30,970 transcripts. Among them, 10,829 transcripts were successfully annotated in at least one public database. In addition, 10,827 coding sequences, 452 transcription factors, and 781 lncRNAs were identified in new transcripts. Furthermore, we performed RNA-seq analysis to identify skin colour-associated genes in red tilapia with three colour spots (white spots, W; black spots, B; red spots, R). The results revealed the identification of 278 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the comparison groups, which included B vs R, B vs W, and WvsR.Amongthem, some known genes were found to be involved in regulating the skin pigment synthesis, including PMEL, Wnt-4, melanoregulin and ALK in red tilapia with different skin colour. In addition, some pathways, including melanogenesis (ko04916), ECMreceptor interaction (ko04512), Hedgehog signaling pathway (ko04340) and steroid hormone biosynthesis (ko00140), were associated with the skin pigment synthesis in red tilapia. Furthermore, the quantitative real-time PCR analysis confirmed a moderate correlation (coefficient of 0.68) between the results obtained from the qPCR and RNA-seq methodologies. In summary, our findings will significantly contribute to the enhanced comprehension of the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying the variation in skin colour observed in red tilapia.
Bone provides structural support, enables movement, protects internal organs, regulates calcium and phosphorus levels, and contains bone marrow essential for hematopoiesis. Osteoblasts are specialized cells responsible for bone formation through the secretion of extracellular matrix components. Transmembrane protein 175 (TMEM175), which functions as an endosomal/lysosomal K+ channel and a lysosomal H+ channel, regulates lysosomal function and autophagy. Despite the recognized importance of lysosomes and autophagy in osteoblast differentiation, the specific role of TMEM175 in osteoblast differentiation has not been revealed. In this study, we investigated whether TMEM175 is associated with human bone mineral density and fracture and examined the role of TMEM175 in osteoblast differentiation. In analyses of single nucleotide polymorphisms of pore ion channel genes using the mouse2human database, a significant correlation between TMEM175 single nucleotide polymorphisms and human bone mineral density and fracture was identified. TMEM175 expression levels were found to increase during osteoblast differentiation from bone chip-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). Knockdown of TMEM175 in BMSCs suppressed osteoblast differentiation, as evidenced by decreased matrix mineralization and lower expression levels of osteoblast marker genes. Further analysis indicated that TMEM175 deficiency leads to lysosomal dysfunction and partially impairs autophagic clearance during osteoblast differentiation. Moreover, the TMEM175 inhibitor 4-aminopyridine decreased osteoblast differentiation of BMSCs. Taken together, this study reveals that TMEM175 plays an important role in osteoblast differentiation by regulating lysosomal function and autophagic clearance.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vandetanib, a critical therapy for advanced thyroid and RET-driven cancers, is limited by life-threatening hepato-cardiotoxicity. This study identifies lysosomal protease cathepsin B (CTSB) as the central mediator of vandetanib-induced organ damage through STAT3-driven transcriptional activation. CTSB triggers mitochondrial apoptosis by cleaving the lysosomal calcium channel mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (MCOLN1), disrupting calcium/AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling and autophagy flux. Crucially, the natural compound tannic acid directly binds and inhibits CTSB, completely protecting against hepato-cardiotoxicity without compromising vandetanib's antitumor efficacy in preclinical models. Overall, our findings establish CTSB-mediated lysosomal dysfunction and MCOLN1-calcium-AMPK axis disruption as the core mechanism of vandetanib-induced hepato-cardiotoxicity, and identify tannic acid as a readily translatable adjuvant strategy to prevent this toxicity. These findings redefine CTSB as a druggable target for kinase inhibitor toxicities and position tannic acid as a clinically translatable adjuvant to enhance vandetanib's safety profile. By preserving lysosomal function and calcium homeostasis, this strategy addresses a critical unmet need in precision oncology, enabling prolonged, safer use of vandetanib and related tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The discovery of shared lysosomal injury mechanisms across organs also opens avenues for preventing multi-organ toxicities in broader cancer therapies.© The author(s).
Sonic hedgehog subgroup medulloblastoma (SHH-MB), an aggressive pediatric brain tumor that originates from granule neuron precursors, faces the challenge of poor treatment owing to its unclear molecular mechanisms. Here, we show that sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like receptor 15 (Siglec-15), an immunosuppressive membrane protein, is upregulated and mediates SHH-MB growth through its translocation to the lysosomal membrane. We found that SHH-MB cells use the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor (CI-MPR) to transport Siglec-15 from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to lysosomes, where Siglec-15 induces lysosomal Ca2+ release by interacting with mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), leading to the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor EB (TFEB). Blockade of Siglec-15, TRPML1, or TFEB hinders SHH-MB growth in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a cytoplasmic transcription factor, upregulates Siglec-15 expression. AhR inhibition by CH-223191 or StemRegenin 1 (SR1) achieved therapeutic efficacy against orthotopic SHH-MB xenografts in mice. These findings reveal an essential role for the AhR-Siglec-15 axis in SHH-MB development, providing a potential strategy for SHH-MB treatment.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can stimulate autophagy and pyroptosis, which have been slightly reported in preeclampsia (PE). Mucolipin TRP Cation Channel 1 (MCOLN1) is a sensor for autophagy to receive ROS. This study aimed to investigate the role of MCOLN1 on ROS-mediated autophagy and pyroptosis in an in vitro model of PE. HTR-8/SVneo cells were treated with different concentrations of rotenone and pre-transfected with plasmids overexpressing or silencing MCOLN1. Thiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide was used to examine the effects of rotenone and MCOLN1 on trophoblasts. ROS levels were detected by 2',7'-Dichlorodihydrofluorescein Diacetate (DCFH-DA). The levels of MCOLN1, pyroptosis and autophagy-related proteins were determined by western blot, and the mRNA level of MCOLN1 was examined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The effect of MCOLN1 on rotenone-treated trophoblast cells was also analyzed using flow cytometry, wound healing, Transwell, and Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) experiments. Rotenone decreased cell viability and induced ROS levels in a concentration-dependent manner in HTR-8/SVneo. MCOLN1 overexpression partially reversed the inhibition of cell viability, migration and invasion and the promotion of apoptosis by rotenone; but MCOLN1 silencing enhanced the effect of rotenone. Unlike MCOLN1 silencing, MCOLN1 overexpression reduced rotenone-elevated Interleukin (IL)-18, IL-1β, Gasdermin D (GSDMD), nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3), pro-caspase 1, caspase 1, but enhanced Beclin 1, Microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3)II/LC3I levels, and inhibited Sequestosome 1 (P62) expression suppressed by rotenone. MCOLN1 mediates autophagy and pyroptosis balance to alleviate trophoblast dysfunction caused by excess ROS.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40928057 is a review article
Microautophagy is a selective cellular process in which endolysosomes directly engulf cytoplasmic cargo through membrane invagination. The regulatory mechanisms governing microautophagy remain poorly understood. Here, we identified the deacetylation of ATG16L1 as a critical regulator of LC3-associated lysosomal microautophagy. We demonstrate that ATG16L1 acetylation is dynamically controlled by the acetyltransferase KAT2B and the deacetylase HDAC3. Under lysosomal osmotic stress or glucose deprivation, HDAC3-mediated deacetylation of ATG16L1 within its WD40 domain promotes its interaction with V-ATPase, facilitating ATG16L1 recruitment to lysosomal membranes. While dispensable for macroautophagy, this post-translational modification is essential for LC3 lipidation on lysosomes and enables lysosomal recovery, including the restoration of lysosomal size and degradative capacity following stress. Our results reveal a key role for ATG16L1 deacetylation in driving LC3-associated microautophagy to maintain lysosomal homeostasis.
Renal proximal tubules are a primary site of injury in metabolic diseases. In obese patients and animal models, proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs) display dysregulated lipid metabolism, organelle dysfunctions, and oxidative stress that contribute to interstitial inflammation, fibrosis and ultimately end-stage renal failure. Our research group previously pointed out AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) decline as a driver of obesity-induced renal disease. Because PTECs display high macroautophagic/autophagic activity and rely heavily on their endo-lysosomal system, we investigated the effect of lipid stress on autophagic flux and lysosomes in these cells. Using a model of highly differentiated primary PTECs challenged with palmitate, our data placed lysosomes at the cornerstone of the lipotoxic phenotype. As soon as 6 h after palmitate exposure, cells displayed impaired lysosomal acidification subsequently leading to autophagosome accumulation and activation of lysosomal biogenesis. We also showed the inability of lysosomal quality control to restore acidic pH which finally drove PTECs dedifferentiation. When palmitate-induced AMPK activity decline was prevented by AMPK activators, lysosomal acidification and the differentiation profile of PTECs were preserved. Our work provided key insights on the importance of lysosomes in PTECs homeostasis and lipotoxicity and demonstrated the potential of AMPK in protecting the organelle from lipid stress.Abbreviation: ACAC: acetyl-CoA carboxylase; ACTB: actin beta; AICAR: 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; APQ1: aquaporin 1 (Colton blood group); BSA: bovine serum albumin; CDH16: cadherin 16; CKD: chronic kidney disease; CTSB: cathepsin B; CTSD: cathepsin D; EPB41L5: erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.1 like 5; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EMT: epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition; FA: fatty acid; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GUSB: glucuronidase beta; HEXB: hexosaminidase subunit beta; LAMP: lysosomal associated membrane protein; LD: lipid droplet; LGALS3: galectin 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester hydrobromide; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LRP2: LDL receptor related protein 2; LSD: lysosomal storage disorder; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCOLN1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MG132: N-benzyloxycarbonyl-L-leucyl-L-leucyl-L-leucinal; MmPTECs: Mus musculus (mouse) proximal tubular epithelial cells; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; OA: oleate; PA: palmitate; PIKFYVE: phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing; PTs: proximal tubules; PTECs: proximal tubular epithelial cells; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RPS6KB: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B; SLC5A2: solute carrier family 5 member 2; SOX9: SRY-box transcription factor 9; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; Ub: ubiquitin; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; VIM: vimentin.
Co-occurring mutations in KEAP1 in STK11/LKB1-mutant NSCLC activate NFE2L2/NRF2 to compensate for the loss of STK11-AMPK activity during metabolic adaptation. Characterizing the regulatory crosstalk between the STK11-AMPK and KEAP1-NFE2L2 pathways during metabolic stress is crucial for understanding the implications of co-occurring mutations. Here, we found that metabolic stress increased the expression and phosphorylation of SQSTM1/p62, which is essential for the activation of NFE2L2 and AMPK, synergizing antioxidant defense and tumor growth. The SQSTM1-driven dual activation of NFE2L2 and AMPK was achieved by inducing macroautophagic/autophagic degradation of KEAP1 and facilitating the AXIN-STK11-AMPK complex formation on the lysosomal membrane, respectively. In contrast, the STK11-AMPK activity was also required for metabolic stress-induced expression and phosphorylation of SQSTM1, suggesting a double-positive feedback loop between AMPK and SQSTM1. Mechanistically, SQSTM1 expression was increased by the PPP2/PP2A-dependent dephosphorylation of TFEB and TFE3, which was induced by the lysosomal deacidification caused by low glucose metabolism and AMPK-dependent proton reduction. Furthermore, SQSTM1 phosphorylation was increased by MAP3K7/TAK1, which was activated by ROS and pH-dependent secretion of lysosomal Ca2+. Importantly, phosphorylation of SQSTM1 at S24 and S226 was critical for the activation of AMPK and NFE2L2. Notably, the effects caused by metabolic stress were abrogated by the protons provided by lactic acid. Collectively, our data reveal a novel double-positive feedback loop between AMPK and SQSTM1 leading to the dual activation of AMPK and NFE2L2, potentially explaining why co-occurring mutations in STK11 and KEAP1 happen and providing promising therapeutic strategies for lung cancer.Abbreviations: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF1: bafilomycin A1; ConA: concanamycin A; DOX: doxycycline; IP: immunoprecipitation; KEAP1: kelch like ECH associated protein 1; LN: low nutrient; MAP3K7/TAK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; PRKAA/AMPKα: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PPP2/PP2A: protein phosphatase 2; ROS: reactive oxygen species; PPP3/calcineurin: protein phosphatase 3; RPS6KB1/p70S6K: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STK11/LKB1: serine/threonine kinase 11; TCL: total cell lysate; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TFE3: transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; V-ATPase: vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38522082 is a review article
LC3 lipidation plays an important role in the regulation of macroautophagy and LC3-associated microautophagy. The E1-like enzyme ATG7 is one of the core components that are directly involved in LC3 lipidation reaction. Here, we provide evidence showing that acetylation of ATG7 tightly controls its enzyme activity to regulate the induction of macroautophagy and LC3-associated microautophagy. Mechanistically, acetylation of ATG7 disrupts its interaction with the E2-like enzyme ATG3, leading to an inhibition of LC3 lipidation in vitro and in vivo. Functionally, in response to various different stimuli, cellular ATG7 undergoes deacetylation to induce macroautophagy and LC3-associated microautophagy, which are necessary for cells to eliminate cytoplasmic DNA and degrade lysosome membrane proteins, respectively. Taken together, these findings reveal that ATG7 acetylation acts as a critical rheostat in controlling LC3 lipidation and related cellular processes.Abbreviations: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG: autophagy-related; cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMP; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CREBBP/CBP: CREB binding protein; EGF: epidermal growth factor; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; EP300/p300: E1A binding protein p300; IFNB1: interferon beta 1; ISD: interferon stimulatory DNA; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NAM: nicotinamide; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PTM: post-translational modification; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; SIRT: sirtuin; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TSA: trichostatin A; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WIPI2: WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2; WT: wild-type.
Cell-to-cell signaling between niche and stem cells regulates tissue renewal. While the identity of many mediating factors is known, it is largely unknown whether stem cells optimize their receptiveness to niche signals according to the niche organization. Here, we show that Lgr5+ small intestinal stem cells (ISCs) regulate the morphology and orientation of their secretory apparatus to match the niche architecture, and to increase transport efficiency of niche signal receptors. ISCs orient their Golgi apparatus laterally towards Paneth cells of the epithelial niche, and divide Golgi into multiple stacks. Stem cells with multiple lateral Golgi transport stem cell receptors with a higher efficiency than cells with one single Golgi. The lateral Golgi orientation and enhanced receptor transport requires A-kinase anchor protein 9 (Akap9), and is necessary for normal renewal capacity. Moreover, reduced Akap9 in aged ISCs renders ISCs insensitive to niche-dependent modulation of Golgi stack number and transport efficiency. Our results reveal a stem cell-specific Golgi complex configuration that facilitates efficient niche signal reception and tissue renewal, which is compromised in the aged epithelium.© 2026. The Author(s).
Altered protein glycosylation is a hallmark of cancer and has been implicated in the regulation of tumor cell behavior and tissue organization. N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 6 (GALNT6), an initiating enzyme of mucin-type O-glycosylation, has been associated with breast cancer progression. However, whether GALNT6 exhibits subtype-specific expression and distinct histopathological localization patterns in breast cancer tissues has remained unclear. In this study, we performed subtype-stratified analyses of TCGA-BRCA RNA-seq data. We identified preferential GALNT6 upregulation in luminal A breast cancer, whereas expression was low in basal-like tumors and normal breast tissue. Gene co-expression network analysis further demonstrated that GALNT6-associated modules in luminal A breast cancer were enriched for estrogen receptor (ER) signaling, mammary epithelial development, and apical membrane-associated pathways, indicating close association with luminal epithelial transcriptional programs. To further characterize GALNT6 localization patterns in clinical tissues, we performed region-based histopathological and immunofluorescence analyses of luminal A breast cancer specimens. These analyses revealed architecture-dependent subcellular localization of GALNT6 associated with distinct Golgi organization patterns, showing apical/luminal-biased distribution in gland-forming regions and less polarized and more broadly distributed cytoplasmic localization in non-gland-forming tumor regions. E-cadherin was enriched at basolateral intercellular junctions, particularly in GALNT6-high tumors. Together, these findings identify GALNT6 as a luminal A-associated glycosylation-related marker linked to luminal epithelial transcriptional programs and architecture-dependent subcellular localization patterns in breast cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Proteins and lipids of eukaryotes are decorated with glycans: branched chains of sugars that affect their folding, stability, recognition, and therapeutic function. Unlike DNA or proteins that are synthesized from a template, glycans are assembled through enzyme-catalyzed monomer addition reactions as they transit through the compartments of the Golgi apparatus. Thus, glycan production can be viewed as a control problem: the enzyme localization and residence times in compartments must be chosen to produce the desired glycans efficiently. A key complication is the promiscuous nature of enzymes: longer compartment residence times can lead to off-target products even as they allow more complex glycans to be made, creating a trade-off. Here, we formulate glycan synthesis as an abstract chemical kinetic manufacturing problem and ask how enzyme allocations and compartment residence times should be chosen in the presence of this trade-off. We show that nonoverlapping enzyme distributions are optimal for single-glycan manufacture of the trees considered; however, overlapping enzyme distributions attain their maximum yield faster. We then consider simultaneous manufacture of multiple glycans, where optimizing the manufacture of one glycan might reduce the yield of another. Pareto-optimal solutions are a class of solutions that reconcile this trade-off. We explore Pareto-optimal solutions for multiple glycan manufacture and show that small changes in residence times can change the optimal enzyme distribution. Even though overlapping enzyme distributions are suboptimal for all the considered cases of single-glycan manufacture, the Pareto set for multiple glycan manufacture contains overlapping distributions. Together, these results show that Pareto optimality provides a useful framework for interpreting trade-offs in Golgi organization and for controlling glycan outputs in industrial settings such as manufacture of biotherapeutics, many of which are glycosylated.Copyright © 2026 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ribosomes play pivotal roles in normal physiology, cellular responses to stimuli, and disease pathogenesis. Ribosome biogenesis is essential for cancer cell growth. Although several ribosomal proteins have been implicated in tumorigenesis, their functional roles in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) remain poorly understood. Using a CRISPR-based screening system targeting RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in three glioma cell lines (LN229, U118MG, and T98G), we identified essential RBPs for glioma growth and observed significant enrichment of ribosomal proteins. Analysis of TCGA datasets (LGG & GBM, n = 636) revealed that high RPS5 expression was associated with malignant progression; survival analysis via GEPIA (n = 676) showed that elevated RPS5 correlated with poor overall survival (p = 4 × 10-6) and disease-free survival (p = 6.9 × 10-4). Functional experiments demonstrated that RPS5 silencing inhibited glioma malignant phenotypes both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RPS5 regulated translational processes in glioma cells, including start/stop codon recognition and cap-independent translation. Ribosome profiling (n = 3) coupled with RNA sequencing revealed that RPS5 enhanced the translational efficiency of SLC4A7 and MAK16, driving GBM progression. Furthermore, bicistronic reporter assays with rigorous controls (promoter-less vector, splicing analysis, and Rluc knockdown) demonstrated that the SLC4A7 5'UTR possesses cap-independent translation activity enhanced by RPS5, whereas RPS5 regulates MAK16 translation without relying on this cap-independent element. Our data reveal a pro-oncogenic role of RPS5 in glioma progression and highlight its critical function in regulating translation. These findings provide new evidence supporting the central role of ribosome protein-induced translational dysregulation in cancer and offer innovative perspectives for developing molecular therapies targeting GBM.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Solid tumors create an acidic tumor microenvironment (TME) that drives cancer progression, therapy resistance, and immune evasion. Bicarbonate is crucial for maintaining acid-base balance, however, its role in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unclear. Through the analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data and the TCGA and CPTAC databases, we identified solute carrier family 4 member 7 (SLC4A7) as the predominantly expressed bicarbonate transporter in NSCLC. Functionally, SLC4A7 knockdown impaired bicarbonate uptake, resulting in intracellular acidification and extracellular alkalinization. This phenomenon led to a decrease in glycolysis and subsequently suppressed the growth and metastasis of NSCLC. Both in vivo and in vitro data demonstrate that the alkalinization of the TME induced by Slc4a7 knockout enhances the infiltration and function of cytotoxic T cells, significantly inhibiting tumor growth. Additionally, Slc4a7 knockout exhibits synergistic antitumor efficacy in combination with PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors. Mechanistically, integrative analysis of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq data identified CTCF as a transcription factor regulating SLC4A7 expression. In summary, our study demonstrates that SLC4A7-mediated bicarbonate transport is crucial for maintaining acid-base homeostasis in NSCLC and represents a promising therapeutic target for this disease.© The author(s).
Recently, there has been growing interest in the function and physiological importance of human TANGO2 (transport and Golgi organization 2 homolog), particularly whether it acts as a heme-trafficking protein. To address this question, we experimentally determined the three-dimensional structure of TANGO2. Our crystallographic analysis indicates that interactions between heme and TANGO2 are nonspecific. Structural comparison of the TANGO2 crystal structure with known cysteine Ntn-hydrolases allowed us to identify a putative active site, catalytic residues and a substrate-binding cavity that correspond to residues that are mutated in pathogenic TANGO2 variants. Based on these features, we propose that TANGO2 may utilize fatty-acid derivatives as substrates, suggesting a potential role in lipid metabolism. Mutations in the human TANGO2 gene cause TANGO2 deficiency disorder, a multisystem, life-threatening disease with onset in early childhood. Together, our results provide new insights into the molecular function of TANGO2 and help to resolve the ongoing debate regarding whether it functions as a heme-trafficking protein.open access.
PACS1 syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by a recurrent heterozygous missense mutation in PACS1 (p.R203W). We previously showed that PACS1R203W aberrantly potentiates HDAC6 activity, leading to Golgi fragmentation and neuronal deficits through an unresolved mechanism (Villar-Pazos and Thomas et al., Nature Commun. 14:6547-6564 (2023)). Here, we identify cytoplasmic dynein-1 heavy chain (DHC1) as a PACS1 interactor essential for maintaining furin localization at the trans-Golgi network. PACS1R203W induces a dynein loss-of-function phenotype that disrupts furin trafficking and Golgi organization. We demonstrate that PACS1R203W-HDAC6 recruits the adaptor BICD2, forming a complex that disperses the Golgi and impairs dynein function. Cargo motility assays revealed that PACS1R203W reduces dynein initiation frequency and velocity, defects rescued by HDAC6 inhibition or by expressing the dynein regulator Lis1. These findings uncover a pathogenic mechanism in which PACS1R203W-HDAC6-BICD2 disrupts dynein-driven transport, placing PACS1 syndrome within the broad spectrum of microtubule trafficking disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cell-matrix adhesion regulates Golgi organization along microtubules (MTs), though how it couples with motor-driven Golgi positioning and function remains unclear. Our earlier work showed that loss of adhesion preferentially reduces Arf1 activation at the trans-Golgi (relative to cis-Golgi), possibly affecting dynein recruitment and could cause greater trans-Golgi disorganization along MTs. We now show that this differential Golgi disorganization leads to decreased MT acetylation, which recovers upon re-adhesion. Active Arf1 overexpression in non-adherent fibroblasts prevents Golgi disorganization and sustains MT acetylation, as also observed in T24 cancer cells. Using active-Arf1 pulldown, PLA and Co-immunoprecipitation studies, we further reveal that active Arf1 recruits KIF5B to the Golgi alongside dynein. siRNA-mediated knockdown (KD) of KIF5B or dynein disperses the Golgi into ministacks. In KD cells, loss of the juxtanuclear Golgi ribbon disrupts MT organization, which is also affected by altered MTOC positioning upon dynein KD. Notably, dispersed Golgi ministacks in single motor KDs maintain MT acetylation levels in both adherent and non-adherent cells. Dual KIF5B-dynein KD keeps the Golgi juxtanuclear but uniquely compact, supporting MT acetylation. This impairs Golgi-dependent trafficking and affects cell spreading, polarity and migration. Together, these reveal the Arf1-KIF5B-dynein crosstalk as a key regulator of adhesion-dependent Golgi organization and function.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) are membranous structures that mediate intercellular transfer of proteins, including the pathogenic mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) protein in Huntington disease (HD). We previously identified the ras homolog enriched in the striatum (Rhes) as a key regulator of TNT formation and mHTT transmission; however, the molecular components underlying this process remained unknown. Here, using unbiased liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of membrane-associated Rhes complexes, we identify Slc4a7 (solute carrier family 4 member 7), an intracellular pH sensor, as a top membrane-binding partner of Rhes. Functional studies revealed that small interfering RNA-mediated depletion or pharmacological inhibition of Slc4a7 substantially reduced Rhes-induced TNT formation and suppressed mHTT intercellular transfer. Mechanistically, Rhes directly interacts with Slc4a7 through both its amino- and carboxyl-terminal domains and modulates intracellular pH to facilitate TNT formation. This interaction does not depend on the transporter activity of Slc4a7. However, inhibition of Rhes farnesylation-a lipid modification that anchors Rhes to the membrane-disrupts its binding to Slc4a7 and abolishes TNT formation. Slc4a7 knock-out mice showed markedly reduced cell-to-cell transmission of mHTT in the striatum in vivo. Together, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized Rhes-Slc4a7 signaling axis critical for TNT-mediated mHTT transmission and highlight Slc4a7 as a potential therapeutic target to limit disease spread in HD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42470856 is a review article
Photobacterium damselae subsp. Piscicida (Pdp) is characterized by its broad distribution and is capable of infecting numerous cultured fish species. A previous study revealed the epidemic of Pdp in Lateolabrax maculatus with high mortality. In the current study, comparative transcriptome analysis was carried out on the spleens of L. maculatus infected with Pdp at 6, 12, and 24 h post infection (hpi). The results demonstrated that compared with unchallenged individuals, Pdp infection resulted in 1631, 2085 and 2085 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) being detected at 6, 12 and 24 hpi, respectively. Among these, immune-related DEGs exhibited a trend of first increasing and then decreasing, particularly those involved in pattern recognition receptors, antigen processing and presentation, and inflammatory factors. In addition to terms related to immune system processes, GO enrichment analysis also identified terms related to signal transduction, metabolic processes, catalytic activity, and molecular function regulation. In KEGG enrichment analysis, numerous immune-related pathways were significantly enriched, such as the TNF signaling, NF-κB signaling, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, pattern recognition receptor, and natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity. Subsequent weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) uncovered immune-related pathways that were positively correlated at 6 and 12 hpi, and negatively correlated at 24 hpi, especially identified transcriptional trends suggesting Pdp may interfere with phagosome maturation and reduce endocytosis/autophagy-related gene expression at late infection stage. This study identified multiple immune-related genes and pathways that are dynamically regulated and potentially regulated by Pdp, which may contribute to its immune evasion and colonization in spotted sea bass. These findings provide new insights into the molecular immune mechanisms against Pdp infection and establish a basis for further studies on antibacterial defense in L. maculatus.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) is an immunosuppressive disease caused by PRRS virus (PRRSV). PRRSV infection not only compromises the host immune defenses, but also predisposes the host to secondary infections by other pathogens, of which PRV is one of the common secondary infection pathogens. Porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs) are the primary target cells of PRRSV, and their phagocytic function is critical for immune defense, homeostasis maintenance, and disease regulation. However, PRRSV disrupts PAMs phagocytosis, impairing the host's ability to combat infection. This study used PRV-pAb complexes as phagocytic indicators, investigated the effect of PRRSV infection on PAMs phagocytosis and its underlying molecular mechanisms. We found that PRRSV infection interfered with phagosome maturation-a process regulated by Rab7 and other regulators, thereby blocking phagocytic degradation and significantly suppressing PAMs phagocytic activity. Further analysis revealed that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a key role in this process. Elevated ROS levels damaged lysosomal membrane integrity, ultimately inhibiting phagosome-lysosome fusion. Notably, phagocytosis of PRRSV-infected PAMs was partially restored with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) by reducing ROS levels. These findings offer novel insights into PRRSV-induced immunosuppression and secondary infections while providing a theoretical foundation for developing more effective PRRSV prevention and control strategies.
Treatments for tuberculosis disease (TB) are failing on a global scale, necessitating new drug discovery efforts to identify effective therapies. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), the obligate human pathogen and causative agent of TB, resides within alveolar macrophages and combats acidic stress by inhibiting phagosome maturation. Understanding the role of acidification in Mtb pathogenesis can aid the development of improved TB therapies. Aligning with the hypothesis that acidification affects Mtb intracellular survival, we developed a phenotypic assay to identify compounds that enhance acidification of Mtb in infected macrophages. To evaluate the assay suitability for screening purposes, we screened two compound libraries and found that early acidification does not necessarily correlate with inhibition of Mtb growth over time. Further, we found that compounds interfering with bacterial protein and DNA synthesis induced early phagosome acidification. However, other compounds, including cell wall synthesis inhibitors, did not consistently correlate with acidification or growth inhibition. Using early acidification could therefore provide a potential avenue to inform antimicrobial kinetics. By assessing Mtb's response to phagosome acidification, this work highlights the complexity of host-pathogen interactions in early infection and provides a valuable tool for investigating Mtb survival mechanisms and accelerating drug discovery efforts.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42297119 is a review article
Tuberculosis (TB) treatment is severely hampered by the rise in multi-drug-resistant strains and the prevalence of drug-induced toxicities. Host-Directed Therapies (HDTs) have emerged as a promising strategy to overcome these challenges by modulating innate immunity and circumventing Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) evasion mechanisms. A hallmark of Mtb pathogenesis is the arrest of phagosome maturation and the induction of host cell necrosis over protective apoptosis. In this study, we investigated the potential HDT effects of α-Lipoic acid (α-LA), a well-known antioxidant and metabolic cofactor, within an in vitro model of Mtb-infected THP-1 macrophages. Our findings indicate that α-LA treatment modulates the macrophage redox state and selectively promotes apoptosis in infected cells without increasing necrotic lysis. Furthermore, α-LA administration led to a significant, dose-dependent restoration of phagolysosome acidification, effectively reversing the maturation blockade imposed by Mtb. Notably, this enhanced acidification inversely correlated with intracellular bacterial survival. These results suggest that α-LA might act as a multifaceted HDT agent capable of restoring both host-protective cell death and phagosomal microbicidal mechanisms. Given its established safety profile and its ability to complement standard anti-TB drugs like Bedaquiline (BDQ), α-LA represents a highly promising candidate for adjunct therapy to improve TB treatment outcomes and mitigate the impact of antibiotic resistance.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42274750 is a review article
We present a modular biomimetic fluorescent sensing platform designed to precisely interrogate the physicochemical mechanisms governing phagosomal acidification. Phagocytosis is an internalization process for micrometric biological objects and the later stages of phagosomal maturation -including acidification- play a pivotal role in pathogen destruction and immune signaling. In vitro studies with particulate pathogen models have shown that these degradation pathways depend on the nature of the internalized object as well as on the type of receptors engaged. To alleviate this variability and gain a finer understanding of the phagosome maturation, microparticulate fluorescent pH sensors with chemically controlled composition and cell-like mechanical properties are thus still lacking. The soft particle-based biosensors presented herein aim at filling this gap by uniquely integrating (i) cell-mimicking properties with a fluid and deformable interface, (ii) receptor-specific uptake and (iii) a ratiometric pH-responsive fluorescence to quantitatively follow the onset and progression of phagosomal acidification. This versatile platform provides a direct means to couple defined interfacial recognition events to intracellular pH measurements, offering new opportunities to unravel phagosomal physiology.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemistry – A European Journal published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins underpin antiviral responses, yet their role in bacterial infections remains underexplored, particularly for parasites. We probed the role of IFITM1 in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), Listeria monocytogenes (Lm), and Leishmania major infection using IFITM1 knockout mice. Notably, IFITM1 was upregulated in murine and human macrophages, as well as in PBMCs during active tuberculosis (TB), subsiding with therapy. IFITM1 also accumulated in the lungs of outbred mice and macaques that progressed to TB. IFITM1-deficient mice displayed no differences in the acute phase; however, chronic Mtb infection revealed lower bacterial loads, mitigated lung pathology, dampened inflammatory cell recruitment, and decreased cytokines. IFITM1-/- macrophages curbed intracellular H37RV and HN878 growth, skewing proinflammatory cytokine (IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6, and nitric oxide) production while phagosome maturation and autophagy remained unaffected. Furthermore, HN878-infected IFITM1-/- mice exhibited increased lung cell death by TUNEL staining, driving enhanced mortality. Lm similarly increased IFITM1 expression in macrophages, liver, and spleen. IFITM1-/- mice exhibited reduced early tissue burdens and serum IFN-γ, TNF, and IL-6, yet liver pathology escalated, driving mortality and suggesting dysregulated inflammation. These macrophages also limited intracellular Lm growth, with increased necrosis. By contrast, L. major footpad swelling and parasitic loads remained unaffected in knockout animals. Together, IFITM1 exacerbates TB and listeriosis pathology by calibrating inflammation against bacterial control, but plays no role in cutaneous leishmaniasis. These findings reveal IFITM1-specific contributions to bacterial but not parasitic infections, favoring disease tolerance.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Monocytes/macrophages orchestrate myocardial remodeling through efferocytosis, the calcium-dependent clearance of apoptotic cells. While the mechanosensitive channel Piezo1 is known to modulate calcium influx in cardiac and immune contexts, its myeloid-specific role in postinfarction healing remains elusive.Myeloid Piezo1-specific knockout mice (Piezo1∆LysM) were established, and left anterior descending coronary artery ligation was used to induce myocardial infarction. Cardiac function was detected by echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging, and infarct size was measured by 2,3,5-triphenyl-tetrazolium chloride staining and hematoxylin and eosin staining. Inflammatory mediators were measured by flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, and real-time polymerase chain reaction. Intracellular Ca2+ measurements and patch-clamp were conducted to detect calcium influx and current. Through single-cell RNA sequencing, the underlying mechanisms of efferocytosis were subsequently validated via Western blot, targeted cell transfection, and macrophage-cardiomyocyte coculture assays.Myeloid-specific Piezo1 deficiency improved cardiac function and alleviated myocardial fibrosis at 3, 14, and 28 days post-myocardial infarction. Moreover, Piezo1 deletion increased production of antiinflammatory cytokines 3 days post-myocardial infarction. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that the efferocytosis-associated genes were upregulated in the Piezo1∆LysM group. Mechanistically, myeloid Piezo1 deletion enhanced Orai1 expression and calcium influx, which facilitated macrophage efferocytosis. In vitro, these changes were recapitulated by Orai1 knockdown and Orai1 overexpression in bone marrow-derived macrophages. In vivo, Orai1 knockdown impaired efferocytosis and attenuated cardiac protection, whereas Orai1 overexpression enhanced it. Furthermore, Piezo1 deletion promoted Rac1 activation and cytoskeletal remodeling, thereby enhancing apoptotic cell clearance. In addition, myeloid Piezo1 deletion augmented lysosomal acidification and phagosome maturation, contributing to efficient apoptotic cell degradation.Our study uncovered a previously unrecognized Piezo1-Orai1-Rac1 signaling axis that regulates macrophage efferocytosis and lysosomal maturation following myocardial infarction.
Lipodystrophy is a disorder characterized by a loss of adipose tissue often accompanied by severe hypertriglyceridemia, insulin resistance, diabetes, and fatty liver. It can be inherited or acquired. The most severe inherited form is Berardinelli-Seip Congenital Lipodystrophy Type 2, associated with mutations in the BSCL2 gene. BSCL2 encodes seipin, the function of which has been entirely unknown. We now report the identification of yeast BSCL2/seipin through a screen to detect genes important for lipid droplet morphology. The absence of yeast seipin results in irregular lipid droplets often clustered alongside proliferated endoplasmic reticulum (ER); giant lipid droplets are also seen. Many small irregular lipid droplets are also apparent in fibroblasts from a BSCL2 patient. Human seipin can functionally replace yeast seipin, but a missense mutation in human seipin that causes lipodystrophy, or corresponding mutations in the yeast gene, render them unable to complement. Yeast seipin is localized in the ER, where it forms puncta. Almost all lipid droplets appear to be on the ER, and seipin is found at these junctions. Therefore, we hypothesize that seipin is important for droplet maintenance and perhaps assembly. In addition to detecting seipin, the screen identified 58 other genes whose deletions cause aberrant lipid droplets, including 2 genes encoding proteins known to activate lipin, a lipodystrophy locus in mice, and 16 other genes that are involved in endosomal-lysosomal trafficking. The genes identified in our screen should be of value in understanding the pathway of lipid droplet biogenesis and maintenance and the cause of some lipodystrophies.
Lipid droplets (LDs) are emerging cellular organelles that are of crucial importance in cell biology and human diseases. In this study, we present our screen of approximately 4,700 Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants for abnormalities in the number and morphology of LDs; we identify 17 fld (few LDs) and 116 mld (many LDs) mutants. One of the fld mutants (fld1) is caused by the deletion of YLR404W, a previously uncharacterized open reading frame. Cells lacking FLD1 contain strikingly enlarged (supersized) LDs, and LDs from fld1Delta cells demonstrate significantly enhanced fusion activities both in vivo and in vitro. Interestingly, the expression of human seipin, whose mutant forms are associated with Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy and motoneuron disorders, rescues LD-associated defects in fld1Delta cells. Lipid profiling reveals alterations in acyl chain compositions of major phospholipids in fld1Delta cells. These results suggest that an evolutionally conserved function of seipin in phospholipid metabolism and LD formation may be functionally important in human adipogenesis.
