Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that primarily affects motor neurons leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, and ultimately, respiratory failure. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) facilitate intercellular communication by mimicking the functions of their parent cells. In this study, we found that repeated administration of neural stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (NSC-derived EVs) improved motor performance and provided protection to lumbar motor neurons, the neuromuscular junctions, and muscle morphology in the SOD1 G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Furthermore, by analyzing the RNA-sequencing of muscle specimens from ALS-SOD1 patients, we demonstrated that the rescue effects of NSC-derived EVs might be linked to the p53 pathway. Compared to the PBS control treatment group, both TP53 and the p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) were downregulated in the spinal cord of mice treated with NSC-derived EVs. These data provide additional knowledge for the promising use of NSC-derived EVs as a potential therapy for ALS.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skeletal muscle atrophy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) drives loss of muscle strength, function and quality of life in ALS patients. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) regulates muscle homeostasis via regenerative and metabolic processes, and although ECS alterations have been reported in ALS neural tissues, ECS remodelling within ALS skeletal muscle has never been studied. This study investigated temporal and muscle type-specific ECS changes in ALS.Female hSOD1G93A transgenic mice and nontransgenic littermates were studied at presymptomatic and symptomatic ages (56-138 days of age; n = 7-8/group). Endocannabinoids, N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners and inflammatory lipid mediators were quantified using targeted LC-MS/MS in the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) muscles. ECS-related enzymes and receptors were assessed by immunoblotting and integrated with transcriptomic analyses of skeletal muscle biopsies from ALS patients (n = 5/group; ~63 years). To evaluate therapeutic relevance, ALS mice were treated with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB937 or vehicle (n = 10-11/group), and survival, body weight, welfare and motor function were assessed longitudinally.ALS caused severe atrophy in the predominantly fast-twitch TA muscle (-76.5%; p < 0.01), while the slow-twitch soleus was largely preserved (-14.4%; p < 0.01). Accordingly, the lipid perturbation due to ALS was more pronounced in the TA, reflected by extensive alterations in unsaturated fatty acids, hydroxy- and epoxy-fatty acids (TA: 63% and SOL: 22% of lipid mediators different between ALS vs. NTG) and marked ECS remodelling, including elevated anandamide (+37.3%; p = 0.03) and multiple N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners (+76-102%; p < 0.05), reduced 2-arachidonoylglycerol (-28%; p = 0.06), increased CB1 receptor expression (+93%; p < 0.01) and dynamic, age-dependent regulation of FAAH (presymptomatic: -68%; p = 0.04, symptomatic: +21%; p = 0.02). In contrast, the SOL showed modest or opposite changes, consistent with its relative resistance to atrophy. Notably, ECS remodelling in the TA was already evident at presymptomatic age (e.g., CB1: +76%; p = 0.01) and the same ECS enzymes were affected in human ALS skeletal muscle transcriptomes (e.g., twofold decrease in FAAH; pFDR = 0.010). Despite evidence for a therapeutic potential, chronic peripheral FAAH inhibition with URB937 did not improve weight loss, motor functions and survival of ALS mice (all p > 0.05).Muscle type-specific endocannabinoid system remodelling in ALS precedes overt neurological decline and might relate to degenerative features such as metabolic disturbance and inflammation. Although peripheral FAAH inhibition alone was insufficient to modify disease outcomes, these findings identify the endocannabinoid system as an integral component of ALS muscle pathology and support skeletal muscle lipid signalling as a potentially relevant early target for adjunctive therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells evade apoptosis through antioxidant mechanisms. Paris saponin VII (PS VII), a steroidal saponin, exhibits antitumor activity in solid malignancies, but its role in AML remains unclear.This study investigated the antileukemic effects of PS VII on AML and the underlying mechanism, and evaluated its synergy with idarubicin (Ida).Using human SKM-1 and murine C1498 AML cell lines, we assessed antileukemic effects of PS VII in vitro. Subcutaneous and systemic leukemia mouse models were employed for in vivo validation. Mechanistic studies integrated DIA-based proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, surface plasmon resonance, and ubiquitination assays to elucidate the molecular basis.PS VII bound to superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and promoted its proteasomal degradation. This process was mediated by TRIP12-dependent K48-linked polyubiquitination at lysine residues 10 and 37. SOD1 degradation elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and induced mitochondrial dysfunction. High SOD1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in AML patients. PS VII and Ida synergistically induced ROS-dependent apoptosis in vitro and in vivo.PS VII functions as a natural compound SOD1 degrader that triggers ROS-dependent AML cell death through TRIP12-mediated ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Its synergy with Ida provides a potential combination strategy that increases cellular sensitivity to oxidative stress and cell death.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lead (Pb) is one of the most prevalent environmental toxicants and is of great concern due to its adverse effects. Despite lead's oxidative properties, studies on the transgenerational effects of paternal Pb exposure remain inadequate. This study aimed to evaluate these effects on oxidative stress and the expression of specific genes using the D. melanogaster model. Male fruit flies were fed a normal diet supplemented with lead acetate as the Pb source for 20 consecutive days. The Pb-exposed males were mated with unexposed females, producing F1 offspring. F1 flies were fed a normal diet, and then bred to produce F2; F3 was produced from F2. All F1-F3 generations were kept on a normal diet, with no Pb exposure. Antioxidant parameters, including vitamins A, C, and E; reduced glutathione (GSH); catalase; superoxide dismutase (SOD); malondialdehyde (MDA); and the expression of CAT and SOD1 mRNA, were evaluated. There was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in antioxidant vitamin levels, GSH content, and catalase and SOD activities across F1-F3 due to exposure to the grandparent (F0). Similarly, a significant (p < 0.05) elevation in MDA levels was observed across the F1-F3 generations due to exposure of the F0 generation. Significant down-regulation of the antioxidant genes CAT and SOD1 was also detected. The findings indicate persistent transgenerational alterations in oxidative stress biomarkers and antioxidant gene expression resulting from paternal Pb exposure. This underscores the importance of studying multiple generations to assess the health and environmental risks posed by pollutants.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Dry eye disease (DED) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the ocular surface; however, upstream immune mechanisms contributing to DED are complex and unclear. This study aimed to identify differentially expressed tear proteins in patients with DED and elucidate the underlying disease mechanism.Tear fluid from healthy controls (HC; n = 26), aqueous-deficient DED (ADDE; n = 29), and evaporative DED (EDE; n = 26) patients were collected using Schirmer strips. Proteomic profiling was performed using nano-ESI LC-MS/MS. Differential proteins were identified using LIMMA and MBQN with Gene Ontology pathway enrichment. Key candidates were validated by ELISA (IL-8, IL-18, histones), Western blotting for citrullinated H3, PicoGreen for extracellular DNA, and in vitro assays in human corneal epithelial cells.A total of 2596 tear proteins were identified across groups, of which 101 were significantly altered (P < 0.001) in both ADDE and EDE groups. Principal component analysis and heatmap analyses revealed differential protein abundance patterns between HC and disease groups, with increased inflammatory and oxidative stress proteins (MMP9, MAPK3, S100A8/A9, and SOD1) and decreased lactoferrin, lysozyme, lipocalin-1, and mucins in ADDE and EDE. Pathway enrichment indicated activation of neutrophil-mediated inflammation and extracellular chromatin release. Validation confirmed significant upregulation of NETosis-associated markers, including IL-8 (P < 0.01), IL-18 (P < 0.001), and histone proteins (H1, H2A/B, H3, H4) (P < 0.001) in disease groups, which was further confirmed by in vitro DED model.Our study shows that neutrophil-mediated inflammation and NETosis in DED may be associated with elevated IL-8, IL-18, and histone proteins in ADDE and EDE, which could be potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets.
To evaluate the effectiveness of Tofersen in patients with superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1-ALS) patients in France in a real-world setting, using disease progression within patient comparisons and with a historical cohort.Patients with SOD1-ALS were included from across 19 French FILSLAN network centers. Baseline was defined as the treatment initiation date. Main endpoints were the ALSFRS-R progression rate and plasmatic neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels at baseline and 12 months after baseline.In the Tofersen Cohort (N=46), within-group comparisons showed that the mean ALS functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R) progression rate slowed from 0.53 ± 0.5 at baseline to 0.22 ± 0.3 point/month at 12 months (P=.006). NfL levels significantly decreased from 89.0 ± 9.0 pg/ml at baseline to 29.2 ± 19.5.5 at 12 months (P=.004). Exploratory comparisons with a propensity score (PS) matched historical cohort (39 matched pairs) using a mixed-effects model, ALSFRS-R progression rate at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months after baseline, showed no statistically significant differences between groups P=.30, whereas longitudinal ALSFRS-R scores differed significantly between groups (time-treatment interaction P=.006). The mean survival of the PS matched population was longer in the Tofersen Cohort (42.6 months) than the Historical Cohort (31.8 months) P=.004. Time-dependent adjusted cox analysis showed that Tofersen was associated with a reduction in mortality risk (adjusted HR=0.34; 95% CI, 0.12-0.91; P=.03).Tofersen seems to be associated with slower functional decline and reduced NfL levels. While limitations of retrospective design and ALSFRS-R sensitivity must be acknowledged, these findings provide real-world evidence suggesting a clinical benefit of Tofersen.© 2026 The Authors.
Post-ovulatory aging (POA) reduces oocyte quality, yet effective interventions remain limited. Here we demonstrate that early intervention with vitamin K2 (menaquinone-4 isoform, MK-4) alleviates POA by inhibiting iron-disorder-induced oxidative stress. Western blot revealed that the expressions of ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) and vitamin K epoxide reductase-like protein (VKORC1L1) were significantly decreased in mouse POA oocytes; however, MK-4 attenuated these changes. Further, MK-4 inhibited ferritinophagy by downregulating NCOA4 and LC3II, markedly restored ferritin level, reduced intracellular Fe2+ amount, thus attenuating oxidative stress. These results were characterized by reducing lipid peroxidation marker malondialdehyde (MDA) and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4) expression, decreasing γ-H2AX and 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and enhancing expression of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Additionally, MK-4 suppressed mitophagy by downregulating PINK1 and Parkin, and upregulating Rab7 improving mitochondrial membrane potential. Consequently, abnormalities in chromosomes, spindles, and the cytoskeleton were significantly ameliorated in POA oocytes receiving early MK-4 intervention. Notably, in vitro-aging oocytes expressed higher FSP1 and VKORC1L1 but lower ACSL4 and MDA versus the in vivo counterparts, suggesting a milder lipid peroxidation in vitro. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel anti-aging mechanism triggered by MK-4, highlighting its potential to establish a preventive strategy for female reproductive aging.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To share the experience of diagnosis and treatment on hereditary spherocytosis (HS) with idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis (IPH).The clinical data of HS with IPH in a child were retrospectively analyzed based on relevant references.A 9-year-old girl who had been suffering from anemia for five years received ineffective treatment with iron, folic acid, and vitamin B12 supplements. She had never experienced hemoptysis, shortness of breath, or jaundice. Her hemoglobin (HGB) level was 71 g/L, and chest computed tomography (CT) revealed slight flocculent exudation. Hemosiderin-laden macrophages (HLMs) were detected in her bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF).After the possibility of autoimmune hemolytic diseases was ruled out, the patient was diagnosed with IPH and treated with glucocorticoid medication (oral prednisone). Her HGB level gradually recovered but decreased again after 4-5 months of treatment, which was not related to the reduction of glucocorticoid (prednisone). At the same time, she exhibited icteric sclera, spherocytes (at 24%) in the peripheral blood smear, and a positive erythrocyte fragility test result. Genetic testing revealed heterozygous alterations in her ANK1 gene (1) and PKLR gene (2), as well as two heterozygous alterations in her SPTB gene (3). Finally, the patient was diagnosed with HS and IPH. Conclusion: IPH should be considered in children with chronic anemia that does not respond to treatment with iron and vitamin supplements.Furthermore, medical history, especially test results showing mild abnormalities, is of great importance for the accurate diagnosis of hereditary diseases.© 2026 Li, Yang, Dong, Wu, Ma and Wu.
Acromelic dysplasias, including acromicric dysplasia (AD) and geleophysic dysplasia type 2 (GD2), are ultrarare disorders caused by FBN1 variants in the transforming growth factor-β-binding protein-like domain 5 (TB5). These conditions are characterized by severe short stature and variable multisystem involvement, but genotype-phenotype correlations and treatment responses remain incompletely defined.To characterize the clinical spectrum, genotype-phenotype correlations, and growth outcomes in a Chinese cohort of patients with FBN1-related AD/GD2.We conducted a retrospective analysis of 14 patients with AD or GD2 from eight unrelated families. Clinical, radiographic, and genetic data were collected. Genotype-phenotype correlations were further explored by integrating data from two previously published cohorts (n = 52). Growth outcomes were evaluated in patients receiving recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy.All patients exhibited severe short stature (mean height-SDS of -5.28 ± 1.13) with brachydactyly and delayed bone age. Multisystem involvement, including skeletal abnormalities, airway and otologic complications, skin thickening, joint limitation, hepatomegaly, and cardiopulmonary disease (50.0%, exclusively on GD2), was common. All the variants were heterozygous missense mutations clustered in the TB5 domain, including two novel de novo variants. Genotype-phenotype preliminary analysis revealed a greater mortality in patients with GD2 than in patients with AD (29.6%(15.9 -48.5%) vs. 4.0%(0.7-19.5%), P = 0.038). Variants with cysteine or aromatic residues substitutions were associated with increased mortality compared with that associated with other substitutions (overall P < 0.001). Eleven patients received growth-promoting therapy. Among the eight patients treated at our center, growth-promoting therapy maintained a growth velocity during the first two years (approximately 6 cm/year) but declined thereafter, with no significant improvement in height-SDS over a mean treatment duration of 3.6 years.FBN1-related AD/GD2 represent multisystem disorders rather than isolated skeletal dysplasias. Variants affecting cysteine or aromatic residues in the TB5 domain maybe associated with worse outcomes. Growth-promoting therapy may contribute to maintaince of growth velocity but catch-up growth was not clearly observed. These findings suggest that molecular stratification may be helpful for risk assessment and clinical decision-making, pending further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Huang, Wang, Lin, Zheng, Xiao, Ma, Guo, Chen and Li.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by the breakdown of immune tolerance, systemic inflammation, and multi-organ damage. The imbalance between T helper 17 (Th17) cells and regulatory T (Treg) cells is a key driver in SLE pathogenesis.This study aimed to investigate whether Celastrol (Cel), a natural triterpenoid derived from Tripterygium wilfordii, exerts therapeutic effects in SLE by modulating the Th17/Treg balance, and to explore the underlying molecular mechanism.An in vivo study using the MRL/lpr lupus-prone mouse model was conducted to evaluate therapeutic efficacy, complemented by in vitro assays and molecular analysis to identify target pathways.MRL/lpr mice were orally administered Cel and disease progression was assessed via survival analysis, spleen pathology, autoantibody levels, and renal histopathology. T cell subsets were analyzed using flow cytometry and Western blot. Proteomic profiling was performed to identify potential molecular targets, followed by molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), MicroScale Thermophoresis (MST) and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) to validate target engagement. AB680, a pharmacological inhibitor of ecto-5'-nucleotidase (Nt5e), was used to confirm the functional role of Nt5e.Cel treatment significantly improved survival, reduced splenomegaly, suppressed anti-dsDNA/ANA autoantibody levels, and alleviated renal damage in lupus-prone mice. It promoted Treg cell differentiation and inhibited Th17 polarization, evidenced by increased Foxp3 expression and decreased STAT3 phosphorylation. Nt5e was identified as a direct binding target of Cel. Target engagement was validated through CETSA, MST and SPR, and inhibition of Nt5e by AB680 partially reversed Cel's therapeutic effects, indicating that Nt5e mediates its immunomodulatory action.Our results indicate that Cel restores the Th17/Treg balance via upregulating Nt5e, thereby ameliorating SLE-associated injury. This study thus provides novel insights into the mechanism of Cel treating SLE and underscores the therapeutic potential of targeting Nt5e in SLE.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Athletes pursuing a professional basketball career are routinely evaluated by sports physicians using laboratory testing, electrocardiography, and exercise stress assessment. However, such screening may not detect certain cardiovascular or connective tissue disorders. This limitation is particularly relevant in basketball, where tall stature is advantageous but may also signal underlying conditions such as cardiomyopathies, which can predispose athletes to life-threatening events during intense physical exertion, including sudden cardiac death. This study aimed to investigate the phenotypic, endocrine, cardiac, and genetic characteristics of adolescent basketball players to identify possible causes of tall stature and associated health risks.We examined 55 youth basketball players (30 females, median age 17 years and height +2.4 standard deviations). Each underwent detailed endocrine and anthropometric examinations, echocardiography, and genetic testing (number of X and Y chromosomes, SHOX gene dosage analysis, and a custom next-generation sequencing panel of 786 genes related to growth).Echocardiographic abnormalities were observed in 4/55 (7%) athletes, while an additional 5/55 (9%) probands displayed echocardiographic findings resembling physiological adaptation to extensive physical activities. Clinically relevant dysmorphic features were identified in 26/55 (47%), and mild dysmorphia was present in 21/55 (38%) participants. No endocrine dysfunctions were detected. One proband (1.8%) was diagnosed with a monogenic cause of tall stature carrying a pathogenic variant in the FBN1 gene, causing Marfan syndrome.Echocardiographic abnormalities were observed in a small proportion of probands, as were monogenic causes of tall stature. However, targeted evaluation, including echocardiography, anthropometry, and genetic testing, should be considered in selected individuals.Copyright © 2026 Gregorova, Plachy, Chaloupecky, Iurchenko, Maliska Maratova, Kodytkova, Matoulek, Lebl, Tomek, Sumnik, Dusatkova and Pruhova.
Genetic alterations in TATA box binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1) have been found in an X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) syndrome with variable somatic features (OMIM 300966) and X-linked dystonia-Parkinsonism syndrome (OMIM 314250). Abidi syndrome (OMIM 300262) was first described in a large, three-generation family containing eight affected males with intellectual disability and variable somatic features. A single base substitution that alters the translation initiation codon of TAF1, c.1A>C (p.Met1?), was found in affected males from the original Abidi syndrome family by X-exome sequencing. A missense variant in the C-terminal domain of TAF1, c.4286A>C (p.Gln1429Pro), was identified in another XLID family including three males with intellectual disability and variable somatic features using the same approach. Both variants were found segregating with the phenotype in the respective families and are predicted to be deleterious by in silico analysis. The N- and C-terminal domains of TAF1 are known to possess a serine/threonine kinase activity that selectively phosphorylates RNA polymerase II-associated protein 74 (RAP74). Lymphoblasts carrying either the p.Met1? or the p.Gln1429Pro variants from probands in these two families were studied using a phosphorylation-specific antibody and found to have reduced phosphorylation of RAP74. This study expands the phenotypic spectrum of TAF1-related XLID and implicates reduced RAP74 phosphorylation as a potential mechanism.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
BACKGROUND Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and Marfan syndrome (MFS) are genetically determined systemic disorders. Their simultaneous occurrence is exceptionally rare, with only a few cases reported in the literature. CASE REPORT A 13-year-old boy was admitted to a cardiology clinic due to mitral and tricuspid valve prolapse. He was tall, with severe scoliosis and distinctive dysmorphic features typical of MFS. More than 20 cafe-au-lait spots, characteristic of NF1, were present on his skin. The family history included NF1 in his twin brother, mother, maternal uncle, and maternal grandmother. The maternal uncle also exhibited phenotypic features of MFS and died at a young age from a suspected ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Genetic testing in our patient revealed an NF1 mutation, as well as a 16p13.11 microduplication that could explain his developmental delay and speech difficulties. The diagnosis of MFS was based on characteristic dysmorphic features and the presence of aortic root dilation, despite negative findings concerning the fibrillin-1 (FBN1) mutation typically associated with MFS. CONCLUSIONS A thorough assessment of physical features is essential to detect atypical phenotypes and recognize potential coexistence of multiple genetic syndromes. This case highlights the clinical importance of systematic cardiac evaluation, given that cardiac abnormalities typical of MFS may be critical for its recognition. Reporting such an unusual coexistence of NF1 and MFS underscores the need for multidisciplinary care to improve long-term outcomes in patients with overlapping genetic disorders.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42531151 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528374 is a review article
We previously reported that Pyra-Metho-Carnil (PMC) suppresses macrophage differentiation in co-culture with mutant (mt) Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS) tumors. In this study, we used integrative proteomics and identified a KRAS-regulated membrane and exosomal protein, 5'-nucleotidase ecto (NT5E)/CD73, as a key candidate linking KRAS signaling to macrophage-associated tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) remodeling. We investigated whether PMC modulates CD73-associated pathways during macrophage differentiation.THP-1 cells were differentiated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and treated with PMC or a CD73 inhibitor (CD73i). Three-dimensional (3D) co-culture assays were performed using HKe3 wild-type (wt) KRAS or HKe3 mt KRAS spheroids. Macrophage infiltration into spheroids was evaluated by live-cell imaging and immunohistochemistry (IHC) of co-cultured spheroid sections. Using clinical colorectal cancer (CRC) specimens, the co-localization of CD73+ tumor cells and CD68+ macrophages was examined.IHC of co-cultured spheroid sections revealed that PMC treatment reduced THP-1-derived macrophage infiltration into mt-KRAS spheroids. Notably, while CD73i reproduced only the effect on macrophage infiltration, PMC demonstrated a more comprehensive antitumor effect by suppressing both CD73-mediated infiltration and direct tumor cell proliferation. Analysis of clinical mt-KRAS CRC tissues revealed significant clustering of CD73+ tumor cells and CD68+ macrophages specifically at the invasive fronts. In contrast, such infiltration was minimal in non-invasive regions or wt-KRAS tissues.These findings suggest that PMC suppresses macrophage infiltration and promotes TIME reprogramming through mechanisms associated with CD73 regulation. Therefore, by targeting tumor growth and immune evasion, PMC offers superior therapeutic value over conventional CD73i in mt-KRAS CRC, where CD73 expression correlates with clinical macrophage clustering.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526787 is a review article
Gastric cancer is strongly associated with chronic inflammation and dysregulated immune signaling. Molecules involved in purinergic and innate immune pathways, including Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), P2Y purinoceptor 2 (P2RY2), and pannexin-1 (PANX1), may contribute to gastric cancer biology; however, their combined clinical relevance remains unknown. This study included 45 patients with gastric cancer and 45 healthy controls. The gene expression levels of TLR3, P2RY2, and PANX1 were analyzed using RT-PCR, and serum protein concentrations were measured using ELISA. Group comparisons, logistic regression, and ROC analyses were performed to evaluate the diagnostic performance. TCGA-STAD-based immune infiltration analyses were conducted using the TIMER platform, and prognostic significance was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Although alterations in gene expression were observed, none reached statistical significance. At the protein level, PANX1 was significantly elevated in patients with gastric cancer and was independently associated with disease status, whereas TLR3 and P2RY2 showed no significant circulating alterations. TIMER analysis demonstrated positive correlations between TLR3 and PANX1 expression and several immune cell populations, whereas P2RY2 expression showed predominantly negative correlations with immune cell infiltration. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that high PANX1 and TLR3 expression levels were associated with improved overall survival. ROC analyses indicated limited diagnostic accuracy for each marker. Collectively, our experimental findings provide evidence only for elevated circulating PANX1 in patients with gastric cancer. In contrast, the observations regarding TLR3 and P2RY2 were not statistically significant in our cohort and should therefore be considered exploratory and hypothesis-generating. Complementary bioinformatic analyses suggest that these molecules may participate in immune-related signaling pathways in gastric cancer; however, these observations require validation in independent tissue-based and larger prospective studies.
Gastric cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the need for an improved understanding of its molecular mechanisms. Purinergic and glutamatergic signaling pathways, immune checkpoint molecules, and oxidative stress are thought to contribute to tumor biology; however, their combined evaluation in gastric cancer is limited.Gene expression levels of glutamate receptor ionotropic N-Methyl-D-aspartate 2A (GRIN2A), purinergic receptor P2X1 (P2RX1), and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1/CD274) were analyzed using real-time PCR, while serum protein levels were determined by ELISA. Total antioxidant status (TAS) and total oxidant status (TOS) were also measured to assess systemic oxidative balance.Gene expression analysis revealed an increased expression trend for P2RX1 in the gastric cancer group compared with healthy controls, whereas GRIN2A and CD274 (PD-L1) expression levels showed numerical decreases. Serum concentrations of GRIN2A and PD-L1, as well as TAS and TOS levels, were numerically higher in patients with gastric cancer; however, none of these differences reached statistical significance (p > 0.05). Likewise, serum P2RX1 levels did not differ significantly between groups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated area under the curve (AUC) values close to 0.5 for all evaluated parameters, indicating limited discriminatory and diagnostic performance.These findings suggest that these molecular markers may reflect disease-related biological alterations rather than serve as independent circulating diagnostic biomarkers in gastric cancer.
We aim to elucidate the impact of endometriomas on oocyte developmental competence and identify genetic alterations that may influence ICSI success rates in women of different ages.In this retrospective study, two groups of patients have been analyzed: 108 women with a history of severe endometriosis (stages III and IV), who underwent OPU and ICSI after endometriosis surgery, and a control group, built out of 108 women with no endometriosis history. The Turku Endometriosis Database was used for differential gene expression analysis.The number of aspirated oocytes (endometrioma group: 2.75 ± 0.32 vs. control 10.32 ± 0.54) was significantly (p < 0.0001) lower in patients with endometrioma excision, and the number of generated blastocysts was significantly (p < 0.0001) lower when compared to patients without endometriosis (endometrioma group: 1.09 ± 0.13 vs. control group: 3.76 ± 0.23). Additionally, AMH levels were significantly lower (p < 0.001) in the endometriosis-affected group below the age of 35 years (1.65 ± 0.15) than in the unaffected control group (2.99 ± 0.27) within the same age group. The mRNA expression of the following genes related to oxidative stress was significantly (p < 0.05) upregulated in the endometriosis group compared with healthy controls: DES, P2RX1, FOS, SRF, RASD2, SLITRK3, and TEAD3. Gene Ontology and pathway enrichment analyses demonstrated a significant (p < 0.0001) enrichment of oxidative stress-associated biological processes and signaling pathways, including responses to reactive oxygen species and hypoxia, HIF-1, MAPK, PI3K-Akt, NF-κB, and apoptotic signaling, supporting oxidative stress as a central molecular mechanism underlying the observed transcriptomic alterations.In conclusion, this retrospective study provides a holistic perspective on the impact of endometrioma and its oxidative stress effect on oocyte developmental rates and ICSI outcomes across different age groups.
Children with heart disease face competing risks of thrombosis and bleeding. Antiplatelet agents are widely used, but clinical effectiveness and safety may vary with pharmacogenomic variants. We evaluated bleeding and thromboembolic outcomes and explored pharmacogenomic associations in a pediatric cardiac cohort.Single-center, retrospective study of patients prescribed aspirin or clopidogrel during admissions (2011-2020). We abstracted clinical characteristics, pharmacodynamic testing, and adverse events while prescribed the antiplatelet agent through July 2021. Pharmacogenomic variants relevant to aspirin and clopidogrel metabolism/function (including CYP2C19 haplotypes and selected aspirin response loci) were called from existing genomic data. Outcomes included major bleeding and thromboembolism (TE) as well as pharmacodynamic aspirin "resistance." Analyses were exploratory.We included 105 patients treated with aspirin with VerifyNow pharmacodynamic and pharmacogenomic variant data and 49 clopidogrel-treated patients with genetic data. Major bleeding occurred in 5% (aspirin) and 16% (clopidogrel); TE occurred in 12% and 8% of patients, respectively. On aspirin, bleeding was more frequent with renal (40% vs. 2%, p = 0.011) or hepatic dysfunction (20% vs. 0%, p = 0.048); TE was associated with younger age, lower weight, and single-ventricle physiology. On clopidogrel, bleeding was associated with older age/greater weight and renal dysfunction. No association was observed across CYP2C19 phenotypes and clopidogrel outcomes. No poor metabolizers were identified in this small cohort. Pharmacodynamic aspirin "resistance" was seen in 23% and was more common in females, with no association identified with TE. A P2RY1 variant (rs1065776-CT) was associated with the composite aspirin outcome of pharmacodynamic resistance and/or TE.Clinically important bleeding and TE events were common in pediatric cardiac patients on antiplatelets, with organ dysfunction, age, and physiology emerging as key associations. Pharmacogenomic variants were frequent; a candidate P2RY1 signal warrants validation. Pediatric antiplatelet management and relationships with outcomes are complex, supporting the need for prospective studies integrating pharmacogenomic variant analyses with standardized pharmacodynamic testing.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Purinergic P2X receptors (P2RX) play key roles in neuroinflammatory processes through ATP-gated ion channel signaling. Dysregulation of P2RX receptor activity has been implicated in maternal immune activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and synaptic abnormalities associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Despite increasing mechanistic evidence, the contribution of P2RX gene variants to ASD remains poorly understood.We retrospectively evaluated whole-exome sequencing (WES) data from individuals diagnosed with ASD according to DSM-5 criteria. Variants in the P2RX1-P2RX7 genes were identified. Clinical, genetic, and in silico data were reviewed, and variants were classified according to ACMG/AMP guidelines.Eleven individuals were identified with heterozygous P2RX variants, most frequently in P2RX7 (54.5%), followed by P2RX5 (27.3%) and P2RX4 (18.2%). Core clinical features across all genes included ASD, intellectual disability (ID), and epilepsy. P2RX4 variants included an in-frame deletion (p.Ile322del) and a truncating variant (p.Tyr366LeufsTer7), both observed in individuals with ASD and ID. P2RX5 variants comprised rare missense substitutions with variable in silico pathogenicity. Several P2RX7 variants, most notably the canonical splice-site variant c.614 + 1G > A fulfilling ACMG/AMP PVS1 and PM2 criteria, were predicted to alter receptor function. Overall, in silico analyses indicated moderate to high predicted functional impact; however, most variants lacked segregation and functional validation data.Our findings provide preliminary, exploratory observations suggesting that rare P2RX variants may represent biologically plausible candidates relevant to ASD-related pathways; however, no conclusions regarding disease association or causality can be drawn. These findings should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation through larger controlled genetic studies and functional investigations.Copyright © 2026 Gül Ünsel-Bolat and Hilmi Bolat. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Extracellular ATP (eATP) is an immunogenic danger signal. In this issue of Immunity, Hu et al. report that in the tumor microenvironment, eATP signals through the receptor P2RY2 on cancer cells, triggering the COX-PGE2 pathway and thereby immune suppression and immunotherapy resistance. These findings identify eATP as the upstream signal driving PGE2 expression, with therapeutic implications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Extracellular ATP (eATP) accumulates in the tumor microenvironment (TME), where its metabolite adenosine is implicated in promoting immunosuppressive pathways. We found that immunotherapy further increased eATP concentrations in the TME. eATP directly signaled through the purinergic receptor P2RY2 in tumor cells to suppress T cell function, independently of its metabolites. Mechanistically, eATP-P2RY2 signaling drove expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 and downstream accumulation of prostaglandin E2 (PGE₂). Genetic deletion or pharmacologic inhibition of P2RY2 reduced baseline intratumoral PGE₂ and prevented therapy-induced PGE₂ accumulation, changed the TME immune infiltrate, restored antitumor T cell responses, and overcame resistance to immune checkpoint blockade, CAR-T, and TCR-T therapies. A P2RY2 antagonist monoclonal antibody recapitulated the in vivo therapeutic benefit and enhanced human autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte responses against matched tumor cells ex vivo. Thus, persistent eATP-P2RY2 signaling in the TME drives a PGE₂-mediated immunosuppressive circuit that operates at baseline and is further amplified during immunotherapy, driving adaptive resistance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects over 850 million people worldwide and is characterized by progressive renal fibrosis driven by activated interstitial fibroblasts. Signaling by extracellular nucleotides and P2 receptors plays an important role in renal pathophysiology, yet its contribution to fibroblast activation and fibrosis remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the expression and function of Gq/11-coupled P2Y receptors in renal interstitial fibroblasts and their involvement in experimental kidney fibrosis. Using highly selective RNA in situ hybridization, we detected P2Y1 (P2ry1) and P2Y6 (P2ry6) receptor expression in interstitial fibroblasts. Notably, P2Y6 expression was markedly upregulated in several experimental mouse models of renal fibrosis. Functional assays in primary cultured renal fibroblasts confirmed Gq/11-coupled P2Y receptor activity, as evidenced by transient intracellular Ca²⁺ elevations upon nucleotide stimulation. Primary cultured renal fibroblasts exhibited enhanced migration in response to extracellular uridine diphosphate (UDP). To assess the contribution of interstitial P2Y6 receptors to fibrosis progression, we employed an adenine-induced nephropathy model with or without the selective P2Y6 antagonist MRS2578. Pharmacological inhibition of P2Y6 significantly reduced the mRNA expression of the myofibroblast marker α-smooth muscle actin and collagen I. Collectively, these findings suggest that upregulated P2Y6 receptor signaling promotes the transition of resident interstitial cells into myofibroblasts during renal fibrosis, likely by modulating fibroblast migration. Inhibition of P2Y6 signaling could represent a new strategy for reducing excessive renal fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and diphosphate (ADP) act as key signalling molecules in the central nervous system (CNS) and regulate neuroinflammatory responses through purinergic receptors. Although astrocytes and neurons undergo profound changes in signalling and metabolism during inflammation, the contribution of specific purinergic pathways to inflammation-induced neurodegeneration remains unclear. Here we show that the ADP/ATP-activated Gq-coupled receptor P2Y1 drives astrocyte-mediated neurotoxicity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of multiple sclerosis (MS). Using plasma membrane-targeted luciferase reporter mice, we demonstrate that extracellular ATP levels are increased during acute EAE. This was accompanied by elevated astrocytic P2ry1 expression, which is also observed in inflammatory MS lesions. In vivo, pharmacological inhibition or astrocyte-specific deletion of P2Y1 reduced disease severity, astrocytosis, and neuronal loss, whereas neuron-specific deletion exerted only modest effects. Mechanistically, astrocytic P2Y1 signalling promoted cytokine-induced ERK activation, inflammatory gene expression, and metabolic reprogramming in vitro. In contrast to supernatants from stimulated P2Y1-deficient astrocyte culture, supernatants derived from stimulated P2Y1-proficient astrocytes reduced neuronal viability, demonstrating neurotoxic effects mediated by astrocyte-derived factors. In contrast, neuronal P2Y1 signalling primarily contributed to oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Together, these findings identify astrocytic P2Y1 as a key regulator of neuroinflammatory damage and a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intracellular Ca2+ transients drive key developmental and physiological processes, yet their role in oncogenesis remains incompletely understood. In glioblastoma (GBM), an aggressive brain malignancy, tumor cellular networks exhibit self-sustaining Ca2+ transients that promote tumor growth through unclear mechanisms. Using patient-derived GBM models, we show that these transients depend primarily on intracellular Ca2+ stores and extend to the nucleus to drive tumorigenesis. A neuromodulator screen identified extracellular purines ATP and ADP as potent inducers of both nuclear and cytosolic Ca2+ transients via activation of metabotropic purinergic P2RY1 receptors, whose knockdown attenuates tumorigenicity in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, Ca2+ transients promote tumorigenesis via the nuclear Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase CAMK4, which regulates transcriptional and epigenetic programs, as well as ribosomal DNA transcription. From the therapeutic perspective, pharmacologic P2RY1 inhibition suppresses tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, these findings reveal a pharmacologically targetable oncogenic mechanism in GBM and possibly other malignancies.
KATP-channel-related hyperinsulinism (KATPHI) is a rare genetic disorder of the pancreatic beta cells, manifesting as life-threatening hypoglycemia in neonates due to excessive insulin secretion. Management of the severe diffuse form of KATPHI currently lacks treatment options, as the first-line therapy octreotide is often insufficiently effective, necessitating radical pancreatectomy in many patients.In this study, we differentiated stem cells carrying the KATPHI-causing mutation KCNJ11-/- to stem cell-derived islets (SC-islets) to develop new pharmaceutical therapies for KATPHI. We tested seven candidate molecules in vitro and the most effective ones in vivo in immunocompromised mice that were transplanted with the human KCNJ11-/- SC-islets.KCNJ11 -/- SC-islets inappropriately secreted 3.9 times more insulin in low glucose than KCNJ11+/+ controls. Transplanted KCNJ11-/- SC-islets caused persistent hyperinsulinemia and hypoglycemia to the recipient mice. We tested acyl-ghrelin identified in our in vitro experiments and its long-acting analogue relamorelin in these mice. Acyl-ghrelin and relamorelin alone increased fasting blood glucose. Combining relamorelin with octreotide increased blood glucose synergistically, ie, more than the sum of each drug alone, reverting hypoglycemia to normoglycemia while reducing the excessive insulin secretion.We show that ghrelin-receptor agonists have acute anti-hypoglycemic effects in a humanized mouse model of KATPHI, especially when combined with octreotide. Relamorelin has been tested in >650 diabetic adults with little side effects, leading us to propose relamorelin-octreotide combination for further development as a therapeutic candidate for severe KATPHI patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
A positive effect of sleeve gastrectomy on the structural and functional characteristics of the left ventricular myocardium in rats with normal body weight and post-infarction CHF was demonstrated. Sleeve gastrectomy attenuated the upregulated myocardial expression of the Trpc6 and Tgfb1 genes involved in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarction. These findings attest to a reduction of the negative effects of post-infarction cardiac remodeling.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Glioblastoma (GBM) exhibits profound metabolic plasticity and resistance to conventional therapies, partly driven by mitochondrial adaptability and stress response mechanisms. ONC212, a second-generation imipridone, targets mitochondrial proteostasis, yet determinants of tumour sensitivity remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel expression modulates ONC212-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and integrated stress response (ISR) activation in GBM. Human GBM lines (U87, U251, T98G) and non-malignant SVG p12 astrocytes received ONC212 (0.5-80 μM) for 12-48 h. Viability was assessed by CCK-8. KATP subunit expression (Kir6.2, SUR1, CCDC51) was quantified by qRT-PCR and western blot. Mitochondrial ROS quantification, oxygen consumption rate (Seahorse XF), PERK/ATF4/CHOP activation (western blot, immunofluorescence) and apoptosis (caspase-3/7) were evaluated. KATP was modulated pharmacologically (glibenclamide, diazoxide) and via KCNJ11 (Kir6.2) siRNA. ONC212 induced time-dependent and tumour-selective cytotoxicity, with highest sensitivity observed in KATP-high U87 cells. Treatment significantly increased mitochondrial ROS, impaired oxidative phosphorylation and reduced ATP/ADP ratios, indicating bioenergetic collapse. Concurrently, ONC212 robustly activated the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4/CHOP axis and promoted ATF4 nuclear translocation. PERK inhibition attenuated both stress signalling and cytotoxicity, confirming ISR dependency. KATP inhibition enhanced ONC212-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, ISR activation and apoptosis, whereas KATP activation exerted protective effects. Importantly, KCNJ11 silencing markedly potentiated ONC212 sensitivity, amplifying ROS production, mitochondrial impairment and caspase-dependent apoptosis. KATP channel expression may regulate ONC212 responsiveness in GBM by modulating mitochondrial stress and ISR signalling. Targeting KATP channels may enhance imipridone efficacy and represents a promising strategy for metabolically guided GBM therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The role of DNA topoisomerase II beta (TOP2B) in cardiomyocyte differentiation is poorly understood. To address this, Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) were differentiated into cardiomyocytes (CM) that are wildtype or contain a genomic deletion of Topoisomerase 2B (BKO). Both WT and BKO hiPSC could be induced to differentiate into sheets of beating cardiomyocytes. BKO hiPSC take slightly longer to differentiate into sheets of beating CM than WT iPSC. RNA was prepared from both undifferentiated and differentiated WT and BKO hiPSC. RNA seq was used to examine gene expression changes when the WT and BKO hiPSC were differentiated into CM. Gene expression changes following differentiation of BKO cells were largely similar to those in WT cells. In addition, the differentiated WT CM were treated with dexrazoxane (ICRF-187), a TOP2 catalytic inhibitor that targets both TOP2A and TOP2B, or topobexin, a new TOP2B selective catalytic inhibitor. Topobexin inhibition partially phenocopied a TOP2B deletion and thereby providing an alternative to TOP2B gene knockout in many cell lines. In future, hiPSC derived CM with and without TOP2B and inhibition by topobexin ex vivo CM could be used to study anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity and to screen for cardioprotectants.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
ATP-sensitive potassium channels regulate insulin release, with the KCNJ11 gene encoding the Kir6.2 channel's pore subunit. The E23K variant, previously linked to type 2 diabetes (T2DM), was examined in a large Lebanese cohort to determine its relationship to diabetic retinopathy (DR) severity and glycemic control.A case-control sample of 1,415 adults with T2DM were classified as diabetes without retinopathy (DWR; n = 933), non-proliferative DR (NPDR; n = 342), or proliferative DR (PDR; n = 140) based on ETDRS criteria, and compared with 1,389 normoglycemic controls. Logistic regression was used to assess genetic associations across multiple inheritance models. Sensitivity analyses stratified by diabetes duration and area under the ROC curve (AUC) compared discrimination using age and sex, with or without genotype.The K allele was more frequent in T2DM than in controls. Although E23K was not associated with overall DR, its effect was stage-specific. In comparisons of PDR with DWR, each additional K allele increased PDR odds, and K/K homozygosity showed a stronger recessive effect. The K/K genotype was notably enriched among DR patients with HbA1c ≤ 7.0%, indicating an elevated risk under good glycemic control, but showed no signal in those with poorer control. It was also overrepresented in PDR. Risk associations were more pronounced in individuals with diabetes duration ≥10 years, and adding genotype information resulted in a small increase in model discrimination beyond age and sex alone (AUC = 0.552-0.598; ΔAUC = 0.046). However, the overall discriminatory performance remained poor, suggesting limited clinical utility of E23K genotyping as an isolated predictive marker.In this Middle Eastern population, KCNJ11 E23K showed a stage-specific association with prevalent proliferative, vision-threatening DR rather than with earlier stages of retinopathy. This supports the potential utility of E23K as a marker of advanced retinopathy severity, although longitudinal studies in diverse ethnic groups are required to determine its relationship with disease progression.Copyright © 2026 Nemr, Echtay, Kanabekova, Bauyrzhanova, Amanzhol and Almawi.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a major global health burden with rising prevalence and significant morbidity and mortality. Smoking has been recognized as an independent risk factor for T2D, but the exact underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood.We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study to investigate the effects of smoking behaviors and smoking-related DNA methylation on type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk. This secondary analysis was based on publicly available summary statistics. Smoking traits were obtained from a large meta-GWAS of over 1.2 million individuals of European ancestry. DNA methylation data were derived from the CHARGE Consortium EWAS (n=15907) and mQTLs from the GoDMC (n=27750). T2D outcome data were obtained from a European GWAS including 74124 cases and 824006 controls. Replication was performed in FinnGen (17268 cases, 184778 controls) and BioBank Japan (40250 cases, 170615 controls). Stringently selected genetic instruments were applied, and causal effects were estimated primarily using two-sample MR with inverse-variance weighted analysis, complemented by MR-Egger and weighted median approaches, and further validated by colocalization analysis.In our genomic analysis, we presented convincing evidence supporting the association between genetically predicted smoking initiation and an increased susceptibility to T2D. In epigenetic analysis, we identified methylation at 21 smoking-related CpG sites associated with T2D risk. Subsequently, 14 of these CpG sites were validated using the FinnGen dataset, and 12 of them were validated using the BBJ dataset. Furthermore, we observed strong colocalization evidence for four CpG sites, including cg23756272 (BCL2), cg03864215 (KCNJ11), cg09861057 (TDRD10) and cg10672416 (C12orf65), and T2D risk.This research provides novel findings of the impact of smoking on T2D susceptibility, highlighting the role of epigenetic DNA methylation.© 2026 Li W. et al.
Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of monogenic diabetes subtypes that is frequently misdiagnosed as type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and accurate genetic diagnosis enables a precision-medicine treatment approach. Regional Turkish data are limited, and previous Turkish series have been pediatric only. We characterized the genetic spectrum and therapeutic consequences of next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based MODY testing in a combined adult-and-pediatric cohort from the eastern Black Sea region of Türkiye.We retrospectively analyzed 296 consecutive patients with clinically suspected MODY referred between January 2022 and June 2025. A targeted NGS panel covering 14 MODY genes was applied, variants were classified per 2015 ACMG/AMP criteria, and treatment changes attributable to the genetic diagnosis were extracted from medical records. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants were identified in 43 of 296 patients (14.5%); diagnostic yield rose to 26.0% with variants of uncertain significance included. GCK-MODY accounted for 72.1% of P/LP findings, with a recurrent frameshift c.1256del p.(Phe419SerfsTer12) across nine apparently unrelated families consistent with a regional founder allele. Rare subtypes included MODY4 (PDX1), MODY6 (NEUROD1), MODY8 (CEL), MODY10 (INS), MODY12 (ABCC8) and MODY13 (KCNJ11). The genetic diagnosis directly modified pharmacological therapy in 14 patients, including insulin discontinuation in three KATP-channel MODY and one INS-MODY case.NGS-based MODY testing yields actionable findings in approximately one in seven clinically selected patients in this region and supports inclusion of MODY testing in routine endocrinology practice.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
To investigate the causal effects of antidiabetic drug targets on Bell's palsy risk using Mendelian randomization (MR), addressing limitations of observational studies and informing therapeutic strategies for diabetic patients. A 2-sample MR analysis was conducted using genetic instruments for 5 major antidiabetic drug classes: sulfonylureas (ABCC8/KCNJ11), metformin (GPD1), thiazolidinediones (PPARG), GLP1-RAs (GLP1R), and SGLTi (SLC5A1/2). Instrumental variables were selected from cis-regions (±500 kb) of target genes using HbA1c-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (GWAS ID: ebi-a-GCST90014006) with stringent clumping (P < 5 × 10-8, r2 < 0.2) and F-statistic > 10 to ensure robustness. Bell's palsy data were sourced from FinnGen (finn-b-G6_BELLPA) including. Causal effects were assessed via inverse variance weighted, MR-Egger, and weighted median methods, complemented by sensitivity analyses (MR-Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier, Cochran's Q). Genetically proxied sulfonylurea (via ABCC8/KCNJ11) and metformin (via GPD1) targets exhibited significant protective effects against Bell's palsy, with odds ratios of 0.19 (95% CI: 0.04-0.92, P = .039) and 0.16 (0.03-0.87, P = .034), respectively. Sensitivity analyses confirmed minimal pleiotropy (MR-Egger intercept P > .05) and heterogeneity (Cochran's Q P > .05). No associations were observed for thiazolidinediones, GLP1-RAs, or SGLTi. Scatter plots and inverse variance weighted median concordance supported robustness for ABCC8/KCNJ11, though limited single nucleotide polymorphisms for GPD1 warranted cautious interpretation. This MR analysis provides genetic evidence that sulfonylureas and metformin may confer neuroprotection against Bell's palsy, supporting potential repurposing of these agents to mitigate neurological complications in diabetic patients.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Congenital persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia (HH) is a rare disorder that can lead to severe and recurrent hypoglycemic episodes in neonates and infants. Management often requires intensive glucose infusion via central venous catheters (CVCs), which may increase the risk of thrombosis. While case reports suggest thrombosis can occur in HH, the incidence, risk factors, severity, and outcomes remain poorly understood.This study aimed to determine the incidence of thrombosis in children with persistent HH and to evaluate potential risk factors associated with thrombotic complications.A descriptive, retrospective cohort study of patients with persistent HH followed at a university pediatric endocrinology clinic between January 2000 and December 2025.Twenty patients with persistent HH were included. Data on demographics, clinical characteristics, laboratory results, treatment protocols, CVC use, timing and location of thrombosis were collected. Patients who developed thrombosis were compared with those who did not to identify risk factors.Among 20 patients, 55% were male, with a median age at diagnosis of 1 day. A total of 23 CVCs were placed in 15 patients, with a median dwell time of 38 days. Thrombosis occurred in nine patients (45%), including six catheter-related and three catheter-independent intracranial thrombosis. Median age at thrombosis detection was 74 days. Patients who developed thrombosis experienced significantly more hypoglycemic episodes and more days with hypoglycemia (p < 0.05). No association was found between genetic mutations (ABCC8, KCNJ11, etc.) and thrombosis development. All four patients treated with enoxaparin achieved complete resolution without complications.Thrombosis is a frequent and clinically significant complication in persistent HH. Recurrent and severe hypoglycemic episodes are major risk factors. Routine thrombosis screening, particularly in patients with CVCs, may allow early detection and treatment even in asymptomatic cases.© The Author(s), 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42442624 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
Neuropathic pain (NP) resulting from peripheral nerve injury (PNI) represents a major clinical challenge. Although electrical stimulation (ES) has demonstrated therapeutic benefits, its clinical translation is limited by the invasiveness of electrode implantation, which often requires large surgical incisions and percutaneous wiring, increasing tissue damage and infection risk.This study developed an ultrasound-responsive, injectable, and biodegradable piezoelectric hydrogel (sPLLA-Gel) composed of electrospun poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) and methacryloyl gelatin (GelMA). The physicochemical characteristics, biocompatibility, and piezoelectric performance were systematically evaluated. In vitro, ultrasound-activated sPLLA-Gel was examined for its ability to promote neural stem cell (NSC) differentiation and regulate macrophage polarization. In vivo, the hydrogel was injected into the sciatic nerve injury site of a chronic constriction injury (CCI) rat model, followed by behavioral, electrophysiological, histological, and transcriptomic analyses.The sPLLA-Gel hydrogel exhibited excellent injectability, biodegradability, and ultrasound-induced electrical responsiveness. In vitro studies confirmed its biocompatibility and demonstrated that ultrasound-activated sPLLA-Gel promoted neural stem cell differentiation, axon-like neurite outgrowth, and favorable macrophage polarization. In vivo, the hydrogel was injected into the injury site of a chronic constriction injury rat model. Behavioral and electrophysiological analyses revealed that ultrasound-stimulated sPLLA-Gel enhanced myelin and axon regeneration, improved motor function, and alleviated NP. These therapeutic effects correlated with reduced spinal glial cell activation and decreased pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Transcriptomic analysis and further validation suggested that sPLLA-Gel's analgesic and neuroprotective effects may arise from the inhibition of TRPV1 expression and the NF-κB signaling pathway.This study demonstrates the potential of this ultrasound-responsive piezoelectric hydrogel to promote peripheral nerve regeneration and mitigate NP, offering a promising minimally invasive strategy for treating sciatic nerve injury-related NP.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557463 is a review article
The exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation is one of the key exogenous processes that contribute to photoaging, oxidative stress, and barrier dysfunction. Naematelia aurantialba is a very rare medicinal and edible fungus which is an organism with a large pharmacological potential, yet there is a gap in understanding the molecular processes involved in the anti-photoaging and soothing repair actions that the fermentation product is known to possess. The aim of this study was to understand the protective role of Naematelia aurantialba fermentation broth (NAF) against UV-induced skin cells damage and the possible molecular mechanisms of damage. The fermentation of Lactobacillus plantarum was used to prepare NAF. Its physicochemical characteristics were measured by use of DPPH, hydroxyl radical scavenging, and elastase inhibition and its biocompatibility by use of erythrocyte hemolysis experiment. We created UVA induced HFF-1 photoaging model, UVB induced HaCaT barrier damage model, and capsaicin induced sensitive model in order to measure cell viability and expression of factors associated with them. It was found that NAF had a large free radical scavenging capacity and elastase activity, and had a great biocompatibility over its interesting concentration (hemolysis rate < 5%). Molecularly, NAF activates mitochondrial homeostasis, boosting the gene and protein expression of the SIRT1 and SIRT3 proteins, and thereby strongly prevents the release of the enzyme, matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and suppressed collagenase degradation. At the same time, NAF prevents the capsaicin-induced overexpression of TRPV1 substantially preventing neurogenic inflammation, and increases aquaporin 3 (AQP3) and claudin-1 (CLDN1), mending the skin barrier. The NAF can produce various anti-photoaging, soothing, and barrier repair effects by activating the dermal SIRT1/3- MMP -1 axis, and blocking the epidermal TRP V1 pathway, which justifies its potential as an innovative functional plant raw material.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Lidocaine (LID) provides rapid local anesthesia but lacks nerve-type selectivity, causing undesired motor impairment, and typically suffers from a rapid washout effect. To address these acute-phase limitations, we developed biodegradable poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticles co-encapsulating LID and capsaicin (CAP), a transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) agonist. CAP facilitates TRPV1 channel opening exclusively in sensory nerve C-fibers, allowing selective LID internalization. In vivo functional efficacy was assessed during a critical 60-min acute phase using rotarod testing and electrophysiological recordings of the saphenous nerve in the mice. While LID monotherapy caused significant motor coordination deficits and exhibited rapid dissipation of the sensory blockade within 30 min, CAP co-encapsulation successfully overcame both of these issues. Motor impairment was reduced to approximately 6-8% of that observed with lidocaine-loaded PLGA microparticles without capsaicin, preserving near-normal motor function. An electrophysiological analysis demonstrated a rapid onset of action and complete prevention of early washout, sustaining profound suppression of sensory nerve activity throughout the 60-min observation period. These findings provide compelling physiological proof-of-concept that our PLGA-based co-delivery strategy achieves rapid-onset, functionally sensory-selective, and extended acute local anesthesia. This innovative system demonstrates a strong translational potential for improving postoperative pain management and early functional recovery.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544595 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542394
We describe a simple technique using in-house-designed forward and reverse primers to detect the receptors for Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 1 (TRPV-1) in the fundus and antrum of the rat stomach. The use of RT-PCR, agarose gel electrophoresis, DNA band purification, sequencing, and, lastly, GeneBlast confirmed the presence of these receptors.
Persistent upregulation of the purinergic receptor P2X4R is strongly associated with microglial activation in neuropathic pain, yet the epigenetic mechanisms linking chromatin remodeling to its dysregulation remain unclear. Here, we delineate a hierarchical epigenetic cascade that promotes transcriptional activation of P2X4R in spinal microglia following nerve injury. In a mouse spared nerve injury (SNI) model, microglial activation was accompanied by increased expression of P2X4R and the histone acetyltransferase p300, together with enhanced histone acetylation (H3K9ac, H3K27ac, H4K5ac, and H4K8ac) and increased chromatin accessibility at the P2rx4 promoter. Microglia-specific deletion of p300 blunted injury-induced histone acetylation and suppressed P2X4R upregulation. We further demonstrate that the acetylation reader BRD4 is recruited to these regions and cooperates with the transcription factor SP1 to drive P2rx4 transcription, supported by chromatin analyses revealing inducible assembly of a BRD4-p300-SP1 axis. Disruption of this cascade via p300 inhibition (C646) or BRD4 blockade (JQ1) attenuated spinal neuroinflammation and alleviated nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, reactivation of P2X4R by BzATP largely reversed the analgesic effects of BRD4 inhibition, establishing P2X4R as a critical downstream effector. Collectively, these findings support a p300-BRD4-SP1 epigenetic cascade linking chromatin remodeling to microglia-mediated neuropathic pain, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Excessive production of reactive oxygen species during photodynamic therapy (PDT) can exacerbate inflammation at the infection site and increase the risk of tumor metastasis, thereby posing significant challenges to treatment efficacy. In this study, a chessboard-structured microneedle patch (HPC@PCN CMN) was designed using a micromolding technique. This design spatially separates and encapsulates photosensitizers and antioxidants within distinct fast- and sustained-release microneedle systems, respectively, thereby achieving spatiotemporally ordered control of PDT and anti-inflammatory treatment. Additionally, by adjusting the crosslinking degree of hyaluronic acid, the release rate of antioxidant drugs can be regulated, which facilitates a prolonged anti-inflammatory effect. The results indicate that the anti-inflammatory process of HPC@PCN CMN can alleviate inflammation by inhibiting the ATP-P2RX4 pathway, demonstrating promising efficacy in the treatment of acne and melanoma. Overall, the developed chessboard microneedle platform is programmable, enabling not only the sequential regulation of oxidation-antioxidation but also the potential for broader applications in drug-delivery scenarios.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Pathological ventricular remodeling is an adverse tissue response following acute myocardial infarction (AMI), characterized by an exaggerated fibrosis leading to tissue disorganization and chronic heart failure. Cardiac fibroblasts have a prominent role in the healing process, but also in the fibrosis development, through their differentiation into myofibroblasts, which produce the extracellular matrix, in response to ischemia-reperfusion. Recently, the ATP-gated P2X4 ionotropic receptor has been identified as a key regulator of macro-autophagy, activated under metabolic challenges.In this study, we investigated the participation of the P2X4 receptor in the metabolic response of cardiac fibroblasts to ischemia-reperfusion and the myofibroblast switch. To this end, we submitted a primary culture of cardiac fibroblasts to an ischemia-reperfusion simulation and assessed autophagic flux, fibrotic differentiation markers and the correlation to P2X4 expression and activity. Then, using pharmacological inhibition and siRNA-mediated knockdown receptor under-expression, we investigated its role in the response of cardiac fibroblasts to this metabolic challenge. Finally, we validated our findings in an in vivo murine model of coronary ligation in wild-type and P2rx4-/- mice.Our results reveal that human cardiac fibroblasts subjected to simulated ischemia present an increased autophagic activity associated with a concomitant overexpression of P2X4 and its activity at the plasma membrane of cells. Pharmacological antagonism of P2X4, or its silencing, impaired autophagy, as evidenced by the accumulation of autophagy markers, and induced the expression of fibrotic markers. In an in vivo model of AMI through transient coronary ligation, P2rx4-/- mice presented the accumulation of autophagic markers both in healthy and ischemic zones, an extended tissue inflammation and fibrosis compared to wild type mice.This study suggests, for the first time, that the P2X4 receptor may contribute to steering cardiac fibroblasts toward a healing-associated profile under ischemia-reperfusion conditions, possibly by modulating autophagic activity and limiting extensive pro-fibrotic differentiation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Identifying disease-modifying drug targets is crucial for developing effective Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatments.We present a deep contrastive learning framework for cell type-specific AD-associated genes identification (alzCL). alzCL creates cell-type-specific representations of genes by integrating human brain single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data with the human protein-protein interactome, thereby capturing both genetic signatures and functional features.By integrating human brain snRNA-seq data, alzCL outperforms the state-of-the-art models by 18% to 24% in area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Via alzCL, we computationally identified 16, 164, and 221 AD-associated genes across astrocytes, microglia, and inhibitory neurons, respectively. Top prioritized genes (e.g., MAP3K5, P2RX4, and PRKD1) are significantly enriched in multiple AD-associated inflammatory and other pathobiological pathways. By integrating drug-target interaction data with alzCL-predicted AD-associated genes, we identified potential repurposable drugs for AD, including selonsertib and paroxetine.AlzCL offers a deep contrastive learning framework for discovery of disease-associated genes and drug targets in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Osteoarthritis (OA) and major depressive disorder (MDD) share inflammatory and oxidative stress pathways, but the role of programmed cell death (PCD) in their comorbidity remains unclear. This study used independent OA synovial and MDD peripheral blood transcriptomic datasets-not a unified comorbid discovery cohort-to identify candidate PCD-related molecular signatures commonly dysregulated in both conditions. Transcriptomic data from OA synovium and MDD brain tissues were obtained from GEO (six training [three OA synovial and three MDD peripheral-blood], seven validation, and two single-cell RNA-seq datasets). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, and PCD-related DEGs were screened. Machine learning (LASSO, SVM-RFE, Random Forest) was used to identify hub PCD-DEGs from the OA training set. WGCNA identified MDD-associated modules for comorbidity-gene selection. Functional enrichment, immune infiltration, scRNA-seq localization, and clinical validation (qRT-PCR/WB) were performed. From the OA cohort, four hub PCD-DEGs (CDKN1A, CX3CR1, INHBB, RHOB) showed moderate diagnostic value for OA (nomogram AUC = 0.82). Eight candidate genes (VAMP8, PDK4, P2RX4, ITM2C, IL10RA, HSP90AA1, CTSO, CRIP1) were commonly dysregulated across both OA and MDD datasets. Immune infiltration revealed upregulated B memory cells, plasma cells, Tregs, and neutrophils in OA, and neutrophils in MDD. scRNA-seq localized CDKN1A/RHOB to OA synovial cells and HSP90AA1/ITM2C to MDD neurons. Enrichment analyses highlighted TNF signaling, apoptosis, and stress responses in both diseases. An independent OA-MDD clinical cohort confirmed differential expression of CDKN1A, RHOB, ITM2C, and HSP90AA1. This study identifies four PCD-related hub genes associated with OA and eight candidate comorbidity genes showing common dysregulation across OA and MDD datasets and in an independent clinical cohort. These findings generate hypotheses about shared inflammatory pathways linking OA and MDD. As these associations derive from independent disease-specific cohorts rather than a true comorbid discovery cohort, they represent candidate signatures requiring functional validation rather than established mechanisms.
Recently, we suggested the combination of chemotherapy and P2RX4 inhibition as a promising novel therapeutic approach for P2RX4-expressing epithelial tumors to prevent paracrine resistance. Here, we aimed to assess whether determining P2RX4 expression status in colorectal and pancreatic cancer patients would allow stratification of potentially responsive patients. Therefore, P2RX4 expression levels were determined by RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry. Subcellular localization of P2RX4 isoforms was analyzed in HeLa cells and patient-derived tumor organoids. In contrast to its RNA expression profile, P2RX4 protein levels exhibited differential regulation in human colorectal and pancreatic cancer epithelia due to alternative splicing. Interpatient heterogeneity was greater in colorectal cancer than in pancreatic cancer. Notably, these variations in expression did not correlate with overall patient survival. Alternative P2RX4 transcripts gave rise to functionally distinct protein isoforms that differed in subcellular localization and total protein abundance. Only the correctly spliced, canonical P2RX4 isoform was localized to the plasma membrane and was capable of mediating downstream signaling. Accordingly, P2RX4 inhibition in combination with chemotherapy was effective exclusively in patient-derived tumor organoids expressing the canonical P2RX4 transcript. In summary, immunohistochemical, but not transcriptomic, assessment of P2RX4 expression enabled the prediction of sensitivity to combinatorial treatment and facilitated the identification of patients who may benefit from P2RX4 inhibition during chemotherapy. Given the lower degree of heterogeneity observed in pancreatic cancer, this tumor entity may represent a promising candidate for early-phase clinical evaluation of chemotherapy combined with P2RX4 inhibition. © 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
The objectives of this study were to develop a real-world-data (RWD) database for patients with epilepsy to provide further real-world-evidence (RWE) for monogenic genetic epilepsies; to assess the usefulness of a diagnostic algorithm in epilepsy; and to examine protein 3D structures using in silico tools to predict variant pathogenicity.We stratified patients into Group 1 (with genetic diagnoses) and Group 2 (with no genetic diagnoses). We performed protein 3D modeling of variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in genes.We included 167 patients in our RWD database. We report the genotypes and phenotypes of 44 distinct monogenic genetic epilepsies from 66 patients. The diagnostic yield of clinical exome sequencing (ES) was 31%. Developmental delay, developmental brain malformation, movement disorder, and infantile-onset epilepsy (seizure onset <2 years of age) were more common (p < 0.05) in Group 1. The diagnostic yield of biochemical investigations was 0%. Compared to wild type protein structures, there were predicted conformational changes to protein structure including changes in α-helices and/or β-sheets and losses in loops in the protein structures expressed by variants of uncertain significance (VUS) for ARHGAP35, BACH2, BAZ2B, DOP1B, EPHA5, FRYL, HMGXB4, MTDH, NHSL2, NLGN2, NRXN2, P2RX4, PRICKLE2, PRRC2A, RALGAPB, RNF157, SREBF2, ZNF532, and ZNF536, all of which are genes of uncertain significance (GUS). We calculated the estimated diagnostic yield of ES to be 48% by using a 3D protein structure prediction tool, and the functional characterization of a LARP7 VUS, as well as previous case series of GUS.We report 19 GUS that accounts 10% of the cohort with GUS. If those GUS would have been proven to cause genetic epilepsies, the diagnostic yield of ES would have been increased 17%. The GUS and VUS in monogenic epilepsy genes will require further functional characterization. International collaborations are needed to increase our understanding of these rare epilepsies.We wanted to create a database for people with epilepsy. We did genetic tests in people with epilepsy to find out if they have a genetic problem. We looked at their information. We added 167 people with epilepsy and diagnosed a genetic problem in 66 people with epilepsy. We applied genetic tools to find out if genetic changes were important. We still need to the do more laboratory tests to see if those genetic changes explain a genetic problem in >100 people that we did not diagnose a genetic problem.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
The P2RX7 gene has been linked to various neuropsychiatric disorders. In particular, the SNP rs2230912, which results in a glutamine-to-arginine substitution at position 460, has repeatedly been associated with mood disorders. Although this SNP per se does not affect receptor function, it tags a gain-of-function haplotype that has been shown to significantly enhance receptor activity. BAC-transgenic P2X7-reporter mice have proven to be valuable tools for monitoring P2X7 expression. Here, we exploited their capacity to simultaneously overexpress the receptor, thereby serving as gain-of-function models to assess the behavioral consequences of elevated P2X7 levels. We used the two currently available transgenic P2X7 reporter lines (sEGFP and P2X7-EGFP), which differ in their expression pattern, degree of overexpression, and co-expression of the neighbouring P2rx4 gene. Male sEGFP and P2X7-EGFP mice showed no alterations in general activity or in measures of anxiety-related or stress-coping behavior compared to their wild-type littermates. Only male P2X7-EGFP mice exhibited slightly delayed locomotor habituation to a novel environment. To what extent higher expression levels reflect enhanced receptor activity, as conveyed by the disease-associated gain-of-function haplotype, requires further investigation. Overall, these results indicate that P2X7 overexpression-whether at endogenous or ectopic sites, or in conjunction with P2X4-is not sufficient to substantially alter behavior of individually housed male mice under baseline conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41825304 is a review article
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health issue. Cardiovascular events and infections drive mortality in end-stage renal disease via immune dysregulation. The role of T-cell purinergic signaling and its modulation by indoxyl sulfate (IS) in CKD remains unclear.Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 5/6 nephrectomy. The CKD + IS group received daily IS (100 μg/kg, intraperitoneally) for 24 weeks; control group received saline. Samples were collected 2-6 h post-injection. Sepsis was induced via cecal ligation and puncture. Splenic T-cell mRNA cluster of differentiation (CD) 73, CD39, A2A receptor (A2AR), P2X purinergic receptor (P2RX7), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Plasma cytokines, vascular injury markers (asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1)), and myocardial markers (cardiac troponin T (cTnT), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Peripheral purine metabolites (adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, adenosine (ADO)) were analyzed via ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Survival was monitored for 72 h.IS exacerbated baseline microinflammation, elevating plasma cytokines (interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)) and T-cell NF-κB. This coincided with disrupted anti-inflammatory purinergic signaling, characterized by downregulated CD73/A2AR and reduced ADO. Post-infection, the CKD + IS group showed profound CD73 suppression and ADO depletion. Despite blunted cytokine surges, this group exhibited aggravated vascular and myocardial injury (elevated ADMA, ICAM-1, cTnT, BNP) and significantly higher 72-hour mortality.Indoxyl sulfate disrupts the T-cell CD73/ADO axis, promoting basal microinflammation while impairing anti-infective immunity and exacerbating organ damage during sepsis. Targeting the IS-CD73-ADO pathway offers a therapeutic strategy for restoring immune homeostasis in uremia.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42498814 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42487440
Bone cells are known to express multiple purinergic receptors. These are involved in various aspects of bone physiology depending on the cell type and receptor involved, both in normal and disease states, with extracellular ATP being particularly abundant in the bone microenvironment. The P2X7R subtype has been the subject of in-depth research in bone homeostasis. Different splice isoforms and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been discovered in the P2RX7 gene, these have functional implications on the receptor, conferring both gain of function (GOF) and loss of function (LOF), with consequences for bone phenotype, turnover and mass. We examined the full length P2RX7A, truncated P2RX7B, their co-expression and different receptor SNPs. The SNPs included the c.489C > T variant (p.His155Tyr) GOF, c.946G > A (p.Arg307Gln) LOF and c.1513A > C (p.Glu496Ala) LOF. The effect of these isoforms and SNPs on the normal cellular behaviour of the TE85 osteoblastic cell line were measured for intracellular calcium uptake, pore formation, cell proliferation, Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, mineralisation, and changes in osteogenic gene expression. The results demonstrate that transfection of P2RX7 isoforms and SNP variants influenced several important bone processes. Compared to TE85 cells all isoform variants had an increased calcium response with only the co-transfected P2RX7AB having pore formation. This variant also had the highest mineralisation and ALP activity but was the least proliferative. Of the co-transfected SNP variants only the TE85 + P2RX7B + 155Y GOF cell line had both pore formation and an increased calcium response. Mineralisation was lower in all SNP cell lines as was ALP activity, however, proliferation was increased. Mechanistically, gene expression arrays showed that Nuclear Factor of Activated T-cells 1 (NFATc1) increased in the highly proliferative cell variants. Osteogenic genes such as Bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), ALP and collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) were increased in the cell variants that had high mineralisation and ALP activity, and were decreased in the highly proliferative variants, demonstrating multiple bone phenotypes depending on GOF or LOF. In conclusion, this study extends our knowledge into the role of the P2X7R in maintaining bone homeostasis and provides assessment of P2RX7 polymorphisms in osteoblasts. In future this could help to identify associations between specific variants and increased/reduced bone mineral density or accelerated bone loss/fracture risk in a number of bone related conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Zoonotic tuberculosis (zoonotic TB) caused by Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis) accounts for up to 10% of human tuberculosis cases in some regions, but the underlying pathogenic mechanisms remain incompletely understood, especially those involved in cellular pyroptosis. This study aimed to explore the regulatory roles of non-coding RNA (ncRNA) in the pyroptosis of human monocytic THP-1 cells induced by M. bovis infection. An in vitro pyroptosis model was established by infecting THP-1 cells with M. bovis, followed by whole-transcriptome sequencing to identify differentially expressed messenger RNA (mRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), microRNA (miRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA). Bioinformatics analysis was performed to construct an lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory network associated with infection-induced pyroptosis; in addition, overexpression, knockdown, and dual-luciferase reporter assays and quantitative PCR were conducted to verify the interactions and functions of metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1), miR-20b-5p, and purinergic receptor P2X7 (P2RX7). Transcriptome analysis detected 741 mRNAs, 1049 lncRNAs, 25 circRNAs, and 40 miRNAs with significant differential expression in infected THP-1 cells. Specifically, MALAT1 and P2RX7 were upregulated, while miR-20b-5p was downregulated after infection. Knockdown of MALAT1 or P2RX7 and overexpression of miR-20b-5p relieved M. bovis-induced pyroptosis in THP-1 cells. Mechanistically, MALAT1 targeted miR-20b-5p, which directly targeted P2RX7, and overexpression of miR-20b-5p partially reversed P2RX7 upregulation mediated by MALAT1 overexpression. This study provides a transcriptomic characterization of M. bovis-induced pyroptosis in THP-1 cells and supports the MALAT1-miR-20b-5p-P2RX7 axis as a potential regulatory mechanism involved in this process, offering initial molecular insights into the pathogenesis of zoonotic TB.
Ischemic stroke remains a leading cause of death and long-term disability, yet effective treatments that promote recovery beyond the acute phase are lacking. Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) has shown potent neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties in preclinical stroke models, with evidence of enhanced neuronal regeneration when administered after injury. To investigate the spatial mechanisms underlying its neuroregenerative therapeutic effects, we examined brain proteomic responses to post-ischemic NRG-1 treatment in mice using NanoString Digital Spatial Profiling (DSP). Adult C57BL/6 mice were subjected to photothrombotic middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and treated with NRG-1β (5 μg/kg/day) or vehicle at 24- and 48-h post-stroke. Brains were collected at 3 days post-ischemia for spatial proteomic analysis of 68 neural proteins across the ischemic core, peri-infarct tissue, and peri-infarct normal tissue (PiNT). While NRG-1 did not significantly alter overall neuronal death, it markedly reshaped the neuroregenerative milieu, upregulating myelin basic protein (MBP) and synaptophysin and attenuating inflammatory mediators (SPP1, P2RX7, and CD39). NRG-1 also enhanced expression of autophagy and mitophagy markers (ULK1, LC3B, ATG5, PINK1, and Park7), suggesting restoration of cellular clearance and mitochondrial quality control. Pathway and network analyses revealed activation of neuroregeneration, autophagy, and lysosomal biogenesis pathways, while suppressing neuroinflammatory signaling. These findings demonstrate that delayed NRG-1 therapy, even when initiated 24 h after stroke, induces early molecular programs that prime an anti-inflammatory and neuroregenerative environment. The results support further development of NRG-1 as a clinically translatable, multimodal therapy for extending the post-stroke treatment window and promoting functional recovery.Copyright © 2026 Noll, McGinley, Augello, Kürüm, Pan, Pavenko, Nam, Ford and Ford.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42248408 is a review article
Neurovascular uncoupling is a critical yet underrecognized pathological mechanism that exacerbates neurological injury after cerebral ischemic stroke. An-Gong-Niu-Huang-Wan (AGNHW), a well-established traditional Chinese formula, has been clinically utilized for stroke management for over two centuries owing to its multi-target neuroprotective properties. However, its potential to ameliorate impaired neurovascular coupling following ischemic insult remains largely unexplored.This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic mechanism of AGNHW in restoring neurovascular coupling, with a focus on the purinergic P2X7 receptor (P2X7R) signaling pathway.A distal middle cerebral artery occlusion model was induced in male C57BL/6 mice. AGNHW was administered intragastrically 1 hour post-occlusion. Cortical neurovascular coupling was evaluated using laser speckle contrast imaging during whisker stimulation. Functional recovery was assessed via gait analysis and grip strength, while tissue injury was examined through hematoxylin and eosin staining. Neuronal activity, monitored in rAAV2/9-CaMKIIα-GCaMP6s mice, and arterial hemodynamics were visualized using two-photon microscopy during functional hyperemia. RNA sequencing was employed to identify potential mechanistic targets of AGNHW, followed by molecular biology techniques to investigate the role of purinergic signaling, particularly P2X7R-mediated regulation of neurovascular coupling.Compared with the control group, AGNHW treatment significantly enhanced the cerebral blood flow response and increased the area under the curve during whisker stimulation, accompanied by alleviated neuronal damage and improved motor function-reflected by prolonged stance time and elevated peak pressure in the affected forelimb and enhanced grip strength. AGNHW also markedly increased the signal intensity of calcium activity (ΔF/F₀) following ischemia. Furthermore, AGNHW improved arterial hemodynamics by promoting arterial dilation, increasing red blood cell velocity, and elevating red blood cell flux during functional hyperemia. It also ameliorated blood-brain barrier integrity and upregulated the expression of tight junction proteins (ZO-1, occludin, claudin5). Mechanistically, AGNHW downregulated the genes expression of P2rx7, P2ry12, and Adora2a, and inhibited P2X7R activation by reducing ATP release, thereby inhibited inflammatory cell infiltration and alleviating the secretion of inflammatory mediators such as IL-1β, IL-18, and TNF-α. Notably, activation of P2X7R signaling abolished the protective effects of AGNHW on cerebral blood flow response and blood-brain barrier integrity.AGNHW attenuated neurovascular uncoupling and improved cerebral blood flow response and neuronal activity during whisker stimulation after cerebral ischemia, mediated by inhibition of the P2X7R-driven purinergic-inflammatory cascade. These findings elucidated a mechanism through which AGNHW preserves neurovascular function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2a clinical trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of JNJ-55308942 (zanvipixant), a selective, brain-penetrant P2X7 receptor antagonist, in bipolar depression.Outpatients ages 18 to 64 years with bipolar I/II disorder, who were experiencing a major depressive episode and carried a specific gain-of-function P2RX7 mutation without either of 2 specific loss-of-function P2RX7 mutations, were randomized at a 1:1 ratio to receive 50 mg JNJ-55308942 or placebo once daily. The primary end point was change from baseline to week 6 in Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score.The mean (SD) change in the MADRS total score from baseline to 6 weeks was -16.0 (10.43) for the JNJ-55308942 group (n = 42) and -15.4 (9.81) for the placebo group (n = 50), with a nonstatistically significant least squares (LS) mean difference of -0.3 (95% CI, -4.21 to 3.59). However, the ability to detect an effect was obscured by a high placebo response, rendering this study inconclusive. Notably, the week-6 LS mean difference between treatment groups in MADRS total score among participants homozygous for a P2RX7 gain-of-function allele (JNJ-55308942, n = 11; placebo, n = 16) was -3.5 (95% CI, -11.32 to 4.26), and the week-6 LS mean difference between treatment groups in Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Ability to Participate in Social Roles and Activities T score (JNJ-55308942, n = 42; placebo, n = 50) was 3.32 (95% CI, 0.12 to 6.52). Adverse events were generally mild or moderate, with no clear differences between treatment groups.While the primary end point was not achieved, clinically meaningful findings in secondary outcomes and a tolerable safety profile warrant further investigation into P2X7 receptor antagonism in bipolar depression.© 2026 The Authors.
Immunoproteasome induction is prominent in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but whether it protects proteostasis or amplifies neuroinflammation remains unresolved. Here, we generated immunoproteasome-deficient PS19 tauopathy and APP/human tau double-knock-in mice by crossing each disease model with L7M1 mice lacking two immunoproteasome catalytic subunits. Immunoproteasome deficiency increased phospho-tau burden, exacerbated amyloid-β pathology and heightened microglial reactivity without suppressing constitutive 26S proteasome activity. In primary microglia and longitudinal two-photon imaging, immunoproteasome-deficient microglia engaged and engulfed tau aggregate-bearing material but failed to resolve internalized cargo, revealing a post-engulfment degradative checkpoint. Single-nucleus transcriptomics identified a remodeled P2ry12 low /Trem2 high microglial state with impaired phagolysosomal and mitochondrial programs. Reanalysis of human single-nucleus transcriptomic datasets showed that reduced microglial immunoproteasome expression was associated with cargo-processing gene-program changes similar to those observed in immunoproteasome-deficient mouse microglia. Together, these findings identify immunoproteasome biogenesis as a protective glial stress response that supports microglial aggregate clearance in AD.
Microglia are the brain-resident macrophages and key regulators of the brain tumor microenvironment. Although induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia (iMG) provide a valuable model for studying human microglial, systematic comparisons of differentiation protocols are limited, and their utility for modeling microglia-tumor cell interactions remains underexplored. Here, we analyzed 54 public RNA-seq datasets representing 22 iMG differentiation protocols, including embryoid body (EB)-based, two-dimensional (2D), transcription factor-induced, and coculture-based approaches. Most iMG closely resembled primary human microglia, although substantial protocol-dependent differences were observed. iMG generated using EB-based protocols showed higher TMEM119 expression, whereas those generated using 2D-based protocols showed higher P2RY12 expression. A widely adopted EB-based protocol showed the highest phagocytosis gene signature. Using this protocol, we generated iMG that efficiently phagocytosed patient-derived glioma stem-like cells and upregulated inflammatory and immunoregulatory genes following phagocytosis. These findings provide a transcriptomic benchmark for current iMG models and support their use in investigating microglia-glioma interactions.
Microglia are possible regulators of seizures but previous employed approaches are insufficiently selective of microglial-specific manipulations. To more definitely determine microglial roles in seizure severity, we used the microglial-deficient Csf1r ΔFIRE/ΔFIRE mouse model where mice lack microglia but retain brain border-associated macrophages. Using two experimental paradigms, we confirm that a microglial deficiency exacerbates seizures and facilitates the likelihood of developing spontaneous recurrent seizures, indicating that microglia constrain seizure activity. To gain insights into microglial molecular regulators of seizure severity, we examined P2RY12 contributions and demonstrate that a loss of P2RY12 increased seizure severity in both global and microglial-specific knockout mice indicating that microglia suppress seizure severity. During seizures, P2RY12-deficient microglia displayed altered process complexity, accompanied by increased neuronal activation and reduced inhibitory tone. These results link impaired microglial responses to heightened seizure susceptibility and network excitability. Together, we establish microglia and P2RY12 signaling as protective regulators of seizure activity.© 2026 The Author(s).
To investigate the mechanism of the mechanosensitive ion channel Piezo1 in microglial ferroptosis following spinal cord injury (SCI), and to assess the effects of Piezo1 inhibition on ameliorating the injury microenvironment and promoting neurological functional recovery.Primary microglia cells were extracted from neonatal 1-2 days C57BL/6 mice and divided into control group, Yoda1 (Piezo1 agonist) group, and Yoda1+GsMTx4 (Piezo1 inhibitor) group. Live/dead cell staining, reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorescence staining, 5, 5', 6, 6'-tetrachloro-1, 1', 3, 3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide (JC-1) mitochondrial membrane potential detection, and transmission electron microscopy were utilized to assess microglial ferroptosis and mitochondrial functional characteristics. SPF female C57BL/6 mice aged 6 to 8 weeks were used to detect the expression of Piezo1 at different time points after SCI by Western blot, and the two time points with no significant change and the most significant change in Piezo1 expression after SCI were selected for subsequent experiments. T 8, T 9 SCI models were established by modified Allen's method, and were divided into sham operation group, injury group, and injury+shPiezo1 group (Piezo1-targeted interfering virus AAV-shPiezo1 was injected in situ to knock down the expression of Piezo1 14 days before modeling). Colocalization of Piezo1 with microglial markers purinergic receptor P2Y12 (P2ry12), and the expressions of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and acyl coenzyme A synthetase long chain member 4 (ACSL4) were observed by immunofluorescence staining. Basso Mouse Scale (BMS) score was used to assess hindlimb motor function in mice. The level of ROS was detected by dihydroethidium (DHE) staining; the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) was detected by MDA kit; the levels of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) were detected by ELISA assay; the pathological morphology of spinal cord was observed by HE staining.In vitro experiments showed that compared with the control group, the Yoda1 group had typical ultrastructural changes of ferroptosis, such as increased microglial cell death, enhanced ROS fluorescence, mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization, mitochondrial shrinkage and mitochondrial cristae breakage (all P<0.05), while the GsMTx4 group could partially reverse the above effects ( P<0.05). In vivo experiments demonstrated that the expression of Piezo1 in spinal cord tissue was up-regulated sequentially after SCI, and reached the peak on the 7th day after SCI ( P<0.05), and it was mainly localized in P2ry12-positive microglia. Compared with the injury group, in the injury+shPiezo1 group, the expression of ferroptosis core protein GPX4 in microglia was increased, the expression of ACSL4 was decreased, the levels of ROS and MDA in spinal cord tissue were decreased ( P<0.05), the level of pro-inflammatory factor TNF-α was decreased, and the level of anti-inflammatory factor IL-10 was increased ( P<0.05). In addition, the BMS score was significantly higher than that of the injury group ( P<0.05) from the 14th day after operation, and the spinal cord tissue structure was relatively well preserved, and the cavity area was reduced.SCI activates the Piezo1 channel in microglia, triggering mitochondrial dysfunction and mediating cellular ferroptosis, thereby aggravating secondary neuroinflammation. Targeted inhibition of Piezo1 effectively blocks the ferroptosis process, ameliorates the immune microenvironment, and promotes tissue repair and locomotor functional recovery after SCI.
Cardiovascular diseases remain an urgent global health concern addressed by multiple clinical guidelines. Atherothrombosis is characterised by thrombus formation following disruption of atherosclerotic plaque, leading to major adverse cardiovascular events, such as myocardial infarction and stroke. Platelet hyperactivity is a key driver of these outcomes, leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Environmental xenobiotic exposure has been documented to contribute to atherosclerosis, endothelial dysfunction, and hypertension; however, its effects on thrombosis remain scarcely documented. In the present study, the effects of bisphenol A (BPA) and its most commonly used structural analogues on platelet aggregation were assessed using an ex vivo model. In silico analyses were also performed to identify potential receptors through which bisphenols may induce platelet aggregation. Additionally, our findings were contextualised within a systematic review spanning 10 years.Platelet-rich plasma from healthy middle-aged men was incubated (30 min at 37°) with different bisphenols at concentrations ranging from 5 pM to 500 nM. Following incubation, platelet aggregation was induced with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and measured with a Lumi-Aggregometer. Results were presented as standardised mean differences (SMD). A systematic review spanning 10 years was conducted to compare our findings. To explain our results, in silico analyses were conducted to evaluate the binding affinity and interaction models of bisphenols at platelet receptors relative to their reference agonists and antagonists. Receptors were selected based on the structural similarity between their cognate agonist and bisphenols. Binding affinity was assessed for the thromboxane A2 (TP), the purinergic P2Y-subtype-12 (P2RY12) and the protease-activated receptors 1 (PAR1) and 4 (PAR4).Bisphenols did not provoke platelet aggregation spontaneously. However, once ADP was added, they induced a strong and prolonged platelet aggregation (SMD: 1.90; 95% CI: 1.68-2.11) in the ex vivo model, with a potency ranking of BPF > TDF > BPS > BPA > BPAF. These findings were reinforced by the results from other studies in which human platelets were exposed ex vivo to bisphenols. The in silico analyses revealed that bisphenols exhibit favourable binding affinities for TP, which may explain the ex vivo findings. Bisphenols also showed binding affinity for P2Y12, PAR1, and PAR4.Our study demonstrated that exposure to bisphenols enhanced and prolonged ADP-induced platelet aggregation and, for the first time, illuminated their interactions with key receptors involved in this complex process. Nonetheless, bisphenols may also exert other pleiotropic effects that further contribute to platelet aggregation. These results highlight the remarkable toxicity of these xenobiotics and their significant impact on haemostatic balance.Copyright © 2026 Kwame, de la Peña-Díaz, Martínez-Jiménez, Flores-García, Calderón-Aranda, Lee-Rivera and Gómez.
Anxiety is a common clinical comorbidity of neuropathic pain. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critically involved in both pain and anxiety processing. Microglia have emerged as key regulators of neuronal plasticity, and disruption of homeostatic neuron-microglia crosstalk can precipitate neuropsychiatric disorders. Although microglia are abundant in the BLA, their specific role in modulating neuronal plasticity underlying pain-induced anxiety remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that spared nerve injury (SNI) induces anxiety-like behaviors in mice, accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased spine density in the BLA. These changes correlated with increased density of hyper-ramified microglia, along with upregulated P2ry12 expression and enhanced microglial BDNF production. Importantly, microglial P2ry12 knockdown significantly attenuated both process hyper-ramification and BDNF overexpression in the BLA. Furthermore, either microglial depletion with clodronate or microglial P2ry12 knockdown in the BLA reversed neuronal hyperexcitability and spine overgrowth, and alleviated pain and anxiety-like behaviors in SNI mice. Meanwhile, clodronate mildly suppressed neuronal excitability and dendritic spine density in the BLA of control mice, whereas P2ry12 knockdown had no detectable impact on these neuronal measures. Together, these findings support a role for microglia in maintaining physiological neuronal excitability and spine density. Highly-ramified microglia and their increased P2ry12 expression underlie the enhanced neuronal excitability and spine density in the BLA, thereby promoting comorbidity of pain and anxiety.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Microglia rapidly lose their homeostatic phenotype after isolation, limiting the interpretability of in vitro studies. We systematically evaluated culture conditions that reconstitute central nervous system (CNS) niche inputs to better preserve microglial homeostatic features. Neonatal mouse microglia were isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, Percoll gradients, or a shaking protocol and cultured with defined cytokines (TGF-β1, IL-34, CX3CL1), extracellular matrix (collagen IV), and metabolic support (cholesterol, insulin-transferrin-selenium) under serum-free or serum-containing conditions. RT-qPCR revealed rapid downregulation of seven homeostatic transcripts (Tmem119, P2ry12, Cx3cr1, Hexb, Fcrl2, Olfml3, Tgfbr1) within 24 h across isolation methods, with further decline for a subset over 7 days. A cytokine cocktail partially restored homeostatic gene expression, with collagen IV and cholesterol further enhancing selected transcripts. Serum-free conditions favored ramified, surveillant-like microglia, whereas serum promoted amoeboid, activated-like cells, and adding defined factors preserved ramification while improving transcriptional recovery. Transcriptomic analyses demonstrated that optimized conditions shifted global expression profiles toward neonatal ex vivo microglia, upregulated most microglia-specific homeostatic genes, and downregulated inflammatory effectors. These data define a scalable, serum-free, collagen IV-based culture system with defined CNS cues that partially preserves key aspects of microglial homeostatic transcriptional and morphological features compared with conventional serum-containing culture, providing more physiologically relevant conditions for mechanistic and disease-relevant studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
In retinal degenerative disease, microglia and macrophages accumulate at sites of pathology and strongly influence disease progression, yet their distinct contributions remain unclear. To define the fate and function of infiltrating monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) in retinal degeneration, we generated a CCR2-CreER mouse line on the rd10 background to enable precise monocyte-specific tracking and ablation. Infiltrating monocytes rapidly downregulated CCR2 and LY6C upon entering the retina and acquired de novo TMEM119 and P2RY12 expression, together with a ramified, microglia-like morphology. Immunohistochemistry and transcriptomic profiling showed that a subset of these cells was cleared by resident microglia. Microglia-monocyte interactions enhanced Müller cell C3 production, whereas activated microglia increased CFB and decreased CFH expression, thereby promoting complement alternative pathway activation. Selective ablation of infiltrating monocytes reduced microglial activation and phagocytosis, suppressed Müller cell C3 expression and complement deposition, lowered proinflammatory cytokine levels, and ultimately ameliorated photoreceptor degeneration. These findings identify infiltrating monocytes as key drivers of immune dysregulation and proinflammation, highlighting them as potential targets for neuroprotective therapy.
Buprenorphine (BUP) treatment during pregnancy reduces overdose risk and attenuates adverse neonatal outcomes compared to full μ-opioid receptor agonists. Yet, prenatal exposure to BUP and other opioids is associated with long-term executive function deficits in children. Prenatal BUP exposure also relates to reductions in neonatal amygdala volume. To assess the impact in offspring brain regions relevant to these clinical findings and in the absence of clinical confounds, we examined the effects of perinatal BUP versus morphine (MO) on the offspring prefrontal cortex (PFC) and basolateral amygdala (BLA) in adolescent mice. Female mice were given once daily s.c. injections of low dose BUP (0.1 mg/kg, n = 8), MO (10 mg/kg, n = 12), or saline (SAL, n = 10) during pre-gestation, gestation, and lactation until offspring were weaned. We conducted RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry in the PFC and BLA at postnatal day (P)39. Offspring exploratory and social behavior were assessed, as well as puzzle box performance in early adulthood. MO increased expression of microglia markers in male offspring at the transcriptional (Csf1r, Cx3cr1, P2ry12) and protein (CD68, IBA1) level that was prominent in the PFC, while CD68 increases were also evident in the BLA with BUP. Female BUP offspring had the greatest numbers of differentially expressed genes, especially in the BLA. Expression patterns related to downregulation of genes involved in neuron growth and upregulation of immediate early genes. MO subtly impaired puzzle box performance in females, while MO and BUP decreased thigmotaxis behavior in the open field in males. Overall, perinatal MO exposure affects microglia markers, particularly in adolescent male offspring. The BLA may be particularly sensitive to the effects of perinatal BUP exposure despite subtle behavioral changes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The contribution of infiltrating monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) to neurodegeneration remains poorly understood. Using a CCR2-CreER-based lineage-tracing and ablation strategy in mouse models of retinal degeneration, we precisely tracked infiltrating monocytes and defined their functional evolution. We found that monocytes entering the degenerating retina rapidly downregulate CCR2 and progressively acquire microglial markers (e.g., TMEM119, P2RY12), adopt a ramified morphology, and acquire a transcriptional signature highly analogous to that of resident microglia-derived macrophages (MiDMs). While a subset of monocytes is cleared by activated microglia during the acute phase, others persist and integrate into the retinal macrophage niche, restoring myeloid homeostasis in later stages. Functionally, early monocyte infiltration is pathogenic; it amplifies neuroinflammation by inducing Müller cells to produce complement C3 and shifts microglial complement regulation toward the alternative pathway. Critically, selective ablation of monocytes during this acute phase attenuated C3 deposition, suppressed microglial activation, and preserved photoreceptors. Together, these findings reveal a temporally bifurcated role for infiltrating monocytes-as early drivers of complement-mediated pathology and later contributors to immune homeostasis-and identify monocyte infiltration as a stage-specific therapeutic target in neurodegenerative disease.
Vitamin D-dependent rickets Type 1A (VDDR1A) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by pathogenic variants in CYP27B1, resulting in impaired renal 1α-hydroxylation of 25-hydroxyvitamin D. The consequent deficiency of active vitamin D disrupts calcium-phosphate homeostasis and causes rickets. Although VDDR1A is monogenic, clinical severity may vary considerably even among patients with the same mutation.We describe two unrelated Saudi boys with genetically confirmed VDDR1A who both harbored the same homozygous CYP27B1 c.1286G > C (p.Arg429Pro) variant but exhibited markedly different clinical courses. The first child presented at 7 months of age with hypocalcemic seizures and classical radiographic features of rickets but preserved growth. Early initiation of alphacalcidol and calcium supplementation was associated with biochemical improvement, resolution of seizures, and favorable clinical recovery by 2.5 years of age. In contrast, the second child was diagnosed at 16 months after developmental delay, recurrent respiratory infections, growth failure, and early skeletal deformities. Long-term follow-up into adolescence revealed severe bowing deformities, kyphoscoliosis, osteopenia, and healed fractures in the setting of delayed diagnosis and inconsistent treatment adherence, despite receiving the same therapy.These cases highlight substantial phenotypic variability in VDDR1A even in children harboring the same CYP27B1 mutation. Early recognition and sustained treatment with active vitamin D therapy are crucial to prevent severe skeletal complications and optimize growth, particularly in populations with high rates of consanguinity.Copyright © 2026 Ali Saleh Alquraishi. Case Reports in Pediatrics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42514402 is a review article
Vitamin D signaling produces context-dependent transcriptional responses, but how gene-level variability relates to recurrent pathway-level programs across perturbational models remains incompletely defined. To systematically characterize these responses, we analyzed publicly available LINCS L1000 perturbational transcriptomic data comprising 258 replicate-supported 24-h signatures across five LINCS cell-line models and seven vitamin D-related compounds. Global transcriptomic analysis indicated that cellular context contributes slightly more to transcriptional variability than compound identity and dose. At the gene level, we defined a direction-specific consensus transcriptional core composed of 42 upregulated and 35 downregulated genes, which was used to derive an operational transcriptional activity metric (core_score). Despite strong context-dependent variability at the gene level, pathway-level analysis revealed recurrent functional themes involving metabolic regulation, stress response, proteostatic control, and proliferative programs. Dose-related analyses showed aggregate dose-ordered core_score trends in several cellular contexts, but these associations should be interpreted as dataset-level patterns rather than compound-specific pharmacodynamic curves. Transcript-level assessment of selected VDR/RXR-axis genes showed small or context-dependent changes in VDR, CYP24A1, CYP27B1, and RXR isoform transcripts, indicating that transcript abundance of these selected components alone does not explain downstream response heterogeneity. Overall, this study provides a reproducible, hypothesis-generating framework for distinguishing shared and context-dependent vitamin D-related transcriptional programs in the analyzed LINCS subset.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Although vitamin D (VitD) exhibits anti-tumor activity in colorectal cancer (CRC) preclinically, its effects in the human tumor microenvironment (TME) remain unclear. We conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of preoperative high-dose VitD supplementation in stage I-III colon cancer patients to assess its impact on the TME. Forty-two patients received either VitD3 (50,000 IU/day for 7 days, then 10,000 IU/day) or placebo before surgery. Spatial immune-profiling and assessment of VitD receptor (VDR) and CYP27B1 expression were performed on paired tumor samples from 24 patients. VitD significantly increased plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels (P<0.001), increased CD3+CD8+ memory T cells (P=0.03), reduced CD3+CD4+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells (P=0.02) and spatially re-organized the TME, leading to greater T cell and tumor cell proximity. Post-treatment VDR expression was heterogeneous and decreased overall (P=0.02). Spatial transcriptomic profiling of post-treatment resections reflected predominantly repressive VDR activity. These findings support an immunomodulatory role for VitD, warranting further mechanistic investigation.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the most common complication of diabetes, with immune-mediated inflammation playing a significant role in its pathophysiology. The complement system, a key proinflammatory factor, is implicated in DN. This study was aimed at identifying diagnostic biomarkers related to the complement system in DN using bioinformatics methods. We analyzed three datasets (GSE96804, GSE104948, and GSE1009) from public databases, employing differential expression analysis and machine learning to identify complement system-related genes (CSRGs) as potential biomarkers. A diagnostic nomogram was constructed based on these genes, and immune microenvironment differences between the DN and control groups were explored. Gene interaction networks, enrichment analysis, and drug predictions were also conducted. Mendelian randomization (MR) was used to examine the causal links between identified biomarkers and DN. Our analysis identified five biomarkers (CKB, ANXA1, HSPA1L, CYP27B1, and XYLT1) associated with DN. A diagnostic nomogram based on these biomarkers showed high accuracy (model correction slope close to 1 and AUC close to 1). Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in immune cell subsets between the DN and control groups. Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) indicated that the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) pathway was activated in CKB, HSPA1L, CYP27B1, and XYLT1 while inhibited in ANXA1. MR confirmed HSPA1L as a risk factor for DN (OR = 1.625, 95% CI: 1.272-2.076, p = 9.96e - 05). In conclusion, these five CSRGs may play significant roles in DN progression, providing a foundation for further research into DN pathogenesis and potential molecular markers for clinical diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Lifang Wei et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Vitamin D (VitD) signaling is implicated in cancer and immune regulation, but its role in glioblastoma (GBM) remains unclear. We investigated the prognostic impact of VitD levels, VDR expression, and polymorphisms in VitD-related genes in GBM.Ninety GBM tumors (62 primary, 28 recurrent) were analyzed. Circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) was measured in 54 cases; tumor VDR mRNA/protein, calcitriol, and CYP24A1/CYP27B1/CYP27A1 proteins were assessed. Whole-exome sequencing identified SNPs in the VitD-pathway genes. Associations with overall (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were evaluated by Kaplan-Meier and Cox models. Transcriptomic profiles were explored by GSEA.Severe 25(OH)D deficiency (<10 ng/mL) was frequent (13 primary, 38.2%; 11, recurrent 55.0%). Patients with <10 ng/mL had significantly shorter OS than patients with higher levels (9 vs. 18 months; HR = 2.55, 95% CI 1.03-6.39, P = .045). High VDR protein was associated with longer PFS (13.1 vs. 4.7 months, P = .027). CYP27B1 variants rs4646536 and rs703842 were associated with shorter OS (∼9-11 vs. ∼23-24 months; P < .05), although statistical significance was attenuated after correction for multiple testing. Transcriptomic analysis showed that CYP27B1 wild-type tumors were enriched for immune-related programs (B/T/NK-cell cytotoxicity, interferon response, antigen presentation; FDR < 0.25), while SNP tumors displayed minimal activation, consistent with poorer outcomes.Severe VitD deficiency (<10 ng/mL) and CYP27B1 variants (rs4646536, rs703842) were associated with poorer prognosis in GBM. These exploratory findings suggest that systemic VitD status and genetic variation in its metabolism may influence GBM progression and tumor-immune interactions, warranting validation in independent cohorts.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Background and Objectives: Vitamin D signaling plays critical roles in immune regulation, bone metabolism, and cellular differentiation across multiple tissues. However, the spatial and temporal expression patterns of key vitamin D signaling components-the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and the enzyme 1α-hydroxylase (encoded by CYP27B1)-during human nephrogenesis have not been mapped at the protein level. The primary objective of this study was to characterize VDR and 1α-hydroxylase expression across critical stages of human kidney development, complementing prior transcriptomic and single-cell descriptions, and to contextualize these developmental observations against the dysregulation of vitamin D pathway genes in adult renal and urothelial malignancies. Materials and Methods: Immunofluorescence analysis was performed on FFPE kidney tissue from 12 specimens (3 per stage) at 10, 22 and 38 gestational weeks and postnatally at 1.5 years. For each specimen, at least three non-adjacent sections were stained and 6 non-overlapping cortical fields were imaged at ×40 (18 fields per stage). Fluorescence-area percentages were quantified in ImageJ 1.54g, and group differences were assessed by one-way ANOVA with Tukey's post hoc test at both field- and specimen-level. An accompanying bioinformatic analysis evaluated the differential expression of VDR, CYP27B1, and CYP24A1 in adult renal and urothelial malignancies (TCGA cohorts: KICH, KIRC, KIRP, BLCA) using unpaired Welch's t-test, with Benjamini-Hochberg FDR correction applied across all 16 tumor-versus-normal comparisons (12 gene-wise + 4 post hoc log2(CYP24A1/CYP27B1) ratios). Results: VDR showed its highest mean fluorescence area at 10 weeks (3.40% (95% CI 3.24-3.56); field-level Tukey p < 0.0001 versus other stages) and its lowest at 22 weeks (0.69% (0.64-0.74)). 1α-hydroxylase was also highest at 10 weeks (5.44% (5.29-5.60); p < 0.0001) and stabilized at lower levels thereafter (3.04-4.26%). Co-expression of both proteins was observed throughout development except in 22-week glomeruli. In TCGA, all 12 significant gene-wise comparisons retained significance after BH FDR correction (q < 0.05). VDR showed cohort-specific dysregulation: reduced in KICH (q = 2 × 10-4) but increased in KIRC and KIRP (q = 2 × 10-4 for both). CYP24A1 was reduced in all three renal cohorts (q ≤ 0.029) and unchanged in BLCA. CYP27B1 showed cohort-specific direction (reduced in KIRC; increased in KICH, KIRP, and BLCA). Conclusions: This study provides an initial immunofluorescence-based spatial description of VDR and 1α-hydroxylase across human kidney development, revealing a coordinated redistribution from immature glomeruli at 10 weeks to mature tubular segments at later stages. The TCGA analysis demonstrates that vitamin D pathway dysregulation in renal carcinoma is cohort-specific and is not abolished by multiple-testing correction. Together, these results indicate that the developmentally engaged vitamin D pathway retains kidney-specific functional relevance in adult renal pathology and provide a baseline reference for future mechanistic studies.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is associated with immune dysregulation in a subset of individuals, though findings remain heterogeneous and poorly defined, particularly regarding immune subtypes and metabolic context.We analyzed whole-blood microarray data from GSE18123 (GPL570: ASD n = 46, controls n = 19; GPL6244: ASD n = 68, controls n = 21) using an integrated immunometabolic framework. CD4+ T-cell transcriptional programs were used to assign dominant immune phenotypes (TH1, TH2, TH17, Tfh, FOXP3+ Treg, Tr1-like). Metabolic demand was quantified via the τ-axis; execution capacity was assessed using cytosolic and mitochondrial energy compensation ratios (CECR, MECR). Induction-execution mismatch was captured by three Gap metrics (Cytosolic, Warburg, Global). Functional validation correlated these metrics with transcriptional signatures of folate transport, one-carbon metabolism, receptor-mediated micronutrient uptake (LRP2-CUBN-AMN), cobalamin processing, and vitamin D activation across both platforms.Six immunometabolic CD4+ subtypes were identified within ASD. τ-axis discrimination was strongest for Tr1-like (AUC = 0.811) and Tfh (AUC = 0.825) states, while TH17 profiles were indistinguishable from controls. Despite variation in metabolic demand, CECR and MECR remained relatively preserved, indicating decoupling between induction and execution capacity. Global Gap values were most negative in Tfh and TH1 states and positive in TH17 and controls. Negative Gap states showed coordinated suppression of ATP-intensive micronutrient acquisition pathways, including folate transport (FOLR1/2, SLC19A1), megalin-cubilin-mediated uptake (r ≈ 0.77-0.79), and vitamin D activation (CYP27B1). Intracellular cobalamin processing was upregulated in proportion to metabolic demand (r > 0.9). Findings were directionally replicated across both datasets.These data demonstrate that ASD exhibits structured immunometabolic heterogeneity characterized by subtype-specific demand-capacity imbalance. The Global Gap framework provides transcriptomic evidence of energetic deficit in Tfh- and Tr1-like-dominant states. Future clinical studies should incorporate subtype-stratified assessment of micronutrient status and metabolic execution capacity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42338858 is a review article
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions characterized by blood-brain barrier instability and a propensity for recurrent hemorrhage. While RhoA-ROCK signaling dysregulation is the canonical driver of pathogenesis, vitamin D has emerged as a potential molecular modifier. This systematic review synthesizes clinical, genetic, and preclinical evidence to evaluate the biological role of vitamin D and its receptor signaling pathways in CCM pathogenesis.Following PRISMA guidelines, a comprehensive search was conducted across MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, and Scopus through February 2026. Eligible studies included clinical cohorts, genetic association analyses, and preclinical models investigating vitamin D signaling in CCM. Quality assessment was performed using NIH, JBI, and SYRCLE tools.Nine studies representing 971 patients and several preclinical models were included. Observational clinical data indicate that lower serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) levels are associated with "chronically aggressive" disease phenotypes and hemorrhagic presentation, though these findings are limited to small, associative cohorts. Genetically, polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and metabolic enzymes (CYP27A1, CYP27B1) correlate with clinical heterogeneity and lesion burden. Mechanistically, preclinical cell and animal models demonstrate that vitamin D can non-canonically inhibit the RhoA-ROCK axis, reduce local oxidative stress, and induce autophagy via mTORC1 inhibition. In specific murine models, cholecalciferol supplementation reduced lesion burden by approximately 50%.Circulating vitamin D status and related genetic variants serve as hypothesis-generating biological correlates of CCM disease activity, but causality has not been established and current evidence is insufficient to recommend supplementation to alter clinical outcomes. While the VDR pathway constitutes a plausible molecular axis associated with endothelial structural homeostasis, routine clinical supplementation with a disease-modifying intent must await prospective, randomized controlled trials to formally establish safety and therapeutic efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
A single dose of the replication-competent rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP vaccine is recommended by the WHO Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization during Ebola virus disease outbreaks. We aimed to assess the immunogenicity, safety, and tolerability of this vaccine in adults and adolescents with HIV.In this phase 2, multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial, we enrolled participants aged 13-70 years who had laboratory-confirmed HIV infection, were on antiretroviral therapy (ART), had an undetectable viral load (<40 copies per mL), and had a CD4 count of 200 cells per μL or more at four ambulatory settings in Montreal and Ottawa (Canada), Dakar (Senegal), and Bobo-Dioulasso (Burkina Faso). Sequential enrolment of five study cohorts occurred over time at each study site according to CD4 counts: cohort 1 (adults [age 18-70 years] with a CD4 count ≥500 cells per μL), cohort 2 (adults with a CD4 count of >350 and <500 cells per μL), cohort 3 (adults with a CD4 count of 200-350 cells per μL), cohort 4 (adolescents [age 13-17 years] with a CD4 count ≥200 cells per μL), and cohort 5 (adults and adolescents with a CD4 count ≥200 cells per μL). Participants were randomly assigned 4:1 to receive one dose (cohorts 1-4) or two doses (56 days apart; cohort 5) of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP or placebo, administered at day 0. An unmasked staff member at each site prepared the vaccine or placebo; all other study personnel and participants were masked to group assignments. Participants were followed up to day 365. The primary immunogenicity endpoints, assessed in the per-protocol population, were Ebola virus-specific antibody responses measured by glycoprotein ELISA (GP-ELISA; geometric mean titre ratio [GMTR]) and neutralisation (geometric mean fold increase [GMFI] of plaque reduction neutralisation test [PRNT]) on day 28 in cohorts 1-5 combined (combined cohort), and 28 days after the second dose of vaccine or placebo in cohort 5. The primary safety endpoints, assessed in the as-treated population, were: the occurrence of each solicited local and systemic adverse event during a 14-day follow-up period after each vaccination; fever, joint pain (arthralgia), joint swelling (arthritis), rash, and blisters or vesicular lesions during a 42-day follow-up period after vaccination; any haematological and biochemical laboratory abnormality at 0, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days after each vaccine; occurrence of any unsolicited adverse event during a 42-day follow-up period after each vaccination; and occurrence of vaccine-related serious adverse events up to day 365 of the study. The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03031912) and is complete.Between Aug 1, 2017, and March 3, 2022, we assessed 647 individuals for eligibility, 251 of whom were enrolled. 120 (48%) participants were male, 130 (52%) were female, 225 (90%) were Black (Black African or African Canadian), and median age was 52·0 years (IQR 48·0-56·0). 51 participants were enrolled in cohort 1, 50 in cohort 2, 50 in cohort 3, 50 in cohort 4, and 50 in cohort 5. 202 (80%) participants were assigned to receive rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP and 49 (20%) were assigned to receive placebo. One dose of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP elicited superior immune responses compared with placebo, with GP-ELISA antibodies in the combined cohort (per-protocol population) increasing over 40-fold (GMTR 42·90, 95% CI 31·49-58·43; p<0·0001). In cohort 5, the GP-ELISA geometric mean titre 28 days after the second dose was over 200-fold higher in the rVSV-ZEBOV-GP group than in the placebo group (GMTR 208·66, 95% CI 115·57-376·72; p<0·0001). GFMI of PRNT titres was 11·51 (95% CI 9·82-13·50) at day 28 for participants in the combined cohort who received one dose of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP and 86·64 (95% CI 69·85-107·46) 28 days after a second dose in cohort 5. Solicited adverse events up to 42 days after vaccination were mild to moderate in severity and transient. In the 14 days after the first dose of vaccine, the most common adverse events were injection site pain (130 of 201 participants, 65%), headache (109 of 201, 54%), fatigue (91 of 201, 45%), and joint pain (50 of 201, 25%). Unsolicited adverse events to day 42 were not different between participants who received rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP (103 of 201, 51%) and those who received placebo (22 of 49, 45%; p=0·52). No clinically significant changes in CD4 cell counts, HIV viral load, or haematological and biochemical laboratory tests were observed.A single dose of rVSVΔG-ZEBOV-GP is highly immunogenic in people living with HIV on ART with an undetectable viral load, with a tolerable safety profile. A two-dose regimen in a subset of participating adolescents and adults showed a significant boosting at day 28, with no increase in reactogenicity compared with the first dose.International Development Research Centre, US Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response, Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness.For the French translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Immune checkpoint blockade targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis has improved the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet its therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient antitumor immune activation. Herein, we developed a biomimetic manganese-amplified STING nanoagonist to potentiate PD-L1 blockade immunotherapy. Hollow mesoporous manganese silicate nanoparticles were engineered as Mn2⁺-releasing nanocarriers for loading a STING agonist (Sa) diABZI, followed by coating with anti-PD-L1 antibody-functionalized NSCLC tumor cell membranes. The resulting Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited pH-responsive Sa release, preserved PD-L1 blocking activity, and enhanced tumor-cell-selective uptake. Mechanistically, Mn2⁺ released from HMMSN promoted cGAMP production, while Sa further enhanced STING phosphorylation, leading to robust STING activation. Sa@HMMSN@PM showed enhanced tumor accumulation, superior tumor growth inhibition and prolonged survival in both subcutaneous and orthotopic NSCLC mouse models. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated increased IFN-β, CXCL10, TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ levels, together with enhanced CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Importantly, Sa@HMMSN@PM exhibited favorable biosafety without obvious systemic toxicity. Overall, this biomimetic Mn2⁺-amplified STING nanoagonist provides a promising strategy for integrating innate immune activation with immune checkpoint blockade for enhanced NSCLC immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is a standard treatment for rectal cancer, yet patients show marked variability in response. Identifying reliable biomarkers that predict CRT response remains an unmet clinical need.Pretreatment biopsy samples from patients who received neoadjuvant CRT were analyzed using RNA sequencing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between responders and nonresponders, followed by functional enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases. To complement DEG-based results, gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to assess pathway activity across the ranked transcriptome and to prioritize biologically relevant pathways. Pathway-derived gene signatures were evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves and validated in three independent data sets.A total of 1,477 DEGs were detected, including 729 upregulated and 748 downregulated genes in responders. Functional enrichment analysis indicated immune activation and epithelial polarity in responders, whereas nonresponders showed enrichment of extracellular matrix organization, focal adhesion, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B signaling. GSEA further identified four pathways associated with CRT response: antigen presentation, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, and drug metabolism. Among these, the antigen presentation pathway consistently predicted treatment response across data sets. Elastic net regression defined a six-gene signature (KLRC1, CTSS, HLA-DMA, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DQB2, and CIITA) with strong predictive performance, with area under the curve values ranging from 0.76 to 0.81.These genes participate in major histocompatibility complex class II antigen-processing and immune-regulatory pathways that enhance CD4 T-cell activation. Overall, the findings indicate that an immune-active, antigen presentation phenotype underlies radiosensitivity in rectal cancer and that the six-gene signature may serve as a biomarker to guide personalized treatment strategies.
The potential effect of elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels on nutritional status and sarcopenia in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD) has not yet been well established.The aim of this study was to evaluate the status of sarcopenia and nutritional aspects according to PTH levels in HD patients.This cross-sectional study evaluated consecutive patients attending three HD clinics in Northeast Brazil. Patients were stratified based on PTH levels: (1) 0-199 pg/mL, (2) 200-599 pg/mL, and (3) ≥ 600 pg/mL. Group 1 was excluded due to older age, and groups 2 and 3 were matched for age, sex, and presence of diabetes. Sarcopenia was defined according to the European consensus criteria, assessing muscle strength, muscle mass, muscle quality index, and body mass index.A total of 238 individuals were evaluated (119 in each group), with a mean age of 49.3 ± 14.4 years. The prevalence of sarcopenia was 18.5%, and 66.7% exhibited low muscle quality. Underweight was observed in 6.3% of the sample, while 41.4% were overweight. There were no differences in rates of underweight, low muscle mass, low muscle strength, sarcopenia, and low muscle quality according to PTH status (p > 0.05).Patients undergoing HD with moderate to severe hyperparathyroidism (PTH ≥ 600 pg/mL) did not show higher nutritional impairment or sarcopenia compared to patients with PTH levels within the recommended range (200-599 pg/mL).
Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the leading causes of death from a single infectious agent worldwide, yet the host pathways that regulate antigen presentation and lung inflammation during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection are incompletely defined. Sorting nexin 5 (SNX5) is a protein implicated in endosomal trafficking, antigen processing, and antiviral host defense, but its contribution to antibacterial immunity is unknown. Here, we show that SNX5-deficient mice exhibit increased mortality following low-dose aerosol Mtb infection despite unchanged pulmonary bacterial burden compared with wild-type mice. Snx5-/- mice developed exacerbated lung inflammation without major alterations in immune cell recruitment. In macrophages, Snx5 did not affect phagocytosis, vacuolar maturation, intracellular bacterial control, or global transcriptional responses to Mtb but was required for efficient major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigen presentation. Snx5 deficiency was associated with reduced endolysosomal proteolysis and impaired MHC class II antigen presentation in vitro, resulting in reduced activation of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells without altering surface MHC class II abundance or costimulatory molecule expression. Together, these findings identify SNX5 as a regulator of MHC class II antigen presentation that influences inflammatory outcomes during pulmonary Mtb infection.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
There is substantial interest in developing novel engineering strategies to promote the sustained metabolic fitness of therapeutic T cells. We previously showed that overexpression of RAS homologue enriched in brain (RHEB), a positive regulator of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), promotes aerobic glycolysis and increases the anti-tumor functions of effector CD8+ T cells. To address whether these effects are conserved in CD4+ T cells, we have now examined how enforced activation of mTORC1 activity affects CD4+ T cell differentiation and function. Rheb overexpression induced a more balanced metabolic shift in CD4+ T cells than in CD8+ T cells, with increases in both oxidative phosphorylation and aerobic glycolysis. Although Rheb overexpression initially increased CD4+ T cell activation and proliferation in vitro, the underlying population architecture was complex, involving a shift to both more proliferative, cytotoxic-like cell states as well as more quiescent cell clusters characterised by counter-regulation of mTORC1 activity. Following adoptive transfer, tumor antigen-specific Rheb-transduced CD4+ T cells showed greater persistence but were less efficient than controls in eliminating tumor. This functional deficiency could be explained by a greater propensity of persisting Rheb-transduced CD4+ T cells to develop features of immune exhaustion, as evidenced by expression of multiple co-inhibitory receptors and impaired proliferation upon tumor rechallenge. Together, these data demonstrate the dynamic population response to tuning of T cell mTORC1 and the need to separately appraise cellular outputs of therapeutic CD4+ versus CD8+ T cells when metabolic pathways are manipulated by the same method.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Asthma is a heterogeneous inflammatory airway disease characterized by immune dysregulation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), and excessive immune activation. Although NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) has been extensively studied in asthma, its role remains controversial, and the contribution of DNA sensor AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) is less well defined. To assess AIM2's relevance in asthma, we analyzed public human datasets and found increased AIM2, but not NLRP3, expression in severe asthma and in neutrophilic compared with paucigranulocytic asthma. In allergic asthma models induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or house dust mite (HDM), AIM2 expression was increased in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells. Analysis of a published single-cell RNA-seq dataset from the HDM model further showed increased Aim2, but not Nlrp3, expression in T helper cells, with most Aim2-expressing cells coexpressing Gata3. In the OVA-LPS model, whole-body Aim2 deficiency reduced AHR, inflammatory cytokine production, airway smooth muscle actin, and γH2A.X, consistent with decreased airway remodeling and tissue stress. Unexpectedly, CD4-specific, but not Treg- or myeloid-specific, Aim2 deletion significantly attenuated disease, identifying AIM2 in CD4+ T cells as a major driver of pathogenesis. In the HDM model, Aim2 deficiency similarly reduced AHR. Cell-specific deletion showed that AIM2 in CD4+ T cells promotes AHR and cytokine production, whereas AIM2 in myeloid cells modulates IgG1, IL-13-producing CD4+ T cells, and alveolar macrophages. These findings identify AIM2 as a regulator of allergic asthma acting predominantly through T cells, with an additional context-dependent contribution from myeloid cells.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
Oral carcinoma is the sixth most prevalent cancer type with a poor 5-year survival rate. mRNA-lipid nanoparticle-based immunotherapy can overcome the challenges associated with conventional treatment options. Here, we investigated the immunogenicity and antitumor efficacy of survivin antigen encoded mRNA lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) in combination with anti-CTLA-4 immune checkpoint inhibitor. Survivin mRNA was synthesized by in vitro transcription technique after cloning the antigenic target sequence into an expression vector. The mRNA-LNPs were prepared with lipids, ALC-0315, DOPE, and cholesterol using a droplet-based microfluidic device. The average particle size, polydispersity index and encapsulation efficiency of mRNA-LNPs was found to be 305 ± 68 nm, 0.11, and 65 ± 3.9%, respectively. Survivin mRNA-LNPs incubated with mouse-derived bone marrow dendritic cells showed activation of tumor-associated antigen specific T-cells. The co-culture of splenocytes, and cheek cells derived from C57BL/6 mouse administered with survivin mRNA-LNPs and CTLA-4 inhibitor with MOC-1 oral carcinoma cells showed significant (P < 0.05) reduction in the cancer cell viability compared with control group. The oral cancer cytotoxicity is attributed to the upregulation of MHCI and MHCII, CD8 + and CD4 + T-lymphocytes and reduction in the T-regulatory cells. Taken together, this study provides preliminary evidence for further development of survivin mRNA-LNPs and CTLA-4 inhibitor combination for oral cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Oxidative stress and the tumor immune microenvironment jointly shape hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression and response to immunotherapy, yet integrated biomarkers linking these processes are lacking.Transcriptomic and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets were used to identify oxidative stress- and immunotherapyrelated differentially expressed genes (OSIRDEGs). Functional enrichment, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and LASSO-Cox regression were used to construct a prognostic signature. Consensus clustering, TIDE, CIBERSORT and ssGSEA characterized immune phenotypes. Somatic mutation, copy-number and drug-response data were integrated to assess genomic alterations and drug sensitivity. Expression of model genes was validated by qRT-PCR and western blotting in HCC cell lines.We identified 24 OSIRDEGs enriched in cell-cycle and mitotic pathways. WGCNA intersection yielded 18 module genes, from which a six-gene signature (BUB1B, CDKN2A, CENPE, HMMR, PTTG1, SPP1) was derived. The signature robustly stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different progression-free and disease-free survival in both TCGA-LIHC and GSE14520. Based on signature expression, two molecular subtypes were defined, exhibiting distinct survival, immune landscapes and predicted immunotherapy responsiveness. Model genes harbored recurrent alterations and showed significant correlations with anticancer agents. All six genes were upregulated at mRNA and protein levels in metastatic HCC cell lines versus normal hepatocytes.We systematically explored the landscape of OSIRDEGs in HCC, and proposed a validated six-gene signature that refines prognostic stratification, delineates immunerelevant HCC subtypes and highlights candidate biomarkers for therapeutic selection and mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioma is characterized by substantial molecular heterogeneity and poor clinical outcomes. Emerging evidence suggests that mechanotransduction-related pathways may influence tumor progression and immune remodeling. However, the prognostic relevance of mechanosensitive genes in glioma remains unclear.RNA-sequencing data and clinical information from the TCGA, CGGA-301, CGGA-325, and GSE16011 cohorts were analyzed. Mechanosensitive genes were identified from curated gene sets, and a prognostic signature was constructed using LASSO and Cox regression analyses. Immune infiltration, immune checkpoint expression, TIDE predictions, and drug sensitivity were evaluated. The risk score was consistently and positively correlated with SPP1 expression across four independent cohorts, and single‑cell analysis further suggested that SPP1‑related signaling may contribute to immune microenvironment remodeling. Selected genes were validated by qRT-PCR in glioma cell lines.A nine-gene mechanosensitive signature stratified glioma patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different overall survival across multiple cohorts. The risk score was independently associated with established clinicopathological factors, including WHO grade, IDH mutation status, 1p/19q co-deletion status, and MGMT promoter methylation status. High-risk tumors exhibited increased macrophage and neutrophil infiltration, elevated immune checkpoint expression, and higher predicted immune evasion potential. Single-cell analysis suggested that SPP1-related signaling may contribute to immune microenvironment remodeling. Experimental validation supported differential expression of selected genes in glioma cells.This mechanosensitive gene signature is associated with immune landscape heterogeneity and survival in glioma. The model may provide complementary stratification information and support further investigation of mechanobiology-related tumor-microenvironment interactions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Efficient energy storage is vital for self-sustaining Martian exploration. Li-CO2 batteries are promising by utilizing the Martian atmosphere (∼95% CO2) as active materials. Fe-S minerals, abundant on Mars, offer a viable candidate for cathode catalysts, yet their structural diversity necessitates a rational selection criterion. Here, we propose crystal void fraction as a governing descriptor correlating with affinity toward critical oxygen-containing species, Li2CO3 and singlet oxygen (1O2). Higher void fraction with decreased Fe-S6 octahedra packing density upshifts the d-band center and brings the z-containing orbitals closer to the Fermi level. Given the pronounced O-2pz character of Li2CO3 band-edge states and the π* orbital of 1O2 frontier orbital, symmetry matching along surface orbitals with z-directional components strengthens orbital coupling, correlating higher crystal void fractions with increased affinity for oxygen-containing species. Crucially, this affinity exhibits a dual role. High void fraction promotes Li2CO3 decomposition but 1O2-induced catalyst degradation, while low void fraction exhibits the opposite tendency. Marcasite with moderate void fraction achieves an optimal balance, achieving 88% energy efficiency and 1000 h cycle life. This work establishes crystal void fraction as a predictive metric for screening suitable catalysts for achieving activity-stability trade-off, and provides a promising landscape for in-situ resource utilization on Mars.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Adipose-derived stem/stromal cells (ASCs) are promising candidates for bone tissue engineering due to their abundance, accessibility, and osteogenic differentiation capacity. However, substantial inter-donor variability limits their standardized clinical application. This study investigated whether metabolic characteristics and donor-related parameters are associated with ASC osteogenic differentiation potential. ASCs were isolated from human subcutaneous adipose tissue (n = 26) and cultured under osteogenic conditions. Cell viability was evaluated at days 2 and 14, including cell proliferation (crystal violet staining), overall metabolic activity (resazurin conversion), as well as glucose uptake (2-NBDG) and mitochondrial membrane potential (TMRE). Osteogenesis was quantified by alkaline phosphatase activity, calcium deposition, and secretion of SPARC and osteocalcin (BGLAP). Osteogenic induction significantly enhanced osteogenic markers and mineralization across donors and was accompanied by a distinct metabolic phenotype characterized by reduced per-cell metabolic activity and glucose uptake, and elevated mitochondrial membrane potential. Early (day 2) metabolic parameters did not predict subsequent mineralization capacity, whereas metabolic activity at day 14 correlated inversely with calcium deposition. Donor age, body mass index, and blood glucose levels were not associated with osteogenic outcomes. These findings indicated that inter-donor variability in ASC osteogenesis was accompanied by a characteristic late-stage metabolic signature and suggested that metabolic profiling may support functional characterization of osteogenic differentiation potential.© 2026 The Authors.
Stroke is a leading cause of severe long-term disability, and foot drop is a common post-stroke gait impairment that may reduce toe clearance, increasing the risk of toe contacts and, in turn, trip-related falls. This case series evaluated the novel combination of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), functional electrical stimulation (FES) to the tibialis anterior, and physical therapy training to improve minimum toe clearance (MTC) in individuals with chronic stroke. The rationale for this combined approach was that tDCS may prime the motor cortex and enhance neuroplastic responsiveness, while FES provides task-specific peripheral stimulation to the dorsiflexors during gait-related training, potentially increasing MTC and minimizing toe drag. Four individuals with chronic stroke participated in an 8-week treatment program with sessions twice a week. Assessments were conducted at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. Participant 1 started with tDCS alone for 4 weeks, then added FES for the remaining 4 weeks. Participant 2 began with FES for the first 4 weeks, and tDCS was added for the remaining 4 weeks. Participants 3 and 4 received both tDCS and FES throughout the entire 8-week program. Participants 1 (58-year-old female) and 4 (42-year-old male) showed no active ankle dorsiflexion at baseline, while participants 2 (66-year-old male) and 3 (36-year-old male) had a grade of 2 out of 5 for ankle dorsiflexion strength at baseline. Toe clearance and functional outcomes were collected at each assessment. Participants 1 and 4 demonstrated no meaningful change in MTC, whereas participants 2 and 3 both showed modest improvements. Among these responders, MTC increased by an average of 0.63 cm. These findings suggest that combining cortical neuromodulation with localized FES and physical therapy may improve toe clearance in select individuals with chronic stroke. However, because tibialis anterior activation was not directly measured, it remains unclear whether the observed changes were due to improved dorsiflexor activation or other compensatory gait strategies.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the loss of insulin-producing beta cells and has no cure. The role of cell-cell interactions in T1D disease progression remains poorly understood. Beta cells develop adjacent to ductal cells and both cell types undergo changes during T1D progression, suggesting a potential intercellular communication. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are established mediators of intercellular communication, but whether human ductal cells secrete EVs that influence beta cells remains unknown. We hypothesize that exposure of human ductal cells to T1D-associated cytokines alters their EV cargo and that EVs produced by cytokine-exposed human ductal cells modulate gene and protein expression in beta cells.Human exocrine tissues from non-diabetic cadaveric donors were cultured in a 3D suspension to support ductal cell survival. Cells were treated with TNF-α, IL-1β, and IFN-γ or vehicle control for 48 hours and analyzed for proinflammatory-related gene expression and viability by qRT-PCR and Trypan blue exclusion, respectively. EVs from cytokine- and vehicle-treated ductal cells were isolated using size exclusion chromatography and characterized by dot blot, transmission electron microscopy, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The effects of EVs on EndoC-βH1 human beta cells were assessed with qRT-PCR, RNA-sequencing, and flow cytometry; the effects of EVs on primary human beta cells were assessed with immunofluorescence microscopy. EV cargo was analyzed by proteomics and transcriptomics.EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells were internalized by EndoC-βH1 beta cells, and compared to control ductal EVs, increased HLA Class I gene and protein expression in EndoC-βH1 cells. In primary human beta cells, EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells, compared to control ductal EVs, also increased expression of HLA Class I. EV cargo from cytokine-treated versus control ductal cells was enriched for transcripts associated with inflammatory and antigen-presentation-related pathways, including CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, and GBP4.Exposure of T1D-associated cytokines to primary human ductal cells altered cargo of secreted EVs. EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells upregulated HLA Class I expression in EndoC-βH1 and primary human beta cells. Our results suggest a previously unknown ductal cell communication pathway with a potential implication for modulating beta cells during T1D progression.Copyright © 2026 Erdem, Zook, Quijano, Hansen, Palade, Oh, Mares, Donohue, Ortiz, Jou, Talley, Guthalu Kondegowda, Arribas-Layton, Vasavada, Montero, Reijonen, Thurmond, Pirrotte, Jovanovic-Talisman and Ku.
Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are essential cofactors required for the activity of numerous proteins involved in fundamental cellular processes, including DNA replication, metabolism and mitochondrial respiration. In eukaryotes, Fe-S cluster biogenesis is initiated in mitochondria by the ISC machinery, which assembles iron and sulfur, delivered by a cysteine desulfurase, onto the scaffold protein ISCU. Frataxin (FXN), a key regulator of this pathway, enhances Fe-S production by accelerating persulfide transfer to ISCU. FXN is essential in eukaryotes, and its loss results in a "petite" phenotype in yeast, senescence in dividing mammalian cells and embryonic lethality in mice. Interestingly, in yeast, a methionine to isoleucine substitution at position 141 of the scaffold protein Isu1 can bypass the requirement of FXN. To test whether this bypass mechanism is conserved in mammals, we introduced the equivalent M141I substitution into the endogenous Iscu gene in murine fibroblasts carrying a conditional Fxn allele using CRISPR-Cas9. We show that the ISCU M141I variant enables cell survival in the absence of FXN, preventing cell cycle arrest and decreasing baseline DNA damage. However, these FXN-null survivor clones exhibit slower proliferation, persistent mitochondrial dysfunction and defective mitochondrial Fe-S cluster proteins. In contrast, nuclear and cytosolic Fe-S proteins are preserved, as is cellular iron homeostasis. Importantly, the ISCU M141I variant delays, but does not fully rescue, embryonic lethality in Fxn-deficient mice. Altogether, our results reveal a previously unrecognized compartment-specific rescue of Fe-S cluster dependent processes by the ISCU M141I variant in mammalian cells, raising for the first time the possibility of compartmental regulation of Fe-S cluster biogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Anaerobic carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (CODH) enzymes interconvert CO2 and CO under mild conditions and with near perfect selectivity. The CODH active site, termed the C-cluster, is a [NiFe3S4]-Feu cluster that can reside in several different oxidation states. Despite decades of research, the electronic structure of the C-cluster remains unresolved, and the metal oxidation states are ambiguous. In this study, we interrogate a series of synthetic clusters with [NiFe3S4]3+/2+/1+ cores in multiple oxidation states as models of the C-cluster cubane core. Each cluster is characterized using crystallography, spectroscopy, magnetism, and computations. The most oxidized cluster, [NiFe3S4]3+, is best described as having Ni2+ and three Fe3+ sites. Remarkably, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) data show that reduction to the [NiFe3S4]2+ state results in reduction of nickel to Ni1+, even though nearby Fe3+ sites are present. The fully oxidized Fe3+3 subsite can be reduced only after nickel has reached the Ni1+ state. These results demonstrate that Ni1+ is a readily accessible oxidation state in FeS clusters that are topologically relevant to the CODH C-cluster.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Perceived control is a construct relevant to emotional and clinical outcomes among individuals with chronic illnesses. We previously demonstrated the reliability and validity of the Control Attitudes Scale-Revised (CAS-R), and it has been used extensively in research to measure perceived control. Yet, there is a gap in interpretation of CAS-R scores. A standardized cut point has not yet been established to facilitate classification of patients into distinct high- and low-perceived control categories. Identifying this cut-off point will be of significant value to clinicians and researchers.To identify an evidence-based cut point for the CAS-R to define lower and higher levels of perceived control among patients with a variety of cardiac diagnoses.In this psychometric secondary analysis, we used data from patients with heart failure or coronary heart disease, which included 4,555 patients from three countries. Data were collected on perceived control, depression and/or anxiety, and/or cardiac events (cardiac hospitalization and cardiac death). We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and area under the ROC area under the curve (AUC) to test the accuracy of using the CAS-R scores to separate the patients into anxious or non-anxious groups and depressed or non-depressed groups. Kaplan-Meier plots with log-rank tests and Cox-survival analyses were used to compare cardiac event-free survival outcomes between higher and lower perceived control groups.Two possible cut points were identified using ROC curves and AUC. Cut points were identified using anxiety or depression as the state variable and CAS-R scores as the test variable. Using Kaplan-Meier analyses and log-rank tests, we determined that 29 was the cut point that demonstrated patients in the higher CAS-R group had significantly better cardiac event-free survival than those in the lower CAS-R group. Using the cut point of 30, the differences in cardiac event-free survival between groups did not reach a significant level.Identifying a CAS-R cut point enhances the practical application of the CAS-R and makes it a valuable instrument for assessing the effect of targeted interventions among cardiac patients with lower perceived control.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
The role of the Maillard reaction in shaping dried abalone quality during drying was investigated. During the drying process, a progressive increase in browning intensity and in the color parameters ΔE and BI was observed in abalone muscle. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed aggregation of proteins such as myosin heavy chain, while PAS staining confirmed the formation of glycoprotein polymers. CD spectroscopy analysis indicated that the reaction led to a reduction in α-helix content from 29.89% to 6.52%, alongside increases in β-sheet and random coil contents to 48.52% and 28.48%, respectively, accompanied by a marked decrease in intrinsic fluorescence intensity. Dynamic substrate analysis showed significant reductions in glucose and key amino acids, including Glu, Lys, and Phe, facilitating the generation and accumulation of 18 Amadori and Heyns compounds. Seven compounds of Fru-Tyr, Fru-Phe, Glu-Met, Fru-pGlu, Fru-Lys, Glu-Gln, and Fru-Val, were identified as characteristic biomarkers of dried abalone through principal component analysis. A predictive model based on near-infrared spectroscopy and partial least squares regression achieved high predictive accuracy for these seven markers, with determination coefficients exceeding 0.90 and root mean square errors of prediction below 0.20. These findings demonstrate that the Maillard reaction induces protein glycation in abalone muscle, accompanied by the accumulation of Amadori/Heyns compounds, providing a theoretical basis for quality precise control in dried abalone processing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Protein-polysaccharide conjugate systems have garnered significant attention due to their ability to remodel antioxidant and stability functions in food systems through conformational rearrangement and supramolecular assembly. This study constructed STP-polysaccharide conjugates using sheep testis protein hydrolysate (STP) as the substrate with polysaccharide in Cistanche (CIP), Astragalus (ASP), and Angelica (ANP), respectively, to systematically elucidate the relationship between structural variation, dominant interaction forces, and functional properties. Multispectral analysis revealed that the coupling effect significantly altered the structure, with functionally relevant hydrophobic groups and Tyr/Trp residues being either exposed or buried. Mechanistic analysis indicated that hydrophobic interactions, hydrogen bonds, and electrostatic interactions collectively drove the assembly and stabilization of the STP-polysaccharide system, with their contributions influenced by polysaccharide type. Functional evaluation indicates that, after conjugation, the DPPH free radical scavenging rate of STP-CIP increased to 89.39%. In vitro digestion and storage stability studies demonstrated that after polysaccharide conjugation, the digestibility index increased to over 75.18%, and the decrease of α-helix during storage was slowed, regulating the structural integrity of the system. These findings provide a basis for the structure-interaction-function oriented design of animal-derived protease hydrolysate-plant polysaccharide conjugate systems, offering references for developing multifunctional food ingredients with both antioxidant properties and stability.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) pathway is an enzymatic pathway focused primarily on the hydroxylation of the amino acid L-phenylalanine (Phe) to L-tyrosine (Tyr). However, the functioning of this pathway can also have significant impacts on other downstream metabolites. In addition, both common and rare genetic variants have been demonstrated to significantly impair PAH pathway function. However, to our knowledge, the comprehensive PAH pathway including influences on related downstream metabolic pathways has not been mapped in an integrative manner. As such, we conducted a narrative review of the literature to describe the comprehensive PAH pathway, including influences on downstream related metabolic pathways, while mapping a visual depiction of these integrative processes. In addition to the hydroxylation of Phe to Tyr, the comprehensive pathway narrative describes Phe metabolism and transport across the blood brain barrier including competition with other large neutral amino acids, Tyr catabolism, and others. Discussion of the importance of these metabolic processes in the context of PAH genetic variation are also provided. With an increased focus on conducting health research from a systems biology perspective, this work is critical to improving our understanding of the downstream effects of amino acid metabolism and their possible impacts on health outcomes.
The vitamin D receptor (VDR) is a ligand-activated nuclear receptor that mediates the biological actions of vitamin D and is a critical regulator of mineral homeostasis, cellular differentiation, immune function, and metabolism. VDR is a high-affinity intracellular binding protein for the most active vitamin D metabolite, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25D). Early biochemical and molecular studies established VDR as a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, functioning as a transcription factor that heterodimerizes with the retinoid X receptor and binds vitamin D response elements to regulate gene expression. Since the cloning of the VDR gene in the 1980s, characterization of its structural domains, and identification of co-regulators significantly advanced understanding of its genomic mechanisms of action. Over the past several decades, research has expanded the scope of VDR biology beyond classical calcium and phosphate metabolism. Genome-wide binding analyses and transcriptomic studies have revealed extensive VDR cistromes and context-dependent gene networks across diverse tissues. These advances have positioned VDR as a key factor linking vitamin D availability to tissue-specific outcomes. Despite substantial progress, fundamental questions remain including mechanisms governing tissue-specific VDR actions, integration of genomic signaling pathways, and role of VDR in complex diseases such as cancer, autoimmune disorders, and aging. Additionally, how VDR function is modulated by chromatin context, metabolic state, and the microbiome remains incompletely understood. Here, we summarize what is known about these actions of VDR and its history of discovery. Addressing these questions will be essential for translating mechanistic insights into improved therapeutic strategies targeting the vitamin D axis.© the author(s).
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) plays an important role in calcium homeostasis and multiple physiological regulatory processes, and its Venus flytrap (VFT) domain is a key region for γ-glutamyl peptide binding. In this study, molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and molecular dynamics simulations were integrated to systematically investigate the binding behavior of 400 γ-glutamyl tripeptides with CaSR-VFT. The results showed that all 400 γ-glutamyl tripeptides could be accommodated in the central binding pocket of CaSR-VFT, with binding energies mainly ranging from -6 to -10 kcal mol-1. Interaction site analysis indicated that Ser272, Asn102, Arg66, Ser147, Asn64, and Ser170 were the major high-frequency interacting residues, among which Ser272 showed the highest occurrence frequency. The peptides with the strongest and weakest predicted binding abilities, γEYW and γECF, exhibited docking binding energies of -9.863 and -6.05 kcal mol-1, respectively. After Ser272Ala mutation, the absolute binding energies of γEYW and γECF decreased by 44.02% and 15.50%, respectively. SPR experiments confirmed that both γEYW and γECF could directly bind to purified CaSR-VFT protein, with KD values of 3.3 μM and 329.4 nM, respectively. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that γECF exhibited a more stable hydrogen-bond network and a more concentrated low-free-energy conformational distribution. Overall, this study screened and validated two novel γ-glutamyl tripeptides capable of binding to CaSR-VFT, providing a reference for the screening of CaSR-targeting peptides and the investigation of their binding mechanisms.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Photosystem II (PS II) sustains the biosphere by enabling oxygen evolution in the S3-to-S0 transition (duration ~1-2 ms) of its catalytic cycle. Using time-resolved Mn Kβ X-ray emission spectroscopy, we observed spectroscopic changes (which were unimpeded in D2O buffer) consistent with a modified electronic structure as early as ~50 μs in the transition. These changes are consistent with the reduction of the Mn centers at the ~50-200 μs time window in H2O and at ~50-500 μs in D2O, ahead of the reduction of the redox-active TyrZ•+. These results indicate the multi-step nature of O-O bond formation and O2 release by the oxygen-evolving complex (OEC), where an O-O bond is most likely formed prior to the final electron-transfer step. The D2O-induced extension of up to ~500 μs in the lifetime of the early transient state of a possible peroxo nature opens it up to further spectroscopic and structural analysis.
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Dopamine and noradrenaline have conserved roles in control of physiology and behaviors of vertebrates. However, vertebrate genetic models completely devoid of catecholamines are not available. We generated genetically catecholamine-free zebrafish larvae by combining mutations in all three genes involved in L-DOPA biosynthesis: the tyrosine hydroxylase genes th and th2, and tyrosinase tyr. Here we show that catecholamine-deficient 5 day-old zebrafish larvae are viable and develop an anatomically normal nervous system, including the full complement of catecholaminergic neuron somata and projections. In contrast, selected physiological functions that depend on catecholamines are impaired, including hatching and heart rate regulation upon temperature challenges. Spontaneous locomotion and optomotor behaviors are also impaired. Despite the changes observed, it is surprising that larvae develop a largely normal behavioral repertoire. Our model will be useful to investigate the activities of additional neurotransmitters expressed in catecholaminergic neurons, and how physiology and neural circuit function are regulated in the absence of catecholamines.© 2026. The Author(s).
α-Synuclein (αSyn) is a major component of pathogenic Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites and is closely associated with Parkinson's disease. Among the various posttranslational modifications of αSyn, several have been implicated in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and are thought to promote Parkinson's disease through enhanced misfolding, aggregation, and accumulation of αSyn. Two such modifications, phosphorylation at Ser129 (S129Phos) and hydroxylation at Tyr136 (Y136DOPA), exert distinct effects on αSyn aggregation: S129Phos has been reported to either inhibit or promote aggregation, whereas Y136DOPA induces the formation of short oligomeric species. To gain insight into the molecular basis underlying the initiation of αSyn multimerization, we semisynthesized αSyn carrying either S129Phos or Y136DOPA and prepared recombinant unmodified full-length αSyn as a control. Vacuum-ultraviolet circular dichroism (VUVCD) spectroscopy revealed that these αSyn variants in their monomeric states possessed essentially identical secondary structures. These results suggest that the modifications themselves do not induce significant secondary structural changes in monomeric αSyn.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Peptide Science published by European Peptide Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The aging of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) is characterized by impaired osteogenic differentiation and enhanced adipogenic differentiation. Studies have identified stanniocalcin‑1 (STC1) as a core component of the senescence‑associated secretory phenotype and a regulator of osteoblast maturation; however, its role in MSC biology remains poorly understood. In the present study, bone marrow‑derived MSCs were used and in vitro functional assays together with molecular and omics‑based analyses were performed to investigate the role of STC1. It was observed that STC1 expression was upregulated in aged MSCs and during both osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. Small interfering RNA‑mediated depletion of STC1 reduced cellular senescence and notably impaired osteogenic differentiation, whereas adipogenic and chondrogenic differentiation were not significantly affected. RNA sequencing revealed that STC1 knockdown led to the downregulation of osteogenesis‑related genes and the concomitant upregulation of inflammatory factors. Genes associated with closing differentially accessible regions (DARs) were enriched in osteogenic pathways, whereas those associated with opening DARs were predominantly involved in inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, STC1 knockdown led to the activation of NF‑κB signaling. Pharmacological inhibition assays using NF‑κB inhibitors were performed to validate pathway involvement. Pharmacological inhibition of NF‑κB signaling significantly mitigated the impairment in osteogenic differentiation and attenuated the inflammatory response induced by STC1 depletion. Collectively, these findings suggest that STC1 is involved in the regulation of osteogenic differentiation and inflammatory signaling through the modulation of NF‑κB activity in MSCs. Furthermore, targeting STC1 while inhibiting NF‑κB signaling may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for alleviating MSC dysfunction and age‑related bone loss.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal energy metabolism are important pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates how mitochondrial protease YME1L1 affects mitochondrial function and its upstream regulation in the pathogenesis of AD. The AD model was established by using APP/PS1 transgenic mice, primary neurons treated with Aβ1-42, and HT22 cells. The silencing of YME1L1 was achieved to evaluate its effects on mitochondrial function and OPA1 protein hydrolysis. RIP-qPCR and RNA pull-down test were used to evaluate the interaction between HNRNPC and YME1L1 mRNA. The protein succinylation level was detected by proteomic analysis of succinylation, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to verify the succinylation of HNRNPC. Cognitive ability was tested by behavioral tests, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, object recognition test, and olfactory test. Finally, the therapeutic potential of SIRT5 was studied by an overexpression experiment in an AD model. YME1L1 was significantly upregulated in the AD model, which promoted mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage through OPA1 hydrolysis. HNRNPC enhances the stability of YME1L1 mRNA through an m6A-dependent mechanism, while its own K50 succinylation enhances the stability of HNRNPC by competitively inhibiting TRIM25-mediated ubiquitination, further amplifying the expression of YME1L1. SIRT5 downregulation in AD elevated HNRNPC succinylation levels. SIRT5 overexpression promoted HNRNPC desuccinylation, reduced YME1L1 expression, restored mitochondrial function, and ameliorated Aβ deposition and cognitive deficits in AD mice. The SIRT5-HNRNPC-YME1L1 axis contributes to AD pathogenesis by disrupting OPA1 proteolysis and mitochondrial dynamics. Targeting HNRNPC succinylation represents a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Immunotherapeutic strategies for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have yielded only modest response rates, severely limiting patients' clinical outcomes. Clarifying the underlying mechanisms to reverse immunotherapy resistance therefore represents a critical unmet need. In this study, we employed the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of human TNBC tissues to identify inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) as a central regulator governing cytotoxic T lymphocyte trafficking into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Ectopic expression of ITPKB robustly enhanced the secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), a critical chemokine required for effective anti-tumor immune responses. Mechanistically, elevated ITPKB activity accelerated the conversion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) to inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), thereby dampening IP3-driven endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release. Attenuated intracellular calcium ions (Ca2 +) flux, in turn, promoted the recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) to CXCL9 promoter, driving robust CXCL9 transcription. In addition, utilizing a stepwise virtual screening strategy of 3677 compounds, we identified amentoflavone (AMF) as a novel ITPKB agonist-like compound. AMF treatment could stabilize ITPKB by preventing Trim25-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, in 4T1 and EMT6 syngeneic TNBC murine models, ITPKB-overexpressing or AMF administration exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (αPD-1) immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these results position ITPKB as a therapeutically tractable molecular switch that remodels the tumor immune landscape via Ca2+-dependent transcriptional rewiring. Targeting ITPKB thus represents a promising strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance and expand the pool of TNBC patients who may benefit from αPD-1-based immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Confirming the underlying molecular etiology of hereditary hypophosphatemia (HH) to provide recurrence risk counseling is highly important. Our aims were to describe the detected variants and their distribution across Argentina and to contrast them with published data. Patients with HH prospectively referred to a hypophosphatemia program for genetic testing were included. Saliva samples were evaluated by next-generation sequencing with a panel of 13 genes associated with HH. In patients with no variants detected in the HH rickets related gene panel, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification was performed for the PHEX gene. Cascade genetic testing was recommended for at-risk relatives of index cases (IC). One hundred and sixty participants were enrolled, including 129 ICs with suspected HH (80.62%). Among them, 114 had a positive molecular test (88.37%); 93% were variations in the PHEX gene, predominantly single-nucleotide variants. Distribution of variant types was consistent with international databases. In our sample, 12% of subjects had undetectable variants in the gene panel, highlighting the importance of complete genome sequencing. Ours is the first study in Latin America to analyze PHEX variants, which is considered crucial for the generation of regional evidence to understand the genetic variability of HH and for leading specific targeted treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Mammalian embryonic stem cells (ESCs), despite lacking functional interferon (IFN) signaling, are remarkably resistant to viral infection. However, the mechanistic basis of their antiviral defenses remains incompletely characterized. In this study, we investigated the antiviral functional role and molecular mechanism of tripartite motif-containing protein 25 (TRIM25), a well-known key driver of IFN-dependent innate immunity, in IFN-deficient mouse ESCs (mESCs). TRIM25 exhibited a broad spectrum of antiviral activity in mESCs. RNAi depletion or CRISPR-mediated knockout of TRIM25 markedly enhanced the replication and propagation of both encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) viruses. Mechanistically, the antiviral activity of TRIM25 in mESCs is independent of both IFN production and constitutive ISG expression. In virus-infected mESCs, TRIM25 translocated from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and directly bound viral RNA, where it formed cytoplasmic condensates with GTPase-activating protein-binding protein 1 (G3BP1) that colocalized with dsRNA foci. Genetic perturbation of G3BP1 similarly compromised the antiviral defenses of mESCs, revealing an essential synergism between TRIM25 and stress granule components in restricting viral replication. Our study identifies TRIM25 as a pivotal RNA-sensing effector in ESCs, delineating a previously unrecognized IFN-independent axis of intrinsic immunity that bridges viral RNA surveillance with stress granule-mediated suppression, thereby expanding the paradigm of pluripotent cell-autonomous antiviral strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy, and current treatments often suffer from toxicity, limited selectivity, and high cost. This study aimed to integrate transcriptome-level data, multi-layered network analysis, and drug repositioning strategies to identify candidate diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for BC and propose potential repositioned drug candidates.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from the GSE42568 dataset (|log2FC| > 1 and p < 0.05). Functional enrichment analyses were conducted using GO and KEGG. Three biological interaction layers - protein-protein interactions, transcription factors, and miRNA-mRNA interactions were constructed, and hub nodes were identified using topological metrics. Kaplan-Meier analyses assessed survival associations. PCA evaluated sample separation across datasets in GSE42568, GSE113865, and GSE22820. Drug repositioning was performed using L1000CDS2, and in vitro validation of a top drug candidate (niclosamide) and an exploratory comparative compound (amitriptyline) was performed using MCF-7 cells, including viability and combination assays.A total of 4266 DEGs were identified. Network analyses revealed 37 hub signatures, 11 of which-ESR1, RECQL4, FOS, BCL2, CXCL8, TRIM25, EGR1, CDH1, KRAS, PTGS2, and IL6 were associated with survival outcomes. PCA demonstrated clear separation between healthy and BC samples. Drug repositioning identified eight candidates, with niclosamide as the top hit. In vitro assays showed marked reduction in cell viability at 5 µM niclosamide and 25 µM amitriptyline after 24 h treatment. No significant additive effect was observed in the combination treatment.This integrative approach revealed candidate BC-specific biomarkers and identified niclosamide as a potential repositioned therapeutic. These findings remain exploratory and do not provide definitive clinical evidence. Further validation across additional models and clinical settings is required.© 2026 Aydin et al.
Tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) scales represent an underutilized by-product with considerable potential as a source of bioactive peptides that can be released through enzymatic hydrolysis. This study evaluated the production of protein hydrolysates from demineralized tilapia scales using Alkaline Protease or Esperase 8.0 L® (Alkaline Protease and Esperase 8.0 L® were kindly provided by Novozymes, Bagsværd, Denmark), and examined the impact of simulated gastrointestinal digestion (SGID) on their bioactivities. The highest degree of hydrolysis (DH) was obtained with Alkaline Protease (12.4%), generating peptide fractions predominantly below 1000 Da, with a major population around 888 Da. Both hydrolysates exhibited antioxidant activity, with the Alkaline Protease hydrolysate showing higher ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) and Fe(II)-chelating activity. The hydrolysates also displayed significant angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory activity (IC50: 13-14 µg/mL), dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-IV) inhibitory activity (IC50: 0.66-0.69 mg/mL), and prolyl endopeptidase (PEP) inhibitory activity (IC50: 0.63-0.72 mg/mL). The digests were non-cytotoxic at the concentrations tested (<10 mg/mL) in STC-1 enteroendocrine cells. Following SGID, increased ACE-inhibitory activity was observed, with IC50 values as low as 4.6 µg/mL, whereas DPP-IV and PEP-inhibitory activities decreased. The intestinal digest of the Esperase hydrolysate also exhibited significant cellular antioxidant activity in the ROS assay. Overall, these results indicate that tilapia scale hydrolysates are a promising source of peptides associated with in vitro enzyme inhibitory and antioxidant activities. However, the specific bioactive peptides responsible for these effects were not identified. Therefore, further studies involving peptide characterization, bioavailability assessment, and in vivo validation are required to establish their physiological relevance and potential applications as functional ingredients.
Eggshell quality is a critical trait in poultry production, as it directly influences economic outcomes. The genetic architecture underlying this trait remains poorly characterized. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Chinese Wenshang Barred chickens at 43 weeks of age to identify genomic loci and candidate genes associated with eggshell quality. This analysis revealed 87 significant SNPs and 14 candidate genes. Genes including MC2R, CDC73, LYSMD2, TNFAIP8L3, and CYP19A1 were associated with eggshell weight; PHEX, ATM, STXBP6, SLIT3, and RALY with eggshell thickness; and SOCS5 and ATG4C with eggshell strength. Notably, three SNPs emerged as the most promising markers for eggshell quality, though their functional roles in laying hens require further investigation. This study advances our understanding of the genetic basis of eggshell quality and holds significant practical implications for improving this trait through targeted breeding strategies.
Klebsiella spp. has emerged as the second leading cause of urinary tract infection and a major cause of multidrug resistance. This study investigated the prevalence of genetic determinants related to infection and drug resistance, and the effects of biofilm on drug resistance from urinary tract infection (UTI) patients. A total of 718 clean voided midstream urine samples were collected from different age group patients at Mymensingh Medical College Hospital. Bacterial isolates were initially identified by cultural and biochemical assays, and finally confirmed by rcsA and pheX gene-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed by the disc diffusion method. The presence of virulence, extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL), and carbapenemase genes was determined by PCR. Biofilm formation was assessed using Congo red agar and microtiter plate assays. Among culture-positive isolates, 22 were confirmed as Klebsiella spp. (20 K. pneumoniae, 2 K. oxytoca), with 77.3% from females. The fimH, mrkD, and uge were the most prevalent virulence genes. Ninety-five percent of isolates were found to be multidrug resistant (MDR), and three were extremely drug resistant (XDR). ESBL genes blaSHV (50%) and blaTEM (40%) predominated, while blaNDM (20%) and blaOXA-48 (10%) were the main carbapenemase genes. Moderate (n = 6; 27.3%) to strong (n = 4; 18.1%) biofilm producers showed significantly higher resistance (P < 0.05). Regression analysis identified mrkD, uge, and allS as independent predictors of biofilm formation. The high prevalence of MDR K. pneumoniae with virulence and ESBL-carbapenemase genes highlights an alarming threat to UTI management in Bangladesh.Klebsiella spp., particularly K. pneumoniae and K. oxytoca, are emerging as the second major uropathogens increasingly resistant to multiple antibiotics, complicating treatment and driving recurrent urinary tract infections. Their virulence factors, especially adhesins and biofilm formation, not only enhance colonization but also promote the spread of resistance genes, including extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) and carbapenemases. Despite their clinical significance, data on the molecular determinants of virulence and resistance in uropathogenic Klebsiella from Bangladesh remain limited. This study combines molecular and phenotypic approaches to characterize virulence genes, biofilm-forming potential, and antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of clinical isolates. By identifying key predictors of biofilm-associated multidrug resistance, the findings provide critical insights for guiding empirical therapy, informing infection control, and supporting antimicrobial stewardship. Ultimately, this work contributes to addressing the dual threat of virulence and drug resistance in urinary tract infection (UTI) management.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major complication of prematurity, characterized by impaired alveolar epithelium regeneration and long-term respiratory morbidity. The cellular basis of this defect and the underlying epithelial-mesenchymal signals remain unclear. To define alveolar type 2 (AT2) cell heterogeneity and regenerative capacity, we analyzed lineage-traced AT2 cells in neonatal mice exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2, postnatal days 1-14). We assessed cellular states and function by flow cytometry, transcriptomics, and organoid assays. During normal lung development, AT2 cells gradually segregated into two transcriptionally distinct subpopulations, TomHigh and TomLow. TomHigh cells exhibited canonical AT2 identity, lipid metabolism, and enhanced mitochondrial function, showing strong organoid-forming and differentiation potential. TomLow cells displayed metabolic restriction and limited regenerative capacity. Hyperoxia caused alveolar simplification, expanding TomLow cells at the expense of TomHigh cells. AT2 cells entered a proliferative state and became Krt8+ transitional cells, but RNA velocity and lineage analyses showed impaired maturation toward AT1 cells, leading to persistent AT1 deficiency. Hyperoxia induced Sfrp1 and Frzb expression in a rare but detectable Sftpc+Acta2+ AT2 subset, and more prominently in Pdgfra+ fibroblasts, which adopted a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Fibroblast-epithelial co-culture and fibroblast-specific Sfrp1/Frzb overexpression impaired organoid formation and reduced AT2-to-AT1 differentiation. These findings identify a fibroblast-dominated Sfrp1/Frzb-mediated niche that constrains AT2 differentiation into AT1 cells, providing a cellular basis for impaired alveolar regeneration in BPD and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) exhibits a marked female predominance. Despite this "estrogen paradox," the molecular basis of sex-associated pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, limiting the development of precision diagnostic strategies.To develop a sex-stratified computational framework that integrates transcriptomic profiling and ensemble machine learning to identify female-associated candidate biomarkers in IPAH.Sex-stratified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were derived from pulmonary arterial endothelial cells (GSE303084, n = 48) and lung tissue (GSE126262, n = 16). Functional mechanisms were explored via GO/KEGG enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. A consensus machine learning framework incorporating 12 feature selection algorithms prioritized stable candidate biomarkers. Model performance was evaluated using a leakage-free repeated stratified 5-fold cross-validation framework, followed by independent external validation in a female IPAH cohort. Sex-associated immune landscapes were characterized via CIBERSORTx-based deconvolution.Female-associated DEGs were associated with metabolic dysregulation, lysosomal pathways, and TGF-β/Wnt signaling. PPI analysis identified MMP1, SFRP1, SNAI2, ADAM12, and INHBA as central hub genes. The ensemble framework prioritized METTL27 and CDH11 as candidate biomarkers. A two-gene signature (METTL27 + CDH11) demonstrated robust performance under leakage-free repeated cross-validation (XGBoost mean AUC 0.875 ± 0.161) and correctly identified 26 of 28 female IPAH patients in an independent external cohort (patient-detection sensitivity 92.9%; 95% CI, 77.4-98.0%). Immune deconvolution revealed marked sex dimorphism, with adaptive immune enrichment in females and innate myeloid predominance in males.Our approach identifies a candidate two-gene signature (METTL27/CDH11) for female IPAH and highlights TGF-β/Wnt signaling, metabolic, and immune dimorphism as key drivers of sex-associated pathogenesis. These findings provide a foundation for future clinical and experimental validation of sex-informed candidate molecular biomarkers in IPAH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early synaptic dysfunction followed by progressive amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. We previously identified secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) as a multifactorial contributor to AD pathogenesis and provided initial evidence that its neutralization ameliorates pathological AD-like traits in mice. Here we evaluate the pharmacodynamics, biodistribution, and therapeutic window of an anti-SFRP1 monoclonal antibody (α-SFRP1) in double transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mice (APP/PS1).Pharmacokinetics and target engagement of α-SFRP1 were assessed in groups of both male and female APP/PS1 mice using biotinylated or Zirconium-89 labeled (89Zr) antibodies, with tissue distribution and α-SFRP1 levels quantified by in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by administering α-SFRP1 or the SFRP1 inhibitor WAY-316606 at different stages of disease progression via retro-orbital injection, followed by analysis of AD-like pathology using ELISA and quantitative immunofluorescence assays and statistical analysis.Using 89Zr-labeled antibodies, we show that intravenously administered α-SFRP1 engages its target systemically and reaches the brain, although at substantially lower levels and with a rapid 24-h clearance. Treatment with α-SFRP1 had no apparent systemic side effects or sex-dependent differences, but its therapeutic efficacy against AD-like brain pathology was strongly dependent on disease stage. Although early administration reduced amyloid pathology in previous studies, treatment initiated at intermediate or advanced stages showed minimal benefit at standard doses. Higher antibody doses reduced amyloid burden and dystrophic neurites but were associated with increased mortality. Pharmacological inhibition of SFRP1 using a small-molecule inhibitor similarly failed to ameliorate pathology at intermediate stages.Together, these findings demonstrate that SFRP1 remains a relevant therapeutic target in AD, but its effective modulation is constrained by limited brain exposure and a narrow therapeutic window, underscoring the importance of early intervention and prompting the search for improved brain-targeted delivery strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
To investigate the transcriptional profiling of ocular surface ectoderm (OSE) derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESC), and identified CACNG6 and AQP3 as the surface markers of OSE.hESCs were differentiated into OSE, neuroectoderm (NE), surface ectoderm (SE), and other surface ectoderm (OE) cells in vitro. RNA-seq was performed to analyze transcriptomic profiling of hESC-derived OSE, NE, OE, and SE. The differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, and Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed to screen the signals and hub genes associated to OSE commitment. Also, the highly expressed transcription factors (TFs) and membrane proteins (MPs) in OSE cells were identified.Transcriptome analysis revealed that OSE development is dually regulated by signals associated with both SE and NE development. The signaling pathways such as Hippo, encoding extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) might delineate the surface ectodermal phenotype of OSE, with FN1, COL1A1, and TGFB1 identified as hub genes. Additionally, pathways such as axon guidance, might elucidate the influence of NE in OSE commitment, and with PAX6, LHX2, FOXG1, SOX2, MSI1, and DCLK1 recognized as the hub genes. Genes implicated in retinoic acid (RA) synthesis (ALDH1A1, ALDH1A3, and RDH10) exhibited high expression in OSE, indicating the significant role of the RA signaling pathway in OSE development. Furthermore, OSE-specific transcription factors and surface markers (CACNG6 and AQP3) were identified.This study reveals the transcriptome profiling of OSE, which could provide insights into the characteristics of OSE and the underlying molecular mechanisms involved in its derivation.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Inflammation is a primary driver of skin ageing. Mussel mucin, a naturally occurring anti-inflammatory protein, suffers from inefficient extraction from its natural source. To overcome the yield limitation of natural sources and to verify the biological activity of the recombinant protein, this study employed synthetic biology techniques to efficiently produce and purify the recombinant mussel mucin Mfp151 and subsequently evaluated its anti-inflammatory and skin barrier repair functions. Using human immortalized keratinocytes (HaCaT), human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF-1), and human monocyte leukemia cells (THP-1) as models, we assessed the skin-repairing, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory effects of Mfp151 via the CCK-8 assay, qPCR, transmembrane resistance measurement, scratch assay, ELISA, and free radical scavenging assays. In vivo validation was conducted with a zebrafish sunburn model. The results demonstrated that Mfp151 significantly promoted cell proliferation (80 μg/mL treatment increased HaCaT cell proliferation by approximately 32%) and migration, while upregulating the expression of key skin barrier genes IVL, OVOL1, and AQP3 by 2.14-3.88 folds. Mfp151 effectively scavenged DPPH and ABTS free radicals while enhancing cellular antioxidant capacity by activating the Nrf2 pathway. Regarding anti-inflammatory effects, Mfp151 significantly suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced production of pro-inflammatory factors IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β (80 μg/mL treatment reduced expression levels to 59.87%-79.12% of that in the model group), while significantly downregulating the expression of key inflammatory mediators COX-2 and iNOS and their downstream product PGE2 (80 μg/mL treatment reduced COX-2, iNOS expression and PGE2 secretion to 48.91%-67.30% those in the model group.) Zebrafish experiments confirmed the significant promotion of Mfp151 on caudal fin repair following sunburn. The data indicate that the recombinant Mfp151 obtained through synthetic biology techniques possesses skin-repairing functions alongside antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, thus demonstrating promising application prospects in fields such as anti-ageing cosmetic ingredients and wound dressings.
The GST superfamily of proteins canonically use a large central active site to recognize and detoxify the cell from a range of damaged lipids and xenobiotics. The mitochondrial GST-like protein, GDAP1, was proposed to bind the dicarboxylic fatty acid, thapsic acid, through a non-canonical binding pocket, similar to a GST L-site, allowing GDAP1 to adopt an unusually open conformation, and leaving the function of the canonical active site and an adjacent feature called the alpha-loop unclear. Here, we report the biochemical impact of mutants in all of GDAP1's canonical domains (G-site, H-site, alpha-loop, and putative L-site), revealing that thapsic acid binding activity is actually housed within the canonical active site pocket. Our biochemistry, combined with structural predictions and modeling strongly suggests that movements in the alpha-loop and G-site effectively remodel the canonical GDAP1 binding pocket to facilitate interactions with thapsic acid. Further, mutants in the canonical active site eliminated the cytoprotective effects of wild-type GDAP1. Together, these findings establish GDAP1 as a conformationally dynamic GST-like protein in which coordinated alpha-loop and G-site movements remodel the canonical active site to enable lipid recognition, coupling its biochemical activity to mitochondrial membrane integrity and redox homeostasis. Furthermore, we provide an extensive map of residues that coordinate lipid binding by GDAP1.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dry eye disease (DED) is a multifactorial ocular surface disorder characterized by inflammation, oxidative stress, tear film instability, and secretory dysfunction. This study investigated the protective effects of Lute-gen®, a lutein and zeaxanthin-based formulation, in both in vitro and in vivo DED models. Human corneal epithelial (HCE-T) cells were stimulated with TNF-α, while dry eye was induced in female Sprague-Dawley rats using subcutaneous scopolamine (SCP) administration. In HCE-T cells, Lute-gen® showed no cytotoxicity, restored cell viability, reduced intracellular ROS, and was associated with increased expression of antioxidant-related markers (Nrf2, HO-1, SOD, CAT, and GPx), reduced expression of inflammatory mediators (TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB/NLRP3), and increased expression of AQP3 and AQP5. In SCP-induced rats, Lute-gen® significantly improved tear secretion and reduced corneal fluorescein staining. Histopathological analyses revealed restoration of conjunctival goblet cells, mucin staining, corneal epithelial integrity, acinar area and cell density, and lacrimal gland architecture, with reduced inflammatory infiltration. Immunofluorescence further demonstrated reduced TLR4 and MMP9 immunoreactivity and decreased CD68+ inflammatory cell infiltration. Molecular analyses showed reduced expression of inflammatory cytokines and NF-κB/MAPK/MMP signaling-related inflammatory mediators, together with restoration of AQP1, AQP3, and AQP5 expression in corneal tissues. Collectively, these findings suggest that Lute-gen® treatment was associated with improvements in dry eye-related pathological changes, including restoration of antioxidant-related markers, attenuation of inflammatory responses, restoration of aquaporin expression, and preservation of ocular surface and lacrimal gland integrity. These preclinical findings support further mechanistic investigations and the future clinical evaluation of Lute-gen® as a potential nutritional intervention for dry eye disease.
Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing studies offer insight into gene regulation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, analysing vast numbers of genes can make the interpretation of data difficult when considering the platforms and techniques used across different studies. In this study, transcript expression, restricted to genes related to G-protein coupled receptors, activating agonists, agonist precursors, synthesis enzymes and transduction processes, as well as stress-related chaperones and solute carriers, was assessed across nine microarray platforms and two RNAseq studies of the substantia nigra (nigral volume). Changes in gene expression associated with PD were assessed by differential expression analysis while RNAseq studies were also used to calculate transcript per million values for each of the genes within the nigral volume. This analysis showed extensive changes in nigral volume signalling for several robustly expressed signal-related transcripts including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), WNT signalling components (SFRP1, RSPO2 and DKK3), Kallikrein Related Peptidase 6 (KLK6), neurexins (NRXN1, NRXN3), prostaglandin synthases (PTGES2, PTGES3) and fractalkine (CX3CL1). The nigral volume signalling ligand data was then cross-referenced to the most abundant G-protein coupled receptor and signal transduction transcripts in the pigmented neurons using two RNAseq and two microarray studies. There were 32 significant changes in G-protein coupled receptor and associated signalling genes in pigmented neurons from PD tissue. Of these, 30 genes were upregulated. Analysis of the transcription factors likely regulating the 30 upregulated genes indicates a stimulation of cell stress pathways, particularly the JNK-MAP kinase pathway. Following this pathway back to changes in nigral signalling transcripts indicates that deficits in at least two autocrine/paracrine signalling systems; dopamine, via Gαo-coupled dopamine D2 receptors and Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) appear likely to contribute to pigmented neuron stress in PD.Copyright: © 2026 John M. Haynes. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Salivary gland dysfunction is a known complication of metabolic disorders; however, the specific effect of obesity on the expression of water transport channels, Aquaporins (AQPs), in the parotid gland remains insufficiently understood.This study aimed to evaluate the structural alterations and quantify changes in the expression and distribution of specific classical water channels (AQP1, AQP8) and aquaglyceroporins (AQP3, AQP7, AQP9) in the parotid gland of a rat model subjected to high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity.Eight adult male Sprague-Dawley albino rats weighing 180 g were randomly divided into two groups (4 rats each). The control group was fed a basal diet, and the HFD group was fed a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. Metabolic parameters were assessed, and parotid gland tissues were evaluated using H&E and PAS stains. AQP1, AQP8, and AQP9 expressions were quantified via immunohistochemistry; AQP3 and AQP7 transcript levels were measured using qRT-PCR, and AQP9 protein expression was validated by Western blot.Compared to the control group, rats fed HFD exhibited significant hyperglycemia (>3-fold), insulin resistance, and systemic dyslipidemia. These metabolic shifts correlated with structural damage, showing an approximately two-fold increase in parotid acini diameter, a significant decrease in ductal diameter, and a significant increase in the histopathological injury score regarding inflammatory infiltrate, vascular congestion, acinar irregularity, and the presence of vacuolated cells (P < 0.001). PAS staining showed decreased intensity, suggesting reduced glycoprotein synthesis and storage. Furthermore, obesity altered Aquaporin distribution and significantly increased the expression of AQP1 and AQP8, shifting from local to diffuse expression in acinar and ductal cells. Concurrently, a marked ∼2.5-fold upregulation of AQP3 mRNA and a ∼2-fold increase in AQP7 mRNA were observed, along with a significant (>3-fold) increase in AQP9 protein levels.Obesity induced by HFD significantly impairs the structural integrity of the parotid gland in rats and suggests potential alterations in its secretory composition. The significant upregulation of AQP 1, 3, 7, 8, and 9 (ranging from 2- to over 3-fold increases) suggests a potential molecular response to hyperlipidemia, inflammation, and metabolic stress. However, given the limited sample size (n = 4 per group) and the lack of in vivo functional secretory assays, further large-scale physiological studies are required to confirm the precise functional implications of these Aquaporin shifts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563993 is a review article
Functional recovery after total joint arthroplasty (TJA) is multifactorial. This study aimed to characterize the one-year recovery trajectory in elderly patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) or total knee arthroplasty (TKA) by integrating objective gait analysis, muscle strength assessment, and patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs).In this prospective cohort study, 84 patients (THA: 36, TKA: 48; age ≥ 70 years) with Kellgren-Lawrence (K-L) grades III or IV osteoarthritis were evaluated pre-operatively and at two weeks and one, three, six, and 12 months post-surgery. Spatiotemporal gait parameters were collected using foot-mounted inertial sensors. Isokinetic dynamometry measured hip abductor (THA) or quadriceps muscle (TKA) strength. The PROMs, including the Hip Disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score for Joint Replacement (HOOS-JR) and the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score for Joint Replacement (KOOS-JR), were collected at all time points. Correlation and regression analyses were performed to identify predictors of recovery.The TKA patients demonstrated significant and persistent gait asymmetry up to three months, which normalized by six months. The THA recovery was more symmetrical, with only transient asymmetry at one month. Pre-operative muscle strength was the strongest predictor of 12-month gait speed (β = 0.42, P < 0.001), while radiographic severity (K-L grade III versus IV) did not significantly predict functional gait recovery (P = 0.38). By 12 months, both groups approached normative values for gait and strength, with 94.0% of THA and 92.0% of TKA patients achieving the patient acceptable symptom state (PASS).Muscle strength, rather than radiographic severity, is the critical determinant of functional gait recovery after TJA in the elderly. Pre-operative muscle strength assessment should be incorporated into surgical planning to guide personalized post-operative rehabilitation strategies. Future prospective randomized trials incorporating pre-operative gait analysis and intervention arms are warranted to establish causal relationships.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
This study investigated the diagnostic accuracy of lung ultrasound (LUS) and serum KL-6 levels for detecting interstitial lung disease (ILD) in Sjögren's disease (SjD) patients.This retrospective study included 70 SjD patients evaluated at Shantou Central Hospital. All patients underwent chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT), LUS, and KL-6 measurement within one month. LUS was performed at 50 scanning sites. The presence and patterns of ILD were defined by HRCT findings. Serum KL-6 levels were measured using chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay. Correlations between B-lines score, KL-6 level, and the HRCT Warrick score were analyzed. ROC curves with DeLong test and Spearman correlation analysis were performed to evaluate diagnostic efficiency and correlations with the Warrick HRCT fibrosis score.The concordance rate between LUS and HRCT was 82.86% (Kappa value = 0.6572). The optimal cut-off value for detecting SjD-ILD was 22 B-lines (AUC = 0.952, sensitivity 82.86%, specificity 100%). Serum KL-6 levels were also significantly higher in patients with ILD compared to those without ILD on HRCT (430.8 [274.6-698.3] vs. 240.4 [168.5-298.8]). ROC analysis showed that a serum KL-6 concentration of 329 U/mL was the optimal cut-off value for detecting ILD in SjD patients (AUC = 0.814, sensitivity 65.71%, and specificity 88.57%). B-line score, KL-6 level, and Warrick score presented significant pairwise positive correlations.LUS B-lines and serum KL-6 exhibit robust diagnostic value for SjD-ILD. The cut-offs > 22 B-lines and 329 U/mL KL-6 are recommended. Key Points • The concordance rate between LUS and HRCT was 82.86%, providing a noninvasive and reliable strategy for SjD-ILD screening, with an optimal cut-off of 22 B-lines (AUC = 0.952). • B-line score and serum KL-6 both strongly correlate with HRCT Warrick score, supporting their application as noninvasive tools to assess ILD severity in SjD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Efficient gene activation or repression through programmable CRISPR-Cas9 has revolutionized molecular biology and drug development. Nonetheless, the currently available CRISPRa/i approaches are modestly potent and require multi-component delivery, which hampers the wide use of the technology in both research and therapy.We developed a modular CRISPR-condensate platform by appending a multivalent RNA nanostar to the 3' end of a single-guide RNA, producing a sgRNA-nanostar chimera that mediates phase separation at Cas9-bound genomic loci. The nanostar scaffold also contains MS2 stem-loops, which recruit MCP-tagged transcriptional effectors (VP64 for activation, KRAB for repression) to the condensate microenvironment at high local concentration. We examined condensate formation, genome targeting, and transcriptional output by using live-cell imaging, RT-qPCR, ChIP-seq, RNA-seq and CUT&Tag in HEK293T, HeLa, U-2 OS, MDA-MB-231, as well as human iPSC cell lines.The CRISPR-condensate design resulted in up to 50-100-fold target-gene activation, compared with 5-10-fold activation by direct VP64 fusion, and 20-30-fold transcriptional repression, compared with 3-5-fold repression by direct KRAB fusion, with high target specificity (12 versus 28 non-target differentially expressed genes assessed by RNA-seq). Orthogonal kissing-loop (KL) pairings enabled independent condensate systems for simultaneous activation and repression of multiplexed targets. Janus condensates containing both activating and repressive domains enabled bidirectional regulation at a single locus. The system requires delivery of only three independently expressible components-dCas9-NLS, an sgRNA-nanostar chimera bearing MS2 stem-loops (MS2SLs), and an MCP-fused effector (VP64-MCP for activation or KRAB-MCP for repression)-and showed minimal innate immune response and high cell viability.The CRISPR-condensate system merges the dramatically enhanced transcriptional efficacy with the reduced complexity of components, providing a modular system for fine-tuned gene expression regulation. This strategy makes biomolecular condensation a general principle for enhancing CRISPR gene regulation, opening up possibilities for functional genomics, cell engineering, and therapy development.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
To evaluate the clinical effectiveness of adjunctive Manuka honey oral rinse following nonsurgical periodontal therapy (NSPT) in hemodialysis patients with periodontitis, and to explore associated changes in periodontal clinical parameters (clinical attachment level [CAL], probing depth [PD], bleeding on probing [BOP], and plaque index [PI]), selected inflammatory biomarkers (gingival crevicular fluid fibroblast growth factor-23 [FGF23] and serum C-reactive protein [CRP]), and oral health-related quality of life (OHIP-14).In this randomized, blinded, controlled clinical trial, 140 hemodialysis patients with Stage III periodontitis were allocated to NSPT with Manuka honey oral rinse (n = 70) or NSPT with saline rinse (n = 70). CAL was the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included PD, BOP, PI, gingival crevicular fluid FGF23, serum CRP, and OHIP-14. Periodontal parameters were assessed at baseline, 3, and 6 months. Gingival crevicular fluid and venous blood samples were collected with sterile paper strips and before the hemodialysis session, respectively. The periodontal parameters were recorded at baseline, 3, and 6 months, whereas the biomarkers and OHIP-14 were recorded at baseline and 6 months.Both groups showed significant intragroup improvements in periodontal parameters over time (P < .001). At 6 months, the Manuka group demonstrated significantly greater improvements compared with controls in CAL mean difference = -0.5 mm (95% CI: -0.86 to -0.14; P = .008), PD (P = .013), and BOP (P = .005), while plaque index did not differ significantly between groups (P > .05). In addition, the Manuka group showed a greater reduction in GCF FGF23 and serum CRP levels (P ≤ .001). Improvements in OHIP-14 scores were also significantly greater in the Manuka group (P = .003).Adjunctive use of Manuka honey oral rinse with NSPT was associated with modest additional improvements in periodontal clinical outcomes and reductions in inflammatory biomarkers in hemodialysis patients. These findings suggest a potential supportive role for Manuka honey as an adjunctive periodontal therapy in medically compromised populations; however, the observed biomarker changes should be interpreted with caution, as systemic clinical outcomes were not assessed.The study was registered at Clinical Trials.gov on December 9, 2024 with the number (NCT06726876).Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading monogenic cause of autism, results from the loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Dysregulated translation of FMRP target mRNAs is believed to underlie the aberrant synaptic plasticity observed in FXS. Identification of these targets is critical for elucidating disease mechanisms and developing therapeutic strategies.We confirmed the interaction between FMRP and FYN mRNA by RNA immunoprecipitation in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells and assessed FYN translational regulation via polyribosome profiling in FXS and control lymphoblastoid cells. The role of FYN in ERK hyperactivation was examined in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, and dfmr1 mutant flies. Additionally, we tested whether reducing or inhibiting Src64B, a Drosophila Src family kinase with homology to human FYN, could rescue neural and behavioral defects in dfmr1 mutants.FMRP bound to FYN mRNA and suppressed its translation without affecting mRNA stability. Phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels were markedly elevated in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, and this hyperactivation was largely reversed by either the Src family kinase inhibitor PP2 or siRNA-mediated FYN knockdown, supporting an important role for FYN in ERK1/2 dysregulation. Similar changes were observed in FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, with increased FYN expression and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and PP2 treatment attenuated the abnormal ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological suppression of Src64B restored ERK signaling and rescued mushroom body defects and memory deficits in dfmr1 mutants.This study identifies FYN as a novel translational target of FMRP and suggests that its upregulation may contribute to hyperactivation of ERK1/2 signaling in FXS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
This study was designed to evaluate the genetic association of three specific intronic Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) gene-rs2005313, rs4274224, and rs4938019-with schizophrenia susceptibility in a Pakistani population. The primary objective was to identify population-specific biomarkers that could inform early intervention and personalized treatment strategies.Genotyping was conducted on a matched case-control cohort of 208 participants (104 cases; 104 controls) using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) PCR. Genetic associations were quantified using Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI), representing the standard coefficient and its margin of error to ensure statistical precision. Functional annotation of the investigated polymorphisms was performed using GTEx, FORGEdb and RegulomeDB to assess regulatory potential and tissue-specific expression effects.The research identified highly significant associations across multiple inheritance models, validating the technical robustness of the findings. The rs4938019 polymorphism emerged as the most potent genetic risk factor, particularly under the recessive model (OR: 9.60; 95% CI: 3.92-23.52; p < 0.0001), where the rare GG genotype was found in 44% of cases compared to only 7.2% of controls. Conversely, rs4274224 demonstrated a significant protective effect, with a co-dominant OR of 0.23 (95% CI: 0.09-0.59; p = 0.0022), suggesting that the T allele confers genetic resilience. Furthermore, among the investigated DRD2 variants, rs2005313 demonstrated significance primarily under the over-dominant inheritance model, whereas rs4938019 exhibited the strongest association under the recessive model (OR: 2.13; 95% CI: 1.15-3.94; p = 0.014). All variants in the control group maintained Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (p > 0.05), confirming the absence of population bias. Functional annotation revealed that rs4274224 showed the strongest direct regulatory evidence for DRD2 (FORGEdb score: 6; RegulomeDB Rank 1f), while rs4938019 demonstrated the highest overall regulatory potential (FORGEdb score: 9), with rs2005313 exhibiting substantial regulatory evidence (FORGEdb score: 7) supported by extensive GTEx cis-eQTLs across multiple tissues including brain regions.These findings establish DRD2 intronic polymorphisms as critical determinants of schizophrenia risk. The high-risk rs4938019 GG genotype provides a clear translational biomarker for rapid genetic screening, potentially improving clinical outcomes through genotype-guided therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Metastasis remains a leading cause of mortality in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients, underscoring the urgent need to elucidate the molecular mechanisms driving disease progression. In this study, we delineated that ZBED2, a zinc finger protein, correlates with inferior survival outcomes and metastasis in ESCC patients. ZBED2 formed phase-separated nuclear condensates that functionally promote tumor metastasis, and integrin-linked kinase (ILK) was pinpointed as a critical downstream effector in mediating the pro-metastatic function of ZBED2. Mechanistically, ZBED2 enhanced the transcription of HSP90AA1, promoted the physical interaction between HSP90AA1 and ILK, and consequently stabilized ILK by suppressing its ubiquitination. Subsequently, ILK promoted PD-L1 transcription and CD8+ T cell exhaustion, thereby creating an immunosuppressive microenvironment that facilitates cancer metastasis. Collectively, these findings establish the pivotal role of ZBED2 in driving ESCC metastasis and immune evasion, thereby validating it as a promising therapeutic target for this aggressive malignancy.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a complication of pregnancy characterized by hypertension, with limited therapeutic options and variable treatment response. Identifying novel drug targets is urgently needed.We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) to explore potential drug targets for PE using data from the UK Biobank (nCase = 184, nControl = 361,010) and the FinnGen database (nCase = 7,377, nControl = 211,957). Genetic instruments for pQTLs were obtained from five proteomic studies. Bayesian colocalization analysis and summary-data-based MR (SMR) analysis were performed to assess the causal relationship between two related signals (protein levels and PE risk). We further conducted single-cell type expression analysis and phenome-wide MR. In addition, a protein-protein interaction network of key genes was constructed via the GeneMANIA website.At a significance level of p < 5 × 10-8, MR analysis revealed seven protein-PE pairs. Gene prediction indicated that KDEL (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu) Containing 2 and Keratin 18 (KRT18) were positively correlated with the risk of PE, whereas the other five proteins (Complement Factor B [CFB], FYN Proto-Oncogene [FYN], RAN Binding Protein 1 [RANBP1], Amphoterin-Induced Gene and ORF 1 [AMIGO1], and Arginase 2 [ARG2]) were negatively correlated. None of the five proteins had reverse causality. Bayesian colocalization analysis verified the positive correlation of CFB (coloc.coloc.susie PPH4 = 1) and KRT18 (coloc.coloc.abf PPH4 = 0.74) with PE. The genes encoding the proteins KRT18, FYN, ARG2, and RANBP1 were distributed in specific cell types within PE tissues from patients with PE. Moreover, the examination of single-cell localization provided insights into the extensive distribution of the KRT18 gene, which is highly expressed in the villous cytotrophoblast (VCT) and extravillous trophoblast (EVT) populations.Our MR analysis suggested that the plasma proteins KRT18, FYN, RANBP1, AMIGO1, and ARG2 had causal effects on PE risk. These findings indicated that these five proteins might be promising druggable targets for PE and warrant further clinical therapy, especially KRT18.© The Author(s) 2026.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are neuroendocrine-disrupting chemicals that produce adverse neurodevelopmental effects. PBDEs have been implicated as risk factors for autism spectrum disorder (ASD), which is characterized by abnormal psychosocial functioning and is commonly comorbid with cognitive deficits and sensory abnormalities. Here, we used a mouse model with translationally relevant exposure to establish direct causal evidence that maternal transfer of a commercial mixture of PBDEs, DE-71, produces ASD-relevant behavioral and neuroendocrine deficits in male offspring. C57Bl6/N mouse dams were exposed to a commercial PBDE mixture, DE-71, via oral administration of 0 (vehicle control, VEH/CON), 0.1 (L-DE-71), or 0.4 (H-DE-71) mg/kg b.w./day for 10 weeks, spanning from 3 weeks prior to gestation through the end of lactation at postnatal day (PND) 21. Mass spectrometric analysis indicated a dose-dependent transfer of PBDEs (in ppb) to brains of F1 male offspring at PND 30, with reduction in levels by PND 110. DE-71-exposed adult F1 male offspring displayed ASD-relevant abnormal neurobehavioral phenotypes, including impaired social novelty preference (SNP) despite intact general sociability and exaggerated repetitive behavior. There were also milder effects on long-term social recognition memory (SRM). DE-71-exposed mice also displayed altered olfactory discrimination of social odors without altered odor preference for non-social odors, impaired novel object recognition memory, and reduced open field habituation relative to VEH/CON. However, no changes were observed in sensorimotor, anxiety-, or depressive-like behaviors. At the molecular level, DE-71-exposed males displayed deregulated gene markers of prosocial neuropeptides, oxytocin, vasopressin, and PACAP systems in hypothalamic and forebrain regions. Oxt was upregulated in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN); Avp was upregulated in the PVN and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) but downregulated in the lateral septum (LS); Avp1ar and Adcyap1 were upregulated in the BNST; and Adcyap1r1 was upregulated in the PVN, supraoptic nucleus (SON), and BNST. Peripheral OXT was increased in L-DE-71 males, while no changes in plasma AVP were observed. These findings demonstrate that developmental PBDE exposure produces enduring behavioral and neuroendocrine phenotypes that resemble core domains of ASD, which may result from early neurodevelopmental reprogramming within central social and memory networks.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
This study aimed to investigate the pharmacodynamic material basis and potential mechanism of Baoyuan Decoction(BYD) in treating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD) based on serum pharmacochemistry and network pharmacology. UPLC-Q-Exactive-Orbitrap-MS was employed to identify the chemical constituents of BYD and its components absorbed in rat plasma. A total of 493 chemical compounds were identified in BYD, 174 of which were reported for the first time. In the drug-containing plasma, 76 prototype components and 44 metabolites were identified, with 27 components exhibiting both prototype and metabolic properties. Through network pharmacology approaches, potential targets of the absorbed prototype components were predicted and intersected with COPD-related targets, yielding 724 common targets. Key targets such as SRC, PIK3R1, and HSP90AA1 were further screened out. Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed via the DAVID database, revealing that BYD may exert its effects by regulating biological processes such as response to external stimuli and peptidyl-tyrosine phosphorylation. KEGG analysis indicated involvement of key pathways including calcium signaling pathway, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, and cAMP signaling pathway. A component-target-pathway network was constructed, and molecular docking results demonstrated strong binding affinity between the core components of BYD and the key targets. In summary, components such as vitexin, sanguisorbigenin, 6-gingerol, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, 10-shogaol, liquiritin, ononin, calycosin-7-glucoside, ginsenoside Ro, and ginsenoside Rf may serve as the main pharmacodynamic material basis of BYD in treating COPD. The underlying mechanism may be associated with the regulation of targets such as SRC and PIK3R1, which influences inflammatory and oxidative stress processes. This study preliminarily clarifies the multi-component, multi-target mechanism of BYD against COPD, providing a reference for quality standard improvement and formulation development of BYD.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Environmental factors are increasingly implicated in the etiology of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are anthropogenic toxicants added as flame retardants to consumer products that have become ubiquitous environmental contaminants and disrupt thyroid hormone (TH) and neuroendocrine systems. We have previously shown that developmental PBDE exposure produces ASD-like traits with involvement of oxytocin (OXT)-thyroid hormone signaling. Limosilactobacillus reuteri (LR), a widely used probiotic bacterium, has been shown to improve social functioning and increase TH and OXT levels in murine models. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that LR supplementation (LR) prevents PBDE-induced deficits in socioemotional behavior with concomitant modulation of TH signaling genes on hypothalamic OXT neurons.C57BL/6N mouse offspring were exposed to a commercial penta-mixture of PBDE congeners, DE-71, at an environmentally realistic concentration, 0.1 mg/kg/d (DE-71), or to corn oil vehicle (VEH/CON) via their mothers during gestation and lactation. Offspring received supplementation with LR ATCC PTA 6475 (10 7 -10 8 CFU/mL, po) indirectly via the dam or continuation directly through adulthood. Unsupplemented controls were given saline.Fecal microbiome analysis in offspring confirmed colonization of LR at postnatal day (P) 40 and depletion by P104. LR treatment increased plasma total thyroxine in DE-71 and plasma OXT in VEH/CON dams. In DE-71 offspring of both sexes, LR normalized deficient scores on social novelty preference and emotional recognition in adult females and males and deficient long-term social recognition memory (SRM) in adult DE-71 females; DE-71 males were normal. Reduced olfactory dishabituation between two social odors may partly explain the compromised socioemotional behavior produced by DE-71 in an LR-dependent manner. Multiplex RNA in situ hybridization performed on immunoreactive OXT-ergic neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) revealed significant upregulation of TH transporter monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( Mct8 ) and downregulation of iodothyronine deiodinase 3 ( Dio3 ) in DE-71 relative to VEH/CON females. This toxicant-induced reprogramming was prevented by probiotic treatment. DE-71 males expressed reduction in Mct8 and Dio3 transcripts on OXT-ergic neurons with minimal LR protection. In the female supraoptic nucleus (SON), Mct8 and Dio3 were downregulated by DE-71 and normalized in DE-71+LR; there were no group effects on transcript levels in male SON. Results of fecal 16S rRNA sequencing indicated reduced α-diversity and altered β-diversity in the gut bacterial community of female but not male DE-71 exposed offspring; most changes were correctable by LR. Alterations in taxa-level abundance caused by DE-71 and reversed by LR were observed in both sexes. These involved Bifidobacterium, Coprococcus, Desulfovibrio, Oscillospira , and Peptococcaceae in females and Desulfovibrionaceae, Rikenella , and Turicibacter in males. Exposed dams showed no detriment in α- and β-diversity while showing reduced abundance of several Firmicutes and Proteobacteria taxa that could be rescued by LR. The relative abundance of Lactobacillus was upregulated in DE-71 males and DE-71+LR males and dams.These results indicate that developmental probiotic supplementation effectively mitigated organohalogen-induced ASD-like deficits in socioemotional behavior and partially corrected dysbiosis of gut bacterial communities in exposed offspring of both sexes. Concomitantly, PBDEs altered the expression of TH regulatory genes Mct8 and Dio3 in PVH OXT neurons in a sex-dependent manner, suggesting that TH regulation of OXT neuroendocrine cells may modulate the emergence of toxicant-induced ASD-relevant behavior. While LR reinstated normal behavioral outcomes in PBDE-exposed offspring of both sexes, coincident normalization of hypothalamic TH signaling transcripts occurred more broadly in females, indicating the existence of unique parallel processes influencing the preventive effects of LR on ASD-relevant behavioral deficits in both sexes.
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Stress can cause or exacerbate psychiatric illness, and effects on the transcription factor CREB within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are critically involved. In rodents, stress-induced activation of NAc CREB produces elevations in dynorphin (DYN), an endogenous opioid expressed in dopamine D1-receptor (D1R)-expressing medium spiny neurons (MSNs). In turn, elevated DYN signaling produces features of mood and anxiety disorders via actions at kappa-opioid receptors (KORs). Although individual differences in stress sensitivity have been described-with some appearing susceptible and others resilient-the contribution of NAc DYN to these phenotypes is unclear. Here we examined relationships between social behavior and DYN in D1R-expressing MSNs in mice exposed to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS). We used quantitative (q)RNAscope to assess co-expression of genes encoding CREB (Creb1), D1Rs (Drd1), and DYN (Pdyn) within the NAc. To leverage individual variability, we performed regression analyses across all mice, revealing negative correlations between social interaction behavior and expression of Drd1 and Pdyn, linking higher social avoidance with higher expression of these genes. There was no correlation with Creb1, suggesting stress-induced elevations in Pdyn depend on CREB activation (phosphorylation). These findings suggest that stress-related induction of DYN in D1R-expressing MSNs within the NAc is a biomarker of susceptibility.© 2026 The Authors.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skeletal muscle plasticity progressively declines from middle age onward, and exercise may partially mitigate this deterioration through microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulatory networks. However, whether the timing of aerobic exercise initiation during middle age (early vs. late) differentially influences muscle function and miRNA expression profiles remains incompletely understood.Male C57BL/6 mice were assigned to four groups: middle-aged control (MC, 12 months), old-aged control (MC18, 18 months), early exercise (PRE18, 12-15 months), and late exercise (POS18, 15-18 months). Gastrocnemius muscles were collected for miRNA sequencing and subsequent functional analyses. The MC18 group exhibited sarcopenic-like phenotypes, with 176 differentially expressed miRNAs (DEmiRNAs) identified relative to the MC group. Aerobic exercise was associated with attenuation of age-related muscle atrophy, with PRE18 showing comparatively more pronounced effects than POS18. miRNA sequencing identified 21 DEmiRNAs with reversed expression patterns in the PRE18 group, whereas only 2 such miRNAs were identified in the POS18 group. Bioinformatic analysis of predicted targets suggested that early-exercise-induced miRNAs may be involved in suppressing FOXO/ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis and restoring Wnt/cAMP signaling, whereas late-exercise-induced miRNAs appeared to have a limited capacity to restore Wnt signaling. miR-195a-5p_R+1, miR-298-5p_R-2, miR-671-5p_R+1 and miR-150-5p were identified as candidate hub miRNAs based on target enrichments within these pathways. Western blot analyses indicated that PRE18 was associated with elevated expression of Wnt‑related (β‑catenin) and cAMP‑related (CREB1, PGC‑1α) proteins, alongside reduced levels of atrophic markers (FOXO3A, FBXO32, and MuRF1). In contrast, POS18 primarily affected atrophic protein expression, with relatively modest influence on Wnt signaling components.These preliminary findings collectively suggest that the sustained benefits of exercise initiated in early middle age might be partially attributable to exercise‑induced miRNAs dually targeting both regenerative and atrophic pathways. Conversely, late initiation appears to be predominantly linked to anti‑atrophic effects, with less impact on regenerative signaling. Together, these observations provide initial evidence for temporal epigenetic plasticity and suggest broader molecular advantages of earlier intervention, although further mechanistic studies are warranted.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Epithelial barrier dysfunction is an early feature of pediatric rhinitis, but the upstream epithelial events that initiate this process remain incompletely defined. Because lipid remodeling and epithelial-derived alarmins may interact during type 2 inflammation, this study examined whether acid sphingomyelinase (ASM)-ceramide signaling is associated with thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) release and barrier impairment in a pediatric rhinitis-related nasal epithelial model.Primary human nasal epithelial cells were stimulated with interleukin-4 (IL-4)/interleukin-13 (IL-13) (10 ng/mL each, 24 h) to model a type 2 inflammatory epithelial milieu. ARC39 was used to inhibit ASM, and siRNA was used to knock down TSLP. TSLP was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); barrier function was assessed by FITC-dextran permeability and ZO-1 immunofluorescence; ceramide levels were measured using a commercial kit; and sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1) expression was evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting.IL-4/IL-13 stimulation increased TSLP release and impaired epithelial barrier integrity (P < 0.001). ARC39 reduced ceramide levels and decreased TSLP output (P < 0.001) in a concentration-dependent manner, with an evident effect at approximately 5 µM, whereas SMPD1 expression remained largely unchanged. TSLP knockdown improved barrier function indicators (P < 0.05), and combined ARC39 treatment did not produce an additional effect beyond TSLP knockdown.ASM-ceramide axis modulation was associated with TSLP release and epithelial barrier dysfunction in this in vitro model. These findings suggest a possible link among sphingolipid remodeling, epithelial alarmin responses, and barrier injury, but further mechanistic and clinical validation is needed.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
Ischemic stroke accounts for 87% of all stroke cases, and remains a leading cause of mortality and disability worldwide. Current reperfusion therapies are limited by narrow therapeutic windows, and cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) remains a major clinical challenge. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death characterized by lethal lipid peroxidation, has been identified as a key pathological driver of CIRI. Dihydroartemisinin (DHA), a semi-synthetic derivative of artemisinin, has shown neuroprotective effects in ischemic stroke, but its underlying mechanism, especially the regulatory effect on ferroptosis via the TAK1-CREB1 signaling axis, remains unclear.To investigate the neuroprotective effect of DHA in ischemic stroke and its molecular mechanism related to the TAK1-CREB1 signaling pathway and ferroptosis regulation.Wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 J mice and astrocyte-specific CREB1 conditional knockout (CREB1 CKO) mice were used to establish a photothrombotic stroke (PTs) model. Neurological function was evaluated by modified neurological severity score (mNSS), Bederson score, Garcia scale and hanging test. Cerebral infarct volume was measured by TTC staining. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was detected by laser speckle contrast imaging. Histopathological changes were observed by HE and Nissl staining. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), NADPH/NADP+ ratio, ferrous iron (Fe2+) and total iron in brain tissue were detected by biochemical kits. The expression of ferroptosis-related proteins and CREB1 was detected by Western blot and immunofluorescence staining.DHA treatment dose-dependently improved neurological function, reduced infarct volume, restored CBF, and ameliorated histopathological damage in PTs mice. TEM revealed that DHA reversed ferroptosis-typical mitochondrial changes in ischemic brain tissue. Biochemically, DHA decreased MDA, Fe²⁺, and total iron, while increasing GSH and NADPH/NADP⁺ ratio. Mechanistically, DHA dose-dependently upregulated GPX4, xCT, and FTH1, and downregulated ACSL4. Notably, astrocyte-specific CREB1 knockout nearly completely abolished DHA's neuroprotective and anti-ferroptosis effects.DHA promotes neurological rehabilitation after ischemic stroke by targeting the astrocytic TAK1-CREB1 signaling pathway to inhibit ferroptosis. This study provides a novel theoretical basis and promising candidate drug for the clinical treatment of ischemic stroke.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Boer goat, a key global meat breed originating from South Africa, has been exported for breeding in over 70 countries, leading to diverse selection pressures and environmental adaptations. In this context, the main objectives of this study were to quantify genome-wide diversity, breed structure, and selection signatures in Boer goats from nine countries to identify shared and population-specific adaptation and production-related signals. Genomic information of 321 Boer goats from nine populations worldwide was analysed: Australia (AUS), Canada (CAN), New Zealand (NZL), South Africa (ZAF), Switzerland (CHE), Tanzania (TZA), Uganda (UGA), United States (USA), and Zimbabwe (ZWE). Genetic diversity varied markedly among populations. The ZAF population exhibited the lowest observed heterozygosity (0.360) and the highest fraction of the genome in runs of homozygosity, suggesting recent inbreeding or strong selection. Population structure analyses, including principal component analysis and ADMIXTURE (optimal K = 8), revealed clear genetic differentiation. AUS Boer goats were the most divergent, while others formed clusters indicating shared ancestry. Four complementary selection signature methods, Fixation index, Divergence index, integrated haplotype score, and cross-population extended haplotype homozygosity, identified 4 706 unique genes under putative selection. No identified genes were common to all populations, indicating strong local adaptation, but 35 candidate genes were identified across five to six populations, highlighting shared selection for core production traits like growth, metabolism, and reproduction. Key shared genes regulating metabolism, including PPP2R2B, SCP2, and PRELID2, were detected in six populations. Regulatory hub genes such as MAPK3, HIF1A, PRKACA, and CREB1 were also detected, playing crucial roles in coordinating important biological processes. Population-specific adaptations included heat tolerance genes in AUS, cold adaptation and reproductive performance genes in CAN, and disease resistance genes in ZAF. These results underscore the need to monitor local genetic diversity while improving production traits in Boer goat breeding worldwide.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) is a distant member of the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily increasingly implicated in metabolic regulation. Evidence points to GDF15 as a myokine that regulates systemic energy homeostasis, yet its role in skeletal muscle remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether GDF15 modulates mitochondrial phenotype during myogenesis using mouse C2C12 myoblasts and complementary models. Bioinformatic analyses of GDF15 interaction networks and gene ontology terms revealed enrichment for pathways related to cell differentiation and metabolic regulation. During myogenic differentiation, GDF15 expression increased at both mRNA and protein levels, with cytoplasmic localization and secretion into the extracellular medium, paralleling enhanced mitochondrial content, mitochondrial DNA copy number, and oxygen consumption. Knockdown of GDF15 reduced mitochondrial markers, increased lactate production, and promoted apoptosis, whereas GDF15 overexpression produced opposite effects. Mechanistically, GDF15 overexpression enhanced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC1α) transactivation and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) response element activity, effects that were abolished by silencing PPARδ or estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRα), suggesting a PGC1α-dependent mechanism. Transcriptomic profiling further supported enrichment of nuclear receptor-related pathways, including PPAR and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB1) signaling. Finally, exercise training in male C57BL/6 mice elevated GDF15 levels in soleus muscle and improved aerobic performance. Together, these findings demonstrate that GDF15 promotes an oxidative phenotype in skeletal muscle cells through PGC1α-dependent activation of PPAR and ERRα, identifying GDF15 as an autocrine regulator of mitochondrial metabolism and muscle adaptation.
Aristolochic Acid I (AAI) is a potent nephrotoxin and Group 1 carcinogen. Despite stringent regulatory restrictions, AAI-containing herbal remedies are still sporadically used to treat respiratory symptoms, presenting a previously underappreciated exposure risk for patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). However, the specific tumor-promoting effects of AAI on preexisting LUAD remain to be fully elucidated.In this study, we integrated network toxicology, TCGA transcriptomic analysis, and molecular docking to identify core oncogenic networks potentially affected by AAI. The associated pro-tumor phenotypes and transcriptional regulatory abnormalities were subsequently investigated through a series of in vitro and in vivo experiments.Network analysis and TCGA data mining identified a cluster of seven hub genes-including ERBB2, SERPINE1, CCNA2, and CHEK1-that are crucial to LUAD progression and significantly associated with poor clinical prognosis. Molecular docking simulations suggested potential binding affinities between AAI and these target proteins. Functional assays demonstrated that acute AAI exposure significantly accelerated the proliferation, migration, and invasion of LUAD cell lines (PC9 and NCI-H1299) in vitro, while promoting macroscopic xenograft tumor growth in vivo. The RT-qPCR and WB results showed that AAI exposure was accompanied by an increase in the expression of core genes.Our findings suggest that, beyond its established chronic mutagenic toxicity, AAI may act as a potent tumor promoter in LUAD. By potentially influencing key oncogenic networks, AAI accelerates the malignant progression of LUAD, underscoring the severe clinical hazards of AAI exposure in patients with preexisting lung malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Mo, Yu, Peng, He, Xie, Wu, Zhang, Wang, Zhao, Ouyang, Yi, Wang, Peng, Huang, Hu, Luo, Chen and Yang.
Psychedelic drugs, such as lysergic acid diethylamide and psilocybin, have emerged as potentially transformative therapeutics for various neuropsychiatric conditions, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, migraine and cluster headaches. Classical psychedelics exert their effects through activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors (HTR2As). Here we provide a suite of engineered mice that will be useful for clarifying the role of HTR2A in psychedelic drug actions. We generated Htr2aEGFP-CreERT2 mice to identify both HTR2A-EGFP-CT receptors and HTR2A-containing cells, thereby revealing HTR2A distribution in the brain. We also generated humanized Htr2aA242S-EGFP-Cre and constitutive Htr2aCre mice. Psychedelic-induced behavioral changes in these mice validated their utility for these studies. Electrophysiological investigations on brain sections from these mice revealed that 2,5,-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine induced robust increases in firing of genetically identified pyramidal neurons. These mouse lines are valuable tools for investigating the molecular, cellular, pharmacological, physiological, behavioral and other mechanisms of psychedelic actions in vivo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534783 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is associated with cigarette smoking, yet the relationship between the tobacco-specific nitrosamine nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone (NNK) and IPF-associated lung transcriptional remodeling remains incompletely understood. Here, we developed an exposure-informed computational framework integrating multi-database target prediction, lung single-cell and single-nucleus transcriptomic analysis, co-expression network analysis, bulk lung cohort projection, and exploratory structure-based modeling. Putative human protein targets of NNK were predicted from ChEMBL, PharmMapper, and SwissTargetPrediction, yielding 2,505 nonredundant targets. These targets were intersected with IPF-associated intramodular hub genes identified from cell type-specific weighted gene co-expression network analysis, defining a focused 42-gene ExposureA-core gene set. Projected ExposureA-core scores showed the clearest IPF-control differences in endothelial and epithelial pseudo-bulk profiles. Functional annotation of the training-derived epithelial ExposureA-core Top30 signature highlighted MAPK and p38 MAPK signaling, PI3K-AKT signaling, angiogenesis or vasculature regulation, cell-substrate adhesion, and membrane-, adhesion-, and cytoskeleton-related cellular components, suggesting remodeling- and adhesion-related epithelial transcriptional features in IPF. The fixed epithelial ExposureA-core Top30 signature remained detectable in independent bulk lung transcriptomic cohorts without gene re-selection, coefficient fitting, or score optimization, with exploratory ROC analyses showing apparent IPF-control separation in GSE110147 and GSE92592. Exploratory docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations of selected epithelial Top30-encoded candidates showed that modeled ECE1-NNK, MMP7-NNK, and TGM2-NNK complexes reached dynamic equilibrium, with relatively stable RMSD, radius of gyration, solvent-accessible surface area, residue-level fluctuation, and low-energy conformational states, supporting their structural plausibility as candidate modeled complexes. Overall, this study defines a focused exposure-informed IPF-associated transcriptional framework and prioritizes epithelial remodeling-related candidate features for future experimental validation. These findings support hypothesis-generating computational prioritization rather than direct evidence that NNK drives IPF pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type 2 inflammation (T2I) drives chronic airway diseases such as eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis (eCRS) and asthma, which are frequently accompanied by coagulation activation and platelet recruitment. However, whether and how these associated processes actively contribute to shaping inflammation remain largely unknown. Here, using single-cell transcriptomic profiling of human nasal polyp samples from eCRS patients with or without comorbid asthma, we identified a TGM2hi macrophage population enriched in inflamed tissues and strongly correlated with local eosinophilia and systemic disease burden. Using dust mite-induced type 2 airway inflammation models in mice, we showed that the loss of Tgm2, either globally or in macrophages, selectively impaired alternative macrophage activation and attenuated both eosinophilic inflammation and epithelial remodeling. Mechanistically, TGM2 catalyzes the recently described histone modification H3Q5 serotonylation (H3Q5Ser), promoting an epigenetically permissive chromatin state for alternative macrophage activation. We further revealed a transcellular circuit driven by the activated platelet-derived monoamine metabolite serotonin (5-HT), which acts as a critical paracrine signal to fuel this epigenetic reprogramming of macrophages. Crucially, pharmacological inhibition of platelet 5-HT release or TGM2 activity ameliorated both nasal and pulmonary pathology in a mouse model of type 2 inflammation, underscoring the therapeutic potential of this pathway. Our findings establish a serotonin-TGM2-H3Q5Ser axis that couples platelet activation to macrophage epigenetic programming. This transcellular mechanism drives type 2 inflammation and reveals novel therapeutic opportunities across airway diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
The HTR2A polymorphisms rs6311 (A-1438G) and rs6313 (T102C) have been thoroughly studied for their impact on atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) responsiveness in schizophrenia. However, the results remain inconsistent owing to the complex genetic and pharmacodynamic interactions. The Joanna Briggs Institute and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews criteria were followed in this scoping review to map the available data on the association between HTR2A polymorphisms and outcomes. We identified 28 studies published before May 2025. Several studies reported that the rs6311 A allele was more frequently associated with improved treatment response, whereas the G allele was linked to poorer or absent response. In contrast, rs6313 exhibited heterogeneous patterns, with some studies reporting poorer response associated with the C allele and others reporting improved response associated with the T allele. This variability across studies likely reflects differences related to specific AAPs, as well as variations in study design and outcome definitions, rather than population or ethnicity-specific biological effects. Overall, HTR2A variants may contribute to interindividual variability in response to AAPs in schizophrenia. However, the current evidence remains insufficient for clinical application and requires further validation in well-designed and adequately powered studies.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
As a short-chain fatty acid and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, butyrate possesses extensive immunomodulatory properties. Here, we uncover a novel mechanism wherein butyrate markedly upregulates the expression of the immune checkpoint PD-L1 across diverse tumor cell types. Mechanistically, epigenetic analyses revealed that butyrate drives PD-L1 transcriptional activation through dual synergistic pathways: increasing histone H3 acetylation (H3Ac) at the PD-L1 promoter via HDAC inhibition, and enhancing histone H3K4me3 modification by upregulating transglutaminase 2 (TGM2). Combining butyrate or high-fiber diets with anti-PD-L1 antibodies profoundly suppressed tumor growth and bolstered anti-tumor immunity in both subcutaneous and AOM-DSS-induced colorectal cancer (CRC) murine models. Ultimately, our results highlight butyrate and dietary fiber supplementation as promising sensitizing strategies to augment the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in patients with low baseline PD-L1 expression.© The author(s).
TACR3 encodes the receptor for neurokinin B, a key regulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. Disruption of this pathway can impair gonadotropin release and male reproductive function. Given the genetic heterogeneity of male infertility, this study aimed to identify novel variants in TACR3 that may underlie asthenozoospermia and related hormonal abnormalities.Fifteen infertile men with confirmed asthenozoospermia were enrolled. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on genomic DNA from peripheral blood, and the candidate variant was validated by Sanger sequencing. Functional predictions were made using PolyPhen-2, SIFT, MutationTaster, and REVEL. TACR3 mRNA expression levels were assessed by real-time PCR in available samples.A novel splice-site variant, TACR3 (NM_001059.3:c.888 + 1G > A), was detected and found to segregate with infertility in one family, appearing homozygously in two infertile brothers and heterozygously in the proband with severe asthenozoospermia. The variant was absent in public and local genomic databases, suggesting its extremely rare frequency. Furthermore, RT-PCR showed a dramatic reduction or complete loss of TACR3 expression in affected individuals, confirming its deleterious effect on splicing and mRNA stability.We identified a previously unreported splice-site mutation in TACR3 (c.888 + 1G > A) that likely causes familial infertility by disrupting the neurokinin B/NK3R signaling pathway. While the heterozygous proband exhibited severe asthenozoospermia, the homozygous brothers displayed hormonal profiles typical of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. These findings extend the mutational landscape of TACR3 and highlight its essential contribution to male reproductive endocrinology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516635 is a review article
Valproic acid (VPA) response in pediatric epilepsy shows high variability. This study investigated the association of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) polymorphisms with VPA efficacy and adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in children.In a retrospective cohort of 199 children with epilepsy receiving VPA treatment, TPH2 rs4570625 and rs1386494 were genotyped using Sequenom MassArray. Efficacy was categorized as uncontrolled seizure vs. seizure-free. ADRs were systemically recorded, and steady-state VPA concentrations were measured. Network pharmacology integrated protein-protein interactions, and functional enrichment to elucidate TPH2's role in VPA-related neurotoxicity.The rs4570625 polymorphism was significantly associated with VPA treatment outcomes. GG homozygotes exhibited higher seizure-free rates (p = 0.031) and lower incidence of neurological ADRs (p = 0.036). GG carriers also displayed significantly higher VPA serum concentrations. Network pharmacology analyses identified the serotonergic synapse as the dominant enriched pathway linking TPH2 to VPA neurotoxicity, with MAOA and SLC6A4 as key regulatory hubs. No significant associations were observed between rs1386494 polymorphism and VPA treatment outcomes.TPH2 rs4570625 may serve as a potential exploratory biomarker for predicting VPA efficacy and neurological toxicity in pediatric epilepsy, mediated through serotonergic pathway dysregulation. Genotype-guided personalization could optimize VPA therapy.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Wang, Shen, Xia, He, Liu, Zhang, Fan and Li.
Despite advances in treating acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), resistance to asparaginase (ASNase) remains a major clinical hurdle. Recent evidence suggests that leukemic cells may evade ASNase-induced cytotoxicity by upregulating the glutamate/aspartate transporter EAAT1 (SLC1A3). This study aimed to evaluate whether pharmacological inhibition of EAAT1 using UCPH-101 could enhance the inhibitory effects of ASNase in T-ALL models.Using patient-derived samples and established T-ALL cell lines (MOLT-4 and Jurkat) we assessed the effects of ASNase and UCPH-101, both alone and in combination. Combinations were designed based on IC50-based fixed-ratio dosing, including sub-IC50 and supra-IC50 concentrations. Effects on cell viability, apoptosis, and apoptosis related gene expression were evaluated using standardized in vitro assays. Synergy was evaluated using the combination index (CI) method on the Chou-Talalay model.Synergy analysis based on CI values revealed synergistic interactions (CI < 1) at sub and supra IC50 concentrations of both agents in MOLT-4 and Jurkat cells. Dual targeting of amino acid metabolism through ASNase and EAAT1 inhibition resulted in significantly reduced cell viability and increased apoptotic cell death compared to controls. Combinatorial treatment led to significant alterations in the expression of key apoptotic regulators, suggesting a disruption of metabolic adaptation mechanisms in both leukemic cell lines.These findings demonstrate that EAAT1 inhibition augments ASNase anti-leukemic activity in preclinical ALL models, revealing a metabolic vulnerability that can be exploited therapeutically. The mechanistic insights reported herein support further exploration of EAAT1-targeted strategies to improve outcomes in T-ALL.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
A missense variant in SLC1A3, which results in a proline to arginine substitution in the glial excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (EAAT1), causes a severe form of episodic ataxia type 6, characterized by recurrent attacks of ataxia and epilepsy. EAATs are dual function transport proteins, and the P290R variant reduces secondary active glutamate transport rates, while enhancing the anion channel activity. Here, we used complementary electrophysiological, imaging, biochemical and neuropathological techniques to characterize the cellular mechanisms underlying epileptic seizures in a mouse model of episodic ataxia type 6, the heterozygous Slc1a3P290R/+ mouse. Video-EEG recordings demonstrate frequent and severe spontaneous epileptic seizures in vivo. "Gliosis only" phenotype in the cerebrum of Slc1a3P290R/+ mice, which was restricted to the hippocampal formation, suggests that this brain structure may be involved in the development of epileptic seizure activity. Electrophysiological recordings from acute slices revealed a reduction in tonic GABAergic transmission in Slc1a3P290R/+ dentate gyrus granule cells, and to a lesser extent in cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons before seizure onset. Phasic GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission remained unaltered in juvenile animals of the same developmental stage. There was no difference in expression levels of the GABAA receptor (GABAAR) δ subunits, suggesting that impaired tonic inhibition results from decreased extrasynaptic GABA concentrations. We identified enhanced GABA uptake by hippocampal radial glia-like cells (RGLs), caused by elevated GABA transporter 3 (GAT-3) expression and by an increased GABA transport driving force-due to lower intracellular chloride levels [Cl-]int - as cellular basis of impaired tonic inhibition. Our study demonstrates how increased EAAT1 chloride channel activity of the P290R variant can cause hyperexcitability by modifying synaptic GABA concentrations, while impaired EAAT1 glutamate transport leaves glutamatergic synaptic transmission in Slc1a3P290R/+ mice unaffected.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552063 is a review article
Positive social comparative feedback during motor skill practice is hypothesized to enhance motor learning by triggering a dopaminergic response. Individual differences in dopamine-related genes impact dopamine neurotransmission and may influence responsiveness to motor practice conditions that target dopaminergic pathways. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of dopamine genotype on learning of a motor sequence task under two different feedback conditions: response time only feedback or response time with positive social comparison. Fifty-two adults practiced a joystick-based motor sequence task over two consecutive days. On Day 1, participants were randomized to receive either 1) response time only feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds") or 2) positive social comparative feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds. You were faster than others"). Motor learning was assessed by retention performance, or the change in response time from the first block of Day 1 to the first block on Day 2. Saliva samples were used to genotype for dopamine receptors DRD1, DRD2 and DRD3 and COMT. Individual genes were scored (0-2) and summed to create a polygene score (0-8). Participants were then categorized as having Low (1-4) or High (5-8) dopamine neurotransmission. A significant interaction was found between time, summary polygene group and feedback group (p = 0.048). The Low dopamine group showed greater improvements with response time only feedback versus positive social comparative feedback. The High dopamine group showed similar improvements in response time regardless of feedback type. This suggests that feedback targeting dopaminergic pathways may not be beneficial for individuals with lower dopamine neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that dopaminergic genetics may impact the efficacy of positive social comparative feedback on motor learning in low dopamine genotypes.Copyright: © 2026 Lewis et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
This study aimed to investigate how α-synuclein (α-syn) is associated with microglial activation and inflammatory amplification in Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly under pro-inflammatory conditions. In vitro, BV2 microglial cells were stimulated with α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In vivo, a composite PD mouse model was established using 6-OHDA, LPS, and SNCA-overexpressing adeno-associated virus (AAV). Inflammatory changes were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunofluorescence. Midbrain transcriptomic profiles from model mice were analyzed using Affymetrix microarrays. Bioinformatic analyses included differential expression analysis with the limma package, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Transcriptomic analysis showed coordinated upregulation and strong positive correlations (R > 0.73) among Snca, Tnfa, and Il1b in PD model mice. Enrichment analyses indicated prominent involvement of inflammation- and immune-related processes, including the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. In vitro, α-syn PFFs induced inflammatory responses in BV2 cells, and these responses were further enhanced by LPS co-stimulation. In vivo, the composite model showed increased α-syn aggregation, enhanced microglial activation, and elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine release under combined pathological conditions. Together, these findings indicate an amplified inflammatory response under combined pathological insults. Our findings suggest that α-syn aggregation is associated with enhanced microglial activation and inflammatory cytokine responses, and may exacerbate neuroinflammatory processes under inflammatory conditions in PD models.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Solute carrier (SLC) family genes govern transmembrane transport and cellular metabolism, yet their systematic roles from Helicobacter pylori infection to gastric cancer (GC) remain undefined. By integrating multiple GEO datasets with weighted gene co-expression network analysis, differential expression, and machine learning algorithms, we identified seven core SLC genes (SLC9A9, SLC43A2, SLC16A6, SLC7A14, SLC28A3, SLC4A11, SLC5A2) for H. pylori infection and nine (SLC1A3, SLC2A3, SLC15A3, SLC19A3, SLC2A12, SLC16A4, SLC25A4, SLC9A7, SLC28A3) for GC. Logistic regression models achieved high diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.976 and 0.874, respectively). Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct correlation patterns: SLC4A11 and SLC5A2 associated with activated mast cells, neutrophils, and M2 macrophages in infection, while SLC1A3 and SLC2A3 correlated broadly with M1/M2 macrophages and activated CD4+ T cells in GC. Enrichment analyses confirmed involvement in transmembrane transport, immune-related pathways, and cancer signaling. Transcription factor prediction identified CEBPB, RELB, and STAT5A as key upstream regulators. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinities between SLC proteins and repurposable compounds (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, CHEMBL1182312, quinine). This study provides the first systematic characterization of SLC family expression across the H. pylori-GC continuum, identifying potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is established for levodopa-responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), but the outcomes of DBS in rare genetic early-onset parkinsonism remain incompletely defined. While its efficacy is documented in monogenic forms of parkinsonism (e.g., LRRK2, Parkin, PINK1, and SNCA), clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of DBS in carriers of the SYNJ1 mutation remain scarce.We report two patients with SYNJ1-related early-onset parkinsonism treated with bilateral DBS and place their outcomes in a single-center gene-listed EOPD DBS cohort. Case 1 carried a novel homozygous SYNJ1 c.1969A > G (p. Thr657Ala) missense variant and 46, XY disorder of sex development; GPi-DBS enabled the levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) reduction from 775 to 300 mg/day, with improved dyskinesia and sleep, although motor fluctuations and neuropsychiatric symptoms persisted. Case 2 carried a SYNJ1 c.1627 + 13 T > A intronic variant; subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) reduced the LEDD from 955 to 605 mg/day and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-III) score from 51 to 32 at 1.5-year follow-up. In the contextual cohort, the median LEDD reduction after DBS was 35.2%. These observations support DBS as a feasible symptomatic strategy in selected genetic early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) while emphasizing genotype-specific uncertainty.These cases illustrate heterogeneous clinical responses to DBS in patients with early-onset parkinsonism carrying SYNJ1 variants. DBS may provide symptomatic benefit in carefully selected patients, but the small sample size and variant-level uncertainty preclude conclusions regarding genotype-specific efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Chen, Xu, Huang, Zhou and Zheng.
Acetylcholine (ACh) signaling regulates oligodendrocyte lineage progression via muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs), yet its role in cocaine-induced myelin-associated and relapse-like changes remains unexplored. Here, we examined whether hippocampal cholinergic and oligodendroglial alterations were associated with cocaine-related outcomes and pharmacologically sensitive to M3-preferential antagonism. Adult male C57BL/6J mice were subjected to cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP), extinction, and cocaine-primed reinstatement, and treated with benztropine (BZT), the M1-selective mAChR antagonist VU0255035, or the M3-preferential mAChR antagonist solifenacin (SOL). Cocaine conditioning increased dorsal hippocampal ACh levels and reduced the expression of selected myelin-related genes and oligodendroglial transcription factors, including Mbp, Plp, Olig2, and Olig1, predominantly in the dorsal hippocampus. These changes were accompanied by reduced myelin basic protein (MBP) immunoreactivity, increased cholinergic terminal apposition to oligodendrocyte-lineage cells, and upregulation of Chrm3 in O4-sorted hippocampal oligodendrocytes. BZT reduced cocaine-primed reinstatement and increased Mbp and Plp expression and MBP immunoreactivity in several hippocampal layers. BZT also normalized cocaine-induced changes in Fosb, ΔFosb, Creb, and Slc6a3 in the dorsal hippocampus, whereas dorsal Bdnf remained different from vehicle-treated controls. SOL reduced reinstatement relative to both cocaine-conditioned and VU0255035-treated mice. SOL also increased open-arm time and entry ratio in the elevated plus maze test relative to cocaine-conditioned mice. In CD140a-sorted oligodendrocyte precursor cell-derived cultures, SOL increased MBP-positive oligodendrocyte volume relative to cocaine alone; however, the lack of a SOL-VU0255035 difference precluded conclusions about subtype specificity. These findings provide evidence consistent with a contribution of M3-sensitive muscarinic mechanisms to cocaine-associated oligodendroglial and behavioral alterations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Ion fluxes, regulated by membrane potential (Vm), are vital to white fat adipocyte (WFA) function and adipogenesis. These processes present a novel target to intervene in obesity. To explore this possibility we applied transcriptomics, immunohistochemistry, electrophysiology and adipogenesis assays alongside siRNA and pharmacological tools to identify the chloride-permeable channel(s) that determine Vm of WFA and to test whether those channels: specifically SWELL1 (Lrrc8 family), TTYH2/3 and EAAT1 regulate adipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis. RNA sequencing and qPCR indicated confirmed the existence of Lrrc8a, Lrrc8b, Lrrc8c, Lrrc8d, Ttyh2, Ttyh3, Slc1a1 and Ano1 transcripts across different primary fat depots of rats, mouse, as well as a subset within 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The corresponding protein products: SWELL1 (Lrrc8x), TTYH2/3 (Ttyh2/3) and, EAAT1 (Slc1a1) were found in both the plasma-membrane and cytoplasm of primary and differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes whereas TMEM16A protein was only in primary adipocytes and undifferentiated 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes. Functional studies showed that although siRNA knockdown or pharmacological blockade of SWELL1, TTYH2/3, or EAAT1 proteins did not affect Vm or electrophysiological characteristics, SWELL1 and TTYH2/3 knockdown significantly suppressed adipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis. Together, these findings reveal a role for SWELL1, TTYH2/3, and EAAT1 in adipogenesis and highlight their potential as targets for therapeutic strategies in obesity management. Although the precise chloride permeability responsible for adipocyte Vm remains to be defined, this work advances our understanding of adipocyte biology.© the author(s).
The SNPs in the 5' regulatory region of the human RGS4 gene were reportedly associated with schizophrenia risk.To elucidate the impact of the rs12041948 on CDX4 binding and the subsequent regulation of RGS4 gene expression, the dual-luciferase reporter assays, EMSAs, qPCR and western blotting were performed.Haplotypes carrying the rs12041948 T allele exhibited significantly higher relative luciferase activity when compared with those carrying the C allele (P < 0.0001, 95% CI = 0.0133 to 0.0249). EMSAs indicated that recombinant CDX4 protein bound to DNA at region 1 (-1073 to - 1065, allele-specific for rs12041948) and region 2 (-307 to - 299) relative to TSS + 1. The pEGFP-N1-CDX4 vector co‑transfection significantly enhanced relative luciferase activity of all four recombinant vectors compared with pEGFP-N1-basic vector, with GTC haplotype vector showing the greatest increase, followed by GCC haplotype vector, mutant vector 1, and mutant vector 2 in descending order (GTC haplotype vector: adj. P = 0.0001, 95% CI [0.0173 to 0.0812]; GCC haplotype vector: adj. P = 0.0023, 95% CI [0.0092 to 0.0731]; mutant vector 1: adj. P = 0.0057, 95% CI [0.0067 to 0.0706]; mutant vector 2: adj. P = 0.0203, 95% CI [0.0029 to 0.0668]). Endogenous RGS4 mRNA and protein expression levels were also significantly increased following pEGFP-N1-CDX4 transfection when compared with pEGFP-N1-basic transfection (mRNA: adj. P < 0.0001, 95% CI = 1.137 to 1.542; protein: (adj. P = 0.0162, 95% CI = 0.2440 to 1.913).CDX4 upregulated RGS4 expression, and this effect was allele-specific for rs12041948.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Facultative stem cells including lung alveolar type 2 (AT2) cells must toggle between unipotent specialization at baseline and multipotent plasticity during injury-repair. The underlying molecular switches and epigenetic changes remain unclear yet dictate regenerative versus pathological outcomes. Using multiomics and mouse genetics, we show that AP-1 members FOS, FOSB, and JUNB promote an injury-induced transitional AT2 cell state and associated chromatin landscape. Joint transcriptomic-epigenomic profiling and immunostaining distinguish CLDN4+ AT2 cells as a KRT8high subset with open chromatin highly enriched for AP-1 motifs. JUNB and FOSB accumulate in these cells upon viral injury and, along with constitutive FOS, are required for CLDN4 induction, AT2 cell dispersion, senescence signaling, and fibroblast activation, while impacting region-specific alveolar type 1 (AT1) differentiation. AP-1 activation also occurs in mouse AT2 cells expressing oncogenic Kras and transitional cells in human lung tissues with premalignant or adenocarcinoma lesions. Our work refines AT2 transitional states and reveals a gene regulatory logic shared by tissue repair and tumorigenesis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Obesity represents a major public health burden, necessitating novel therapeutic targets. Alarin, one of the most recently discovered members of the galanin neuropeptide family, may be a potential candidate for anti-obesity therapy. Alarin has been shown to reduce food intake and increase energy expenditure when administered centrally, but its long-term effects on body weight remain unclear. Here, we examined the impact of a 7-day intracerebroventricular alarin infusion on energy homeostasis. Because intranasal delivery is a clinically feasible route for delivery of centrally acting anorexigenic peptides, we also assessed the acute effects of intranasal alarin on food intake and body weight.Male Wistar rats received chronic central alarin infusion, while food intake, body weight, heart rate (indicating metabolic rate), locomotor activity, and body temperature were continuously monitored via biotelemetry. FOSB immunohistochemistry was performed in the central amygdala and median and medial preoptic nuclei. Acute effects of intranasal alarin and the potential antagonistic action of its truncated analogue, 6-25Cys-alarin were tested in ad libitum-fed and 24-h-fasted rats using an automated FeedScale system.Central alarin infusion significantly reduced food intake and increased heat production resulting in weight loss. Alarin increased FOSB-immunoreactive cell numbers in the amygdala and the medial preoptic nuclei, indicating neuronal activation. Intranasal alarin also decreased body weight. Its anorexigenic effect was antagonized by 6-25Cys-alarin.Prolonged central administration of alarin shifts energy balance toward body weight loss. Intranasal delivery of alarin represents a promising, clinically relevant therapeutic option for obesity treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is a heterogeneous malignancy with diverse molecular subtypes and variable clinical outcomes. Despite diagnostic and therapeutic advances, recurrence and metastasis contribute to poor prognosis in subsets of patients. Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins, negative modulators of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) pathways, influence tumor progression, but their expression profiles, genomic alterations, immune associations, and prognostic roles in BC remain incompletely understood. This study systematically investigated the RGS family to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA and seven independent GEO datasets were evaluated. A random-effects meta-analysis established cross-cohort expression consensus. Diagnostic value was assessed via ROC curve analysis. A prognostic signature was constructed using LASSO and multivariate Cox regression. Genomic alterations, DNA methylation, immune mapping, and pharmacogenomic profiling (DepMap/Broad Institute) were comprehensively analyzed.Meta-analysis identified eight robustly dysregulated RGS genes across BC cohorts. A combined 8-gene panel demonstrated diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.98). Furthermore, a LASSO-derived 6-gene signature successfully stratified patients into high- and low-risk prognostic groups (p < 0.0001). Immune infiltration profiling, validated by scRNA-seq, confirmed that RGS18 expression is robustly correlated with immune cells and originates predominantly from the tumor microenvironment rather than malignant cells.This study identifies the RGS gene family as a multidimensional framework for BC stratification. Through meta-analysis, we confirmed that RGS3 and RGS4 act as independent oncogenic risk factors, while RGS1 and RGS18 serve as key immunoregulatory biomarkers. We established a high-accuracy 8-gene diagnostic panel (AUC = 0.98) and a 6-gene prognostic signature (RGS1, 2, 3, 10, 16, 19) that independently predicts patient survival. Our findings reveal that these dysregulations are driven by genomic amplifications and CpG methylation. These results position the RGS family as robust clinical biomarkers and actionable targets for precision oncology.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Feed scarcity constrains livestock production, particularly on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. The effects of green alfalfa (GA) on Diqing Tibetan pig performance remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate GA effects on Diqing Tibetan pig performance and to explore the potential underlying mechanisms through integrated metagenomic, transcriptomic, and metabolomic analyses. Thirty-six Diqing Tibetan pigs were randomly assigned to two groups and fed either a basal diet or a diet containing 90% basal diet and 10% GA. GA did not adversely affect growth performance but reduced 6-7 rib backfat thickness and muscle water loss rate by 19.79% (FDR = 0.027) and 17.80% (FDR = 0.036), while increasing muscle moisture content by 3.51% (FDR = 0.036). GA increased cecal microbial alpha diversity, Bacteroidota-related taxa, and functional genes related to lipid and vitamin metabolism, while decreasing Bacillota and Lactobacillus johnsonii. In the longissimus dorsi, TNNI1, MYL2 and MYL3 were upregulated, whereas FOS and FOSB were downregulated; GA increased vanillyl alcohol, L-histidine, LPE (0:0/22:5), and licochalcone B, but decreased glyceryl monostearate, benzaldehyde, cortisol, tryptamine, 4-ethyloctanoic acid, 8-methylnonanoic acid, and purine. Overall, 10% GA reshaped gut microbial, muscle transcriptomic, metabolomic profiles and collectively influenced 6-7 rib backfat thickness and muscle water-holding capacity in Diqing Tibetan pigs.
Feruloylated oligosaccharides (FOs) are bioactive conjugates that exhibit promising synergistic effects on gut microbiota modulation and intestinal barrier protection, yet their efficacy is highly structure-dependent. This study developed a synergistic strategy combining ionic liquid (IL, 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride) pretreatment with xylanase hydrolysis to selectively produce feruloylated arabinoxylobiose (FAX2) and feruloylated arabinoxylotriose (FAX3) from corn bran. The IL-pretreated FOs (FOsA) achieved a FAX3/FAX2 ratio of 4.86, which was 2.16-fold higher than that of the non-pretreated group (FOsB). Although in vitro assays confirmed that FOs were not directly utilized as a carbon source by Akkermansia muciniphila (A. muciniphila), both FOsA and FOsB significantly modulated its mucin-degrading enzyme activities (p < 0.05). Specifically, both fractions increased sialidase activity while reducing α-N-acetylglucosaminidase and β-galactosidase activities. Notably, FOsA, with a higher FAX3/FAX2 ratio, exhibited significantly stronger inhibition of exo-α-L-fucosidase activity than FOsB (p < 0.05). These findings demonstrate that FOs act as effective modulators of A. muciniphila enzymatic functions rather than metabolic substrates, and that their fine structural composition critically influences their regulatory potency on mucin-degrading enzymes, with potential implications for maintaining intestinal mucus barrier integrity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Febrile seizures (FS), the most common early-childhood neurological emergency, have a poorly understood impact on the maturing glutamatergic system. We present a detailed spatiotemporal analysis of transcriptional dynamics of key glutamatergic components during a critical postnatal window. Using a hyperthermia-induced FS model in rats at postnatal day 10, we measured mRNA levels of ionotropic (NMDA, AMPA) subunits, metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) groups I-III, glutamate transporters (Slc1a1-3), and glutamine synthetase (Glul) across the dorsal/ventral hippocampus, temporal and medial prefrontal cortices at P14, P21, and P50. For selected targets (GluN2A/2B, GluA1/2, EAAT2), protein abundance was analyzed by Western blotting to test how closely transcriptional changes are reflected at the protein level. We identified robust region- and age-specific developmental trajectories for all targets, including the expected maturational shift in NMDA receptor subunits. FS disrupted these programs, causing widespread downregulation of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits, mGluRs, and astrocytic transporters in the dorsal hippocampus and temporal cortex at P14. Importantly, FS prevented the normal developmental increase in the Grin2a/Grin2b mRNA ratio in the dorsal hippocampus at P21. Notably, protein abundance for selected targets did not mirror transcriptional changes at the examined time points, suggesting post-transcriptional buffering or delayed translation. This mismatch suggests that transcriptional changes may precede detectable proteomic alterations during circuit maturation, although alternative explanations, such as delayed translation or post-translational regulation, cannot be excluded. Our findings identify candidate transcriptional correlates that may contribute to long-term neurocognitive vulnerability, and highlight the potential importance of timing when targeting glutamatergic pathways for neuroprotection.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Enterococcus faecium is a major cause of healthcare-associated infections and exhibits multidrug resistance. Fosfomycin, an older broad-spectrum antibiotic, has regained attention as a potential therapeutic option. However, reliable susceptibility testing remains challenging, and resistance rates and mechanisms in Taiwan are largely unexplored.A total of 377 E. faecium isolates from blood cultures collected in Taiwan between 2017 and 2022 were analyzed. Agar dilution was used to determine fosfomycin susceptibility, which was also assessed using the E-test and disc diffusion methods. Sequence types were identified by multilocus sequence typing. Potential resistance mechanisms were examined by detecting mutations in murA and pyk genes, upstream insertions in murAB, and the presence of acquired resistance determinants.Agar dilution identified 11 (2.9%) fosfomycin-resistant and 108 (29.0%) intermediate isolates. In contrast, the E-test and disc diffusion methods underestimated non-susceptibility rates (1.3% and 1.6%, respectively), primarily due to the misidentification of intermediate isolates as susceptible. Genotypic analysis of 14 fosfomycin-resistant or intermediate isolates revealed nine sequence types, with 85.7% belonging to clonal complex 17. Four MurA amino acid substitutions (A120T, I184V, R190L, and R263C) and two types of insertions upstream of murAB were detected, but none specifically correlated with resistance. All isolates tested negative for fosA, fosB, fosC, and fosX.Fosfomycin resistance among E. faecium isolates in Taiwan remains low; however, intermediate isolates are frequently underestimated by the E-test and disc diffusion methods. The genetic backgrounds of fosfomycin-non-susceptible strains appear diverse, and their resistance mechanisms remain to be elucidated.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is the diagnostic surrogate for the NAB2::STAT6 fusion of solitary fibrous tumour (SFT); its sensitivity is established, but specificity varies for unexamined reasons. This review quantified pooled accuracy and tested whether antibody clone and nuclear threshold govern specificity. PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science were searched to 29 June 2026 for studies reporting nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry against a reference standard (NAB2::STAT6 confirmation and/or expert consensus) in SFT and comparators, with extractable two-by-two data. Two reviewers screened, extracted data and applied QUADAS-2. A bivariate generalised linear mixed model gave summary sensitivity and specificity, and exploratory subgroup analysis and meta-regression tested antibody clone, anatomical site and reference-standard type. Twenty-three studies (1216 SFT and 4715 comparators) were included. Summary sensitivity was 98.7% (95% confidence interval 96.7-99.5) and specificity 99.1% (97.8-99.6); the diagnostic odds ratio was approximately 8656. The monoclonal YE361 subgroup (8 studies) reached specificity 99.9% (99.3-100), with one false positive among 861 comparators, versus 98.1% (96.0-99.1) for polyclonal and other antibodies. False positives concentrated in dedifferentiated liposarcoma and prostatic stromal tumours. Estimates were stable after removing studies at higher risk of bias (98.9%/99.1%) and on leave-one-out analysis; the Deeks test was non-significant (p = 0.08). Nuclear STAT6 immunohistochemistry is therefore highly sensitive and specific for SFT, and the residual specificity loss is structured and largely avoidable: the monoclonal YE361 read at a strict nuclear threshold is preferred, with MDM2 and CDK4 applied to exclude dedifferentiated liposarcoma when nuclear STAT6 is unexpectedly positive.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560626 is a review article
The p53-MDM2 interaction is a central regulator of p53 protein stability and an important target for restoration of p53 function. Most peptide-based approaches targeting this interaction are derived from the p53 transactivation domain and preserve the canonical F-W-L hydrophobic motif. Here, BRCA1-derived peptide constructs were used to investigate how hydrophobic motif composition and sequence context influence peptide compatibility with the MDM2 binding interface.Short peptide segments derived from BRCA1 phosphorylation regions were engineered to contain hydrophobic anchor residues corresponding to the p53-MDM2 interaction while permitting variation in motif composition, including non-canonical F-W-F configurations. Peptides were evaluated using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and cellular assays based on EGFP-linker-peptide fusion constructs in HEK293T cells. Several BRCA1-derived peptides were associated with increased p53 protein levels in this system, with pBR3 and pBR4 showing the highest mean levels. Notably, both peptides contained non-canonical F-W-F motifs and showed greater activity than several peptides with comparable docking scores. Molecular dynamics and residue-level contact occupancy analyses were consistent with sustained association of the peptides with the MDM2 binding cleft despite interaction patterns that differed from those of reference p53-derived inhibitors.These findings indicate that modulation of the p53-MDM2 axis is influenced by both hydrophobic motif composition and sequence context. The results further suggest that alternative hydrophobic residue arrangements can support compatibility with the MDM2 binding interface, providing a framework for exploring non-p53-derived peptide architectures targeting the p53-MDM2 interaction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
The oncoprotein MDM2 is widely recognized as the principal negative regulator of p53, thereby controlling the expression of numerous RNA polymerase II (Pol II)-dependent genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Beyond this canonical role, MDM2 also engages in transcriptional regulation independently of p53, for instance through interactions with polycomb repressor complexes. Here, we identify RNA polymerase III (Pol III) as an additional target of MDM2 function. Using two complementary chemical tools-a small-molecule MDM2 antagonist (MI-1061) that releases p53 and augments MDM2 expression, and a PROTAC degrader (MD-224) that simultaneously activates p53 and promotes MDM2 ubiquitination and proteasomal destruction-we dissected the role of MDM2 in cells with amplified MDM2. Elevated MDM2 suppressed the transcription of Pol III-dependent genes encoding tRNA or 5S ribosomal RNA. Mechanistically, we found the aminoterminal domain of MDM2 associated with the catalytic subunit of Pol III, revealing a molecular link between MDM2 and the Pol III machinery. Because Pol III also acts as a cytosolic DNA sensor that converts DNA into double-stranded RNA to trigger RIG-I-TBK1-IRF3-dependent signaling, we asked whether MDM2 modulates this pathway. Indeed, enhanced MDM2 expression markedly attenuated the induction of innate immunity genes such as CXCL10, OAS1, and MX1 following transfection with poly(dA:dT). Similarly, DNA damage induced by a radiomimetic agent activated Pol III-dependent innate signaling, and this was again blunted by high MDM2 levels, resulting in enhanced cell survival. Taken together, our findings establish MDM2 as a previously unrecognized suppressor of Pol III-dependent transcription in response to cytosolic DNA. This expands the repertoire of MDM2 functions beyond repression of p53 and Pol II activity, positioning MDM2 as a broad regulator of transcription and innate immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
The lack of mutation-contextual therapeutic targets remains a major barrier in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) management. Immunohistochemical analysis of 341 human HCC specimens identified FK506-binding protein 52 (FKBP52) as a tumor grade-associated biomarker. In vitro, FKBP52 overexpression enhanced proliferation in p53-mutant liver cancer cells but suppressed it in p53-wild-type cells. Using two murine models-subcutaneous xenografts and orthotopic liver implants-genetic manipulation confirmed that FKBP52 overexpression in Huh7 accelerated tumor growth, while shRNA-mediated knockdown attenuated growth and decreased AFP/CD133 expression. Differential p53 status underpinned this disparity. In vitro EdU incorporation assays, colony formation assays and TP53-null xenografts (Hep3B cells) demonstrated that p53 knockdown abrogated the phenotype, confirming that FKBP52 promotes mutant p53-driven tumorigenesis while suppressing wild-type p53 tumors. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) revealed FKBP52 binds p53 via its FK2 and TPR domains independently of mutation status. This interaction recruited MDM2 into the FKBP52-p53 complex, impairing MDM2-mediated degradation and prolonging stability of both wild-type and mutant p53. Taken together, our findings establish FKBP52 as a novel p53 stabilizer with context-dependent oncogenic effects, critically determined by p53 mutational status. These results highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting the FKBP52-MDM2-p53 axis specifically in TP53-mutant HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556566 is a review article
Cerebrospinal fluid-contacting neurons (CSF-cNs) are mechanosensory cells in the spinal cord that detect compression and regulate locomotion, posture, and morphogenesis. Although CSF-cNs respond to changes in pH, neurotransmitters and metabolites, their chemosensory repertoire is not fully understood. Using hybridization chain reaction, we investigated the distribution of expression of chemoreceptors in CSF-cNs and neighboring cells in the spinal cord. We found that CSF-cNs express receptors for glutamate (grm2), somatostatin (sstr2) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (ldlrad2), indicating roles in detecting glutamate, somatostatin and LDL in the CSF. High LDL receptor expression in CSF-contacting cells suggests CSF lipid capture. Most receptors were enriched but not exclusive to CSF-cNs and also appeared in ependymal radial glial cells. Our findings indicate multiple chemosensory pathways can sustain long-distance communication between neurons and glia through the cerebrospinal fluid.
Pork tenderness is a critical determinant of meat quality and is primarily assessed by shear force measurement. In this study, the shear force of the longissimus dorsi muscle was measured in 413 Large White pigs. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) based on imputed data identified multiple loci significantly associated with shear force on chromosomes 5, 8, 13, and 14. Comparison with the PigQTLdb indicated that these four QTLs have not been previously reported. By integrating GWAS results with transcriptomic data from the pigGTEx database, analyses including colocalization, TWAS, and SMR were performed, leading to the identification of two candidate genes, GRM2 and NISCH. PheWAS results showed that NISCH was significantly correlated with palmitoleic acid content, consistent with the positive correlation between palmitoleic acid and shear force in this population. GRM2 was significantly associated with backfat thickness. These results suggest a potential genetic association between fatty acid metabolism and pork tenderness.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) initiates complex neuroinflammatory cascades that significantly influence recovery outcomes. Although sex differences in neuroinflammation have been reported previously, findings remain inconclusive as the role of the female estrous cycle in post-injury responses is not well understood. In this study, we aimed to characterize sex-based differences in neuroinflammatory, vascular, and behavioral outcomes following TBI, with particular emphasis on the different phases of the estrous cycle in female mice. Male and female mice were subjected to controlled cortical impact (CCI) and subsequently assessed for behavioral deficits, cerebral blood flow (CBF), immune cell infiltration, and inflammatory genes expression. Although TBI induced robust neuroinflammation and reduction in CBF in both sexes, female mice showed significantly increased myeloid, microglial and T-cell presence, as well as elevated expression of key inflammatory transcripts (Btk, Inpp5d, and Tmem173), while downregulation in Grm2 expressions. Stratified cohort of female mice as per phases in estrous cycle (proestrus, estrus, metestrus, and diestrus) before injury showed alterations in Inpp5d, Csf3r, Csf1r, CD84, Tmem173, Homer1, Grm2 and Supt7l. Notably, female injured mice showed differential improvements in select parameters, although estrous cycle phase at the time of impact had limited but phase-dependent impact on CBF. Female mice did not show significant changes in the behavioral tests as compared to male or different estrous phenotypes. However, female mice showed higher frequency to visit center in an open arena. These findings highlight sex-specific neuroinflammatory and transcriptional responses to TBI, with moderate modulation by estrous cycle. Our study further suggests that one estrous phase could be more vulnerable to neuroinflammation or neurovascular injury than others on cellular and molecular level. However, this interphase difference might be masked in the studies including randomly cycled female population. Thus, our results underscore the importance of incorporating sex, estrous and hormonal status into sex-dependent studies on TBI and other brain diseases research to inform the development of targeted therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP), a common plasticizer, has been associated with hormone disruption and carcinogenesis, but its molecular impact on uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) remains unclear. This study aims to computationally identify a gene signature based on known DEHP-associated toxic targets and evaluates their clinical and immunological relevance in UCEC. DEGs were intersected with DEHP targets from CTD and TargetNet databases. PPI networks, functional enrichment, and survival analyses were conducted. Prognostic genes were identified using Cox and LASSO regression. DEHP risk score models and nomograms were constructed. Immune infiltration was analyzed using ESTIMATE and ssGSEA algorithms. Molecular docking was performed via CB-Dock2. Seventy-five genetic targets linked to DEHP in toxicological databases were identified, and enrichment analyses revealed DEHP-related genes enriched in neurotransmission and hormone signaling pathways. Seven prognostic genes (HTR3A, GRM2, HTR6, THRB, TUBB2B, FOLH1, PGR) correlated with overall survival and histologic grade. The DEHP risk score effectively stratified patients. DEHP-THRB showed strongest binding affinity, suggesting direct toxicological interaction. This study characterizes a computationally derived gene signature associated with DEHP toxicity in UCEC, highlighting their prognostic and immunological significance as potential molecular footprints, while acknowledging that direct exposure inference requires future validation with measured biomonitoring data.
Radiotherapy often causes severe and irreversible neural damage, including cognitive impairment and depression-like behaviors. Current mitigants are limited, with single-target molecules being ineffective and nanomedicines posing complexity and toxicity risks. Dragon's Blood (DB), a nontoxic, brown-red resin extracted from Dracaena cochinchinensis (Lour.) (S. C. Chen, China), possesses diverse pharmacological properties. Extensive studies demonstrated that the compounds in DB exhibit multiple therapeutic effects, including cardiovascular protection, promotion of blood circulation, and anti-inflammatory effect. Herein, DB's neuronal radiation mitigation effect and mechanism were investigated. In a whole-brain irradiation rat model, DB administration significantly alleviated radiation-induced anhedonia-like behavior, normalized calcium dyshomeostasis, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, mitigated dendritic spine loss, suppressed neuroinflammation (IL-1β and TNF-α), and preserved hippocampal cytoarchitecture. Brain tissue proteomics revealed 23 DB-modulated KEGG pathways, encompassing the glutamatergic/GABAergic synapse, synaptic plasticity, addiction-related pathways, calcium/cAMP signaling, and hormonal regulation. Ensemble analysis integrating proteomics, WGCNA, machine learning, and PPI pinpointed 24 DB radiation mitigation-related proteins. Among these, eight targets (Grin1, Gabra4, Grm2, Grm3, Grm7, Prkcb, Shank3, and Pak7) functioning via ligand-target interactions were dysregulated by radiation and restored by DB. Molecular docking identified three DB ingredients (socotrin-4'-ol, cinnabarone, and 2'-methoxysocotrin-5'-ol) interacted with all eight targets. Plasma proteomics further revealed radiation mitigation-related brain-enriched proteins (Mib1, Gucy1b1, Fkbp1a, Synj1, and Clasp2). PPI between these 5 plasma proteins and 24 brain proteins reveals DB's multitarget radiation mitigation effect on neurotransmission and synaptic regulation, neuroplasticity, and signaling transduction and cellular response. This work nominated DB and its key constituents as promising candidates for mitigating radiotherapy-induced neural injury.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41439979 is a review article
BACKGROUND: This study explores the potential molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of gastric cancer induced by plasticizers, with particular emphasis on the interactions between plasticizers and key genes and signaling pathways. Methods: Machine learning algorithms were applied to multiple public datasets to identify potential target genes associated with gastric cancer. The interactions between plasticizers and target proteins were explored using network toxicology and molecular docking. Results: Our analysis identified 17 gastric cancer-related target genes associated with plasticizer exposure. Through machine learning optimization, the RF + Lasso model demonstrated superior performance (AUC: 0.816) and identified six core genes: CPB1, AKR1C1, GRM2, CA2, MMP7, and TDO2. Differential expression analysis revealed upregulation of GRM2, MMP7, and TDO2, alongside downregulation of CPB1, AKR1C1, and CA2 in gastric cancer tissues. Molecular docking confirmed specific binding interactions between plasticizers and target proteins, with binding energies ranging from − 6.4 to -11.2 kcal/mol. Conclusion: Our findings indicate that plasticizers may drive gastric cancer tumorigenesis by modulating key genes and signaling pathways. The molecular docking results indicate that there may be specific binding interactions between the target protein and plasticizers. This research establishes a platform for further probing the impact of plasticizers on gastric cancer development, offering conceptual guidance for forthcoming functional validation and targeted therapy development.
It has been shown previously that repeated positive fighting experience in daily agonistic interactions is accompanied by the development of psychosis-like behavior, with signs of an addiction-like state associated with changes in the expression of genes encoding the proteins involved in the main neurotransmitter events in some brain regions of aggressive male mice. Fighting deprivation (a no-fight period of 2 weeks) causes a significant increase in their aggressiveness. This paper is aimed at studying-after a period of fighting deprivation-the involvement of genes (associated with neurotransmitter systems within the nucleus accumbens) in the above phenomena. The nucleus accumbens is known to participate in reward-related mechanisms of aggression. We found the following differentially expressed genes (DEGs), whose expression significantly differed from that in controls and/or mice with positive fighting experience in daily agonistic interactions followed by fighting deprivation: catecholaminergic genes Th, Drd1, Drd2, Adra2c, Ppp1r1b, and Maoa; serotonergic genes Maoa, Htr1a, Htr1f, and Htr3a; opioidergic genes Oprk1, Pdyn, and Penk; and glutamatergic genes Grid1, Grik4, Grik5, Grin3a, Grm2, Grm5, Grm7, and Gad1. The expression of DEGs encoding proteins of the GABAergic system in experienced aggressive male mice mostly returned to control levels after fighting deprivation, except for Gabra5. In light of the conceptual paradigm for analyzing data that was chosen in our study, the aforementioned DEGs associated with the behavioral pathology can be considered responsible for consequences of aggression followed by fighting deprivation, including mechanisms of an aggression relapse.
Treatment-resistant depression (TRD) remains a challenge in psychiatry, necessitating novel therapeutic strategies beyond traditional monoaminergic antidepressants. Ketamine and its S-enantiomer esketamine have demonstrated rapid and robust antidepressant effects in TRD, probably through mechanisms involving glutamatergic modulation, neuroplasticity, and anti-inflammatory properties. However, the molecular underpinnings of these effects are not yet understood. This systematic review aimed to synthesize evidence from human and in vitro studies evaluating transcriptional changes associated with ketamine and esketamine treatment, to identify potential biomarkers and clarify molecular pathways relevant to their antidepressant properties. A systematic search conducted on PubMed and Scopus identified 12 studies assessing RNA expression following ketamine or esketamine treatment in patients with unipolar or bipolar depression or in human-derived cell models. Eligibility and quality were evaluated using PRISMA guidelines and a modified version of Downs and Black checklist. Twelve studies met inclusion criteria, only one of which explored the effect of esketamine, while all others focused on racemic ketamine. Five studies examined peripheral blood gene expression in patients with TRD, while seven assessed mRNA changes in vitro using human-derived cells. Transcriptome and candidate gene expression studies revealed modulation of genes and pathways related to glutamatergic signaling (GRM2, GRIN2D), immune regulation (STAT3, CCL22, IL6), and neuroplasticity (IGF2). No consistent peripheral biomarkers emerged, but transcriptional profiling revealed dynamic molecular responses to ketamine and esketamine. Ketamine and esketamine induce diverse transcriptional changes implicating neuroplastic, inflammatory, and metabolic pathways. Transcriptomic profiling offers a promising approach for uncovering biomarkers and mechanisms of antidepressant response, warranting further multi-omics, large-scale studies.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
It has been hypothesized that poor nutrition during prenatal growth may alter the development of vital organs like the brain, thus "program" predisposition to certain diseases later in life, including mental disorders. Although with support from studies using animal models and epidemiologic observations, the biological aspect of the hypothesis has been rarely studied in humans. Using famine as a natural experiment, we explored the altered DNA methylation patterns in genes of the glutamate synapse pathway in whole blood of adults born during the Chinese famine of 1959-1961. We detected significant patterns of hypomethylation for the whole pathway (p = 0.025), for the GRIA1 gene in the AMPA subunit (p = 0.004), for GRM2 (p = 0.023) and GRM3 (p = 0.019) genes in the metabotropic receptor subunit. Our sex-stratified analysis identified significant enrichment of hypomethylation for the overall pathway (p = 0.031), for GRIA1 genes (p = 0.009), GRIA4 gene (p = 0.014), and GRM3 gene (p = 0.031) in females but no significantly enriched pattern in males. Further analysis by location in gene locus found significant enrichment of hypomethylation of the pathway genes in the gene body in sex-combined (p = 0.020) and in female (p = 0.026) samples. In conclusion, our epigenetic association analysis found significantly enriched hypomethylation patterns for the glutamate synapse pathway and for genes in subunits of the pathway, which are more pronounced in female than in male samples prenatally exposed to famine.© 2025 The Author(s). European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The accumulation of microplastics in aquatic ecosystems poses a significant threat to fish physiology and welfare. This study investigated the impact of exposure to virgin polystyrene microplastics (15 µm) on energy balance and welfare in goldfish (Carassius auratus). Fish were exposed for 14 days, and the effects were assessed through an integrated analysis of behavioral, metabolic, neuroendocrine, and physiological parameters. Microplastic exposure significantly reduces feed intake and feed anticipatory activity, indicating a potent anorexigenic effect. This effect was driven by neuroendocrine disruption, characterized by the downregulation of orexigenic neuropeptides (npy, agrp, hcrt) and the upregulation of anorexigenic signaling (pomca, cartpt, lepa). Simultaneously, exposed fish exhibited increased oxygen consumption, suggesting elevated metabolic demands. These factors converged to impaired growth and reduced hepatosomatic index, suggesting altered energy allocation. Furthermore, microplastic exposure induced anxiety-like responses and increased plasma cortisol levels, confirming the activation of the physiological stress response. Overall, these findings demonstrate that microplastics disrupt energy homeostasis and trigger behavioral shifts that ultimately compromise fish welfare and the biological resilience of aquatic species.
This investigation examined the long-term impact of stimulant use, assessing systematic dysfunction of the nervous system and how these changes were reflected in the gene expression of two addiction-related genes, SLC6A3 (dopamine transporter) and CARTPT (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript). Study subjects included 100 men over the age of 18 who have used stimulants (crystal and Captagon) as well as a group of 30 men of the same age who were healthy. Blood samples were taken from each subject, and plasma levels of dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, and total protein were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Gene expression was analyzed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Relative expression of SLC6A3 and CARTPT was calculated using the 2-ΔΔCt method with GAPDH serving as an internal control. Stimulant users had significantly higher concentrations of plasma dopamine and norepinephrine compared to non-users, while also having much lower levels of both plasma serotonin and total protein compared to controls (p < 0.0001). qRT-PCR showed that the expression of SLC6A3 and CARTPT was significantly increased in the stimulant group (5-7-fold increase). These findings, which reflect both biochemical and gene expression level changes, indicate increased dopaminergic activity, decreased serotonergic activity, and changes in the neuropeptide pathways related to stress and reward due to chronic use of stimulants. Overall, the combination of the biochemical and gene expression data indicates that chronic crystal and Captagon users demonstrate significant systemic dysfunction. The significant changes in the levels of monoamines and the activation of the SLC6A3 and CARTPT genes indicate that these two genes could serve as peripheral biomarkers in assessing stimulant use disorder. These data give a mechanistic basis for developing new diagnostic and treatment methods based on dopaminergic and neuropeptide signaling pathways involved in the use of stimulants.Copyright © 2026 Yasameen Hameed Jasim et al. Biochemistry Research International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plays a vital role in the modulation of reproductive function by controlling gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion. Most kisspeptin neurons, which are key regulators of GnRH neurons, coexpress GABA and other neuropeptides. However, whether the expression of the vesicular GABA transporter (Vgat) in kisspeptin cells contributes to the reproductive phenotype of mice remains unclear.Brain slices from female vesicular GABA transporter-Cre/GFP (Vgat-Cre/GFP) mice were used to assess GABAergic coexpression in kisspeptin neurons during diestrus and proestrus. Mice carrying conditional ablation of Slc32a1 (referred to as Vgat) in Kiss1-expressing cells (Kiss1-Cre/Vgat flox/flox mice) were generated to study possible effects on reproduction and metabolism.50-60% of kisspeptin neurons in the anteroventral periventricular and rostral periventricular nuclei are GABAergic. However, the percentage of GABAergic kisspeptin neurons did not differ between proestrus and diestrus stages. Deletion of Vgat in kisspeptin cells was sufficient to downregulate Gnrh1 and Kiss1r expression in the rostral periventricular region of female mice. In contrast, Cartpt mRNA expression in the mediobasal hypothalamus was downregulated only in male mice compared with controls. Body composition, puberty onset, and fertility were preserved in both sexes; however, female Kiss1-Cre/Vgat flox/flox mice exhibited significantly lower serum luteinizing hormone levels at proestrus.These findings indicate that Vgat expression in kisspeptin neurons may contribute to LH surge generation but is not essential for the onset of puberty or for the maintenance of fertility in either female or male mice.Copyright © 2026 Vieira, Ferrufino, de Sousa, Alves, Martins, Donato and Frazao.
Sulfur amino acid restriction (SAAR) paradoxically increases food intake while inducing weight loss, but the mechanisms underlying these outcomes remain unclear. To investigate the role of leptin in this response, we assessed food intake, body weight, and metabolic markers in diet-induced obese (DIO), leptin-deficient (ob/ob), and leptin receptor-deficient (db/db) mice. In DIO-SAAR mice, increased food intake was associated with hypothalamic upregulation of orexigenic (Agrp, Npy, and Mchr1) and downregulation of anorexigenic (Pomc, Cartpt, and Bdnf) mRNA levels. This orexigenic profile is accompanied by reduced adiposity and lower circulating leptin levels, suggesting that decreased leptin may induce compensatory increased food intake. Despite increased food intake, SAAR also induces weight loss, which is associated with enhanced β3-adrenergic signaling in brown and inguinal white AT (BAT and iWAT), as reflected by elevated Adrb3 and Ucp1 mRNA levels but downregulated protein expression, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation. These phenotypes induced by SAAR may possibly involve thyroid hormone metabolism, as indicated by increased circulating T3 and T4 concentrations and upregulation of BAT deiodinase 2 (D2) mRNA. Importantly, these metabolic effects of SAAR are attenuated in ob/ob and abolished in db/db mice, despite reductions in circulating SAA levels. Furthermore, leptin treatment during SAAR reduced food intake, induced weight loss, demonstrating preserved leptin sensitivity in low fat diet-fed and ob/ob mice. These findings reveal that leptin is required for both increased food intake and weight loss during SAAR.Copyright © 2026 Orentreich Foundation for the Advancement of Science, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastrointestinal (GI) dysmotility is a highly prevalent and clinically significant feature of Rett syndrome (RTT), yet its underlying mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here, we investigated these mechanisms of GI dysmotility in a Mecp2-null mouse model of RTT. First, we observed that MeCP2 was expressed in murine myenteric ganglia, including in enteric neurons and that Mecp2-null males developed maturation-associated functional regression in their GI motility. In dysmotile mice, longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus tissue showed marked reductions in enteric Bdnf isoforms IV, VI, and II, whereas expression of the BDNF receptor isoforms TrkB.FL and TrkB.T1 was not significantly altered, consistent with reduced enteric BDNF-TrkB signaling. Despite impaired GI motility, Mecp2-null mice showed no significant changes in total enteric neuronal density, nitrergic neuronal abundance, or expression of Nos1, Chat, and Uchl1. In contrast, Vip expression was significantly reduced, while expression of VIP receptor genes: Vipr1 and Vipr2 was increased, indicating disrupted VIPergic signaling. Integration with publicly available enteric single-cell/nucleus datasets and targeted qRT-PCR further suggested altered inhibitory neuronal subtype composition, with reduced Vip +Cartpt + signatures and increased Nfia expression, suggesting that MeCP2 loss differentially affects distinct inhibitory neuronal subpopulations. Finally, conditional loss of TrkB.FL in neural crest-derived cells reduced Vip expression without recapitulating the full Mecp2-null VIPergic phenotype, indicating that impaired BDNF-TrkB signaling contributes to, but does not completely explain, the GI dysmotility in this model of RTT. Together, these findings identify enteric BDNF-TrkB and VIPergic dysfunction as key mechanisms underlying GI dysmotility in RTT.
BACKGROUND: Abnormal glucose metabolism has emerged as a prominent metabolic characteristic of various cancers, significantly influencing critical processes such as cell proliferation, metastasis, and invasion. Moreover, it plays an integral role in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment. Glioblastoma (GBM), recognized as the most prevalent malignant histopathology of the central nervous system (CNS), also exhibits notable abnormalities in glucose metabolism. Despite its clinical significance, comprehensive studies delineating the characteristics of glucose metabolism in GBM remain scarce. METHODS: In this study, we aimed to systematically investigate the differential expression of glycometabolism-related genes (DEGs) in GBM. We utilized a combination of differential expression gene analysis and Weighted Correlation Network Analysis (WGCNA) to identify relevant DEGs.To enhance the robustness of our findings, we incorporated two independent datasets (GSE68848 and GSE108474) and performed batch effect correction using the “sva” R package. Subsequently, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed to elucidate the potential molecular functions of these DEGs. To refine our focus, we employed least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis to pinpoint hub DEGs associated with glycometabolism. Expression level verification and prognosis analyses were conducted using Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis 2 (GEPIA2). In addition, we highlighted the need for experimental validation of the 35 glycometabolism-related DEGs in clinical GBM samples to confirm their expression patterns and functional relevance. RESULTS: Our findings revealed that 11 genes—ADRA2A, CARTPT, LMNA, NPTX1, PRKCE, PTPRN, RTN2, DDIT4, EXT2, KIF5C, and PPIB—were differentially expressed between GBM tissues and healthy controls (HC). Notably, two hub genes, PPIB and PTPRN, demonstrated significant associations with the prognosis of GBM patients. Further analysis into immune infiltration, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and mutation patterns was conducted on these glycometabolism-related hub DEGs.We also emphasize that experimental validation of these 35 candidate genes in patient samples is essential to confirm their clinical relevance and biological roles. CONCLUSION: This study highlights the critical role of glycometabolism-related genes in GBM, offering potential targets for therapeutic intervention. The identification of PPIB and PTPRN as hub genes associated with prognosis underscores their significance in GBM pathology. Future research should prioritize experimental validation of the 35 glycometabolism-related DEGs in clinical specimens and further investigate the mechanistic underpinnings of these genes in the context of GBM, paving the way for innovative therapeutic strategies.
Cocaine self-administration induces neurobiological adaptations in brain circuits involved in encoding reward-associated context. The dorsal hippocampus, particularly the dorsal dentate gyrus, plays a critical role in the precise encoding of spatial and contextual information. We hypothesized that the dentate gyrus is uniquely positioned to undergo epigenomic and transcriptomic changes because of the convergence of the contextual features of reward and cocaine-enhanced dopamine and norepinephrine signals during volitional drug-taking. We report that cocaine self-administration produces significant DNA methylation changes at an unusually large number of ~30,000 genomic regions (>10%, q<0.01) in dentate granule cells (DGCs) of male mice. Cocaine preferentially hypomethylated regions with heterogenous methylation, switching the methylation state in ~16% of DGCs on average. The cocaine-sensitive/responsive epigenomic regions were overrepresented in enhancers and were associated with 9,833 genes, many of which were involved in diverse functions relevant to neuronal functioning. However, among the differentially methylated genes only two regulatory genes, c-fos and cartpt (known to be activated by cocaine), and a cluster of genes encoding components of the extracellular matrix (implicated in neuroplasticity) were differentially expressed (mostly upregulated) following cocaine self-administration, suggesting a gene regulatory network that is transcriptionally robust to perturbations but still specific for context-driven and reward associated neuroplasticity in DGCs. Overall, our data demonstrates that cocaine self-administration induces epigenomic and transcriptomic changes in the dorsal dentate gyrus that may contribute to dorsal hippocampal plasticity and contextual memory associated with cocaine self-administration.
The urocortin 1 (UCN1) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) co-expressing neurons of the centrally projecting Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EWcp), regulate the function of reward- and addiction-related brain areas. EWcp/UCN1/CART neurons highly express the transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) cation channel. We hypothesized that alcohol and its metabolites may influence TRPA1 ion channels. We also anticipated that 3-months chronic limited-access voluntary alcohol consumption in mice affects EWcp/TRPA1 expression resulting in altered UCN1 and CART dynamics and alcohol consumption. Alcohol preference and serum amylase were assessed to validate the model. In the mouse EWcp, immunofluorescence targeting UCN1 and CART peptides were performed to assess neuronal activation as well as UCN1 and CART peptides content. Mouse Trpa1, Cartpt, and Ucn1 as well as human TRPA1 expression was semi-quantified by RNAscope in situ hybridization. In silico modelling and computational docking were performed to test the ability of alcohol and its metabolites to activate human TRPA1 channels. Alcohol preference gradually declined over the course of the study. Alcohol treatment significantly increased serum amylase level and proportionally decreased Trpa1, Cartpt, and Ucn1 mRNA expression in the EWcp. Moreover, CART but not UCN1 peptide content was also reduced. We demonstrated TRPA1 expression in the human EWcp/UCN1/CART neurons and provided translational evidence that alcohol and its metabolites activate the human TRPA1. We conclude that reduced EWcp/TRPA1 expression may may diminish alcohol preference offering novel potential therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
In classic disease models, removing a pathological insult restores homeostasis. Yet, addiction persists far beyond the period of active drug use. Cocaine abstinence induces changes in gene expression and neuronal signaling in reward-related brain regions that limit recovery during abstinence. We found that 2 weeks of abstinence increased Cartpt (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) in the mouse nucleus accumbens and decreased repressive H3K27me3 at the Cartpt locus. While endogenous CART peptide is best described for its anorexigenic function, it is also implicated in human addiction and dopamine homeostasis. To test the causal relevance of Cartpt chromatin remodeling, we used CRISPR-based epigenetic editing tools, dCas9-FOG1 and dCas9-JMJC-ZF, to manipulate H3K27me3 at Cartpt in vivo. Enriching H3K27me3 in D1 neurons repressed Cartpt expression and augmented acquisition and extinction of cocaine preference. These results show that CRISPR epigenetic editing can recapitulate endogenous chromatin states to modulate addiction-related behavior, highlighting broad therapeutic potential of both Cartpt and epigenetic editing.
Adolescent neuropsychiatric disorders impose a major global health burden. Bisphenol B (BPB), a prevalent endocrine disruptor in maternal biospecimens, remains an unexamined risk factor. Whether environmentally relevant exposures elicit sex-specific effects or involve long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-mediated mechanisms is still largely unknown. Using animal models and behavioral assessments, we demonstrated that prenatal BPB exposure at environmentally relevant doses induced male offspring-specific depression- and anxiety-like behaviors, accompanied by alterations in synaptophysin and glutamatergic postsynaptic densities in the cortex. Cortical transcriptomics identified that differentially expressed genes were primarily enriched in neuropeptide signaling, G protein-coupled receptor pathways, and synaptic transmission. Key neuropeptide genes (Gal, Galr1, Oxt, Cartpt) and their corresponding neurotransmitter receptors were downregulated postnatally. Mechanistically, through integrated molecular docking, transcription factor prediction, and competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network construction, we found that BPB may bind to Tcf4/Neurog2/Sp9 and thereby suppressed the expression of lncRNA NONMMUT096884.1, which in turn reduced the expression of neuropeptide-related genes (Galr1 and Oxt) via the ceRNA mechanism, ultimately impairing synaptic transmission and contributing to anxiety/depression-like behaviors in male offspring. This study uncovers previously unrecognized lncRNA-mediated epigenetic pathways underlying sex-biased susceptibility to environmental BPB exposure, providing novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets for neuropsychiatric disorders.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
With the increasing frequency of extreme weather events globally, livestock are facing ever-increasing demands for environmental adaptability. Some goat populations have demonstrated remarkable adaptability under long-term extreme environmental stress, and their genomes retain characteristic genetic imprints formed by adaptive evolution. This study integrated whole-genome resequencing data from 496 individuals from 29 endemic goat populations in China, along with data from 11 environmental factors. Through signal selection analysis and genome-environment association analysis, we identified 262 candidate genes associated with environmental adaptation. Subsequently, we screened Chinese goat populations in extreme environments based on environmental data. We used the FST and θπ methods to scan the genomes of these goat populations. In four extreme environments (high elevation, hot, and arid), 95, 74, and 162 candidate genes were identified, respectively. Based on research related to environmental adaptation, we found that genes such as FGF5, CAMK4, COL4A3BP, and CACNG4 may play important roles in goat adaptation to extreme environments. This study not only deepens our understanding of the evolutionary mechanisms of environmental adaptation in Chinese goats, but also provides important theoretical basis for goat stress resistance breeding and germplasm resource conservation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Graves' orbitopathy (GO) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by orbital inflammation, fibrosis, and adipogenesis. circulating exosomesomes, critical mediators of intercellular communication, are implicated in autoimmune pathologies through miRNA cargo delivery. However, their direct role in GO pathogenesis and mechanisms driving systemic-to-local disease progression remain unexplored.Plasma-derived exosomes from patients with Graves' orbitopathy (GO-Exos) and healthy controls (Con-Exos) were isolated and characterized. Functional assays assessed their impact on primary human orbital fibroblasts (OFs). A GO model was established via weekly intravenous administration of GO-Exos. Disease progression was evaluated through thyroid function tests, histopathology, MRI, and single-cell RNA sequencing. Mechanistic studies focused on miR-221-5p and its downstream CACNG4/AMPK pathway.In vitro, GO-Exos reprogrammed OFs into proinflammatory, profibrotic, and adipogenic phenotypes, while upregulating disease-associated receptors IGF-1R and TSHR, suggesting a feedforward mechanism for sustained autoimmunity. Strikingly, stable-phase GO-Exos retained bioactivity, inducing comparable cytokine elevations in control OFs. In vivo, weekly intravenous administration of GO-Exos in BALB/c mice over 150 days recapitulated human disease hallmarks, including thyroid dysfunction, exophthalmos, orbital adipose hyperplasia, and collagen deposition, validated by histopathology and MRI. Mechanistically, miR-221-5p was identified as a key driver of orbital remodeling via suppression of CACNG4/AMPK. Partial rescue of pathogenic phenotypes by miR-221-5p inhibition confirmed its functional centrality. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed exosome-mediated cellular reprogramming, including TREM2+ macrophage enrichment and CD8+ T cell infiltration.Our findings establish circulating exosomesomes as novel pathogenic drivers in GO and provide a foundational resource for understanding exosome-mediated immunopathogenesis in autoimmune orbitopathies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The selection of high feed efficiency (FE) animals impacts sustainability and profitability of beef and dairy cattle production systems. An approach to investigate the mechanisms of FE involves analyzing gene expression profile in liver. This study used residual feed intake as a metric of FE to select 10 Gir x Holstein crossbred cows (Girolando F1) divided into high (HE) and low (LE) FE groups. Hepatic biopsies were used for differential gene expression investigation using RNA-seq analyses which revealed 20,787 known genes mapped accordingly to the bovine reference genome. The comparison of HE and LE revealed 149 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEG), 41 up-regulated, and 108 down-regulated in the LE group. Among DEG, some stood out as potential candidate genes, including DLK1, CACNG4, SLC2A12, SLC26A4, DUOX2, and DUOXA2. Functional enrichment analyses showed pathways that potentially influence FE, such as the negative regulation of leukocyte migration, regulation of calcium channel activity, negative regulation of cell migration and adhesion, extracellular matrix (ECM) organization, and thyroid hormone synthesis. ECM composition and immune system roles were also highlighted. These results could help understanding the mechanisms related to FE in dairy cattle and the development of selection strategies to improve this trait.
BACKGROUND: The reprogramming of energy metabolism, particularly glycolysis, upholds the malignancy of tumors. The relationship between CUE domain-containing protein-1 (CUEDC1) and glycolysis, along with its influence on the development of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer (ER+ BRCA), is not well defined. This investigation explores the functional involvement of CUEDC1 in glycolysis regulation and uncovers a previously unidentified pathway contributing to the progression of ER+ BRCA. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry, western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were used to detect the expression of CUEDC1 in ER+ BRCA tissues and cell lines. A series of molecular analyses, including dual-luciferase reporter assays, RNA-seq, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), were performed to elucidate the potential mechanisms underlying CUEDC1’s involvement in ER+ BRCA progression. Metabolic assays focusing on glycolysis were employed to investigate the functional roles of CUEDC1 and calcium voltage-gated channel auxiliary subunit gamma 4 (CACNG4). The Connectivity Map (CMap) database was utilized to screen CUEDC1 inhibitors. RESULTS: CUEDC1 is aberrantly upregulated in ER+ BRCA tissues and cells. Increased CUEDC1 can promote enhanced tumor growth and lead to poor clinical outcomes in patients with ER+ BRCA. The MYC associated zinc finger protein (MAZ) can upregulate CUEDC1 gene transcription in ER+ BRCA cells by directly binding to its promoter. We determined that CUEDC1 directly modulated CACNG4 to enhance phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) pathway activation, thereby facilitating tumor growth of ER+ BRCA. Clinical observations also revealed a positive correlation between CACNG4 expression and CUEDC1, with both factors being strongly associated with poor prognosis in patients with ER+ BRCA. Mechanistically, The CUEDC1/CACNG4/PI3K signal axis enhanced glycolysis through upregulating glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), a crucial protein in glucose metabolism, thereby supporting tumor growth of ER+ BRCA. Furthermore, methotrexate was identified as a potential inhibitor of CUEDC1. Importantly, the combination of ipatasertib (a PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitor), with methotrexate effectively suppressed growth of ER+ BRCA in a mouse model. CONCLUSIONS: Our research reveals that enhanced CUEDC1 plays an essential role to ER+ BRCA cell proliferation and tumor growth via the CACNG4/PI3K axis. CUEDC1 is a promising prognostic factor of ER+ BRCA, and the CUEDC1/CACNG4/PI3K axis can serve as a potential therapeutic target for ER+ BRCA treatment.
Cancer-related fatigue (CRF) is a prominent cancer-related complication occurring in Prostate cancer (PCa) patients, profoundly affecting prognosis. The lack of diagnostic criteria and biomarkers hampers the management of CRF.The CRF-related data and PCa single-cell data were retrieved from the GEO database and clinical data was downloaded from the TCGA database. The univariate logistic/Cox regression analysis were used to construct the prediction models. The predictive value of models was analyzed using the ROC curve and Kaplan-Meier survival. The hub genes were screened by an intersection analysis of DEGs. The mice model of PCa and PCa-related fatigue were established, and fatigue-like behaviors of mice were detected. The expression of selected hub genes was validated by RT-PCR and IHC analysis.The diagnosis and risk models showed great predictive value both in the training and validation dataset. Five genes (Baiap2l2, Cacng4, Sytl2, Sec31b and Ms4a1) that enriched the CXCL signaling were identified as hub genes. Among all hub genes, the MS4A1 expression is the most significant in PCa-related fatigue mice.We identified MS4A1 as a promising biomarker for the diagnosis of PCa-related fatigue. Our findings would lay a foundation for revealing the pathogenesis and developing therapies for PCa-related fatigue.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS) is a rare neurogenetic disorder resulting from a heterozygous deletion of 26 genes in the MDS locus on human chromosome 17. MDS patients often die in utero and only 10% of those who are born reach 10 years of age. Current treatments mostly prevent complications and control seizures. A detailed understanding of the pathogenesis of MDS through gene expression studies would be useful in developing precise medical approaches toward MDS. To better understand MDS at the molecular level, we performed RNA sequencing on RNA and mass spectrometry on total protein isolated from BJ (non-MDS) cells and GM06097 (MDS) cells, which were derived from a healthy individual and an MDS patient, respectively. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at the RNA and protein levels involved genes associated with phenotypic features reported in MDS patients (CACNG4, ADD2, SPTAN1, SHANK2), signaling pathways (GABBR2, CAMK2B, TRAM-1), and nervous system development (CAMK2B, BEX1, ARSA). Functional assays validated enhanced calcium signaling, downregulated protein translation, and cell migration defects in MDS. Interestingly, overexpression of methyltransferase-like protein 16 (METTL16), a protein encoded in the MDS locus, restored defects in protein translation, phosphor states of mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) pathway regulators, and cell migration in MDS cells. Although DNA- and RNA-modifying enzymes were among the DEGs and the intracellular SAM/SAH ratio was eightfold lower in MDS cells, global nucleoside modifications remained unchanged. Thus, this study identified specific genes and pathways responsible for the gene expression changes, which could lead to better therapeutics for MDS patients.© 2024. The Author(s).
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of common variants associated with alcohol consumption. In contrast, genetic studies of alcohol consumption that use rare variants are still in their early stages. No prior studies of alcohol consumption have examined whether common and rare variants implicate the same genes and molecular networks, leaving open the possibility that the two approaches might identify distinct biology.To address this knowledge gap, we used publicly available alcohol consumption GWAS summary statistics (GSCAN, N = 666,978) and whole exome sequencing data (Genebass, N = 393,099) to identify a set of common and rare variants for alcohol consumption. We used gene-based analysis to implicate genes from common and rare variant analyses, which we then propagated onto a shared molecular network using a network colocalization procedure.Gene-based analysis of each dataset implicated 294 (common variants) and 35 (rare variants) genes, including ethanol metabolizing genes ADH1B and ADH1C, which were identified by both analyses, and ANKRD12, GIGYF1, KIF21B, and STK31, which were identified in only the rare variant analysis, but have been associated with other neuropsychiatric traits. Network colocalization revealed significant network overlap between the genes identified via common and rare variants. The shared network identified gene families that function in alcohol metabolism, including ADH, ALDH, CYP, and UGT. Seventy-one of the genes in the shared network were previously implicated in neuropsychiatric or substance use disorders but not alcohol-related behaviors (e.g. EXOC2, EPM2A, and CACNG4). Differential gene expression analysis showed enrichment in the liver and several brain regions.Genes implicated by network colocalization identify shared biology relevant to alcohol consumption, which also underlie neuropsychiatric traits and substance use disorders that are comorbid with alcohol use, providing a more holistic understanding of two disparate sources of genetic information.© 2024 The Author(s). Alcohol, Clinical and Experimental Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Research Society on Alcohol.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of common variants associated with alcohol consumption. In contrast, rare variants have only begun to be studied for their role in alcohol consumption. No studies have examined whether common and rare variants implicate the same genes and molecular networks. To address this knowledge gap, we used publicly available alcohol consumption GWAS summary statistics (GSCAN, N=666,978) and whole exome sequencing data (Genebass, N=393,099) to identify a set of common and rare variants for alcohol consumption. Gene-based analysis of each dataset have implicated 294 (common variants) and 35 (rare variants) genes, including ethanol metabolizing genes ADH1B and ADH1C, which were identified by both analyses, and ANKRD12, GIGYF1, KIF21B, and STK31, which were identified only by rare variant analysis, but have been associated with related psychiatric traits. We then used a network colocalization procedure to propagate the common and rare gene sets onto a shared molecular network, revealing significant overlap. The shared network identified gene families that function in alcohol metabolism, including ADH, ALDH, CYP, and UGT. 74 of the genes in the network were previously implicated in comorbid psychiatric or substance use disorders, but had not previously been identified for alcohol-related behaviors, including EXOC2, EPM2A, CACNB3, and CACNG4. Differential gene expression analysis showed enrichment in the liver and several brain regions supporting the role of network genes in alcohol consumption. Thus, genes implicated by common and rare variants identify shared functions relevant to alcohol consumption, which also underlie psychiatric traits and substance use disorders that are comorbid with alcohol use.
Breast cancer remains a significant health challenge worldwide, necessitating the identification of reliable biomarkers for early detection, accurate prognosis, and targeted therapy.Breast cancer RNA expression data from the TCGA database were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The top 500 up-regulated DEGs were selected for further investigation using random forest analysis to identify important genes. These genes were evaluated based on their potential as diagnostic biomarkers, their overexpression in breast cancer tissues, and their low median expression in normal female tissues. Various validation methods, including online tools and quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR), were used to confirm the potential of the identified genes as breast cancer biomarkers.The study identified four overexpressed genes (CACNG4, PKMYT1, EPYC, and CHRNA6) among 100 genes with higher importance scores. qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the significant upregulation of these genes in breast cancer patients compared to normal samples.These findings suggest that CACNG4, PKMYT1, EPYC, and CHRNA6 may serve as valuable biomarkers for breast cancer diagnosis, and PKMYT1 may also have prognostic significance. Furthermore, CACNG4, CHRNA6, and PKMYT1 show promise as potential therapeutic targets. These findings have the potential to advance diagnostic methods and therapeutic approaches for breast cancer.© 2024. The Author(s).
The membrane transporters activated in cancer stem cells (CSCs) are the target of novel cancer therapies for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The present investigation demonstrated the expression profiles of ion channels in CSCs of HCC.Cells that highly expressed aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1) were separated from HepG2 cells, a human HCC cell line, by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and CSCs were identified based on the formation of tumorspheres. Gene expression profiles in CSCs were investigated using microarray analysis.Among HepG2 cells, ALDH1A1 messenger RNA level was higher in CSCs than in non-CSCs. Furthermore, CSCs exhibited resistance to cisplatin and had the capacity to redifferentiate. The results of the microarray analysis of CSCs showed the up-regulated expression of several genes related to ion channels, such as calcium voltage-gated channel auxiliary subunit gamma 4 (CACNG4). The cytotoxicity of the CACNG4 inhibitor amlodipine was higher at lower concentrations in CSCs than in non-CSCs, and markedly decreased the number of tumorspheres. The cell population among HepG2 cells that highly expressed ALDH1A1 was also significantly reduced by this inhibitor.CACNG4 plays a role in maintaining CSCs, and its inhibitor, amlodipine, could potentially be a targeted therapeutic agent against HCC.Copyright © 2023 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
To describe cell-free DNA (cfDNA)-inferred putative clonal hematopoiesis (CH) candidates during first-line platinum-based chemotherapy followed by poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor (PARPi) maintenance in ovarian cancer.In SCRUM-Japan MONSTAR-SCREEN-1, we analyzed clinically reported paired tumor tissue and plasma cfDNA profiling (324-gene assays). Baseline (B1) data were assessed in 35 treatment-naïve patients; longitudinal cfDNA was available at B1, after platinum without progression (B2), and during/after PARPi without progression (B3) in 8 patients. Putative CH candidates were defined as pathogenic variants (variant allele frequency <40%) in prespecified CH-related genes detected in plasma but not detected in matched tumor tissue at clinical reporting thresholds.At B1, putative CH candidates were reported in 19/35 patients (54.3%), most commonly DNMT3A; positivity was associated with age ≥60 years. In the longitudinal cohort, tumor-derived TP53 variants were below the assay reporting threshold at B3 in all patients, whereas putative CH TP53 variants were reported in 0/8 patients at B1 and 6/8 patients at B3. DNA damage response gene candidates (TP53/ATM/CHEK2) more frequently became detectable above the reporting threshold during B2-B3 than during B1-B2, while epigenetic-gene candidates showed relatively stable detectability. No therapy-related myeloid neoplasm events were observed during follow-up.This paired tissue-plasma longitudinal analysis highlights an interpretive challenge in cfDNA testing during first-line platinum-to-PARPi maintenance therapy: putative CH candidates may become detectable as tumor-derived cfDNA declines. Given cfDNA-only inference without matched WBC sequencing and the small serial cohort, these observations are supportive of prior reports of CH dynamics but require validation in larger WBC-integrated cohorts.UMIN-CTR Clinical Trial Identifier: UMIN000036749.© 2027. Asian Society of Gynecologic Oncology, Korean Society of Gynecologic Oncology, and Japan Society of Gynecologic Oncology.
This study aims to investigate the expression and function of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and histone methyltransferase EZH2 in regulating the expression of thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) and fibrotic markers by orbital fibroblasts from Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO) patients.DNMTs mRNA levels were measured in orbital fibroblasts from healthy controls (control orbital fibroblasts), active GO fibroblasts, and inactive GO fibroblasts (iGOFs). TSHR and other fibrotic markers were measured in iGOFs treated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB and decitabine (a DNMT inhibitor) or DZNep (an EZH2 inhibitor) or small interfering RNA by RT-qPCR or Western blotting.DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA expressions were significantly higher in active GOFs compared with iGOFs and control orbital fibroblasts. Among all DNMTs, DNMT1 expression was at the highest levels. Upon PDGF-BB stimulation, DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA levels in iGOFs were significantly induced. Decitabine significantly inhibited PDGF-BB-induced cell viability and TSHR mRNA levels in iGOFs, whereas DNMT1 silencing partly reduced TSHR protein. Because a positive correlation between DNMT1 and EZH2 expression in iGOF was observed, the regulatory role of EZH2 on TSHR expression was also investigated. DZNep slightly decreased TSHR mRNA expression in iGOFs and iGO orbital tissue, whereas EZH2 silencing partly affects TSHR expression.This study demonstrates that DNMT1 is the major DNMT during the active stage of GO. Moreover, DNMT1 is inducible upon PDGF-BB stimulation in iGOFs, suggesting an important role of PDGF-BB and DNMT1 during an active stage of GO. Our findings also highlighted that the inhibition of DNMT or EZH2 potentially suppressed TSHR mRNA expression, suggesting potential therapies targeting DNMT/EZH2 in controlling GO progression.
BCL6 is a master transcriptional regulator of germinal center (GC) B cells. BCL6 is frequently translocated at the major translocation cluster (MTC) within intron 1 of the BCL6 locus, a hotspot commonly rearranged in diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCLs). BCL6 amplifications are associated with therapeutic resistance and poor survival outcomes in hematological and solid cancers. However the mechanisms suppressing genome instability at the BCL6-MTC preventing BCL6 rearragements remain unclear. Here, transcriptome analysis and genome-wide mapping of histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) in hydroxyurea (HU)-treated Raji cells (a Burkitt's lymphoma model) revealed the induced expression of MBD1, encoding the DNA CpG methylation-binding protein. Functional studies using shRNA silencing and ectopic overexpression demonstrated that MBD1 suppresses BCL6 transcription whose promoter harbors conserved CpG methylation sites, suggesting a DNA methylation-dependent regulation of BCL6 trasncription by MBD1. Conversely, BCL6 repressed MBD1 expression by binding to its promoter. MBD1-depleted Raji cells exhibited increased genomic instability at the BCL6-MTC upon HU treatment, heightened sensitivity to DNA replication inhibitors (HU, gemcitabine, and etoposide), and reduced tumorigenicity in xenograft mouse models. We propose that MBD1 prevents genomic instability at the BCL6-MTC to suppress DLBCL formation. Moreover, MBD1 promotes genomic stability and cell viability during DNA replication stress. MBD1 thus represents a potential therapeutic target for cancers exhibiting resistance to chemotherapies targeting DNA replication.© 2026 The Author(s). Hematological Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Microenvironment remodelling impacts tumour growth and metastasis, but whether remodelling promotes pre-malignant clonal fitness remains unknown. Here, using single-cell RNA-sequencing of the bone-marrow microenvironment in a mouse model of DNMT3A-mutant clonal haematopoiesis (CH), we identify mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) in a molecular state of cellular senescence. Elevated bone-marrow MSC senescence is also observed in humans with CH driven by several common somatic mutations. MSC senescence is induced by mutant haematopoietic cells in a contact-independent manner through production of soluble factors including TNF-α and IL-6. These cytokines activate a Stat3-driven pathway that is necessary and sufficient for MSC senescence induction. Genetic or pharmacological depletion of senescent non-haematopoietic cells reduces the burden of CH and delays progression to myeloid neoplasia. Our findings show that microenvironment remodelling modifies pre-malignant clonal fitness and identifies disruption of the crosstalk between pre-malignant cells and their niche as a cancer prevention strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Molecular co-mutations modulate outcomes in FLT3-mutated AML treated with gilteritinib; real-world data stratified by DNMT3A co-mutation status are lacking.We retrospectively analysed 29 adults with R/R FLT3-mutated AML treated at two Italian centres. Sixteen patients with complete molecular profiling were stratified into three subgroups by DNMT3A and NPM1 co-mutation status.Overall response rate was 89.7% (26/29). DNMT3A-mutated subgroups showed prolonged OS from gilteritinib initiation versus wild-type group (median not reached vs. 8.8 months; 12-month OS 78% vs. 17%).These hypothesis-generating data suggest that DNMT3A co-mutation status is associated with differential gilteritinib outcomes, supporting comprehensive molecular profiling in FLT3-mutated AML.The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission.© 2026 The Author(s). eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549421 is a review article
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive and molecularly heterogeneous hematologic malignancy associated with poor clinical outcomes, particularly in elderly and high-risk patients. Increasing evidence suggests that metabolic reprogramming plays a critical role in leukemia progression, immune dysregulation, and therapeutic resistance. However, the prognostic value of metabolism-associated molecular networks in AML remains insufficiently understood.This study aimed to identify metabolism-related hub genes involved in AML progression and to establish a robust prognostic signature for survival prediction.Integrated transcriptomic analyses were performed using multiple Gene Expression Omnibus datasets and the TCGA-LAML cohort. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified AML-associated gene modules, followed by protein-protein interaction and functional enrichment analyses. Metabolic-related hub genes were selected through integration with curated metabolic gene sets. A prognostic model was subsequently developed using univariable and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression analyses and validated in independent cohorts. A four-gene metabolic signature consisting of CYP4F3, PFKL, G6PD, and DNMT3A was identified as an independent predictor of overall survival. Patients in the high-risk group showed significantly poorer survival outcomes compared with low-risk patients (p < 0.0001). The prognostic model demonstrated stable and reliable predictive performance across training, testing, and validation cohorts. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that the identified genes are closely associated with metabolic pathways, immune-related signaling, and leukemic microenvironment remodeling. Notably, increased expression of G6PD and PFKL was associated with adverse prognosis, supporting the contribution of altered glycolysis and redox homeostasis to AML pathogenesis.Our findings establish a metabolic-based prognostic signature with strong predictive utility in AML. The identified metabolic hub genes provide insight into the interaction between metabolic dysregulation and immune remodeling in leukemia and may serve as promising biomarkers for risk stratification and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
DNA methyltransferase DNMT3A is a key enzyme responsible for establishing DNA methylation patterns during mammalian development. T-cell leukemia/lymphoma 1 A (TCL1A) is a proto-oncogene expressed mainly in embryonic and fetal tissues, as well as in specific lymphocyte populations. In this study, we determined the structure of the murine DNMT3A-TCL1A complex using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. The complex adopts a linear conformation, with two TCL1A dimers bound to the catalytic domain of DNMT3A to form a heterohexamer. TCL1A competitively binds to the same structural interface on DNMT3A as DNMT3L, but produces an inhibitory-rather than an activating-effect on the catalytic activity of DNMT3A. Furthermore, comparative analysis with previously reported assembly modes of murine TCL1A revealed that the TCL1A dimer complex we resolved adopts distinct molecular conformations and interaction mechanisms. Our findings elucidate the allosteric mechanism by which murine TCL1A inhibits DNMT3A activity, providing a structural basis for understanding mammalian epigenetic reprogramming.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major cause of chronic lung disease in both preterm infants and adults, but its etiology remains incompletely understood. In this study, F0 generation mice were exposed to polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs), and F1 to F3 generations were obtained by breeding. Multi-omics sequencing including whole genome methylation sequencing, single cell transcriptome sequencing and transcriptome sequencing was performed on the lungs of offspring. The levels of Fe2+, lipid peroxidation products and key gene expression were determined. Male mice exposed to PS-NPs at environmentally relevant doses produced offspring (F1 and F2) that exhibited a typical BPD-like phenotype. Meanwhile, the F0 males showed diminished sperm motility, demonstrating that paternal PS-NPs exposure constituted an etiological factor for BPD in descendants. Mechanistic studies showed that PS-NPs exposure upregulated the expression of DNA methyltransferase Dnmt3a, leading to global hypermethylation of the sperm genome. Importantly, the hypermethylated promoter signature of the mitochondrial ferritin (FtMt) gene partially resisted epigenetic reprogramming and was transmitted to the lungs of offspring, resulting in persistently low FtMt expression in F1 and F2 lungs. This led to increased intracellular Fe2+ levels, subsequently triggered ferroptosis in alveolar epithelial cells, and ultimately impaired alveolarization. Knockdown of FtMt confirmed that FtMt deficiency was sufficient to induce ferroptosis and BPD-like lung injury both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, using in vitro fertilization of F0 sperm combined with Dnmt3a siRNA microinjection, we directly demonstrated that Dnmt3a is a key driver for FtMt to escape reprogramming and maintain its hypermethylation. In summary, this study reveals for the first time that paternal PS-NPs exposure causes BPD through a Dnmt3a-FtMt hypermethylation intergenerational and transgenerational axis, providing an epigenetic basis for understanding paternal derived chronic lung disease and potential targets for early intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543641 is a review article
Fine particulate matter (PM2.5), a prevalent air pollutant, reaches pulmonary alveoli and triggers lung inflammation and systemic vascular dysfunction. The alveolar-vascular barrier enables local lung damage to spread to endothelium through soluble factors, making this model fit to analyze lung-systemic interactions. TNF-α and EGF separately dominate inflammatory cascades and endothelial regulation, yet their combined effects during PM2.5 toxicity are unclear. This research constructed a 3D alveolar-vascular barrier model with BEAS-2B, THP-1, and EA. hy926 cells were treated with 0 or 100 μg/mL SRM2786 PM2.5 for 24 h. PM2.5 enters alveolar epithelial cells via endocytosis, causing mitochondrial damage, cell apoptosis, and upregulated TNF-α, EGF, IL-8, TGF-α, and IL-1β. Extracellular TNF-α and EGF cross the barrier and activate the endothelial PI3K-Akt pathway. Increased Nrf2 and CYP1A1 verify progressive oxidative stress. This study illustrates inflammation- and oxidation-dependent crosstalk between alveolar injury and endothelial impairment, clarifying PM2.5 toxic mechanisms and aiding environmental toxicology studies and drug screening.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) in monogenic diabetes is limited. We evaluated real-world metabolic, renal, and safety outcomes of SGLT2i therapy in adults with monogenic diabetes.This multicenter retrospective study included adults with genetically confirmed monogenic diabetes treated with SGLT2i. Clinical and biological data were collected at baseline and after approximately 1 and 2 years. Longitudinal changes were analysed using linear mixed-effects models adjusted for baseline value, age, and sex and treatment intensification.Forty patients (mean age 48.6 ± 15.2 years) with MIDD (n = 16), HNF1B-MODY (n = 9), HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY (n = 11), or other MODY subtypes (ABCC8, INS, RFX6; n = 4) were followed for 23.9 ± 5.9 months. HbA1c remained stable overall but decreased significantly in patients with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8% (9.6% ± 1.3% to 7.6% ± 0.7%; p = 0.001). UACR declined significantly (-35.6% at 1 year and -43.5% at 2 years; p = 0.004), particularly in those with baseline CKD (trend). Genotype-specific trends suggested greater glycemic improvement in HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY and greater UACR reduction in MIDD. eGFR declined modestly over time. Non-serious adverse events occurred in 15% of patients, 7.5% discontinued treatment, and no ketoacidosis, acute kidney injury, or deaths were reported.In this nationwide cohort of patients with monogenic diabetes-the largest reported to date-SGLT2i therapy was associated with improved glycemic control in individuals with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8%, reduced albuminuria, and showed a favourable safety profile. These findings support SGLT2i as a potential therapeutic option that warrants confirmation in larger controlled studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Juvenile Parkinson's disease (JPD) is a rare condition characterized by the onset of parkinsonian motor symptoms before the age of 21. Sixteen patients with JPD who presented to the Mayo Clinic between 1990-2020 were included. The median age of symptoms onset was 18.5 years, and six cases had pathogenic PRKN mutations. Resting tremor was the most frequent initial symptom (81.3%), and non-motor symptoms were notably common, including mild cognitive impairment (56.3%), anxiety (62.5%), and depression (56.3%). Levodopa responsiveness was suboptimal in 9 patients and 14 exhibited motor fluctuations. JPD demonstrates distinct clinical characteristics compared with early-onset and late-onset PD.
Ovine species inhabiting harsh environments frequently develop enhanced functional adaptations. This study aims to (1) characterize rumen epithelial modifications in lactating Hulunbeier ewes under alpine conditions, and (2) elucidate how these adaptive responses are modulated by micronutrient supplementation and varying concentrate feed levels. Thirty lactating Hulunbeier ewes were randomly assigned to one of the three dietary groups and fed the same roughages with one of the following concentrates: 1) 550 g/d of local concentrate (LF) as the control, 2) 550 g/d of formulated concentrate (FF), and 3) 700 g/d of formulated concentrate (FS). Daily feed intake were recorded, and rumen epithelial tissues were collected for transcriptome analysis after slaughter on day 37 of the experiment. Transcriptomic analyses were performed on a subset of 11 ewes (LF, n = 4; FF, n = 4; FS, n = 3). No independent qPCR validation was conducted; results are therefore preliminary. In the exploratory cross-breed comparison, Hulunbeier sheep showed a suggestive trend toward enhanced expression of energy metabolism genes (ATP5MC2, ATP5PO, UQCRH) and genes encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components relative to lowland Hu sheep. Supplementation with micronutrient premix upregulated key detoxification genes (CYP1A1, LOC101119706) and modulated immune-related pathways. In contrast, high concentrate levels promoted biosynthetic processes while suppressing cellular signaling functions. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further indicated activation of thermogenesis pathways in the high-concentrate group, accompanied by altered expression of electron transport chain genes. PPARA may be involved in volatile fatty acid metabolism in response to micronutrient supplementation, but this requires direct experimental testing. Collectively, with the caveat of small sample size and lack of qPCR validation, these pilot-scale transcriptomic findings generate hypotheses that may underlie nutritional modulation of rumen function in alpine-adapted sheep; however, further validation with larger sample sizes and correlated phenotypic measurements is warranted. These results provide preliminary insights for developing targeted nutritional strategies to enhance ruminant production in breeds adapted to extreme environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
This discovery study investigated the impact of MODY-associated mutations in hepatocyte nuclear factors HNF1A and HNF1B on the cellular proteome, aiming to identify affected pathways and advance understanding of diabetes pathogenesis. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) carrying the HNF1A frameshift mutation (p.Pro291fsinsC) were differentiated into pancreatic progenitors, and renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTECs) were engineered to overexpress HNF1B with the S148L point mutation. Label-free quantitative proteomics was performed using data-dependent and data-independent acquisition on Orbitrap and timsTOF mass spectrometers. Pathway enrichment was analyzed using Qiagen IPA, Hallmark gene sets, and STRING networks. Comprehensive proteome coverage (over 7000 proteins) revealed consistent downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, and interferon signaling pathways. Both models exhibited suppression of innate immune responses, with overlapping downregulated proteins, including members of the OAS, IFIT, and MX1 families. Using label-free proteomics, we show that MODY-associated mutations in HNF1A and HNF1B suppress mitochondrial function and interferon signaling and are additionally associated with reduced abundance of predicted targets such as A1CF as well as diabetes-related proteins including SCGN, supporting their role in diabetes pathogenesis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) plays a pivotal role in the metabolism and detoxification of low molecular-weight xenobiotics, as well as in their bioactivation into toxic and DNA-reactive intermediates. Prominent examples include drugs and chemicals like acetaminophen and N-nitrosamines. Chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol are widely used as probe substrates to assess CYP2E1 activity, however, their specificity remains controversial. This study aimed to reevaluate the selectivity of chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol toward CYP2E1 using recombinant Supersomes™ expressing individual human CYP isoforms. Incubations were performed with chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol at 100 and 500 µM, followed by quantification of 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone and 4-nitrocatechol via UPLC-MS/MS. Chlorzoxazone turnover was detected across nearly all major liver CYP isoforms, with CYP1A1 showing the highest contribution (39%), followed by CYP2D6 (14%), CYP1A2 (10%), and CYP2E1 (10%). Similarly, 4-nitrophenol hydroxylation was not limited to CYP2E1, with significant contributions from CYP1A2 (20%), CYP2A6 (19%), and CYP2D6 (16%), while CYP2E1 accounted for 26% of total activity. In conclusion, our results underscore the limited selectivity of chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol and highlight the need for more specific substrates for accurate CYP2E1 enzyme characterization.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42544753
Dysregulated sphingolipid metabolism plays a key role in atopic dermatitis (AD), yet therapeutic options targeting this pathway remain limited. The traditional formula Peitu Qingxin (PTQX) shows clinical efficacy, but its molecular mechanism is largely undefined.To identify a novel mechanism of the PTQX formula in AD sphingolipid metabolism and to validate the miR-30a/GAPR-1 axis as a therapeutic target.Using Mendelian randomization, clinical proteomics, and dual-luciferase reporter assays, we identified miR-30a as a direct upstream regulator of GAPR-1. Gain-of-function studies in AD-like 3D skin equivalents validated this axis. The effective dose of PTQX was determined in NC/Nga mice induced with 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene. Molecular docking predicted the binding of PTQX components to GAPR-1. Adenovirus-mediated GAPR-1 silencing was performed in AD mice, and targeted lipidomics was used for detection. Finally, PTQX efficacy was evaluated in miR-30a knockout mice by assessing dermatitis severity, inflammatory cytokines/proteins, proteomics, and untargeted metabolomics.We found that miR-30a directly targets GAPR-1 and may exert a protective role in AD. In AD-like 3D skin equivalents, miR-30a overexpression downregulated GAPR-1, restored barrier proteins, and suppressed IL-8. Medium-dose PTQX treatment upregulated miR-30a and downregulated GAPR-1, concomitantly with amelioration of dermatitis. PTQX components were predicted to have strong binding affinity to GAPR-1 in silico. Adenovirus-mediated GAPR-1 silencing alleviated AD-like symptoms and restored sphingolipid metabolites. In miR-30a knockout mice, GAPR-1 expression was elevated. PTQX treatment suppressed serum levels of KC, IL-5, IL-12p70, IL-10, G-CSF, and TNF-α, reduced skin protein levels of NLRP3 and TLR2, and restored CYP1A1 expression. Multi-omics analyses further revealed that sphingolipid dysregulation is a key downstream mechanism. PTQX reversed the downregulation of key sphingolipid enzymes GBA and ENPP7, as well as 7 sphingolipid metabolites.Targeting the miR-30a/GAPR-1 axis by PTQX represents a novel therapeutic approach for treating sphingolipid dysregulation in AD.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
In humans, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces chloracne, a skin condition that presents with acanthosis, hyperkeratosis, comedones, and sebaceous gland (SG) atrophy (seboatrophy). Although chloracne-like phenotypes have been reported in TCDD-treated mice, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Previous studies showed that TCDD-induced CYP1A1 protein is expressed in LRIG1+ progenitor cells in hair follicles, suggesting that TCDD targets specific cell populations within the pilosebaceous unit. To explore the effects of TCDD on the epidermis and pilosebaceous unit, we analyzed single-cell RNA expression in wild-type and Ahr-null mice at postnatal day 21 (P21) following in utero and lactational exposure. The results showed that TCDD preferentially induced the AHR target genes Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 in the lower infundibulum and subjacent junctional zone overlapping the LRIG1+ progenitor cell niche. TCDD also caused Ahr-dependent seboatrophy, accompanied by increased expression of Blimp1, a transcriptional repressor that regulates SG size. A second site of Cyp1a1 induction was the SG, where Cyp1a1 was markedly elevated in the basal proliferating cells and immature sebocytes. In a 3-day topical exposure study of early effects, TCDD produced a dose-dependent increase of Cyp1a1 expression in the SG that included the more differentiated sebocytes. This response was accompanied by expansion of the Scd1-positive area, elevated Nile Red lipid staining, and an increased number of Blimp1-high sebocytes, demonstrating that TCDD enhanced SG differentiation and lipid production in vivo. These changes preceded the onset of Ahr-dependent seboatrophy, providing new insight into the cellular and molecular events underlying chloracne pathogenesis.
Although hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy is an established medical intervention effective for various conditions, prolonged or excessive exposure can induce acute lung injury (ALI), the mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. In this study, we show that expression of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2, two isoforms of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A subfamily, is significantly upregulated in mouse lung tissues and primary mouse lung microvascular endothelial cells (MLVECs) following HBO exposure. Global double knockout of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 (referred to as CYP1A-deficient mice) exacerbated pulmonary endothelial dysfunction and ALI in response to HBO, whereas CYP1A inducer β-naphthoflavone (BNF) ameliorated these pathological changes. Mechanistically, activation of the heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) signaling pathway mediates the protective effects of CYP1A induction against HBO-induced mitochondrial oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and endothelial cell apoptosis. Critically, HSF1 inhibition abolished BNF-induced HSF1 recruitment to the succinate dehydrogenase subunit C (SDHC) promoter, thereby suppressing SDHC transcription in HBO-exposed pulmonary endothelial cells. Furthermore, the HSF1-mediated protection is dependent on succinate dehydrogenase C (SDHC), thereby linking CYP1A upregulation to the preservation of pulmonary endothelial barrier integrity. CYP1A deficiency leads to reduced SDHC expression, resulting in enhanced mitochondrial oxidative stress, impaired mitochondrial function, and increased apoptosis in lung tissues under HBO conditions. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized protective mechanism in which upregulation of CYP1A serves as an adaptive response against HBO-induced pulmonary endothelial injury by attenuating mitochondrial oxidative stress and restoring mitochondrial homeostasis via the HSF1/SDHC signaling axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
As the most common malignant renal tumor in children, the progression of Wilms' tumor is frequently driven by abnormal alternative splicing (AS), cell death imbalance, and an immunosuppressive microenvironment. However, the precise regulatory chain connecting these three critical elements remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to systematically construct and characterize an "AS-cell death-immunity" regulatory network in Wilms' tumor.We performed a comprehensive in silico analysis using matched paired Wilms' tumor and adjacent normal RNA-seq data from the GSE138869 cohort. The SUVA algorithm was employed to identify cell death-related regulated alternative splicing events (RASEs). A tripartite regulatory network was constructed via correlation analysis to link these RASEs with upstream differentially expressed splicing factors (DESFs). Immune cell infiltration was quantified using CIBERSORT. Finally, the HNRNPD knockout and FLASH-seq multi-omics dataset (GSE212767) was utilized to computationally validate the predicted regulatory axis.Our analysis identified 118 cell death-related host genes undergoing significant alternative splicing in Wilms' tumor. Network integration highlighted a critical regulatory axis where the overexpressed splicing factor HNRNPD is strongly correlated with an aberrant AS event (clualt5p51764) in the apoptosis-related kinase MAP4K4. Further immune deconvolution demonstrated that both HNRNPD upregulation and the MAP4K4 splicing shift were significantly correlated with increased monocyte infiltration in the tumor microenvironment. Moreover, cross-validation utilizing the GSE212767 dataset confirmed that HNRNPD perturbation directly alters MAP4K4 splicing.Our computational framework proposes that the HNRNPD-MAP4K4 splicing axis links apoptotic dysregulation to immune microenvironment remodeling in Wilms' tumor. These correlative in silico findings provide a robust, hypothesis-generating basis for discovering novel prognostic biomarkers and developing targeted therapeutic strategies directed at the splicing machinery.Copyright: © 2026 Yang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a common metabolic disorder with limited safe and effective therapeutic options. This study integrated GEO dataset mining and network pharmacology to explore the anti-HUA efficacy and mechanism of pomegranate peel polyphenol extract (PPE). In a mouse model of HUA induced by potassium oxonate and 5% fructose water, PPE significantly reduced serum, urinary, and fecal uric acid levels, attenuated the increases in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, improved estimated glomerular filtration rate, and ameliorated renal pathological damage, inflammation, and xanthine oxidase activity. Integration of GEO-derived HUA-related genes and computational target prediction for PPE identified 44 common targets, and protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed core targets including Akt1. KEGG enrichment highlighted the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway as a key mediator. Western blotting in vivo and in vitro confirmed that PPE suppressed PI3K-AKT phosphorylation and downregulated the urate reabsorption transporters URAT1 and GLUT9. Furthermore, experiments in UA-induced HK-2 cells demonstrated that ellagic acid, a major bioactive component of PPE, acted through the same pathway. These findings indicate that PPE reduces uric acid levels and protects the kidney via modulation of the PI3K-AKT pathway, providing an integrative data-driven rationale for its potential as a functional food or pharmaceutical agent against HUA.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Long-term use of glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone, often leads to glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy (GIMA), a condition associated with mitochondrial oxidative stress and abnormal activation of protein degradation pathways. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) is involved in cellular stress regulation, but its role in GIMA remains unclear. We investigated the protective effects of HDAC6 inhibition/loss-of-function against dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy and its potential molecular mechanisms.Using Hdac6 knockout (KO) mice and C2C12 myotube models, combined with the HDAC6-selective inhibitor ACY-1215, we evaluated the phenotype of dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy. We performed transcriptomic sequencing, Western blotting, immunofluorescence assays, and measured oxidative stress markers including reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione disulfide ratio (GSH/GSSG). Mitochondria-specific parameters, including mitochondrial superoxide (MitoSOX), mitochondrial membrane potential (MT-1 and JC-1), mitochondrial biogenesis markers (PGC-1α and TFAM), and antioxidant enzymes (SOD2, GPx1, and GPx4), were assessed. To investigate the regulatory mechanism, we assessed Ucp3 mRNA abundance and UCP3 protein stability. We also performed UCP3 knockdown and overexpression experiments in C2C12 myotubes to determine the functional contribution of UCP3 to the protective effects of HDAC6 loss or inhibition.Hdac6 knockout or HDAC6 inhibition significantly attenuated dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy, as evidenced by increased grip strength, restored muscle mass, enlarged muscle fiber diameter, and downregulated MuRF1/Atrogin-1 expression in mice. RNA-seq analysis identified DEX-responsive changes in redox-related pathways in Hdac6-deficient skeletal muscle, with Ucp3 among the DEX-responsive genes. Mechanistically, HDAC6 knockdown increased Ucp3 mRNA abundance without detectably altering UCP3 protein stability. This was accompanied by reduced mitochondrial superoxide, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and increased expression of mitochondrial biogenesis markers and antioxidant enzymes. Importantly, UCP3 overexpression in C2C12 myotubes, without HDAC6 manipulation, was sufficient to attenuate dexamethasone-induced myotube atrophy. Functional rescue experiments showed that UCP3 knockdown reversed the antioxidant and anti-atrophic effects of HDAC6 knockdown. ACY-1215 attenuated dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy in both mice and C2C12 myotubes. In C2C12 myotubes, UCP3 knockdown abolished the antioxidant and anti-atrophic effects of ACY-1215, demonstrating UCP3 dependence in the in vitro model.This study identifies UCP3-associated redox homeostasis as an important downstream mechanism linking HDAC6 inhibition to protection against dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy. In C2C12 myotubes, UCP3 was required for the protective effects of HDAC6 knockdown and ACY-1215, whereas UCP3 overexpression was sufficient to attenuate dexamethasone-induced myotube atrophy. ACY-1215 also alleviated dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy in mice, although the UCP3 dependence of this in vivo effect remains to be determined.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sodium benzoate (SB), a common food preservative, has raised concerns regarding multi-organ toxicity, but its cardiovascular effects remain unclear. Here, we combined network toxicology, molecular docking, and experimental validation to investigate SB-induced cardiotoxicity. The toxicity profile of SB was predicted using ProTox 3.0 and ADMETlab 3.0, which identified potential cardiotoxicity signals. Network analysis identified AKT1 as a hub target, with functional enrichment implicating the PI3K-AKT apoptotic cascade, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations confirmed stable SB-AKT1 binding. To experimentally validate these predictions, we assessed cardiac function and PI3K/AKT signaling in SB-exposed mice and AC16 cardiomyocytes. In vivo, SB impaired cardiac function and disrupted myocardial morphology, accompanied by elevated serum LDH, CK-MB, and DHE levels. In vitro, SB reduced cardiomyocyte viability, with equimolar NaCl controls confirming specific toxicity of the benzoate moiety. Mechanistically, SB suppressed PI3K/AKT phosphorylation and its downstream GSK3β pro-survival axis, leading to mitochondrial depolarization, BAX/BCL2 imbalance, and Cleaved-Caspase3 activation, collectively indicating mitochondrial apoptosis. mTOR phosphorylation remained unchanged, suggesting that mTOR may not be a functional downstream effector in this model. Notably, although SB elevated ROS production, ROS scavenging failed to restore AKT signaling or rescue cell death, whereas direct AKT activation reversed mitochondrial depolarization and apoptosis, confirming that AKT inhibition, rather than oxidative stress, is the primary driver. Collectively, these findings identify ROS-independent suppression of the PI3K/AKT/GSK3β axis as a key mechanism underlying SB-induced cardiotoxicity, extending its toxicological profile to the cardiovascular system.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a multifactorial airway disorder characterized by chronic inflammation, epithelial dysfunction, and dysregulated intracellular signaling. Transient receptor potential melastatin 3 (TRPM3), a Ca2⁺ permeable ion channel has emerged as a potential regulator of inflammatory and survival pathways, however, its therapeutic relevance in COPD remains poorly understood. The present study integrates network pharmacology and molecular docking to identify putative targets of TRPM3 agonists CIM0216, pregnenolone sulfate (preg sulfate), and nifedipine in COPD. A total of 2442 unique COPD associated genes were identified and integrated with predicted TRPM3 agonist targets revealing 20, 28, and 38 common targets for CIM0216, preg sulfate, and nifedipine, respectively. Enrichment analyses highlighted EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance and PI3K/AKT signaling as key COPD related pathways which also correlated with major TFs. Further, AKT1, JAK2, and PTGS2 were identified as central hub genes, particularly associated with CIM0216 and nifedipine. No common hub genes were identified among all three TRPM3 agonists, nor between the CIM0216-preg sulfate and nifedipine-preg sulfate combinations. The hub genes were validated through GEO dataset (GSE57148). The identified miRNAs form a dense regulatory network controlling inflammatory, proliferative, and immune signaling pathways through key transcription factors, underscoring the importance of miRNA-mediated regulation in COPD progression. Molecular docking revealed that CIM0216 exhibited strong binding affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 8.6 kcal/mol with 3 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 10.8 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 9.0 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 9.7 kcal/mol with 6 hydrogen bonds) as compared with nifedipine which showed moderate affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 7.1 kcal/mol and 6 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 7.3 kcal/mol and 3 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 6.4 kcal/mol and 2 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 7.6 kcal/mol and 11 hydrogen bonds), supporting its potential for effective modulation of COPD associated signaling pathways. The study predicts that CIM0216 might act as a potential multi-target agonist of key inflammatory and survival pathways implicated in COPD. The findings propose a mechanistic insight into TRPM3-mediated signaling and support further experimental validation of TRPM3 agonists as novel therapeutic candidates for COPD.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00707-3.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Triclosan (TCS), a compound ubiquitous in personal care products, is now a prevalent environmental contaminant across various ecosystems and has been detected in human tissue samples. Despite its prevalence and strong association with female infertility, the mechanisms by which TCS induces ovarian toxicity have not been thoroughly studied. This study employed an integrated approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, transcriptomics, and cell experiments to systematically investigate the molecular mechanisms linking TCS to two core ovarian dysfunction diseases: polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). The physicochemical properties and multi-organ toxicity of TCS were predicted using ADMETlab 3.0 and SwissADME. Following the retrieval of TCS, PCOS, and POI-associated targets from public databases, a PPI network was built to pinpoint central hubs. Subsequently, GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted to delineate implicated biological pathways. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity of TCS to core proteins. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the ovarian granulosa cell line KGN exposed to 10 μM TCS, a concentration close to human exposure levels. Cell biology experiments were further employed to validate the findings. The network toxicology results indicated that TCS induces ovarian toxicity primarily by promoting apoptosis and triggering inflammatory responses. Key targets identified included AKT1, EGFR, TNF, IL6, and CASP3, which exhibited strong binding affinities, suggesting direct interactions. Transcriptomic analyses further confirmed disruptions in cytokine receptor binding and apoptosis pathways. Cell experiments confirmed that TCS exposure significantly promotes apoptosis and increases the production of inflammatory cytokines in two types of ovarian granulosa cell lines, SVOG and KGN. Overall, this study provides a conceptual framework for TCS-induced ovarian dysfunction and offers new insights for future research on the mechanisms underlying the ovarian toxicity of TCS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neutrophils are required for production of protective antibodies in response to the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), however, the mechanisms behind that are not known. Here, using a mouse model, we found that depletion of neutrophils at the time of vaccination in female mice led to aberrant T cell responses in the spleen resulting in increased regulatory T cells (Tregs) that was accompanied by a dysregulated cytokine environment. We found that following vaccination, neutrophils influx into secondary lymphoid organs and increase expression of T cell engaging/inhibiting markers. When we depleted Tregs in neutrophil deficient mice at the time of vaccination, the opsonic activity of the antibodies and the ability of the sera to protect naïve hosts against pneumococcal infection significantly increased compared to controls. Importantly, we examined responses following PCV administration in human female participants and found that PCV altered neutrophil phenotype. Additionally, in vitro coculture of donor neutrophils with their PBMCs at one week following vaccination resulted in lower percentage and proliferation of FOXP3+ T cells, showing the clinical relevance of this phenotype. This work reveals a new mechanism by which neutrophils ensure protective antibody responses to vaccination by suppressing Tregs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565395 is a review article
Do particular pairs of individuals modeling sexual pairs exhibit differences in the induction of semen-mediated long-lasting tolerance in support of pregnancy?Yes, factors from both sexes contribute to the variability in the induction of long-lived regulatory T cells (Tregs) in response to semen, with factors related to the recipient seeming to slightly outweigh the factors related to the semen donor.Semen contains multiple immunomodulatory factors that can influence reproductive tract immunity in the recipient, promote tolerance to antigens from the semen donor (designated henceforth as 'paternal'), and ultimately support successful pregnancy. These factors include the soluble fraction containing prostaglandins and cytokines, as well as a very high concentration of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Both soluble and vesicular fractions of semen have been shown to promote tolerogenic phenotypes and migration in antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and to induce Tregs. This study was undertaken to understand the variation in tolerance induction between pairs of individuals modeling sexually active couples.We designed an in vitro pairing study using random semen donors (N = 11) and peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from random self-identified female recipients (N = 3). Semen was fractionated into vesicle-enriched (semen extracellular vesicles; SEVs) and soluble (vesicle-depleted semen plasma; VDSP) fractions. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) from each of the recipients were exposed to semen fractions from each donor, then cocultured with autologous naïve T cells to assess tolerogenic responses, specifically, generation of Tregs (FOXP3+ CD25Hi CD127Lo CD4+ T cells) and their phenotypic differences (TIGIT+, PD-1+ CTLA-4+, or AREG+ Tregs). These cells were then screened for T cell receptor-dependent activation by activation-induced marker (AIM) expression assay. These responses were compared across all pairs of semen donors and recipient cells. In addition, semen fractions were screened for candidate mediators of tolerance, such as human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) and adenosine-generating enzymes.This study used an in vitro human cell culture approach in which primary blood-derived immune cells were exposed to semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions. Blood samples were obtained from healthy self-identified female donors, and semen samples were obtained from healthy participants who provided initial screening specimens for a contraceptive study. Semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions were characterized by western-blot analysis for markers associated with immune tolerance. Primary immune cells were exposed to these semen fractions, and the major endpoints included changes in Treg phenotypes and subset frequencies, as well as AIM expression. These outcomes were assessed by flow cytometry. No animal models were used.HLA-G content in semen (SEV and VDSP) varied markedly across donors, ranging from undetectable to high concentrations. Similarly, semen's capacity to generate adenosine from ATP differed by ∼4-fold among donors. Induction of Tregs by SEV and VDSP from 11 semen donors was highly variable, from 2.8% to 63.4% of CD4+ T cell population. Semen fractions from a few donors consistently elicited lower tolerogenic responses across all recipients. However, when we considered the combined effects of both semen fractions, none of the semen donors failed to elicit a measurable tolerogenic response. On the other hand, one recipient was a consistently low responder to tolerance induction. Thus, both recipient immune cells' features and semen-intrinsic properties are significant determinants of tolerogenic responsiveness. Semen re-exposure enhanced Treg AIM expression. The strongest effect was observed when Tregs were exposed to VDSP-loaded MoDCs. In contrast, SEV-loaded MoDCs caused a much weaker response.N/A.One limitation of our study is that we used semen and circulating recipient cells from random donors not selected for any clinical characteristics, such as history of infertility. In addition, we did not correlate HLA-G content and adenosine-generating enzyme expression levels with the Treg and AIM readouts. We show, via Treg activation, that semen induces tolerance to its antigens, but we do not demonstrate which specific antigens are recognized. We posit that the variation in semen-induced tolerance observed between couples plays a role in reproductive outcomes; however, larger studies in clinically characterized cohorts and using cells from the tissue microenvironment will be required to establish this link.Our findings demonstrate that semen-induced tolerance is highly variable and may be more strongly shaped by recipient factors than by semen donor factors. In addition, the generation of Tregs with enhanced activation to previously encountered semen supports the concepts of trained immunity and antigen-specific tolerance that arise cumulatively following exposure to semen from the partner. These Tregs are poised to expand and support pregnancies with fetuses expressing paternal alloantigens.This work was supported by the following grants: National Institutes of Health/Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (R01AI153342) to L.V., National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Drug Abuse (R01DA040386) to F.H., National Institutes of Health/National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (KL2TR002317) to G.G.G.The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) was discovered as an extracellular matrix protein with an EGF-like domain and angiogenic and vasculogenic functions. It has also been shown to play a role in immunological evasion of tumor cells through attenuation of extravasation of immune cells by reducing the expression of cell adhesion molecules on vascular endothelial cells. Furthermore, microRNA-126 (miR-126), which is encoded within the intron of Egfl7, has been reported to be a vasculogenic factor. However, its immune-related functions in tumors remain unclear. Here, we examined the roles of tumor-derived EGFL7 and miR-126 in in vivo tumor progression using Egfl7/Mir-126 knockout and rescue tumor cell lines. Tumor growth was significantly suppressed in Egfl7/Mir-126-deficient cells and was restored by re-expression of miR-126, but not EGFL7. These differences in in vivo tumor growth were not observed in immunodeficient mice, suggesting the involvement of the adaptive immune system. CD4+ or CD25+ cell depletion suppressed the growth of miR-126-expressing tumors, whereas CD8+ cell depletion enhanced the growth of miR-126-deficient tumors. Histological analysis revealed an increased Foxp3+/CD8+ cell ratio in miR-126-expressing tumors during the early phase of tumor establishment. Bilateral tumor models further demonstrated that miR-126-expressing tumors promoted the growth of contralateral miR-126-deficient tumors, and a similar effect was observed using apoptotic miR-126-expressing tumor cells In vitro analyses using extracellular vesicles derived from dying tumor cells showed the transfer of miR-126 to CD4+ T cells and a higher proportion of Foxp3+ cells. Together, these findings suggest that tumor-derived miR-126 promotes tumor progression through non-local immune modulation, potentially involving maintenance of Treg-associated populations.Copyright © 2026 Akazawa, Mizote, Ekawa, Yoshida, Kumamoto, Harada, Ogawa, Watanabe, Hatoya, Inoue and Tahara.
Human epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is characterized by profound immune dysregulation with a tumor microenvironment (TME) dominated by immunosuppressive populations such as regulatory T-cells that actively limit anti-tumor responses. Spontaneous ovarian tumors in older laying hens (Gallus gallus domesticus) closely resemble human EOC development and histopathological features, making them an ideal model to study human EOC. Here, we examined pathological and immunological changes in ovarian TME from hens with spontaneous ovarian tumors (OT). Histopathological characterization was consistent with the endometrioid subtype of ovarian adenocarcinoma, while the immunohistochemistry analysis showed reduced intratumoral T cell infiltration compared to control. The OT tissue gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of FoxP3, CD25, CD40 PD-1, LAG-3 and GITR genes, accompanied by an increased IL-10 transcription compared to control, indicating regulatory T cell expansion and effector T cell exhaustion. Furthermore, significant reduction in the IL-1β, chTNFα and iNOS transcription suggested suppressed cellular inflammatory activation. These findings demonstrate that ovarian tumors in laying hens undergo a transition from an inflammatory state to an immunoregulatory, checkpoint-dominant TME, an observation resembling human EOC. This work supports the laying hen as a translational model for studying human ovarian cancer and developing diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Obesity is characterized by chronic inflammation and impaired glucose homeostasis. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) preserve immunometabolic balance, and their reduction contributes to metabolic disturbances. Although IL-2/anti-IL-2 complex (IL-2C) and hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy expand Tregs, their combined effects on obesity remain unclear. Male C57BL/6 mice fed a low-fat diet (LFD) or high-fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks and treated with IL-2C and/or HBO. Both interventions significantly reduced HFD-induced body weight (9-22%, P < 0.05) independent of caloric intake, with no significant changes in LFD groups. Glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity improved, showing significant reductions in IPGTT and IPITT area under the curve values (20-25% and 30-35%, respectively, P < 0.05) compared to the HFD control. Combination therapy produced the most consistent metabolic improvements. Histological analysis demonstrated reduced adipocyte hypertrophy and crown-like structures in epididymal adipose tissue (P < 0.05). Treatments restored CD4+FoxP3+ Tregs, suppressed pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, and decreased hypoxia-inducible factor-1α expression (P < 0.05). Consistent with these findings, histological examination revealed tissue-specific structural remodeling, characterized by restored multilocular adipocytes in iBAT and reduced adipocyte hypertrophy in iWAT under HFD conditions. These findings suggest that IL-2C and HBO improve immunometabolic dysfunction associated with obesity, in parallel with favorable adipose tissue remodeling and metabolic adaptation. Thus, IL-2C and HBO may represent complementary therapeutic strategies for enhancing metabolic health.© the author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multisystemic disorder that manifests through motor and non-motor symptoms. Motor dysfunction results from the degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Increasing evidence suggests that synapse dysfunction precedes neuronal loss by years. Still, early synaptic alterations in PD remain poorly understood. Here, we integrate literature meta-analysis and multi-omics with biochemical, imaging, and electrophysiological measurements in Lrrk2 mouse models and human iPSC-derived neurons lacking LRRK2. We demonstrate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activates LRRK2 in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and primary mouse neurons, reshaping the LRRK2 interactome toward a network of actin cytoskeleton-related proteins. Gene-ontology analyses of both literature-curated LRRK2 interactors and phospho-proteome from striatal tissues with elevated LRRK2 activity highlight synapse-actin remodeling as major affected pathways. We further observed that loss of LRRK2 impairs BDNF signaling and alters postsynaptic density architecture. Young Lrrk2 knockout mice display structural alterations in dendritic protrusions, a phenotype that normalizes with age. In human iPSC-derived neurons, LRRK2 knockout affects maturation and BDNF-dependent regulation of spontaneous synaptic activity. Taken together, our study discloses a critical role of LRRK2 in BDNF-dependent synaptic modulation and identifies the synaptic actin cytoskeleton as a convergent site of LRRK2-associated pathophysiological processes in PD.© 2024, Tombesi et al.
Gene network analysis is critically implicated in disease research for uncovering functional modules and interaction-driven pathways underlying biological and disease processes. However, the interpretation of large inferred networks remains challenging. Although functional gene network analysis allows the interpretation of large inferred networks, challenges such as reduction of multiple network-level features to a single composite score often limit their application. This data reduction can mask the important multivariate characteristics of gene networks, hindering efficient differentiation of individual contributions of distinct network components. Hence, this study aimed to investigate a novel computational strategy called Multivariate Framework for Functional Gene Network Enrichment Analysis (mFGNA). This framework incorporated diverse network-level features from a graph-theoretical perspective, including node properties (centrality), edge connectivity patterns (Jaccard distance), interaction strengths (edge weights), alongside traditional expression levels. Notably, mFGNA preserved these multidimensional characteristics, capturing complex rewiring of gene networks across different phenotypic states. Furthermore, mFGNA adopted a gene-level permutation strategy to evaluate the enrichment hypothesis, ensuring effective statistical inference and reduced computational complexity compared with phenotype-based permutations. Extensive Monte Carlo simulations validated mFGNA through both undirected and directed gene networks, showing consistently improved performance over existing approaches across diverse pathway settings. We also applied mFGNA to investigate immune pathway perturbations in cancer cell lines and identified significant network-level dysregulation in pancreatic and non-small cell lung cancers. Cancer-specific interaction modules were dominated by human leukocyte antigen class II genes. Meanwhile, normal cell networks were characterized by hub genes such as MMP1 and MMP3 that were implicated in tissue maintenance, highlighting immune remodeling in tumors and the potential molecular targets for developing diagnostic and therapeutic interventions. Overall, the study shows that mFGNA enables effective functional pathway discovery in complex gene networks, providing mechanistic insights and potential translational targets in disease contexts.Copyright © 2026 Park and Imoto.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is associated with severe clinical symptoms including chronic back pain. Galectins are a family of carbohydrate-binding proteins, some of which can induce functional disease markers in IVD cells and other musculoskeletal tissues. Galectin-4 and -8 were shown to trigger disease-promoting activity in chondrocytes, but their effects on IVD cells have not been investigated yet.IVD specimens from 36 patients with spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, and scoliosis were assessed immunohistochemically for the presence of galectin-4 and -8. The degrees of radiological (Pfirrmann grade) and histopathological (Rutges score) degeneration of all specimens were correlated with histological galectin scores. To assess galectin functions, separate cell cultures of annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) (n = 21) were established. Cell cultures were treated with recombinant galectin-4, -8 (24 μg/mL), or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (10 ng/mL) and analyzed using RT-qPCR and In-Cell Western (ICW). Potential binding sites for galectins including sialylated N-glycans and LacdiNAc structures were determined in AF and NP cells using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).The immunohistochemical presence of galectin-4 in IVD specimens correlated with histopathological and clinical degeneration scores of patients, whereas galectin-8 did not show significant correlations. Both galectins were detected across IVD compartments except for the endplate. In vitro, both galectins activated the nuclear factor-kB pathway and induced functional disease markers (Interleukin-8 (CXCL8) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) mRNA). NP cells were more responsive to galectins and IL-1β than AF cells, indicating region-specific differences in galectin sensitivity.This study identifies galectin-4 as a novel molecular player in the pathogenesis of IVD degeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). JOR Spine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society.
DEGDB, also known as diethylene glycol dibenzoate, is a new eco-conscious plasticizer on the block. However, the environmental and health implications of this substance remain poorly understood. The research utilized a synergistic bioinformatics and laboratory methodology to explore the functions and underlying process of DEGDB in the context of osteoporosis (OP). Through mining transcriptome datasets and constructing machine learning models, we identified five core genes associated with DEGDB-related OP. Cross-analysis with protein-protein interaction networks pinpointed matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) as a key target. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations confirmed a stable binding affinity between DEGDB and MMP3. In vitro experiments using bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) revealed that non-cytotoxic concentrations of DEGDB significantly inhibited osteogenic differentiation, as evidenced by reduced alkaline phosphatase activity, mineralized nodule formation, and downregulation of osteogenic markers (Runt-related transcription factor 2, RUNX2; Collagen type I alpha 1 chain, COL1A1). Mechanistically, DEGDB promoted the phosphorylation of the NF-κB (Nuclear factor kappa B) pathway and subsequently upregulated the expression of MMP3, both at mRNA and protein levels. These findings suggest that DEGDB may impair bone formation by activating the NF-κB/MMP3 axis, highlighting its potential risk as an environmental pollutant contributing to OP and providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms linking plasticizer exposure to bone metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effects of the aqueous extract of Pogostemon cablin and map the network of its main active ingredients, key targets, and signaling pathways. The chemical components of the extract were analyzed via ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q/TOF-MS), and its anti-inflammatory activity was verified using a zebrafish model. The target sites and signaling pathways of these chemical components were identified through bioinformatics analysis, while molecular interactions were simulated via molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. A total of 41 compounds were identified from the Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract, all of which exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects in zebrafish. The key targets were confirmed as the ESR1, PTGER2, MMP3, MMP9, and PTGS2 proteins, which are involved in biological functions such as zinc ion binding, enzyme binding, and steroid binding. These key targets also regulate the lipid and atherosclerosis pathway and the estrogen signaling pathway, both of which are closely associated with the anti-inflammatory process. Network pharmacology effectively elucidated the potential molecular mechanism underlying the anti-inflammatory activity of the Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract, as well as the regulatory network between its key targets and active ingredients. These findings provide scientific evidence for the anti-inflammatory activity of Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract and support its potential application in anti-inflammatory and soothing cosmetics.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Glioblastoma is the most aggressive primary brain tumor in adults. Resistance of glioblastoma to the standard chemotherapy agent temozolomide (TMZ) correlates with the expression of the DNA repair enzyme O6-Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). Additionally, tumor initiation and recurrence are associated with a subpopulation of glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs) which exhibit self-renewal properties, multipotency, and resistance to both chemotherapy and radiotherapy. To identify novel molecular biomarkers and therapeutic targets, we investigated the possible role of the oncoprotein Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) in glioblastoma. GOLPH3 is overexpressed in many solid tumors and confers resistance to DNA-damaging chemotherapeutic agents. Its overexpression is also associated with poor prognosis in a variety of cancers, including glioblastoma. Here, we show that GOLPH3 knockdown in U87MG glioblastoma cells inhibits cell proliferation, promotes senescence and induces striking cellular and molecular changes toward a neuron-like phenotype. We analyzed the constitutive expression of GOLPH3, MGMT and mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling proteins in U87MG cells and in three GSCs representative of the three glioblastoma molecular subtypes. Our results suggest that these glioblastoma cell models may exhibit distinct responses to mTOR inhibition and TMZ. Finally, we show that GOLPH3 depletion reduces the activity of both mTOR complex 1 and 2 leading to decreased phosphorylation of their respective downstream targets S6K and Akt in both U87MG cells and the BT379 GSCs subtype. Our findings identify a potential therapeutic vulnerability that can be exploited to develop patient-tailored treatments in glioblastoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Ultraviolet B (UVB) irradiation is a major contributor to skin photoaging by promoting oxidative stress, extracellular matrix degradation, and cellular senescence. Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), an NAD⁺-dependent deacetylase, is a key regulator of cellular homeostasis and autophagy and represents an important target for phytochemical-based interventions.The present study investigated whether galangin, a naturally occurring flavonoid, protects against UVB-induced photoaging by modulating SIRT1-associated autophagy in human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) and in mouse skin.The effects of galangin were evaluated in UVB-irradiated HDFs and a UVB-induced mouse photoaging model. Oxidative stress, cellular senescence, collagen content, and photoaging-related biomarkers were assessed. Autophagy was investigated using pharmacological inhibition, siRNA-mediated knockdown of SIRT1 or LC3, immunoprecipitation analysis of LC3 acetylation, and acetylation/deacetylation-mimetic LC3 mutants.Galangin attenuated UVB-induced oxidative stress, cellular senescence, MMP accumulation, and collagen degradation in HDFs. Pharmacological inhibition of autophagy or silencing of SIRT1 or LC3 abolished the protective effects of galangin. Mechanistically, galangin promoted SIRT1-dependent deacetylation of LC3, thereby enhancing autophagic flux and facilitating MMP clearance. Moreover, the deacetylation-mimetic LC3 mutant (K49R/K51R) enhanced autophagy and recapitulated the protective effects of galangin, whereas the acetylation-mimetic mutant (K49Q/K51Q) attenuated these effects. In UVB-irradiated mouse skin, topical galangin increased SIRT1 expression while reducing MMP-1, MMP-3, and 8-OHdG levels.Galangin protects against UVB-induced photoaging through SIRT1-mediated LC3 deacetylation and enhanced autophagic flux. These findings identify a previously unrecognized SIRT1-LC3-autophagy axis and provide a molecular rationale for the further development of galangin-based strategies for skin photoaging prevention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
The deficiency of trace element selenium is a global nutritional issue. Selenium exerts its biological functions in the human body through selenoproteins, which play crucial roles in bone and cartilage development. Selenoprotein S (SelS), a key selenoprotein involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and inflammation, has not been fully elucidated in cartilage development. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of SelS deficiency on cartilage matrix degradation. Chondrocytes with SelS gene knockdown (sh-Sels) and mice with SelS gene knockout were constructed. The mRNA and protein levels of type II collagen (COL II), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP3, MMP10 and MMP13) were measured by RT-qPCR and western blotting, respectively. Changes in cartilage morphology and matrix composition were evaluated using histological staining techniques, including toluidine blue (TB), safranin O-fast green, and sirius red staining. The expression levels of MMP3, MMP13, MMP19 and COL II in the knee joints of mice were detected by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. A TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) was administered to SelS knockdown chondrocytes to verify whether the TGF-β signaling pathway was involved in the matrix degradation induced by SelS deficiency. Compared with the negative vector control (sh-NC) group, the mRNA and protein levels of COL II were decreased in the sh-Sels group. The expression levels of Mmp3, Mmp10 and Mmp13 were also increased significantly, while the metallopeptidase inhibitor Timp2 was downregulated in the sh-Sels group. SelS gene knockout in mice did not affect body length or weight but resulted in reduced proteoglycan and collagen content in articular cartilage. Compared with wild-type mice, the expression of COL II was decreased, while the expressions of MMP3, MMP13, and MMP19 were increased in the articular cartilage of SelS knockout mice. Furthermore, treatment with the TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) partially rescued the reduction in Col2a1 expression induced by SelS deficiency. SelS plays a crucial role in maintaining cartilage homeostasis, and its deficiency results in cartilage matrix degradation. The TGF-β signaling pathway is involved in the degradation of cartilage matrix caused by SelS silencing. This study provides novel insights into the treatment of fibrotic and degenerative cartilage diseases by focusing on selenoproteins.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by destruction of periodontal connective tissues driven by dysregulated host responses. Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) plays a central role in periodontal inflammation by inducing matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and pro-inflammatory cytokines in gingival fibroblasts. Although Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is known to regulate inflammatory signaling in immune cells, its role in gingival fibroblasts remains unclear. This study investigated the role of BTK in IL-1β-induced inflammatory and catabolic responses in human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs).HGFs were stimulated with IL-1β in the presence or absence of BTK inhibitors (ibrutinib and CNX-774) or following BTK-specific siRNA transfection. Expression of MMPs and cytokines was analyzed by real-time PCR, western blotting, and ELISA. Signaling pathways were evaluated by assessing phosphorylation of TAK1 and MAPKs and activation of AP-1 and NF-κB.IL-1β markedly increased the expression and secretion of MMP-1 and MMP-3, as well as TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in HGFs. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic silencing of BTK significantly attenuated these responses without affecting cell viability. Mechanistically, BTK inhibition suppressed IL-1β-induced phosphorylation of TAK1, ERK, and JNK and reduced AP-1 activation.These findings identify BTK as a key regulator of IL-1β-induced inflammatory and matrix-degradative responses via the TAK1-MAPK-AP-1 signaling axis. Targeting BTK may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for periodontitis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Tendon injuries cause pain and functional limitations, posing a clinical burden due to poor healing and recurrence. Combining mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), tissue-specific extracellular matrix (ECM) scaffolds, and bioactive factors may enhance tendon regeneration. This study investigated integrating adipose-derived MSCs (AD-MSCs) seeded on a decellularized tendon scaffold (DTS) with G-CSF injection for tendon repair.DTS was prepared from rat Achilles tendons through freeze-thaw cycles and sodium dodecyl sulfate decellularization, preserving ECM structure. In vitro, AD-MSC viability, tenogenic gene expression, and scratch wound closure were assessed in response to G-CSF ± DTS. In vivo, a rat Achilles tendon defect model included: control (CTL), DTS, DTS with G-CSF, and DTS and AD-MSCs with G-CSF. After 6 weeks, histology, immunohistochemistry, collagen quantification, gene expression, and immunofluorescence analyses were performed.DTS maintained AD-MSC viability and tenogenic differentiation in vitro by upregulating SCX, COL1, and TN-C. G-CSF (1000 ng/mL) enhanced AD-MSC-mediated wound closure in the presence of DTS extract. In vivo, DTS with AD-MSCs and G-CSF showed organized collagen alignment, reduced cellularity and inflammation, increased collagen deposition, and the highest total collagen content. Furthermore, it exhibited upregulation of SCX, TN-C, COL1, THBS-4, and DCN, an improved COL1/COL3 ratio, reduced IL-6, MMP3, and MMP13, and increased IL-10, CXCR4, SDF-1, CD34, and CD31 compared with other groups.DTS combined with AD-MSCs and G-CSF injection demonstrated the most favorable histological and molecular tendon repair profile, including enhanced tenogenic marker expression, improved ECM remodeling, increased homing- and vascular-associated marker expression, and modulation of inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying benzo[a]pyrene-induced esophageal cancer (EC), and to screen and identify the key targets and biomarkers associated with benzo[a]pyrene-related EC.Potential targets of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) were predicted using PharmMapper, SwissTargetPrediction, and ChEMBL databases, and were intersected with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the GEO database to screen candidate key genes. Subsequently, diagnostic models were constructed using 14 machine learning algorithms based on the identified key genes. Meanwhile, a prognostic model of key genes was constructed based on the TCGA esophageal cancer cohort, and the correlation between these key genes and tumor immune infiltration was further explored. Additional explainability was provided via SHAP analysis by determining the contributions of key features. Molecular docking was performed to verify the binding between BaP and core targets.A total of 82 genes were identified as potential targets of EC induced by BaP. These key genes were found to be mainly involved in core tumor-related pathways, cell cycle regulation, MAPK signaling, and immune-inflammatory pathways, covering the crucial biological processes underlying malignant transformation of EC. Subsequently, 12 core genes (ACOT9、ACOX3、AURKA、HMGCR、INHBA、MMP3、MSR1、SHC1、SORT1、MAOB、MMP13、CDK4) were identified as key regulators by machine learning analysis. Among them, SORT1 and ACOX3 were significantly down-regulated, while AURKA and MMP13 were markedly up-regulated (P < 0.05). The 12-gene prognostic model enables efficient prognostic stratification of esophageal cancer patients, and core genes are implicated in the remodeling of the esophageal cancer immunosuppressive microenvironment through the regulation of immune cell infiltration. Molecular docking revealed strong binding ability between BaP and target proteins.Bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking results revealed significant associations between BaP and 12 core esophageal cancer-related genes. BaP could stably bind to core proteins including AURKA, CDK4, MMP13 and INHBA, which is potentially correlated with altered cell cycle, metabolic disorders and dysregulated tumor immune microenvironment in esophageal cancer. 12 core genes were identified via machine learning, which offers new perspectives for the interdisciplinary field of environmental toxicology and precision oncology and provides a foundation for the development of individualized therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Lan, Huang, Lin, Sun, Guo, Li, Wang, Lin, Zhu and Guo.
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (L. plantarum) is a well-characterized probiotic with a long history of safe application, exhibiting prominent potential in improving skeletal muscle function. As the most prevalent and plentiful mRNA modification in eukaryotes, extensive research has highlighted the non-negligible role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in regulating various aspects of skeletal muscle biology. However, the underlying mechanisms through which L. plantarum-derived signals regulate host myogenic programs, as well as whether m6A modification is involved in this process, remain unclear.To explore the microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum promotes skeletal muscle regeneration and whether m6A modification is involved in this process.The cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury mouse model was constructed to investigate the impact of L. plantarum WY2401 on skeletal muscle regeneration. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to screen out L. plantarum WY2401-derived key metabolite. The changes in m6A modification were determined using dot blot and MeRIP-qPCR.We identified L. plantarum WY2401 as a pro-myogenic probiotic that promotes skeletal muscle regeneration. Specifically, L. plantarum WY2401 strongly alters circulating metabolomic profiles, particularly elevating the production of microbiota-derived riboflavin. Upregulated riboflavin is transported to skeletal muscle through the bloodstream, where it modulates the expression of the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in a stage-dependent manner during myogenesis. This modulation promotes myoblast proliferation by enhancing the stability of Cdk2 and Ccnd1 mRNAs through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF1 pathway. It also facilitates myoblast differentiation by increasing Mef2a mRNA stability through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 pathway.Our findings reveal a novel microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum WY2401 promotes skeletal muscle regeneration via stage-specific epigenetic modulation of myogenesis. This work highlights the potential of L. plantarum as a functional probiotic supplement for improving skeletal muscle development and provides new insights into probiotic-mediated regulation of muscle regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To investigate the association between purine metabolism-related genes and trigeminal neuralgia (TN) using multiomics approaches.A multiomics summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) approach was applied to investigate associations between purine metabolism-related genes and TN. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from FinnGen R10 were integrated with blood-derived DNA methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTL), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) datasets. Associations were evaluated by colocalization and replication in UKBB (G6_TRINEU) and FinnGen R12. Drug-target MR analysis used blood eQTL variants as proxies for gene expression. GEO transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets and GTEx brain tissue eQTL data provided expression and tissue-level validation. Functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction network, and druggability analyses were performed.SMR analysis identified 238 mQTLs (127 genes), 30 eQTLs, and 3 pQTLs associated with TN. Colocalization supported 96 mQTLs (23 genes), 18 eQTLs, and 3 pQTLs, with 42 mQTLs and the CNOT7 eQTL validated in UKBB. POMGNT2 showed genetically predicted associations with TN at both gene and protein levels. Integrative analysis highlighted ATP6V0E2, PLAT, and VKORC1 with evidence of epigenetic regulation. Drug-target MR provided supportive evidence that genetically proxied expression of CNOT7 and PLAT may be associated with lower TN risk. Transcriptomic validation showed downregulation of ATP6V0E2, PLAT, and CNOT7 after trigeminal nerve injury. Brain eQTL analysis supported the association of CNOT7 with TN across multiple brain regions. scRNA-seq revealed cell-type-specific expression patterns of prioritized genes in trigeminal ganglion tissues. Functional enrichment indicated involvement in stress response, metabolism, and genome maintenance pathways. PPI analysis identified six hub genes: ABCB1, COMT, GFM1, MDH2, NRAS, and TXN. Druggability analysis showed that ATP6V0E2, PLAT, and VKORC1 are targetable by existing drugs.This study prioritizes purine metabolism-linked genes showing genetically supported associations with TN and highlights potential biological pathways and therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Simin Shen et al. Pain Research and Management published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a global health challenge with limited efficacy of single-target therapies. Esculin and esculetin, the main coumarins of Cortex Fraxini, have been reported to exhibit anti-tumor activities in various cancer cell lines in preclinical studies. This study systematically elucidated the synergistic anti-CRC mechanisms of esculin and esculetin by integrating network pharmacology, bioinformatics, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro validation. Network pharmacology predicted 23 overlapping targets, with 10 core proteins significantly enriched in the PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 pathways, further supported by bioinformatics analysis. Molecular docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations revealed that the esculin-esculetin complex exhibited stronger binding affinity and stable interaction with EGFR compared with each monomer. In vitro, the natural 5:1 combination synergistically inhibited HCT116 and HT29 cell proliferation, suppressed colony formation, migration, and invasion, downregulated the phosphorylation of PI3K, Akt, JAK2 and STAT3, reduced EGFR, TOP1 and CDK2 mRNA, decreased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, and increased cleaved caspase-3 levels. Quantitative validation by EdU, TUNEL, and flow cytometry confirmed concentration-dependent inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis. These findings demonstrate that esculin and esculetin co-target EGFR and simultaneously block downstream PI3K-Akt and JAK2-STAT3 dual pathways, providing a multi-component, multi-target, multi-pathway synergistic model for C. fraxini-based combination therapy against CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560566 is a review article
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most prevalent subtype of kidney cancer and is frequently associated with poor clinical outcomes. Ribosome biogenesis, which is upregulated in many malignancies, plays a key role in tumor proliferation. Right open reading frame kinase 2 (RIOK2) is an atypical kinase essential for 40S ribosomal subunit maturation, but its role in ccRCC remains unexplored. We investigated the clinical and biological significance of RIOK2 in ccRCC. Immunohistochemical analysis of 166 ccRCC specimens revealed that high RIOK2 expression was significantly associated with advanced pathological stage, higher tumor grade, and shorter cancer-specific and progression-free survival. Public datasets confirmed the elevated RIOK2 mRNA expression in ccRCC, and its association with poor prognosis. Functional studies demonstrated that RIOK2 knockdown suppressed the proliferation, invasion, and migration of ccRCC cells. RNA sequencing, followed by gene set enrichment analysis, revealed that RIOK2 knockdown led to the downregulation of cell cycle-related pathways, including E2F targets. Analyses of public datasets further highlighted suppression of the G2/M checkpoint. Flow cytometry revealed G1 cell cycle arrest accompanied by reduced CDK2 protein expression in RIOK2-knockdown cells. Furthermore, the small-molecule RIOK2 inhibitor, NSC139021, suppressed ccRCC cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner, with reduced efficiency in RIOK2-knockdown cells. Collectively, these findings identify RIOK2 as a clinically relevant factor associated with aggressive disease behavior and cell-cycle regulation in ccRCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Telomeres, coated by the shelterin complex, prevent end-to-end fusions and aberrant DNA repair, yet how telomere-binding proteins coordinate chromatin remodeling during the DNA damage response remains unclear. Here we show that the telomeric protein TRF1 is phosphorylated at serine 11 (S11) in response to DNA double-strand breaks, a modification that enhances cellular resistance to DNA damage. We found that CDK2 directly mediates this phosphorylation, which triggers recruitment of the histone methyltransferase SETD5 to telomeric chromatin. SETD5-dependent deposition of H3 trimethylation at lysine 36 (H3K36me3) promotes local chromatin decompaction and enables subsequent recruitment of the phosphatase PPP4C to dephosphorylate γH2AX. Loss of TRF1 S11 phosphorylation results in persistent γH2AX foci, delayed DNA repair, and compromised telomere integrity. Our results define a CDK2-TRF1-SETD5-PPP4C signaling axis that orchestrates phosphorylation-dependent chromatin remodeling at telomeres to ensure genome maintenance during DNA damage stress.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544683 is a review article
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) drives the vascular remodeling in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), yet the regulators that commit endothelial cells to this fate and whether they are pharmacologically addressable remain poorly defined. We report TK22, a small molecule that selectively erases the EndMT-competent endothelial state and reverses experimental pulmonary hypertension. TK22 was developed by structure-based design as an ATP-competitive CDK5 inhibitor (IC50 181 nM). Unbiased profiling across 394 kinases, however, revealed that TK22 inhibits the interphase cell-cycle kinases CDK2/3/4/6 node as well as a pro-mesenchymal node of AMPK-related kinases (NUAK1 and SIK1/2/3) together with PDGFRβ and MLK3, placing its activity at the intersection of proliferative and EndMT control rather than at a single node. Owing to this dual-node action, TK22 produced a strikingly clean cellular phenotype. In primary murine lung endothelial cells, TK22 reversed TGF-β1-induced EndMT across morphological, proteomic, and functional readouts, normalizing α-SMA, SM22, and Calponin, restoring angiogenic tube formation, abolishing acquired smooth-muscle-like contractility, and returning TGF-β1-driven hyperproliferation to baseline without suppressing normal endothelial growth. Single-cell RNA sequencing resolved the basis of this precision: TGF-β1 redirected a cycling Mki67+ endothelial subpopulation into an EndMT-committed state (Tnnt2, Ptgs2, Serpine1) and induced an associated metabolic-stress program (Egln3, Pfkfb3, Pdk1, Bnip3). Cross-validated PHATE and Monocle3 trajectory inference defined a directional proliferative-to-mesenchymal fate transition, and kernel density estimation revealed a stable EndMT cell-state attractor. TK22 selectively eliminated the EndMT-competent and metabolic-stress subpopulations while leaving the remaining endothelial landscape intact. This population-level precision of TK22 is consistent with its dual engagement of the anti-cell-cycle and anti-mesenchymal kinase nodes. In the Su5416/hypoxia rat PH model, TK22 normalized right ventricular systolic pressure, Fulton index, and cardiac function. Together, these findings reframe pharmacologic EndMT control: inhibition at the proliferative-to-mesenchymal fate branch point, through coordinated suppression of cell-cycle and mesenchymal kinases, achieves high selectivity for erasing a pathological endothelial fate state. These findings propose TK22 as a mechanistically precise agent for EndMT-driven vascular disease and establish single-cell trajectory analysis as an essential readout of cellular target engagement and cell-state precision.
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Adoptive T cell therapy requires T cells to infiltrate vascular tissues and preserve immune function. In solid tumor treatment, however, the surrounding microenvironment produces abnormal vasculature that impedes T cell infiltration. An approach that enables vascular normalization and enhances adoptive T cell function in parallel is essential for effective therapy but has not been reported. Here, we report the use of lenvatinib (LEN) to induce transient vascular normalization, thereby facilitating T cell infiltration. Moreover, LEN enhances T cell persistence by promoting the differentiation of T cells toward a memory phenotype. Our results indicate that the differentiation is by suppressing the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which drives effector differentiation, and by activating FOXO1, a transcription factor that promotes memory formation. To coordinate the transient vascular normalization and T cell enhancement, we link LEN-loaded, PD-L1-blocking micelles to T cells through acid-labile click chemistry, forming pH-responsive T cell-nanodrug conjugates. The conjugates synchronize the intratumoral release of LEN and the PD-L1 antagonist peptide OPBP-1, thereby coordinating vascular normalization, T cell differentiation, and checkpoint blockade. In vivo, the conjugates increased intratumoral CD8+ T cells and splenic memory T cells by over sixfold in B16-OVA tumors and achieved complete regression in a subset of MC38-OVA tumors without systemic toxicity, providing a promising strategy for solid tumor immunotherapy.
Artificial water channels (AWCs) that replicate the high efficiency and selectivity of natural aquaporins are of considerable interest for desalination, water purification, and biomedical applications, yet the simultaneous realization of high permeability and perfect selectivity remains challenging. Herein, we report a class of self-assembled AWCs based on an imide cyclophane. Single-crystal analysis reveals that macrocycle 1 features an internal cavity of 3.5 Å × 6.3 Å, with a narrow constriction closely matching the dimensions of the selectivity filter of aquaporin 1. The assembled channel (1)4 exhibits a single-channel water transport rate of up to 3.9 × 109 H2O s-1, corresponding to approximately 36% of AQP1 and representing one of the best-performing small-molecule self-assembled AWCs reported to date. Notably, it completely excludes NaCl, KCl, and protons. This work demonstrates that both the key structural feature and function of aquaporins can be emulated through a bottom-up supramolecular approach, providing a platform for the design of high-performance biomimetic membranes and channel-based therapeutics.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acute hypoxic exposure combined with exhaustive exercise can impair exercise performance and induce metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue stress. Cycloastragenol, a bioactive constituent of Astragalus membranaceus, has shown antioxidant and tissue-protective potential, but its role in acute hypoxic exercise stress remains unclear. This study investigated whether cycloastragenol pretreatment attenuates fatigue- and injury-related responses in mice.A combined exploratory network pharmacology and animal experimental approach was used. Eighty-four male C57BL/6 J mice were randomly assigned to seven groups: blank control, model control (MC), normoxic exercise, Rhodiola rosea positive control (300 mg/kg/day), and low-, medium-, and high-dose cycloastragenol groups (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day). Pretreatments were administered by oral gavage once daily for 40 days. The MC, positive-control, and cycloastragenol groups then underwent continuous 24-h simulated hypobaric hypoxia equivalent to 5,000 m, followed by treadmill running to exhaustion. Outcomes included exhaustion time, serum biochemical and inflammatory markers, gastrocnemius ATPase activities, representative histopathology, and selected protein-expression endpoints. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Dunnett's test, eta squared, and Cohen's d.Network pharmacology identified 116 overlapping targets and suggested HIF-1, PI3K-Akt, FoxO, and IL-17 signaling as hypothesis-generating pathways. Compared with MC, high-dose cycloastragenol prolonged exhaustion time (133.67 ± 7.45 vs. 96.92 ± 9.42 min; d = +4.33; p < 0.001), reduced BUN (16.14 ± 1.21 vs. 23.38 ± 1.61 mmol/L; d = -5.09; p < 0.001), lactate (7.72 ± 1.77 vs. 16.27 ± 2.62 mmol/L; d = -3.82; p < 0.001), MDA (1.08 ± 0.07 vs. 1.20 ± 0.10 nmol/mg; d = -1.41; p < 0.01), IL-6 (14.92 ± 1.00 vs. 28.69 ± 1.41 pg./mL; p < 0.001), and TNF-α (51.31 ± 2.18 vs. 114.93 ± 1.84 ng/mL; p < 0.001), while increasing T-SOD activity and Na + -K + -ATPase activity. Representative HE images and Western blot results suggested qualitative tissue protection and modulation of HIF-1alpha, FoxO1, Nrf2, and HO-1 expression.Cycloastragenol pretreatment was associated with improved tolerance to acute hypoxic exhaustive exercise and attenuation of metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue-related responses in mice. Direct hepatic glycogen, muscle glycogen, and blood glucose endpoints were not measured; further mechanistic and translational studies are needed.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Jia, Gu, Xi and Zhang.
To investigate the effect of post-operative ganciclovir therapy on transplant-free liver survival in children with biliary atresia (BA) complicated by cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, and to propose an intervention mechanism hypothesis based on the 'CMV-hepatic stellate cell-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis.This retrospective study included children diagnosed with BA complicated by CMV infection at a tertiary children's hospital between January 2017 and October 2023. Patients were divided into a treatment group and a non-treatment group based on whether ganciclovir was administered for ≥ 1 week within 3 months after Kasai portoenterostomy (KPE). All patients had follow-up of at least 2 years by 1 October 2025. Baseline characteristics and clinical outcomes (transplant-free liver survival time and 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate) were compared between groups. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to generate survival curves, and differences were assessed using the Log-Rank test. Evidence from basic and clinical research was integrated to construct a mechanistic hypothesis diagram for CMV-driven hepatic fibrosis and antiviral intervention.A total of 17 children with BA were included, with 6 in the treatment group and 11 in the non-treatment group. Baseline characteristics indicated no significant differences between the two groups in terms of sex, hepatic fibrosis stage, age at surgery, preoperative DBIL and other clinical indicators, demonstrating balanced comparability (p > 0.05). Comparison of clinical outcomes and Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that transplant-free liver survival time was significantly longer in the treatment group than in the non-treatment group: 1518 (217, 2825) versus 190 (83, 265) days, p = 0.035; the survival curve showed an improving trend (Log-Rank p = 0.087). The 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate did not differ significantly between groups (p > 0.05). The mechanistic hypothesis diagram suggested that CMV may activate hepatic stellate cells via multiple pathways, including CCL19/CCR7 and TGF-β, accelerating fibrosis progression, while ganciclovir may block this process.Ganciclovir antiviral therapy may be associated with improved transplant-free liver survival in CMV-positive children with BA, exerting a specific effect on long-term fibrosis progression rather than short-term bile drainage. This clinical observation aligns with the 'CMV-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis hypothesis and provides preliminary evidence for clinical antiviral treatment.© 2026 Paediatrics and Child Health Division (The Royal Australasian College of Physicians).
The immunomodulatory effects of platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) on host innate immunity remain incompletely understood. In this study, we established a clinically relevant in vitro model using PMPs from stored platelets to investigate their effects on NK cell function. PMPs were isolated from platelets of 3 healthy donors, and co-cultured with PBMCs or primary NK cells from 18 healthy donors. Their effects on NK cell activation, cytotoxic function, and IFN-γ secretion were assessed by flow cytometry. qRT-PCR was performed to detect the mRNA expression of four key NK functional genes (IFNG, GZMB, PRF1 and FOXO1). High-throughput small RNA sequencing coupled with bioinformatic analysis was applied to screen PMP-derived miRNAs, and miR-223-3p was identified as a candidate functional mediator. We further conducted ex vivo validation of this effect using PBMCs from 12 sepsis patients. PMPs accumulating to estimated transfusion-relevant concentrations in stored platelets modulate NK cell activation, IFN-γ production, cytotoxic molecule expression and K562 cell killing in a concentration-dependent manner. Transcriptional detection results suggest that the downregulation of cytotoxic effector proteins induced by PMPs may be predominantly regulated by post-transcriptional pathways, which are possibly mediated by miR-223-3p. Our findings identify a potential pathway by which PMPs accumulating during platelet storage may contribute to transfusion-related immunomodulation, offering a preliminary mechanistic framework. Notably, the results of our ex vivo validation using samples from sepsis patients provide a foundation for the hypothesis that PMP-mediated NK cell modulation may contribute to immune dysregulation in clinical scenarios, such as sepsis, where platelet transfusions are common.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559717 is a review article
Diplonemids are highly abundant heterotrophic single-celled flagellates that are widespread in the world's ocean. They have a highly complex microtubule-based feeding apparatus (cytostome-cytopharynx complex) located adjacent to the deep flagellar pocket from which two flagella emerge. The apical papilla is a tongue-shaped structure unique to diplonemids that connects the cytopharynx and the flagellar pocket, the latter of which is formed by reinforcing microtubules (MTR) and two flagellar roots called intermediate and dorsal roots. Here we report identification of 17 proteins that localize at the feeding apparatus or flagellar apparatus in Diplonema papillatum. Using ultrastructure expansion microscopy, we show that Mad2 and its interaction partner MBP65 localize at the MTR, intermediate root, and dorsal root. Homologs of proteins that associate with the flagellar apparatus in Trypanosoma brucei (PFR1/2, KMP-11, BILBO1) localize at the feeding apparatus in D. papillatum. We also identify proteins that localize at the apical papilla, MTR, parallel microtubule loop, or cytopharynx. By discovering many components of the feeding apparatus in diplonemids, this work forms the foundation to understand the feeding mechanism in these highly abundant marine planktonic organisms.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) manifests as patch or plaque lesions, and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) may promote tumorigenesis and Th2-skewed microenvironment. This study aimed to investigate genomic and transcriptomic changes from patch to plaque MF and assess their prognostic significance in early-stage disease. Whole-genome sequencing, CosMx Spatial Molecular Imaging, a single-cell-resolution spatial transcriptome, and immunohistochemical staining for CAF markers FAP, TIMP-1, and CXCL12 were conducted. Whole-genome sequencing showed similar single-nucleotide, copy-number, and structural variants in patch and plaque lesions. Spatial transcriptomics identified fibroblasts as a key signaling cells in both lesion types, with plaque lesions exhibiting expanded fibroblast-driven communication networks, including greater interactions with B cells and enhanced T-cell chemotaxis. CXCL12 was markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from plaque-MF and correlated with collagen gene expression and CCL19, a key ligand mediating fibroblast-T-cell signaling. T cells in plaque lesions also displayed higher CXCL12 and CCL19 expression and lower expression of cytotoxicity-related genes. In the immunohistochemical cohort, high FAP and TIMP-1 expression correlated with poorer progression-free survival, whereas CXCL12 expression was associated only with progression to tumor-stage disease. In conclusion, this study identifies differences between patch and plaque MF and underscores the clinical and prognostic significance of CAFs in patients with early-stage disease.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) directs immune cell homing to secondary lymphoid organs and has been implicated in cancer metastasis through its ligands CCL19 and CCL21. Human CCR7 pre-mRNA undergoes alternative splicing to generate five transcripts that encode three protein isoforms with distinct N-termini, termed CCR7A, CCR7B, and CCR7C, but their comparative properties and cross-regulation are not well defined. Here, we cloned these three isoforms and systematically characterized their expression, localization, signaling, and mutual interactions in mammalian cells under both strong (CMV) and weaker (ubiquitin C, UbiC) promoter control to reduce overexpression-related artifacts. Variant-specific RT-PCR revealed that transcripts encoding CCR7A (V1) and CCR7B (V2) predominate in diverse human cell lines, whereas CCR7C-encoding variants (V3-V5) are weakly expressed. EGFP imaging and HiBiT-based assays showed efficient plasma-membrane targeting of CCR7A, partial membrane localization and prominent perinuclear accumulation of CCR7C, and largely cytosolic retention of CCR7B. Under UbiC-driven expression, CCR7A mediated robust CCL19- and CCL21-induced Gi/o and Gq-like activation, intracellular Ca² ⁺ mobilization, ERK phosphorylation, GRK3-dependent Gβ1 recruitment, and β-arrestin1 binding, whereas CCR7C displayed weaker and mainly CCL19-biased signaling. CCR7B did not respond to either chemokine in any signaling readout and thus behaved as a non-signaling isoform. NanoBiT-based assays and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that all three isoforms form homo- and heterodimers, with particularly strong association between CCR7A and CCR7B. Co-expression of CCR7B reduced CCR7A surface expression and markedly attenuated chemokine-induced Ca² ⁺ responses, mini-Gi interaction, and β-arrestin1 recruitment, while confocal microscopy revealed redistribution of CCR7A-EGFP from the plasma membrane to intracellular compartments. Moreover, MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, which express CCR7A and CCR7B transcripts, did not migrate toward CCL19 or CCL21 despite preserved motility toward low-serum medium. These findings identify CCR7A as the dominant functional isoform, CCR7C as a weak CCL19-biased receptor with inefficient membrane targeting, and CCR7B as a non-signaling dominant-negative isoform that dampens CCR7A-mediated responses, suggesting that CCR7 splicing fine-tunes chemokine responsiveness in immune and cancer cells.Copyright: © 2026 Cho et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Postmenopausal atrophic vaginitis (PAV) is a prevalent and undertreated condition driven primarily by estrogen deficiency. Whether circulating inflammatory proteins causally contribute to PAV pathogenesis remains unknown.Genetic instruments for 91 inflammatory proteins were derived from large-scale proteogenomic GWAS of European ancestry individuals. PAV outcome data were obtained from the FinnGen Consortium Release 12. Primary causal estimates were obtained using the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, complemented by MR-Egger, weighted median, and weighted mode analyses. Candidate proteins were defined by IVW p < 0.05 and directional consistency across all four methods. Sensitivity analyses included the MR-Egger intercept test, Cochran's Q test, leave-one-out analysis, funnel plot assessment, and reverse MR. Transcriptomic validation was performed using the publicly available vaginal tissue dataset GSE26761.Six inflammatory proteins met the candidate criteria: CCL19 (OR: 1.063, 95% CI: 1.003-1.126) and IL12B (OR: 1.050, 95% CI: 1.002-1.100) were associated with increased PAV risk, while CXCL5 (OR: 0.935, 95% CI: 0.874-0.999), TNFRSF9 (OR: 0.930, 95% CI: 0.869-0.996), IL10RA (OR: 0.906, 95% CI: 0.831-0.988), and TGFA (OR: 0.880, 95% CI: 0.790-0.981) were inversely associated with PAV risk. Sensitivity analyses revealed no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity. Transcriptomic analysis confirmed significantly lower TGFA expression in atrophic compared to control vaginal tissue (P = 0.039), consistent with its MR-derived protective effect.This study provides genetic evidence that circulating inflammatory proteins causally influence PAV risk through distinct immune pathways. TGFA emerges as the most robustly supported candidate, with convergent MR and transcriptomic evidence suggesting a role in vaginal epithelial maintenance. These findings highlight inflammation as a potential contributor to PAV pathogenesis and nominate candidate targets for future mechanistic and therapeutic investigation. Given that multiple inflammatory proteins were tested, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and warrant further validation in independent cohorts.© 2026 Hu et al.
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) and chemical exchange-sensitive spin-lock (CESL) MRI enable spectroscopic imaging with high sensitivity, but conventional analysis methods often fail as exchange approaches the fast-exchange limit. We introduce the AB-MT+n model for robust, reproducible quantification of continuous-wave Z -spectra across exchange regimes.The AB-MT+n model describes continuous-wave Z -spectra by a five-parameter basis for direct water saturation, semi-solid magnetization transfer, and fast exchange, which can be extended by off-resonant components for separable slow- and intermediate-exchanging pools. Performance was evaluated in simulations, phantoms, and in vivo glucose-enhanced CESL (glucoCESL) of a mouse brain.Simulations showed that AB-MT+n recovers the maximally accessible information from Z -spectra with minimal parameterization, with lower model orders sufficing for faster exchange. In phantoms, the slower-exchanging glutamate pool was quantified reliably by Lorentzian analysis ( R2>95% ), whereas fast-exchanging glucose was not captured accurately by Lorentzian, MTR asym , or the full analytical model under varying glutamate concentration ( R2<45% ). In contrast, the pool-unspecific asymmetry parameter A preserved strong linearity with glucose concentration ( R2>80% ). Reduced model orders also sufficed in seven-pool gray matter simulations and enabled robust quantification of in vivo glucoCESL data.AB-MT+n provides an accurate, acquisition-independent, modular description of continuous-wave Z -spectra and improves quantification, particularly in the fast-exchange regime.© 2026 The Author(s). Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.
Methane (CH4) from ruminants is a major source of agricultural greenhouse gas and represents a loss of dietary energy. 3-nitrooxypropanol (3-NOP) is a known methanogenesis inhibitor, but its hydrophilic nature may limit the cellular accessibility to methanogens. Here, we systematically evaluated 1,3-propanediol dinitrate (1,3-PDN), a more hydrophobic derivative of 3-NOP, for its anti-methanogenic potential and underlying mode of action using ruminal fermentation, pure-culture assays, multi-omics analyses, and molecular docking. Intracellular accumulation assays indicated greater cellular accumulation of 1,3-PDN than 3-NOP in rumen-derived methanogen Methanobrevibacter olleyae. Ruminal fermentation assays showed that 1,3-PDN reduced CH4 production by ~55%, and altered hydrogen (H2) metabolism, leading to 11-fold increase in H2 accumulation. Metatranscriptomic profiling revealed that 1,3-PDN significantly altered the active archaeal community, with a notable reduction in Methanobrevibacter_A and suppression of hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. Molecular docking suggested that 1,3-PDN may bind to the conserved active site of methyl-coenzyme M reductase (MCR), potentially contributing to MCR-associated inhibition. Proteomic analysis further indicated that 1,3-PDN supplementation downregulated key MCR subunits and simultaneously affected other redox-sensitive methanogenesis-related processes, including tetrahydromethanopterin S-methyltransferase (MTR) subunits and proteins involved in the biosynthesis of cofactors F430 and cobalamin. Nitrogen-equivalent assay suggested partial contribution of nitrite to the methanogenesis inhibition and oxidative effects induced by 1,3-PDN. Together, these findings identify 1,3-PDN as an effective inhibitor of ruminal methanogenesis with enhanced cellular enrichment, providing mechanistic insights for the rational development of new CH4 inhibitors.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Society for Microbial Ecology.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Some forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are associated with sequence variants in the superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1). The mechanisms by which these variants contribute to ALS disease pathogenesis are poorly understood. Degenerative myelopathy (DM), a naturally occurring canine disease, shares similarities with some forms of SOD1-associated ALS, especially cases with sensory impairment. While motor pathway involvement in ALS has been extensively studied, sensory pathology has received comparatively less attention. To investigate whether pathology in the general proprioceptive pathway is associated with pelvic limb general proprioceptive ataxia, an early DM sign, we examined sensory system components of this pathway from Pembroke Welsh Corgis with early- and late-stage DM and age-matched controls. The disease was characterized by axonal pathology in the spinocerebellar tracts and the fasciculus gracilis, pronounced accumulation of SOD1-positive inclusions in nucleus thoracicus and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, and altered SOD1 immunolabeling in dorsal and ventral root axons and ensheathing myelin. Axonal pathology was also observed in a pelvic limb sensory nerve. These findings suggest that pathology in the proprioceptive sensory pathways may play a significant role in general proprioceptive ataxia in DM. Some dogs that were homozygous for the SOD1 risk allele did not develop clinical disease or the associated neuropathology, indicating that other factors in addition to the SOD1 mutation influence disease onset and progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Studying the transcriptional changes in the brain following sleep deprivation has provided insight into the molecular mechanisms that differ between sleep and wake. Individual studies are limited in their ability to detect differentially expressed genes due to small sample size. Here we performed a meta-analysis of published brain expression data, totalling 173 microarrays across 245 mice. 498 genes were identified as significantly changing with sleep-deprivation at q < 0.01, 96 of which were previously identified by the original studies. Of the remaining 402 novel candidate sleep genes, 14 were associated with human sleep traits and 3 with sleep phenotypes in knockout mice. Candidate gene validation showed significant upregulation of Rasd1 (Dexras1) following sleep deprivation, and phenotyping of Rasd1 KO mice revealed changes in the amount and distribution of behavioural sleep duration and sleep bout structure. These results provide a greater understanding of the molecular correlates of sleep and provide a resource for the sleep research community.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women and a leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally. Its development involves hormonal, genetic, environmental and inflammatory factors. Among environmental contributors, cadmium (Cd2+), a metalloestrogen known to induce redox imbalance, as well as estrogen metabolites, may exert divergent biological effects. Methods: This study investigated the effects of 17β-estradiol (E2) and its metabolites-2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2) and 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2)-administered alone or in combination with CdCl2, on estrogen receptor--positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells and their doxorubicin-resistant cells (MCF-7/DOX). We evaluated cytotoxicity, interaction profiles (synergism/antagonism), and redox-related enzymes associated with drug resistance, including superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and glutathione S-transferase pi (GST-pi). There are no known examples of these types of interactions, especially those involving estrogen metabolites with opposing biological activities-anticancer 2-MeOE2 and procarcinogenic-4-OHE2 in combination with cadmium. Cell viability was assessed after 48 h exposure to individual and combined treatments of CdCl2. Interaction types (synergism/antagonism) were determined via the combination index method. Antioxidative enzymes were evaluated by quantitative and immunocytochemical analysis of SOD1, GST and GST-pi expression. Results: All tested compounds reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner, with CdCl2 showing the highest cytotoxicity. MCF-7 cell lines were generally more sensitive to CdCl2, E2, and 2-MeOE2, whereas MCF-7/DOX cell lines exhibited greater sensitivity to 4-OHE2. Combination studies revealed predominantly antagonistic interactions, particularly for CdCl2 + 2-MeOE2, suggesting a protective redox-modulating effect of this metabolite. Resistant cells consistently displayed higher SOD1 activity and GST-pi expression, indicating enhanced adaptive responses to oxidative stress. Conclusions: Our study underscores the importance of concentration-dependent interactions between environmental Cd2+ and pathways regulated by 17β-estradiol and its metabolites, particularly in the context of cytotoxicity and redox imbalance relevant to breast cancer progression and therapy resistance.
Microplastic exposure is an emerging environmental risk factor for cardiovascular health; however, whether cardiovascular alterations can be detected after exposure cessation remains unclear. This study investigated subclinical cardiovascular alterations following repeated oral exposure to polystyrene microplastics (PSMPs), with particular emphasis on redox imbalance and mitochondrial function in delayed cardiovascular alterations. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 0.5 μm PSMPs via oral gavage at varying dosages of 5 or 20 mg/kg every 5 days for 70 days, followed by a 35-day exposure-free period. Repeated exposure to PSMPs did not affect body or organ weights but altered cardiac serum biochemical markers. Cardiac tissue exhibited elevated NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) expression and decreased superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), SOD2, and catalase (CAT) activities, whereas malondialdehyde (MDA) levels remained unchanged, indicating a state of chronic, low-level oxidative stress. Mitochondrial respiratory chain activities, including nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cytochrome c reductase (NCCR) and succinate cytochrome c reductase (SCCR), were significantly reduced. Ultrastructural analysis revealed mitochondrial swelling and cristae disruption. In parallel, mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), were downregulated, while mitophagy markers, including PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), and sequestosome 1 (p62), were upregulated. Notably, most significant alterations were primarily observed in the high-dose group. Furthermore, the aorta showed increased oxidative stress markers without overt structural remodeling. These findings suggest that repeated exposure to PSMP is associated with subclinical cardiac redox-mitochondrial dysregulation, potentially involving redox imbalance, impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain activity, reduced mitochondrial biogenesis, and altered mitochondrial quality-control markers.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is considered a highly complex, heterogeneous, fatal disease with a high unmet medical need that affects multiple pathophysiological pathways and has no known singular cause. Oxidative stress, however, is implicated as a central player in the progression of ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases. To date, only two FDA-approved drugs, Edaravone, an antioxidant, and Riluzole, an antiglutamatergic, have been widely used clinically, albeit with modest effects on the clinical course of ALS disease progression. Additionally, preclinical studies of both drugs in ALS mouse models have not shown any significant survival benefit, although some abatement in disease progression is observed and translated from preclinical animal models to clinical human studies.Using a trifunctional boron-based drug design strategy, we have synthesized a pyrazole small molecule called Borsantrazole (BSZ) and evaluated BSZ in cell-based experiments, acute and chronic toxicity models, and the SOD1-G37R ALS mouse model. We have also evaluated untargeted global proteomic and phosphoproteomic changes induced by BSZ.Borsantrazole (a small molecule that can selectively target oxidative stress) with favorable CNS drug like properties (low ER values of 0.9 and 1.0 at 1 and 10 µm, respectively, suggesting lower Pgp efflux liability and the LogD at pH 7.4 was within the range of 1.2 to 3.1, suggesting BSZ is lipophilic at pH 7.4.) shows no signs of treatment associated toxicity (acute or chronic (120 days)), significantly increases survival (whole animals, 15.1 days (p = 0.0326); males, 16.5 days; females, 13.7 days), rescued weight loss (27.1% control, 18.3% BSZ, p < 0.0001), delays symptom onset (whole animals, 24.9 days (p = 0.0011); males, 23.3 days; females, 26.4 days), delays disease onset (whole animals, 25.5 days (p = 0.0001); males, 21.1 days; females, 29.8 days) and affects global proteomic changes in the SOD1-G37R mouse model of ALS. In total, 51 proteins were found to be significantly differentially expressed (p < 0.05), including Ca3, Gan, Cplx2, Lrp4, Sqstm1, and 29 phosphorylation sites were differentially expressed and considered statistically significant, including T317 and T72 for neurofilaments light and heavy chain, respectively.Herein, we report that BSZ has demonstrated a favorable safety profile and compelling proof-of-concept efficacy in a ALS mouse model and has the potential to become a disease-modifying ALS therapeutic following further clinical development. Within a broader perspective of treatments for neurodegenerative diseases, BSZ offers a new paradigm for trifunctional small molecule targeting of oxidative stress that can mitigate neuronal deterioration and serve as a potential treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a prevalent metabolic disorder and a major risk factor for gout and related complications, necessitating safe and effective management strategies. To this end, this study aimed to identify the most active part of asparagus, as a potent anti-HUA dietary supplement candidate and validate its efficacy and mechanism of action. LC-MS analysis identified that the Mature Stem of Green Asparagus (MSGA) possessed the richest flavonoid profile among asparagus fractions, with rutin content was 1.37 times higher than in other parts, and even 6.35 times higher. In a Drosophila melanogaster model of adenine-induced HUA, MSGA most effectively improved survival rates and climbing ability. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted 5'-nucleotidase ecto (Nt5e) and PDZ domain containing 1 (Pdzk1) as potential key targets for MSGA. Subsequent validation in in an adenine-induced HUA mouse model confirmed that MSGA treatment (3 g/kg/d) significantly alleviated HUA, reducing serum uric acid (UA) levels by 47 % and enhancing urinary UA excretion on day 14. Integrated analyses suggested that the benefits of MSGA may involve suppressing hepatic Nt5e activity to reduce UA biosynthesis, and downregulated renal Pdzk1 expression to rebalance urate transporters, thereby promoting renal excretion. In conclusion, this study provides evidence supporting the anti-HUAeffect of MSGA and proposes mechanistic hypothesis centered on dual targets, inferred from integrated analyses. This work highlights the potential of repurposing MSGA, an abundant agricultural byproduct, which represents a promising candidate for the development of sustainable dietary interventions against HUA.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Current non-invasive diagnostic tools for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibit limited sensitivity and specificity. This study aimed to identify more accurate plasma biomarkers by profiling extracellular vesicles (EVs), which are enriched in tumor-derived metabolites and proteins.Plasma samples were collected under strict fasting and standardized processing protocols from patients diagnosed with PDAC, chronic pancreatitis (CP), and tumor-free controls (Ctrl). EVs were isolated from these plasma samples and subjected to comprehensive metabolomic and proteomic profiling to identify disease-specific biomarkers.A biomarker panel comprising adenosine, adenine, and N-acetylneuraminate (AAN) demonstrated outstanding diagnostic performance, achieving an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.968 (95% CI: 0.92-1.00). At a fixed specificity of 96.8%, the panel yielded a sensitivity of 95.0% (95% CI: 85.0%-100.0%), significantly reducing the classification error from 30% with CA19-9 to 5% with the AAN panel. Among individual markers, adenosine alone showed high diagnostic power (AUC=0.952), correlating with increased expression of 5'-nucleotidase ecto (NT5E), indicative of elevated extracellular purine metabolism. Importantly, these features were unique to the EV compartment and outperformed markers derived from total plasma metabolite profiles.The integration of EV metabolomics and proteomics revealed enhanced purine metabolism, particularly elevated extracellular adenosine, as a distinctive hallmark of PDAC. EV-derived adenosine emerges as a highly promising non-invasive biomarker with superior diagnostic accuracy compared to CA19-9.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40943752 is a review article
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) lacks specific early diagnostic markers. Given the critical role of 5'-Nucleotidase Ecto (NT5E) in immune evasion and therapy resistance of cancer cells and the involvement of Dual Specificity Phosphatase 4 (DUSP4) in tumor cell proliferation through inhibition of the ERK signaling pathway, incorporating NT5E and DUSP4 into the consensus machine learning signature (CMLS) system in this study holds significant potential for investigating the early diagnosis and immune microenvironment of LUSC. The objective of this study was to explore the prognostic targets of LUSC.Employing integrated algorithms enhances the ability to identify molecular subtypes and key features from multiple perspectives. A combination of 10 clustering algorithms and multi-omics data from LUSC patients, merged with 10 machine learning algorithms, was used to analyze and identify high-resolution molecular subsets and develop a CMLS. Mediated Mendelian randomization (MR) was utilized to explore mediations between immune cells and metabolites associated with CMLS.Cluster 1 demonstrated elevated infiltration of immune and stromal components, indicating an immunosuppressive microenvironment predominantly driven by tumor-associated macrophages or other inhibitory cells. In contrast, Cluster 2 displayed a metabolism-driven phenotype associated with improved prognosis. Mediated MR provided further insights into the causal relationships among CMLS, macrophages, and metabolites in LUSC. Validation of the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK signaling pathway in conjunction with CMLS reinforced the immune characteristics of CMLS.The integration of CMLS with multi-omics offers a robust framework for predicting prognosis, elucidating the causal interactions between the immune microenvironment and metabolic reprogramming in LUSC, and identifying patient subgroups likely to benefit from immunotherapy.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Metastasis and limited benefits of immune checkpoint blockade are two obstacles to the battle against colorectal cancer (CRC). CD73, encoded by the gene 5'-Nucleotidase Ecto (NT5E), is a major enzyme that generates extracellular adenosine. However, whether CD73 affects cancer progression and immune response in CRC remains unclear. Here, the clinical significance of CD73 was assessed in human CRC specimens using immunohistochemistry and bioinformatic analyses. We demonstrated that CD73 is elevated in CRC tissues, particularly in those with metastasis, and correlates with poor prognosis. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments demonstrate that tumor CD73 supports tumor progression and impairs the viability and effector functions of CD8+ T cells. Targeting CD73 on CRC cells reduces their malignant phenotypes and improves the anti-cancer response of CD8+ T cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME). Moreover, the combination of CD73 blockade and PD-1 inhibitors exhibited enhanced anti-cancer effects when compared to a single-agent treatment. Thus, CD73 may be a promising target in the treatment of CRC.© The author(s).
Targeting immunogenic cell death (ICD) may enable the response of pancreatic cancer to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). The aim of the present study was to elucidate the role of ICD-related genes in pancreatic cancer. Utilizing the k-means method, consensus clustering was employed to effectively group patients with pancreatic cancer. Subsequently, a set of differentially expressed genes was identified between the two subtypes related to ICD, facilitating the execution of a comprehensive enrichment analysis. Furthermore, the construction of an ICD-related prognostic signature (IRPS) was accomplished through LASSO Cox regression, thereby enabling the assessment of responses to both chemotherapy and immunotherapy. In addition, the biological functionality of 5'-nucleotidase ecto (NT5E) was elucidated through experimental investigations. Patients characterized as the ICD high subtype experienced a comparatively shorter overall survival. This subtype exhibited a noteworthy correlation with HLA families and immune checkpoint molecules, underscoring its immunological significance. Subsequently, patients with elevated IRPS risk scores displayed resistance towards immunotherapy interventions. Of note, synergistic downregulation of NT5E in combination with Gemcitabine was observed to significantly induce tumor cell apoptosis, emphasizing its potential therapeutic value. Leveraging ICD-related genes, a novel classification system was meticulously devised to comprehensively evaluate both the clinical outcomes and therapeutic responses of patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.Copyright: © Yu et al.
Probiotic Limosilactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 (DSM 17938) prolongs the survival of Treg-deficient scurfy (SF) mice and reduces multiorgan inflammation by a process requiring adenosine receptor 2A (A2A) on T cells. We hypothesized that L. reuteri-derived ecto-5'-nucleotidase (ecto-5'NT) activity acts to generate adenosine, which may be a central mediator for L. reuteri protection in SF mice. We evaluated DSM 17938-5'NT activity and the associated adenosine and inosine levels in plasma, gut, and liver of SF mice. We examined orally fed DSM 17938, DSM 17938Δ5NT (with a deleted 5'NT gene), and DSM 32846 (BG-R46) (a naturally selected strain derived from DSM 17938). Results showed that DSM 17938 and BG-R46 produced adenosine while "exhausting" AMP, whereas DSM 17938∆5NT did not generate adenosine in culture. Plasma 5'NT activity was increased by DSM 17938 or BG-R46, but not by DSM 17938Δ5NT in SF mice. BG-R46 increased both adenosine and inosine levels in the cecum of SF mice. DSM 17938 increased adenosine levels, whereas BG-R46 increased inosine levels in the liver. DSM 17938Δ5NT did not significantly change the levels of adenosine or inosine in the GI tract or the liver of SF mice. Although regulatory CD73+CD8+ T cells were decreased in spleen and blood of SF mice, these regulatory T cells could be increased by orally feeding DSM 17938 or BG-R46, but not DSM 17938Δ5NT. In conclusion, probiotic-5'NT may be a central mediator of DSM 17938 protection against autoimmunity. Optimal 5'NT activity from various probiotic strains could be beneficial in treating Treg-associated immune disorders in humans.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Probiotic Limosilactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 (DSM 17938) prolonges the survival of Treg-deficient scurfy (SF) mice and reduces multiorgan inflammation by a process requiring adenosine receptor 2A (A 2A ) on T cells. We hypothesized that L. reuteri -derived ecto-5'-nucleotidase (ecto-5'NT) activity acts to generate adenosine, which may be a central mediator for L. reuteri protection in SF mice. We evaluated DSM 17938-5'NT activity and the associated adenosine and inosine levels in plasma, gut and liver of SF mice. We examined orally fed DSM 17938, DSM 17938Δ5NT (with a deleted 5'NT gene), and DSM 32846 (BG-R46) (a naturally selected strain derived from DSM 17938). Results showed that DSM 17938 and BG-R46 produced adenosine while "exhausting" AMP, whereas DSM 17938∆5NT did not generate adenosine in culture. Plasma 5'NT activity was increased by DSM 17938 or BG-R46, but not by DSM 17938Δ5NT in SF mice. BG-R46 increased both adenosine and inosine levels in the cecum of SF mice. DSM 17938 increased adenosine levels, whereas BG-R46 increased inosine levels in the liver. DSM 17938Δ5NT did not significantly change the levels of adenosine or inosine in the GI tract or the liver of SF mice. Although regulatory CD73 + CD8 + T cells were decreased in spleen and blood of SF mice, these regulatory T cells could be increased by orally feeding DSM 17938 or BG-R46, but not DSM 17938Δ5NT. In conclusion, probiotic-5'NT may be a central mediator of DSM 17938 protection against autoimmunity. Optimal 5'NT activity from various probiotic strains could be beneficial in treating Treg-associated immune disorders in humans.
Background - Retinoblastoma (RB) is an intraocular malignancy usually observed in children. The zinc finger protein, FOG family member 2 (ZFPM2)-antisense RNA 1 (AS1), an anomalous long non-coding RNA, is detected in many cancers. This study aimed to evaluate the role and underlying mechanism of ZFPM2-AS1 in RB. Methods - ZFPM2-AS1, 5'-nucleotidase ecto (NT5E), and microRNA (miR)-3612 expression levels were determined in RB cells and tissues. Multiple experiments, including cell counting kit-8, 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, transwell, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, were conducted to evaluate their effects on cell proliferation, migration, and apoptosis. Additionally, the ZFPM2-AS1/miR-3612/NT5E axis was validated using luciferase reporter, anti-AGO2 RNA immunoprecipitation, and RNA pull-down assays. Results - Overexpression of ZFPM2-AS1 and NT5E and downregulation of miR-3612 expression levels were observed in RB cells and tissues. Knockdown of ZFPM2-AS1 decreased the proliferation and migration of RB cells, while enhancing their apoptosis. The ZFPM2-AS1/miR-3612/NT5E axis was further supported by the negative correlation between miR-3612 expression levels and ZFPM2-AS1 or NT5E expression levels in RB tissues. Moreover, the miR-3612 inhibitor restored the inhibitory effect on the malignant behavior of RB cells by silencing ZFPM2-AS1. Furthermore, NT5E silencing phenocopied the effect of ZFPM2-AS1 silencing and abolished miR-3612 inhibitor-induced stimulation of the malignant behavior of RB cells. Conclusion - These results suggest that by targeting the miR-3612/NT5E axis, ZFPM2-AS1 stimulates the proliferation and migration of RB cells, while inhibiting their apoptosis. Therefore, ZFPM2-AS1 may be a promising therapeutic target associated with RB development.
The contribution of fatty acid oxidation (FAO) to colorectal cancer (CRC) progression has been recognized. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying FAO remain obscure. This study explored the influence of ring finger protein 14 (RNF14) on FAO and its related mechanisms in CRC. We found that RNF14 was up-regulated in CRC, which was positively associated with FAO level. High expression of RNF14 promoted FAO to facilitate growth of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RNA binding motif protein 15 (RBM15)/YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 1 (YTHDF1)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification enhanced RNF14 translation. RNF14 reduced TATA-box binding protein associated factor 1 (TAF1) protein stability via promoting its ubiquitination. Moreover, TAF1 bound to PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) promoter to trigger its transcription. RNF14 knockdown or TAF1 overexpression repressed FAO of CRC cells, which was overturned by TAF1 or PINK1 silencing, respectively. In conclusion, RBM15/YTHDF1-mediated m6A modification of RNF14 mRNA contributed to FAO enhancement via ubiquitination of TAF1 to transcriptionally inhibit PINK1, thus promoting CRC progression.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The genetic mechanism underlying the neurodegenerative movement disorder X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP) involves a retrotransposon insertion within the TAF1 gene. TAF1 encodes the TATA-box binding protein-associated factor 1, the largest subunit of the basal transcription factor TFIID, which connects transcription activation to the assembly of the RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex at the core promoter of genes. This study investigated how the TAF1 mutation affects the transcriptomes of XDP patient-derived neurons under basal conditions and in response to mitochondrial toxins. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that, under basal conditions, patient-derived neurons exhibited predominantly upregulated pathways compared to controls. However, exposure to mitochondrial toxins induced a global shift toward downregulation of pathways in XDP neurons, affecting genome maintenance, epigenetic regulation, adaptive neuronal function, and transcription. Our findings suggest that neurons from XDP patients are more susceptible to mitochondrial stress than controls, leading to widespread transcriptomic downregulation and increased DNA damage.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) is a primary inhibitor of ferroptosis, a regulated form of cell death driven by the accumulation of lipid hydroperoxides. GPX4 exists in three isoforms localized in the cytosol, mitochondria, and nucleus; however, the regulatory mechanisms governing nuclear GPX4 (nGPX4) remain largely unclear. Herein, we identified TATA box-binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1) as a pivotal regulator of nGPX4. TAF1 phosphorylates nGPX4, leading to its lysine 11 (K11)-linked ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, thereby promoting ferroptosis in tumor protein p53 (TP53)-mutant cells. Conversely, in TP53-wild-type (WT) cells, TAF1 phosphorylates TP53, facilitating murine double minute 2 (MDM2)-mediated TP53 degradation, which upregulates solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression and reduces cellular susceptibility to ferroptosis. Collectively, TAF1 plays dual and context-dependent roles in ferroptosis regulation, acting as both a promoter and an inhibitor depending on the TP53 status.
X-linked Dystonia-Parkinsonism (XDP) is a progressive, adult-onset neurodegenerative movement disorder that predominantly affects males of Filipino descent1-3. The disease is caused by the insertion of a SINE-VNTR-Alu subfamily F (SVA_F) retrotransposon within an intron of the TATA-box binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1) gene4. A major barrier to understanding the pathophysiology of XDP has been the lack of relevant animal models. Here, we introduce a novel conditional humanized XDP mouse model harboring a hybrid mouse-human Taf1/TAF1 gene (hyTAF1) containing the pathogenic SVA_F insertion. We activated the hyTAF1 in Nestin+ neural progenitor cells and found that the resulting XDP male mice recapitulate features of the human disease including severe motor impairment, striatal atrophy, and reactive gliosis. Transcriptomic, histological, and electron microscopy analysis revealed a dramatic reduction in oligodendrocyte lineage cells and widespread myelin disruption. Consistent with these findings, postmortem brain tissue from XDP patients revealed similar myelin pathology, including near-complete loss of myelin in parts of the medial prefrontal cortex. Together, these results identify oligodendrocyte dysfunction and myelin loss as previously unrecognized contributors to XDP pathogenesis, providing new mechanistic insight into this debilitating disorder.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) related to obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) mainly results from chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH)-induced renal injury. This study aimed to explore the interaction between the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) growth arrest-specific transcript 5 (GAS5) and recombinant adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT) in CIH-induced renal injury.A rat intermittent hypoxia model was constructed, total RNA was extracted from kidney tissue, and transcriptome sequencing was performed using high-throughput sequencing technology. CIH rat models were established and injected with sh-GAS5 or OE-APRT plasmid, the serum levels of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine amidohydrolase were measured, and the expression of oxidative stress-related factors was detected. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and Masson's trichrome staining were used for morphological observations, and cell apoptosis was determined by TUNEL staining. Interactions between GAS5, TATA-box binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1), and APRT were predicted and verified. After transfection of HK-2 cells, the expression of GAS5, TAF1, APRT, Bax, Bcl-2, apoptosis-related factors, fibrosis-related factors (collagen I and Ⅳ), and autophagy-related proteins (LC3-Ⅱ, LC3-Ⅰ, p62, and Beclin-1) was measured by RT-qPCR and western blotting.Sequencing results revealed that TAF1 was significantly increased and APRT was significantly decreased in the CIH group. RNA was significantly involved in the biological process of kidney injury mediated by CIH. CIH rats injected with GAS5 suppression or APRT overexpression plasmids showed decreased GAS5 and elevated APRT expression, along with suppressed serum levels of BUN and creatinine amidohydrolase. Meanwhile, GAS5 suppression or APRT overexpression attenuated apoptosis and fibrosis, suppressed oxidative stress, and promoted autophagy in CIH-induced renal tubular epithelial cells. The RNA pull-down assay and RIP verified the binding and interaction of GAS5 and TAF1. Chip immunoprecipitation (ChIP) identified TAF1 regulation of the APRT promoter. GAS5 and TAF1 negatively regulated APRT expression.The lncRNA GAS5 can bind TAF1 to suppress APRT transcription, thereby enhancing CIH-induced renal injury in rats.© 2024 The Authors.
The TATA box-binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1) is a ubiquitously expressed protein and the largest subunit of the basal transcription factor TFIID, which plays a key role in initiation of RNA polymerase II-dependent transcription. TAF1 missense variants in human males cause X-linked intellectual disability, a neurodevelopmental disorder, and TAF1 is dysregulated in X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism, a neurodegenerative disorder. However, this field has lacked a genetic mouse model of TAF1 disease to explore its mechanism in mammals and treatments. Here, we generated and validated a conditional cre-lox allele and the first ubiquitous Taf1 knockout mouse. We discovered that Taf1 deletion in male mice was embryonically lethal, which may explain why no null variants have been identified in humans. In the brains of Taf1 heterozygous female mice, no differences were found in gross structure, overall expression and protein localisation, suggesting extreme skewed X inactivation towards the non-mutant chromosome. Nevertheless, these female mice exhibited a significant increase in weight, weight with age, and reduced movement, suggesting that a small subset of neurons was negatively impacted by Taf1 loss. Finally, this new mouse model may be a future platform for the development of TAF1 disease therapeutics.© 2024. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
Phenotypic assays detect small-molecule bioactivity at functionally relevant cellular sites, and inherently cover a variety of targets and mechanisms of action. They can uncover new small molecule-target pairs and may give rise to novel biological insights. By means of an osteoblast differentiation assay which employs a Hedgehog (Hh) signaling agonist as stimulus and which monitors an endogenous marker for osteoblasts, we identified a pyrrolo[3,4-g]quinoline (PQ) pseudo-natural product (PNP) class of osteogenesis inhibitors. The most potent PQ, termed Tafbromin, impairs canonical Hh signaling and modulates osteoblast differentiation through binding to the bromodomain 2 of the TATA-box binding protein-associated factor 1 (TAF1). Tafbromin is the most selective TAF1 bromodomain 2 ligand and promises to be an invaluable tool for the study of biological processes mediated by TAF1(2) bromodomains.© 2024 The Authors. Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Thyroid dysgenesis (TD) is the common pathogenic mechanism of congenital hypothyroidism (CH). In addition, known pathogenic genes are limited to those that are directly involved in thyroid development. To identify additional candidate pathogenetic genes, we performed forward genetic screening for TD in zebrafish, followed by positional cloning. The candidate gene was confirmed in vitro using the Nthy-ori 3.1 cell line and in vivo using a zebrafish model organism. We obtained a novel zebrafish line with thyroid dysgenesis and identified the candidate pathogenetic mutation TATA-box binding protein associated Factor 1 (taf1) by positional cloning. Further molecular studies revealed that taf1 was needed for the proliferation of thyroid follicular cells by binding to the NOTCH1 promoter region. Knockdown of TAF1 impaired the proliferation and maturation of thyroid cells, thereby leading to thyroid dysplasia. This study showed that TAF1 promoted Notch signaling and that this association played a pivotal role in thyroid development.NEW & NOTEWORTHY In our study, we obtained a novel zebrafish line with thyroid dysgenesis (TD) and identified the candidate pathogenetic mutation TATA-box binding protein associated Factor 1 (taf1). Further researches revealed that taf1 was required for thyroid follicular cells by binding to the NOTCH1 promoter region. Our findings revealed a novel role of TAF1 in thyroid morphogenesis.
The survival rates for relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remain poor. We and others have reported that ALL cells are vulnerable to conditions inducing energy/ER-stress mediated by AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). To identify the target genes directly regulated by AMPKα2, we performed genome-wide RNA-seq and ChIP-seq in CCRF-CEM (T-ALL) cells expressing HA-AMPKα2 (CN2) under normal and energy/metabolic stress conditions. CN2 cells show significantly altered AMPKα2 genomic binding and transcriptomic profile under metabolic stress conditions, including reduced histone gene expression. Proteomic analysis and in vitro kinase assays identified the TATA-Box-Binding Protein-Associated Factor 1 (TAF1) as a novel AMPKα2 substrate that downregulates histone gene transcription in response to energy/metabolic stress. Knockdown and knockout studies demonstrated that both AMPKα2 and TAF1 are required for histone gene expression. Mechanistically, upon activation, AMPKα2 phosphorylates TAF1 at Ser-1353 which impairs TAF1 interaction with RNA polymerase II (Pol II), leading to a compromised state of p-AMPKα2/p-TAF1/Pol II chromatin association and suppression of transcription. This mechanism was also observed in primary ALL cells and in vivo in NSG mice. Consequently, we uncovered a non-canonical function of AMPK that phosphorylates TAF1, both members of a putative chromatin-associated transcription complex that regulate histone gene expression, among others, in response to energy/metabolic stress.Fully delineating the protein interactome by which AMPK regulates adaptive survival responses to energy/metabolic stress, either via epigenetic gene regulation or other mechanisms, will allow the rational development of strategies to overcome de novo or acquired resistance in ALL and other cancers.©2023 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438770 is a review article
Downregulation of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) has been implicated in autophagic cell death. However, how ENPP1 regulates the interplay between autophagy and ferroptosis to maintain trophoblast homeostasis in the context of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) remains unclear. To determine ENPP1's role in autophagy-dependent ferroptosis and its contribution to GDM-related placental injury, clinical placental tissues, hyperglycemia-treated HTR8/SVneo trophoblasts, and streptozotocin-induced GDM mice were analyzed. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation, functional studies, and therapeutic interventions were conducted. ENPP1 was significantly reduced in GDM placentas and correlated with increased ferroptosis and lipid peroxidation. Mechanistically, ENPP1 recruited USP2 (ubiquitin-specific peptidase 2) to inhibit the ubiquitination and autophagic degradation of SQSTM1 (sequestosome 1), thereby enhancing its stability. ENPP1 loss promoted NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy, leading to iron overload and ferroptosis. Restoring ENPP1 or inhibiting autophagy alleviated placental thinning and fetal growth restriction in GDM mice. ENPP1 regulates autophagy-dependent ferroptosis via the USP2-SQSTM1 axis, and its deficiency contributes to placental dysfunction.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To investigate whether early on-treatment expression of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2 (IFIT2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) could serve as biomarkers for predicting hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance and therapeutic responses to pegylated interferon-α (Peg-IFN-α) in HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients.In this prospective study, HBeAg-negative CHB patients received Peg-IFN-α therapy for 48 weeks. Patients were categorized into virological response (VR) or non-virological response (NVR) groups based on changes in HBV DNA and HBsAg levels at week 48, and further stratified into serological response (SR) or non-serological response (NSR) groups based on the occurrence of HBsAg loss or seroconversion. ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels in PBMCs were quantified using real-time quantitative PCR. Correlations between gene expression and HBsAg reduction were evaluated using Spearman's rank correlation analysis. Factors independently associated with VR and SR were identified using univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. The discriminative ability of individual biomarkers and combined predictive models was assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Both ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in the VR and SR groups during early treatment. Expression levels of both genes at weeks 12 and 24 positively correlated with the magnitude of HBsAg reduction, and their early induction at week 12 was associated with subsequent HBsAg decline. Multivariate analyses identified ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels at weeks 12 and 24 as independent predictors of VR and SR. ENPP1 expression at week 12 demonstrated the highest predictive accuracy for VR (AUC = 0.7645), while ENPP1 at week 24 showed moderate predictive value for SR (AUC = 0.7399). In contrast, IFIT2 consistently exhibited superior predictive performance for VR (AUC = 0.8791) and for SR at week 24 (AUC = 0.8879). The combination of ENPP1 and IFIT2 further improved predictive accuracy for both VR (AUC = 0.9098) and SR (AUC = 0.9217).ENPP1 and IFIT2 in PBMCs represent valuable biomarkers for early prediction of Peg-IFN-α treatment efficacy and HBsAg clearance in HBeAg-negative CHB patients.Copyright © 2026 Pang, Fu, Jiang and Qin.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with poor prognosis due to its highly heterogeneous tumor immune microenvironment and the lack of actionable molecular targets, which collectively limit the efficacy of current therapies. To address these challenges, PEI/siENPP1@Mn-ZIF-8 (PEMZ) is reported, an integrated gene-chemodynamic-immune nanocomplex that activates the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway through a previously unattainable triple-activation mechanism. PEMZ efficiently encapsulates siENPP1, protects it from degradation, and enables acid-responsive cytosolic release, resulting in sustained ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) silencing and accumulation of tumor-derived cyclic 2',3'-GMP-AMP (cGAMP). Simultaneously, the Mn2+/Zn2+ ions released from the trienzyme-mimetic nanocomplex, which exhibits peroxidase-, catalase-, and glutathione peroxidase-like activities, amplify intracellular reactive oxygen species, deplete glutathione, and trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. This coordinated redox disruption induces immunogenic cell death and further enhances STING signaling. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that PEMZ markedly suppresses TNBC proliferation and metastasis, promotes dendritic cell maturation, and increases intratumoral CD8+ T-cell infiltration, achieving potent tumor inhibition with minimal systemic toxicity. This work establishes PEMZ as a mechanistically integrated nano-immunotherapy platform, offering a promising and broadly applicable strategy for the precision treatment of TNBC and other ENPP1-overexpressing cancers.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The ENPP1 (Ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1) gene, encoding a protein that negatively modulates insulin receptor activation, remains relatively understudied in obesity genetics. K121Q (rs1044498; chr6:132,172,368: A > C) and other ENPP1 genetic variants (rs1799774; chr6:132,203,471: insT> delT and rs7754561; chr6:132,212,694: A > G), as well as the risk haplotype Q-delT-G have been investigated for their association with obesity risk mostly in populations from Central and Northern Europe, yielding controversial findings. Given the significance of reproducibility in genetic association studies and the scarcity of data from Southern Europe, we performed a case-control replication study to test the hypothesis that ENPP1 variants and haplotypes are associated with severe obesity in the underexplored and high-risk Greek population. A total of 979 Greek individuals (mean age: 47.6 ± 12.5years old), including 510 adults with severe obesity (BMI≥35Kg/m2) and 469 normal-weight (18.5 < BMI<25Kg/m2) controls, were studied. Three ENPP1 variants (rs1044498, rs1799774 and rs7754561) were genotyped using the TaqMan allelic discrimination assay. Logistic regression was applied to detect association of variants with obesity. Linkage disequilibrium among the three variants was assessed, and haplotype frequencies were compared between groups. The three variants did not exhibit any association with adult severe obesity. The three variants were in partial linkage disequilibrium (r2 ≤ 0.43). ENPP1 haplotype distribution differed significantly between normal-weight individuals and those with adult severe obesity (likelihood ratio x2 = 13.38, P = 0.020), with the Q-delT-G haplotype found to be present exclusively in individuals with adult severe obesity (frequency 3.3%) and to be associated with adult severe obesity (x2 = 5.66, P = 0.017; reference haplotype K-InsT-A, consisting of the three major alleles of the three variants). Our replication findings contribute novel evidence regarding the genetic architecture of adult severe obesity in a Southern-European population, however larger studies are necessary to validate these results.© 2026. The Author(s).
The kidney possesses a poor ability to robustly regenerate and repair after acute injury. We show that the ectonucleotidase ENPP1 (ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase-1) is robustly expressed in diseased human kidneys and strongly correlates with clinical indices of renal dysfunction. Genetic targeting of Enpp1 in mice enhanced renal repair. A humanized monoclonal antibody, targeting human ENPP1 (hENPP1mAb), when administered in humanized mice, led to tubular cell proliferation, enhanced renal glomerular filtration rate, decreased fibrosis, and rescued renal function after kidney injury. hENPP1mAb augmented nucleotide metabolism and cellular energetics, enabling proliferation and rescuing cell cycle arrest. Single-cell transcriptomics demonstrated expanded signatures of effective repair with hENPP1mAb. In a good laboratory practice (GLP)-compliant dose escalation study, hENPP1mAb was found to be non-toxic and highly tolerated in non-human primates. Our findings identify ENPP1 as a central regulator of acute kidney injury and demonstrate the therapeutic benefit of targeting ENPP1 ectonucleotidase activity with a humanized monoclonal antibody.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1(ENPP1) is a potential immune checkpoint, but the role and mechanism of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs)-carried ENPP1 in the formation of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) in gastric cancer (GC) are still unclear.GEO database, prognostic analysis, immune and single-cell analysis were used to explore the potential role of ENPP1 in GC. Electron microscopy, nanoparticle-tracking analysis identification and WB detection of marker proteins were used to verify the sEVs. Immunohistochemical staining, immunofluorescence staining, cell co-culture and flow cytometry were used to investigate the relationship among GC-derived sEVs-carried ENPP1 and dendritic cells (DCs) activation and TLS formation. Mice xenograft tumor model was used to explore the influence of sEVs-carried ENPP1 on vivo changes.ENPP1 was highly expressed in GC tissues and cell lines and was associated with immune regulation. Immunohistochemistry showed that sEVs-carried ENPP1 expression was negatively correlated with the infiltration of DCs and CD8+ T cells and the number of TLS in GC. Co-culture experiment showed that sEVs-carried ENPP1 could hydrolyze 2'3'-cGAMP and could be taken up by DCs. Inhibiting sEVs-carried ENPP1 expression promoted DCs' activation. Inhibition of sEVs-carried ENPP1 expression reduced the growth volume and weight of transplanted tumors in 615 mice, while increasing the activation of DCs, CD8+ T cells, TLS and the formation of high endothelial venules.SEVs-carried ENPP1 regulates DCs' activation to inhibit TLS formation in GC. Our study illumes a new interaction mechanism between tumor cells and the immune microenvironment in GC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Gastroenterology.
ENPP1 is emerging as a potential target for cancer immunotherapy due to its negatively regulatory effect on the STING pathway via hydrolysis of cGAMP. Herein, we report the identification and optimization of compound A25 starting from hit compound A1. A25 is a potent and selective ENPP1 inhibitor featuring a novel pyrrolo[1',2':1,6]pyrimido[5,4-c]pyridazin-6(5H)-one core scaffold. It exhibited substantial inhibitory activity against ENPP1 with an IC50 value of 9.5 nM, while showing weak inhibition against ENPP2/3. In the cGAMP-mediated STING pathway, this compound effectively enhanced the expression of downstream genes and promoted the phosphorylation of the relevant protein. Moreover, it displayed favorable pharmacokinetic properties and no evident cytotoxicity. In a 4T1 syngeneic mouse model, oral administration of compound A25 demonstrated significant antitumor effects and enhanced the efficacy of both anti-PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy, with good tolerability. Collectively, these results highlight the potential of compound A25 to potentiate STING-mediated antitumor immunity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42179309 is a review article
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an aggressive, systemic autoimmune disease in which overactivated macrophages play a critical role in its pathogenesis. This study aimed to explore the potential role of glycolytic reprogramming in the production of proinflammatory cytokines by macrophages in RA.The Seahorse assay was conducted on RA or healthy control (HC) serum-treated human monocyte-derived macrophages (HMDMs) to evaluate glycolysis levels. RNA sequencing was performed to identify activated signaling pathways and key molecules in HMDMs stimulated by RA serum. The proinflammatory cytokines and hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) were verified by Western blotting and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).We found that HMDMs stimulated with RA serum showed higher aerobic glycolysis levels than those treated with HC serum, along with higher expression of glycolysis-related genes, including hexokinase2 (HK2), pyruvate kinase L/R (PKLR), and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1). Furthermore, RA serum-treated macrophages exhibited a higher level of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), and the expression of IL-1β positively correlated with HK2. Inhibition of glycolysis by 3-bromopyruvate (3BrPA) or HK2 knockdown significantly suppressed IL-1β production in macrophages. The HIF-1α-associated signaling pathways and HIF-1α protein levels were also elevated in RA serum-treated macrophages. Inhibition of glycolysis by 3BrPA or knockdown of HK2 reduced HIF-1α. Inhibiting HIF-1α can suppress IL-1β production of RA serum-treated macrophages, and vice versa. TNF-α and IL-1β enhanced HIF-1α and IL-1β expression in macrophages, an effect attenuated by glycolysis inhibition. Blocking TNF-α and IL-1β in RA serum diminished both glycolysis and IL-1β production.Our findings demonstrate that RA serum triggers aerobic glycolysis in macrophages, which promotes HIF-1α to drive IL-1β production. Notably, IL-1β within RA serum amplifies its own expression via this glycolysis-HIF-1α axis, establishing a pathogenic positive feedback loop in RA.© 2025. The Author(s).
The pyruvate kinase L/R (PKLR) gene encodes the L- and R-type isoforms of pyruvate kinase, which catalyze the final step of glycolysis in mammals. The L-type isozyme is mainly found in liver cells, whereas the R-type isozyme is produced specifically in erythroid cells. To investigate the transcriptional activation of the PKLR gene for the R-type isozyme, we analyzed chromatin features-including DNase I sensitivity, histone modifications, and enhancer-promoter interactions-in erythroid K562 and non-erythroid HUVEC cells. Putative regulatory elements, including a promoter and two enhancers, were identified near the PKLR locus in K562 cells. Depletion of H3K4me1 and H3K27ac, histone marks associated with active enhancers, through mutation of histone methyltransferases led to a marked reduction in PKLR transcription, while transcription of a nearby gene remained stable. These regulatory elements were highly occupied by the erythroid-specific transcription factors GATA1 and TAL1. Loss of either factors disrupted local H3K27ac and reduced the recruitment of chromatin-looping factors, resulting in decreased PKLR transcription. Furthermore, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of the putative regulatory elements significantly diminished PKLR transcription, demonstrating their functional importance. Collectively, these findings highlight the essential role of these regulatory elements in activating PKLR transcription in erythroid cells and emphasize the requirement of erythroid-specific factors for their function.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aims to investigate the in vitro mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of puerarin on hepatic insulin resistance(IR) based on the carbohydrate response element-binding protein(ChREBP)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor(PPAR)α/PPARγ axis involved in glucose and lipid metabolism. An IR-HepG2 cell model was established by treating cells with dexamethasone for 48 h, and the cells were then treated with 10, 20, and 40 μmol·L~(-1) puerarin for 24 h. Glucose levels and output in the extracellular fluid were measured by the glucose oxidase method, while cell viability was assessed by the cell counting kit-8(CCK-8) assay. The adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content and glycogen synthesis were evaluated through chemiluminescence and periodic acid-Schiff staining, respectively. Western blot was employed to quantify the protein levels of forkhead box protein O1(FoxO1), phosphorylated forkhead box protein O1 [p-FoxO1(Ser256)], glucagon, phosphofructokinase, liver type(PFKL), pyruvate kinase L-R(PKLR), pyruvate dehydrogenase complex 1(PDHA1), insulin receptor substrate 2(IRS2), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase p85(PI3KR1), phosphorylated protein kinase B [p-Akt(Thr308)], glycogen synthase(GYS), glycogen phosphorylase, liver type(PYGL), adiponectin(ADPN), ChREBP, PPARα, and PPARγ. Additionally, the protein levels of acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1(ACC1), phosphorylated ATP citrate lyase [p-ACLY(Ser455)], sterol regulatory element binding protein 1c(SREBP-1c), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1α(PGC1α), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1α(CPT1α), and glucagon receptor(GCGR) were also determined. Immunofluorescence was employed to visualize the expression and nuclear location of ChREBP/PPARα/PPARγ. Furthermore, quantitative PCR with the antagonists GW6471 and GW9662 was employed to assess Pparα, Pparγ, and Chrebp. The findings indicated that puerarin effectively reduced both the glucose level and glucose output in the extracellular fluid of IR-HepG2 cells without obvious effect on the cell viability, and it increased intracellular glycogen and ATP levels. Puerarin down-regulated the protein levels of FoxO1 and glucagon while up-regulating the protein levels of p-FoxO1(Ser256), PFKL, PKLR, PDHA1, IRS2, PI3KR1, p-Akt(Thr308), GYS, PYGL, ADPN, ACC1, SREBP-1c, p-ACLY(Ser455), PGC1α, CPT1α, and GCGR in IR-HepG2 cells. Furthermore, puerarin up-regulated both the mRNA and protein levels of ChREBP, PPARα, and PPARγ and promoted the translocation into the nucleus. GW6471 was observed to down-regulate the expression of Pparα while up-regulating the expression of Chrebp and Pparγ. GW9662 down-regulated the expression of Pparγ while up-regulating the expression of Pparα, with no significant effect on Chrebp. In summary, puerarin activated the hepatic ChREBP/PPARα/PPARγ axis, thereby coordinating the glucose and lipid metabolism, promoting the conversion of glucose to lipids to exert the blood glucose-lowering effect.
Pyruvate kinase catalyzes the conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate and ADP to pyruvate and ATP in glycolysis and plays a role in regulating cell metabolism. Mammalian pyruvate kinase functions as a tetrameric protein composed of identical subunits, which adopt a dimer-of-dimers configuration. Each monomer features a single active site and consists of three primary domains designated A, B and C, and a small N-terminal domain. Alternative splicing generates four mammalian pyruvate kinase isoforms, namely, PKM1, PKM2, PKLR-1 and PKLR-2 with unique tissue expression patterns and regulatory properties. The PKLR-2 isoform is predominantly expressed in liver and is also present, though to a lesser extent, in the kidney. It is interesting to study the variation in different isoforms of pyruvate Kinase L/R gene and their involvement in regulation of various biological pathways. In the current study, using a combination of computational and molecular biology approaches, we have identified a novel alternatively spliced transcript of mouse pyruvate Kinase L/R gene, that has an alternate first exon and encodes 18-amino acid long peptide sequence at N-terminal. Structural differences between known and novel isoforms were evaluated via molecular modelling. MD simulation studies confirmed the overall stability of the new isoform under physiological conditions.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40681462
Osteosarcoma, a common primary bone malignancy, poses significant challenges in clinical treatment due to its high metastatic potential and resistance to chemotherapy. The karyopherin subunit alpha 2 (KPNA2) is a member of the karyopherin family and has been implicated in the regulation of various cellular processes. However, the role of KPNA2 in osteosarcoma development and progression remains unclear.The expression levels of KPNA2 and pyruvate kinase L/R (PKLR) mRNA were assessed using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Protein expression of KPNA2, ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7 (USP7), and PKLR was determined via western blotting. Cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, invasion, and migration were evaluated using CCK-8, EdU, flow cytometry, transwell invasion, and wound-healing assays, respectively. Glucose consumption and lactate production were measured using colorimetric assays. The interaction between USP7 and KPNA2 was identified through co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and immunofluorescence co-localization assays. In vivo experiments were conducted to validate the effects of KPNA2 silencing and PKLR overexpression on osteosarcoma cell growth. The positive expression rates of Ki67 and PKLR were assessed using immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays.KPNA2 expression was upregulated in osteosarcoma tissues and cells. Silencing KPNA2 suppressed osteosarcoma cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and glycolysis, while inducing apoptosis. USP7 stabilized KPNA2 through its deubiquitinating activity, and USP7 silencing inhibited the malignant phenotypes of osteosarcoma cells by regulating KPNA2. Additionally, KPNA2 upregulated PKLR expression, and overexpression of PKLR mitigated the effects of KPNA2 silencing on the malignant progression of osteosarcoma cells both in vitro and in vivo.The deubiquitination of KPNA2 by USP7 promoted the malignant progression of osteosarcoma by increasing PKLR expression. This study highlights the clinical significance of targeting the KPNA2-USP7-PKLR axis as a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is one of the ten most prevalent cancers in the world and its incidence has been rising over the past decade. However, effective biomarkers to predict the prognosis of patients remains absent, and the exact molecular mechanism of the disease remains unclear. Therefore, the identification of key genes and their biological pathways are of great significance to identify the differential expressed genes associated with the prognosis for patients with RCC, and to further explore their potential protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in tumorigenesis.The gene expression microarray data for GSE15641 and GSE40435 were extracted from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, including 150 primary tumors and their matched adjacent non-tumor tissues. Afterwards, gene expression for fold changes (FCs) and P value for tumor and non-tumor tissues were analyzed using online tool GEO2R. Gene expression with logFCs of greater than two combined with P value of lower than 0.01 were considered as candidate targets for treatment of RCC. The survival analysis of candidate genes was performed by online software OncoLnc. The PPI network was implemented with Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING).In total, there were 625 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in GSE15641, including 415 increased and 210 decreased genes. A total of 343 DEGs were identified in the GSE40435 with 101 upregulated and 242 downregulated genes, the 20 genes with highest FC in high or low expression in each database were summarized. Five candidate genes were overlapped genes in the two GEO datasets. However, aldolase, fructose-bisphosphate B (ALDOB) was found to be the only gene affecting the prognosis. A number of critical genes were identified behind the mechanism, of which they interacted with ALDOB. Among them, phosphofructokinase, platelet (PFKP), phosphofructokinase, muscle (PFKM), pyruvate kinase L/R (PKLR), and fructose-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1) showed a better prognosis, whereas only glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) rendered a bleak outcome.Five genes were found to be overlappingly expressed in the top 20 greatest FC in two human GEO datasets. This is of great value in the treatment and prognosis of RCC.2023 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) is the most toxic congener of dioxin and has serious long-term effects on the environment and human health. Pyruvate Kinase L/R (PKLR) gene expression levels and gene variants are associated with pyruvate kinase enzyme deficiency, which has been identified as the cause of several diseases linked to dioxin exposure. In this study, we estimated PKLR gene copy number and gene expression levels using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assays, genotyped PKLR SNP rs3020781 by Sanger sequencing, and quantified plasma pyruvate kinase enzyme activity in 100 individuals exposed to Agent Orange/Dioxin near Bien Hoa and Da Nang airfields in Vietnam and 100 healthy controls. The means of PKLR copy numbers and PKLR gene expression levels were significantly higher, while pyruvate kinase enzyme activity was significantly decreased in Agent Orange/Dioxin-exposed individuals compared to healthy controls (P < 0.0001). Positive correlations of PKLR gene copy number and gene expression with 2,3,7,8-TCDD concentrations were observed (r = 0.2, P = 0.045 and r = 0.54, P < 0.0001, respectively). In contrast, pyruvate kinase enzyme activity was inversely correlated with 2,3,7,8-TCDD concentrations (r = -0.52, P < 0.0001). PKLR gene copy number and gene expression levels were also inversely correlated with pyruvate kinase enzyme activity. Additionally, PKLR SNP rs3020781 was found to be associated with 2,3,7,8-TCDD concentrations and PKLR gene expression. In conclusion, PKLR copy number, gene expression levels, and pyruvate kinase enzyme activity are associated with 2,3,7,8-TCDD exposure in individuals living in Agent Orange/Dioxin-contaminated areas.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Conventional treatment of prostate cancer (PCa) uses androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) to inhibit androgen receptor (AR) signaling-driven tumor progression. ADT-induced PCa recurrence may progress to an AR-negative phenotype with neuroendocrine (NE) histologic features, which are associated with metabolic disturbances and poor prognoses. However, the metabolic pathways that regulate NE differentiation (NED) in PCa remain unclear. Herein, we show a regulatory mechanism in NED-associated metabolism dysfunction induced by ADT, whereby overexpression of pyruvate kinase L/R (PKLR) mediates oxidative stress through upregulation of reactive oxygen species modulator 1 (ROMO1), thereby promoting NED and aggressiveness. ADT mediates the nuclear translocation of PKLR, which binds to the MYCN/MAX complex to upregulate ROMO1 and NE-related genes, leading to altered mitochondrial function and NED of PCa. Targeting nuclear PKLR/MYCN using bromodomain and extra-terminal motif (BET) inhibitors has the potential to reduce PKLR/MYCN-driven NED. Abundant ROMO1 in serum samples may provide prognostic information in patients with ADT. Our results suggest that ADT resistance leads to upregulation of PKLR/MYCN/ROMO1 signaling, which may drive metabolic reprogramming and NED in PCa. We further show that increased abundance of serum ROMO1 may be associated with the development of NE-like PCa.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In cancer cells, multiple oncogenes and tumor suppressors control glycolysis to sustain rapid proliferation. The ETS-related transcription factor Fli1 plays a critical role in the induction and progression of leukemia, yet, the underlying mechanism of this oncogenic event is still not fully understood. In this study, RNAseq analysis of FLI1-depleted human leukemic cells revealed transcriptional suppression of the PKLR gene and activation of multiple glycolytic genes, such as PKM1/2. Pharmacological inhibition of glycolysis by PKM2 inhibitor, Shikonin, significantly suppressed leukemic cell proliferation. FLI1 directly binds to the PKLR promoter, leading to the suppression of this inhibitor of glycolysis. In accordance, shRNA-mediated depletion of PKLR in leukemic HEL cells expressing high levels of FLI1 accelerated leukemia proliferation, pointing for the first time to its tumor suppressor function. PKLR knockdown also led to downregulation of the erythroid markers EPOR, HBA1, and HBA2 and suppression of erythroid differentiation. Interestingly, silencing of PKLR in HEL cells significantly increased FLI1 expression, which was associated with faster proliferation in culture. In FLI1-expressing leukemic cells, lower PKLR expression was associated with higher expression of PKM1 and PKM2, which promote aerobic glycolysis. Finally, injection of pyruvate, a known inhibitor of glycolysis, into leukemia mice significantly suppressed leukemogenesis. These results demonstrate that FLI1 promotes leukemia in part by inducing glycolysis, implicates PKLR in erythroid differentiation, and suggests that targeting glycolysis may be an attractive therapeutic strategy for cancers driven by FLI1 overexpression.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To characterize urinary peptide signatures in patients with and without overactive bladder (OAB), identify peptide differences by OAB phenotype, and determine the association between baseline peptide profiles and improvement in incontinence following therapy.Peptidomic analysis using LC-MS/MS on urinary samples from 152 participants (100 OAB patients, 52 healthy controls) was performed. Participants completed validated questionnaires at baseline and following treatment. We isolated urinary peptides, analyzed them by mass spectrometry, and identified them using PEAKS Online software. Classical statistical analyses and random forest machine learning classifiers were used to distinguish OAB from controls, and responders versus nonresponders to therapy.The urinary peptidome differed significantly between patients with OAB and controls in overall peptide composition (p=0.001) and number of unique peptides (p=0.001). Peptides from fibrillin-1 and quiescin sulfhydryl oxidase 1 were more abundant in OAB. Random forest classifiers had good discrimination between OAB and controls (AUC 0.76 overall; 0.91 in premenopausal subset). Baseline peptide composition differed between those who experienced improvement in incontinence versus those who did not experience improvement following therapy in the overall cohort (p=0.03) and sacral neuromodulation group (p=0.04).OAB is associated with a unique urinary peptide signature that reflects extracellular matrix remodeling, oxidative stress, and altered cellular metabolism. Baseline peptide profiles differ between those who symptomatically improved versus did not improve following therapy suggesting potential utility of urinary peptides as prognostic biomarkers. These findings support the heterogeneous nature of OAB pathophysiology and may facilitate development of new diagnostic and personalized therapeutic approaches.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human skin includes an elastic fiber system consisting of oxytalan, elaunin, and elastin fibers, which are classified based on their fibrillin microfibril and elastin contents. These fibers decrease or lose their function with aging and photoaging. A disintegrin-like and metalloprotease domain with thrombospondin type I motifs-like 6 (ADAMTSL6) is a fibrillin microfibril-associated component that promotes fibrillin microfibril formation.To investigate the contribution of ADAMTSL6 to the maintenance and aging/photoaging of dermal elastic fibers in human skin.ADAMTSL6, fibrillin-1, and elastin in papillary dermis of sun-protected buttock skin and sun-exposed eyelid skin were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the contribution of ADAMTSL6 to elastic fiber formation in dermal fibroblasts was investigated.ADAMTSL6 colocalized with fibrillin-1 in oxytalan fibers and parts of elaunin fibers in the papillary dermis, but not in the reticular dermis, even when fibrillin-1 was present in the reticular dermis. Furthermore, ADAMTSL6 expression levels in eyelid skin decreased more markedly than in buttock skin with aging. Temporary knockdown of ADAMTSL6 expression by small interfering RNA in cultured dermal fibroblasts resulted in decreased expression of fibrillin-1, while stable knockdown of ADAMTSL6 by short hairpin RNA did not affect the deposition of fibrillin-1 but increased the expression and deposition of elastin in dermal fibroblast-derived matrix.Our results suggest that ADAMTSL6 contributes to the maintenance of oxytalan and elaunin fibers in the papillary dermis, and decreases slightly with intrinsic aging, but more prominently with photoaging. Maintaining ADAMTSL6 expression may contribute to preservation of dermal elastic fiber architecture.Copyright © 2026 Japanese Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Unicuspid aortic valve (UAV) is an exceptionally rare congenital aortic valve anomaly. UAV is more commonly associated with significant aortic stenosis at a younger age than bicuspid aortic valve. Two forms of UAV have been described. Acommissural type of UAV typically presents in early infancy, and unicommissural type of UAV usually presents in late childhood or early adolescence. Echocardiography is the main imaging tool used to assess aortic valve morphology, aortic dimensions, and the presence and severity of stenosis or regurgitation. Early surgical intervention is typically required for UAV and is most commonly performed for aortic valve replacement. Postoperative echocardiograms are obtained on a regular basis to assess for proper function of the replaced valve and for signs of left ventricular dysfunction.  We present the case of a 16-year-old girl with genetically confirmed Marfan syndrome who presented with progressive exertional dyspnea, fatigue, and reduced exercise tolerance over several months and was found to have severe aortic stenosis due to unicommissural UAV. Computed tomography angiography demonstrated mid-ascending aortic dilation measuring 43 mm, corresponding to an indexed diameter of 25.0 mm/m² based on a body surface area of 1.72 m², while the aortic root measured 34 mm with a z-score of +1.8. She underwent successful surgical aortic valve replacement with a 19-mm mechanical prosthesis. Isolated aortic valve replacement was selected because the symptomatic severe valve obstruction required surgery, whereas the aortic root remained below the recommended surgical thresholds and the 43-mm mid-ascending aortic dilation was not considered an independent indication for replacement. No prior imaging was available to determine the aortic growth rate, and there was no confirmed family history of aortic dissection. The postoperative echocardiogram showed a well-functioning aortic prosthetic valve with preserved left ventricular systolic function. She was discharged on warfarin with structured international normalized ratio monitoring. Given her age, sex, significant aortopathy, mechanical prosthesis, and potential for future pregnancy, she received counseling regarding contraception, anticoagulation, pregnancy risk, and long-term aortic surveillance. Genetic counseling and cascade testing for the pathogenic fibrillin-1 gene variant were recommended for first-degree relatives. At the three-month follow-up, exertional dyspnea had improved, and she had resumed her usual daily activities.Copyright © 2026, Chamma et al.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms of Marfan syndrome (MFS) are rarely described, yet accumulating evidence suggests a possible association with psychotic disorders. We report a 17-year-old male with MFS who, two months after medically indicated sternal repair for Marfan-related skeletal dysplasia, developed an acute psychotic episode with catatonia. Catatonic features on admission comprised mutism, rigidity, negativism, posturing, and food refusal (Bush-Francis Catatonia Rating Scale score 31/69). Psychotic features included persecutory delusions, delusions of immortality, and hallucinatory behaviour. Biographical review revealed longstanding limited autonomy, poor social integration, and reactive body image distress following surgery. After exclusion of organic and toxic causes, a diagnosis of brief psychotic disorder comorbid with mild intellectual disability was established. Benzodiazepine treatment was initiated for catatonia; olanzapine was added on day seven for persistent psychotic features, achieving full remission by day 24, with sustained remission off all medication over three years of follow-up. Three pathogenic axes are discussed as hypotheses - a possible shared genetic vulnerability via fibrillin-1/TGF-β dysregulation; Lujan-Fryns syndrome as an unresolved differential; and a stress-diathesis model in which surgery precipitated decompensation on a background of psychosocial burden and cognitive vulnerability. This case supports systematic psychiatric screening in MFS patients, particularly around major surgical events in adolescence.Copyright © 2026, Benkarroum et al.
Late-onset preeclampsia (LO-PE) is the most prevalent clinical phenotype of preeclampsia and, although traditionally considered less strongly associated with placental dysfunction than early-onset disease, increasing evidence supports the presence of relevant placental alterations. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a key regulator of villous architecture, tissue mechanics, trophoblast behavior, vascular remodeling, and angiogenesis. This study aimed to characterize ECM remodeling in placentas from women with LO-PE.A prospective observational study was conducted in 111 pregnant women, including 68 with LO-PE and 43 healthy controls. Placental samples were collected immediately after delivery. Gene expression of elastogenesis-related markers, cross-linking enzymes, fibrillar collagens, matrix-remodeling regulators, and endothelial-matrix signaling molecules was assessed by RT-qPCR. Protein expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Differences between groups were analyzed using non-parametric tests with Benjamini-Hochberg correction, and correlations among ECM markers were explored using Spearman analysis.LO-PE placentas showed significantly increased expression of tropoelastin (TE), fibulin-4 (FBLN-4), fibulin-5 (FBLN-5), fibrillin-1 (FBN-1), lysyl oxidase (LOX), lysyl oxidase-like 1 (LOXL-1), collagen type I (COL-I), collagen type III (COL-III), and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) at both gene and protein levels. Conversely, gene and protein expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) and epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) showed a marked decrease in the placentas of pregnant women with LO-PE. These findings indicate enhanced elastogenesis, increased matrix cross-linking, greater fibrillar collagen deposition, and an imbalance in matrix turnover. Correlation analysis further suggested that, although the FBLN-4/FBLN-5 axis remained preserved, LO-PE placentas displayed partial disruption of the broader ECM transcriptional network.LO-PE placentas exhibit a coordinated but dysregulated ECM remodeling phenotype involving elastic, collagenous, proteolytic, and endothelial-matrix regulatory pathways. These alterations support ECM remodeling as a relevant biological feature of LO-PE placental pathophysiology.
Acute myocardial infarction is a leading cause of death globally. Percutaneous coronary intervention is the primary treatment to restore blood flow to the affected myocardium, but reperfusion can cause myocardial injury, affecting the prognosis of patients with acute myocardial infarction. Asprosin (ASP) is a newly discovered adipokine whose role in myocardial protection requires further research.The GSE240847 dataset was downloaded from the GEO database, and 511 ferroptosis-related genes were collected from the FerrDb database. Gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed to identify coexpression modules associated with Fibrillin 1 (FBN1), followed by enrichment analysis. H9C2 cells were subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) and pretreated with ASP at different concentrations. The effects of ASP were determined by measuring cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels and assessing the expression of ferroptosis-related proteins, intracellular iron content, mitophagy-related proteins, and mitochondrial membrane potential.Enrichment analysis showed Gene Ontology (GO) terms linked to GTPase signaling, chromosome behavior, and cell stability. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis highlighted mitophagy and MAPK pathways in the FBN1 module. ASP cut ROS, boosted cell viability, and raised glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4)/solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression, upregulating glutathione and lowering iron particles dose dependently post H/R. It also increased PINK1 and stabilized mitochondria. A mitophagy inhibitor reduced these effects.This study confirms the protective effects of ASP on myocardial cells after H/R injury and demonstrates that ASP can inhibit ferroptosis and promote mitophagy in myocardial cells during ischemia-reperfusion injury. The potential mechanism may involve ASP promoting PINK1-associated mitophagy in myocardial cells after H/R injury to inhibit ferroptosis.Copyright © 2026 Xiangkun Wang et al. Cardiovascular Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Marfan syndrome (MFS) is characterized by progressive aortic aneurysm formation resulting from mutations in the fibrillin-1 (Fbn1) gene. Although the thoracic aorta is the primary site of pathology, accumulating evidence indicates that vascular dysfunction in MFS extends beyond the aorta to involve multiple arterial beds. Statins have been shown to attenuate aneurysm progression in experimental models of MFS; however, their effects on systemic vascular remodeling and arterial stiffness outside the aorta remain poorly characterized. In this study, we investigated the impact of chronic atorvastatin therapy on vascular structure and hemodynamic function across multiple vascular beds in the Fbn1^C1041G/+^ mouse model of MFS. Male and female control and MFS mice received drinking water with or without atorvastatin (1 g/kg/day) from 4 weeks to 6 months of age, enabling the effects of atorvastatin to be assessed in both healthy and MFS arteries. High-frequency ultrasound imaging was used to assess vascular parameters in the aorta, left common carotid artery (LCCA), and posterior cerebral artery (PCA). Atorvastatin treatment significantly attenuated aortic root dilation in both male and female MFS mice and reduced aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV), indicating improved arterial compliance. In the carotid circulation, atorvastatin significantly reduced LCCA wall thickness and carotid PWV, although carotid wall strain did not improve. Atorvastatin raised both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in male and female MFS mice relative to untreated MFS animals, reaching levels not significantly different from untreated controls in both sexes, while having little effect in healthy controls apart from a rise in female diastolic pressure. In the posterior cerebral artery, peak systolic velocity, a hemodynamic index rather than a direct measure of perfusion, showed similarly sex-dependent changes, increasing in female MFS mice but decreasing further in males after atorvastatin. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that atorvastatin exerts systemic but heterogeneous vascular effects in MFS, improving arterial stiffness and structural remodeling across multiple arterial beds while producing sex-specific hemodynamic responses that warrant further investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417161 is a review article
Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a connective tissue disorder caused by FBN1 mutations, characterised by aortic aneurysms leading to life-threatening dissections. Asprosin is the C-terminal propeptide of fibrillin-1 that was shown to function as a glucogenic hormone with critical implications in vascular pathology. However, its role in MFS remains unknown. Here, we investigate the effect of asprosin overexpression in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and in the Marfan mouse model mgR/mgR via endothelial-targeted transduction by adeno-associated viruses (AAVs). In both human and murine VSMCs, asprosin overexpression did not alter VCAM1 or MMP9 expression, while TNF-α-stimulated asprosin-overexpressing MOVAS cells exhibited reduced IL6 levels. In mgR/mgR mice, asprosin overexpression did not affect aortic diameter or elastin integrity. Molecular analyses revealed no significant change in inflammatory or epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers at the mRNA or protein level, with VCAM1 and MMP9 remaining unchanged. Together, these findings indicate that asprosin overexpression does not ameliorate the aneurysmal phenotype in MFS.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42373379
Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is a rare monogenic form of diabetes characterized by impaired insulin secretion and genetic and clinical heterogeneity. Accurate molecular diagnosis enables precision medicine by guiding gene-specific treatment, improving glycemic control, and avoiding unnecessary therapies. Since our previous systematic review in 2020, new studies have further clarified therapeutic strategies and emerging treatment options. This review updates the evidence on pharmacological management of MODY and its clinical implications.A systematic review was conducted following PRISMA 2020 recommendations. PubMed was searched for studies published between April 2020 and October 2025. Eligible studies included individuals with genetically confirmed MODY receiving pharmacological treatment, therapeutic switches, or adjunctive therapies. Data were extracted and synthesized qualitatively due to heterogeneity in study design and outcome reporting.Ninety-one studies were included. Strong evidence confirms sulfonylureas (SUs) as first-line therapy in Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 1A (HNF1A)-, Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4A (HNF4A)-, ATP-binding cassette transporter sub-family C member 8 (ABCC8)-, and potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 11 (KCNJ11)-MODY, frequently enabling improved glycemic control and transition from insulin. Glucokinase (GCK)-MODY remains managed without pharmacological treatment outside pregnancy, but dorzagliatin, a novel agent acting as a glucokinase activator, may further expand precision treatment approaches. Insulin remains the mainstay of treatment in Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 1B (HNF1B)- and Insulin (INS)-MODY, although adjunctive therapies may provide benefits. While SUs are supported by consistent observational evidence, the role of incretin-based therapies and sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors remains exploratory, largely based on small studies and case reports.A major limitation of the available evidence is the predominance of small, heterogeneous observational studies, which limits the strength and generalizability of therapeutic recommendations. Recent literature largely confirms existing genotype-guided treatment recommendations while suggesting expanded therapeutic options for selected MODY subtypes. Precision medicine based on molecular diagnosis remains essential for optimal management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Understanding the mechanism of LUAD progression will aid in the development of therapeutic approaches targeting this malignancy. Hypoxia is characteristic of solid tumors and contributes significantly to LUAD progression, although the molecular mechanisms involved have not been fully elucidated. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are key regulators of cancer progression. Here, we identify SLC9A3-AS1 as a previously unrecognized hypoxia-induced lncRNA that is aberrantly upregulated in LUAD tissues. Functional analyses demonstrated that SLC9A3-AS1 promotes LUAD cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, as well as tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, SLC9A3-AS1 acts as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) by binding to miR-506-5p, alleviating the post-transcriptional repression of aspartate β-hydroxylase (ASPH) and activating NOTCH1 signaling. ASPH overexpression or miR-506-5p inhibition counteracts the effects of SLC9A3-AS1 knockdown, restoring LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) capacity. Furthermore, we report that SLC9A3-AS1 is a hypoxia-responsive gene that is transcriptionally activated by hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) in LUAD cells. Collectively, these results identify SLC9A3-AS1 as a key hypoxia-induced regulator of LUAD progression and reveal a miR-506-5p/ASPH/NOTCH1 signaling pathway that drives oncogenic activity. These findings provide new insights for the diagnosis and treatment of LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
We present a case report of an infant diagnosed with a pathogenic de novo variant in KCNJ11 (Potassium Inwardly Rectifying Channel Subfamily J Member 11), associated with both transient and permanent neonatal diabetes. This patient is one of the earliest diagnosed and genetically confirmed patients with neonatal diabetes. Early detection is key, and this case report emphasizes the need for early consideration of rapid whole-genome sequencing as an option for diagnosis to significantly improve patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026, O'Connell et al.
DNA topoisomerase II beta (TOP2B) is crucial for the regulation of DNA topology, transcription, and genome stability. While its function has been extensively studied in post-mitotic cells such as neurons and cardiomyocytes, its role in proliferative cells, especially in the context of cellular senescence and aging, remains inadequately understood. Emerging evidence suggests that TOP2B expression declines with age and is implicated in several age-associated disorders, yet the molecular basis of its involvement in senescence remains poorly understood. In this investigation, we have specifically disrupted the promoter region of TOP2B in HEK 293T cells using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing. The targeted region, spanning -533 to -481, which encompasses binding motifs for NF-Y and SP1, also accounts for a major proportion of TOP2B promoter activity. Knockout of this regulatory segment resulted in a marked reduction of TOP2B expression. The knockout cells exhibited classical features of senescence, including elevated ROS levels, increased senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-Gal) activity, and upregulation of key markers such as p53, p21, and p16.To examine the paracrine effects of senescence, conditioned media from TOP2B-deficient cells were given to wild-type HEK 293T cells, which also developed senescence-like phenotypes. These findings suggest that Loss of TOP2B expression is associated with the induction of senescence-like phenotypes in dividing cells and can propagate senescent signaling to neighboring cells. This study highlights a previously underappreciated role of TOP2B in the regulation of cellular aging and opens new avenues for understanding its potential contribution to age-related pathologies in proliferative cell types.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cancer development is shaped by host-microbe interactions, including viral infections. While several viruses are established oncogenic drivers, their potential protective roles in cancer remain unclear. Here we identify a dominant antibody response to CE1, a consensus epitope of enterovirus and rhinovirus, that is associated with reduced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) incidence and mortality. Anti-CE1 antibodies selectively recognize HCC cells and mediate anti-tumor activity through NK cell-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Mechanistically, anti-CE1 antibodies cross-react with aspartate β-hydroxylase (ASPH), with CE1-ASPH sequence homology underpinning tumor recognition and cytotoxicity. Clinically, ASPH is aberrantly upregulated in HCC and correlates with inferred NK cell-associated ADCC activity and improved survival in CE1-seropositive patients. Collectively, these findings reveal a mechanism by which antiviral humoral immunity confers cancer protection through molecular mimicry and highlight anti-CE1 immunity as a potential therapeutic strategy in HCC.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus has previously been reported to be potentially associated with urolithiasis. We conducted a Mendelian randomization (MR) study to explore whether there is a causal relationship between genetic susceptibility to common antidiabetic drugs and urolithiasis risk.We used genetic variants from two different sources as instruments to proxy the exposure to antidiabetic drugs for our MR research design. The variants included loci regulating expression traits of the target genes, and genetic variants associated with blood glucose nearby or within antidiabetic drug target genes from genome-wide association studies. We ultimately calculated estimates using inverse-variance weighted MR (IVW-MR) and summary-data-based MR methods.The Bonferroni-corrected IVW results suggested potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 11 (KCNJ11)-mediated blood glucose was associated with a lower risk of urolithiasis (odds ratio [OR]: 0.15; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.06-0.39; p=1.19×10-4). Similarly, we also observed a higher expression of KCNJ11 was linked to a decreased risk of urolithiasis in the summary-data-based MR analysis (OR: 0.81 per 1 mmol/L decrement in blood glucose; 95% CI: 0.70-0.95; p=0.008). We found suggestive evidence of the positive relationship between insulin receptor expression and urolithiasis (OR: 5.67; 95% CI: 1.01-31.97; p=0.049), which was not supported when using cis-expression quantitative trait locus as an instrument.This study provided evidence for a potential causal link between KCNJ11-mimicked sulfonylureas and the reduced risk of urolithiasis. Given the limitations of this study, it is essential to investigate further using the latest data from large-scale genetic studies and relevant clinical data to validate our findings from the MR study.© 2026 Editorial Office of Asian Journal of Urology. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.
BACKGROUND: Maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 13 (MODY13) is a rare autosomal dominant monogenic diabetes caused by mutations in the potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 11 (KCNJ11) gene. It can mimic both type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T1DM and T2DM), making accurate diagnosis challenging. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe the case of a five-year-old boy with overlapping features of T1DM and T2DM. He presented with hyperglycemia, obesity, and acanthosis nigricans. These symptoms improved after losing 11 kg owing to lifestyle modifications. His hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level decreased from 9.6% to 5.8%, and the continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) showed 91% time in range (TIR). Eighteen months later, he developed postprandial hyperglycemia and tested positive for T1DM antibodies, prompting the administration of insulin at 0.7 U/kg/day. His glucose levels continued to fluctuate. Whole-exome sequencing identified a likely pathogenic KCNJ11 variant (NM_000525.3, c.574 C > T, p.Arg192Cys), confirming the diagnosis of heterozygous autosomal dominant MODY13. He was then started on oral glibenclamide at 0.2 mg/kg/day, which lowered his HbA1c level to 7.5% and raised his CGMS TIR readings to 70%; however, insulin dependence persisted because of ongoing autoimmune β‑cell destruction. CONCLUSIONS: This case demonstrates the diagnostic challenge in pediatric diabetes when the features of T1DM, T2DM, and MODY overlap. Prompt genetic testing can lead to precise therapy. The simultaneous appearance of MODY13 and autoimmunity suggests possible interactions between the gene and the immune system.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41626148 is a review article
Motugivatrep (SJP-0132), a transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) antagonist, is being developed as an ophthalmic drug for dry eye disease. Since the role of TRPV1 antagonists in skin carcinogenesis remains controversial, this study aimed to investigate whether motugivatrep promotes skin tumorigenesis using an ultra-short-term two-stage skin carcinogenesis model with Tg-rasH2 mice. Following initiation with a single dermal application of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene, motugivatrep was applied topically at doses of 0, 150, 300, or 750 µg/50 µL/animal once a day to mouse skin for 7 weeks. The positive control group received 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) once weekly. No skin tumors or preneoplastic lesions were observed in any animals treated with motugivatrep. In contrast, treatment with TPA significantly increased skin tumor formation, confirming the validity of the assay. These results indicated that motugivatrep lacked skin tumor promotion activity in this Tg-rasH2 mice model, providing safety information regarding dermal exposure to motugivatrep.©2026 The Japanese Society of Toxicologic Pathology.
Neuropathic pain (NP) is a chronic condition caused by peripheral nerve damage and is characterized by persistent neuroinflammation and limited treatment options. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has been reported to modulate neuroinflammation in the brain. However, it remains unclear whether rTMS also influences inflammatory responses in the spinal cord and peripheral nerve structures.A rat NP model was established by unilateral sciatic nerve ligation, and the effects of rTMS were evaluated through behavioral testing and molecular, histological, and ultrastructural analyses of the spinal cord and sciatic nerve.NP induced thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia, whereas rTMS significantly alleviated these pain-related behaviors (p < 0.05). In the spinal cord, NP increased the expression of pro-inflammatory markers including CD40, CD86, ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule-1 (Iba-1), and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) (p < 0.05 for TRPV1; p < 0.01 for the others). rTMS significantly attenuated the increases in CD86, Iba-1, and TRPV1 (p < 0.01 for Iba-1; p < 0.05 for the others), while CD40 showed a decreasing trend without statistical significance. In the sciatic nerve, NP also elevated glial and inflammatory markers (Iba-1, TRPV1, S100, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which were significantly reduced following rTMS treatment (p < 0.01 for S100; p < 0.05 for the others). Immunostaining confirmed a reduction in both the number and activation state of Iba-1(+) and GFAP(+) cells in the rTMS-treated group. Ultrastructural analysis demonstrated improved myelin integrity in the sciatic nerve after rTMS, including increased myelin thickness, higher myelinated axon density, and a reduced G-ratio. rTMS also mitigated NP-induced gastrocnemius muscle atrophy, as indicated by increased muscle mass and cross-sectional area (p < 0.01). rTMS was associated with changes in ERK and Akt signaling pathways that were reduced under NP conditions.rTMS alleviates NP by suppressing glia-associated neuroinflammation in both the spinal cord and sciatic nerve and by promoting structural recovery of peripheral nerves. These findings support rTMS as a promising non-invasive therapeutic strategy for NP.Copyright © 2026 Kim, Sim, Choi, Choi, Yeo, Ha, Je, Jun, Kim, Jung and Kim.
Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1+ (TRPV1+) sensory nerves, usually involved in transmitting pain and itch signals, densely innervate the kidney. Because the kidney is not a classic pain-sensitive organ, the roles of these sensory nerves beyond pain perception remain unknown. Here, we reveal a neuroimmune axis wherein TRPV1+ nociceptive sensory neurons protect against kidney ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury by inducing an anti-inflammatory macrophage subset.We used reporter mice to visualize TRPV1+ nociceptive sensory nerves and used retrograde neuronal tracing to identify the activation of kidney-innervating TRPV1+ neurons during kidney ischemia/reperfusion injury. To examine their function, we applied multiple nociceptor ablation strategies (genetic and chemical) and activation approaches. Macrophage responses were analyzed using flow cytometry and RNA sequencing, whereas molecular signaling pathways were investigated with pharmacological inhibitors and in vitro stimulation assays. Urinary calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) levels and macrophage profiles were also assessed in postnephrectomy patients to validate clinical relevance.Nociceptive sensory nerves are activated by inflammation during kidney ischemia/reperfusion injury and initiate protective anti-inflammatory programs by releasing CGRP, which signals through receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) receptors on macrophages to induce a unique interleukin-4 receptor alpha (IL4Rαhi) population via the cAMP PKA-CREB-dependent pathway. CGRP synergizes with IL-4 to promote the anti-inflammatory and prohealing function of macrophages. Elevated urinary CGRP levels correlated with reduced kidney injury markers (KIM-1 and NGAL) and higher proportions of anti-inflammatory macrophages in postnephrectomy patients.Our findings redefine nociceptors as active regulators of kidney inflammation and homeostasis, leveraging CGRP to convert macrophages into anti-inflammatory phenotypes to protect against kidney injury, offering new therapeutic opportunities for AKI.Copyright © 2026 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory condition of the arterial wall in which endothelial dysfunction serves as a key driver of disease progression. Endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis are major contributors in this context; therefore, targeting these processes may confer therapeutic benefits. Transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) is a voltage-sensitive, non-selective cation channel belonging to the transient receptor potential family. Although TRPM4 contributes to the regulation of vascular endothelium, its precise role in endothelial inflammation remains poorly understood. Accordingly, this study aims to elucidate the function and molecular mechanisms of TRPM4 in vascular endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis.An in vitro model of endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis was established by stimulating human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). The TRPM4-specific inhibitor 9-Phenanthrol (9-Phe) was applied to assess TRPM4 involvement. Expression levels of TRPM4, inflammatory adhesion molecules (VCAM-1, ICAM-1), pyroptosis-related proteins (NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, GSDMD, IL-1β, IL-18), and key transcriptional regulators were quantified via quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot. Intracellular calcium flux was measured using Fluo-4 AM. We used co-immunoprecipitation to assess the interaction between HSP60 and the IKKα/β complex, and Immunofluorescence to visualize nuclear translocation of phosphorylated NF-κB p65.TNF-α stimulation significantly upregulated the expression of TRPM4. Administration of the TRPM4 inhibitor 9-Phe attenuated this increase. Treatment with 9-Phe also reduced the TNF-α-induced elevation of adhesion molecules VCAM-1 and ICAM-1. It further decreased the expression of pyroptosis-related markers, including NLRP3, caspase-1, GSDMD, IL-1β, and IL-18. In addition, 9-Phe markedly reduced the TNF-α-driven nuclear translocation of phosphorylated NF-κB p65. HSP60 knockdown intensified TNF-α-induced inflammation and pyroptosis. Mechanistic analysis showed that TRPM4 inhibition reduced the interaction between HSP60 and the IKKα/β complex.TRPM4 plays a critical role in TNF-α-induced endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis, and its inhibition attenuates these pathological changes. Mechanistic findings indicate that TRPM4 promotes the interaction between HSP60 and IKKα/β, thereby activating the NF-κB pathway. Collectively, these results identify the TRPM4-HSP60-NF-κB axis as a central regulator of endothelial inflammation and pyroptosis, and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 Shen, Zhao, Zhang, Tong, Cui, Guo, Liang, Ma, Jin, Xiong, Tang, Gao, Zhang, Lv, Huo and Ban.
Bladder cancer (BLCA) is a common malignancy of the urinary system, yet the therapeutic relevance of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) remains unclear. By integrating single-cell and whole-genome transcriptomic data, this study revealed significant transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 4 (TRPM4) overexpression in bladder cancer (BLCA) (p < 0.05), particularly in epithelial cells. Intersection analysis identified 220 candidate genes (7,808 DEGs1, 4,683 DEGs2, and 4,802 key cell module genes). A risk model was constructed comprising six screened prognostic marker genes, namely, protein unc-93 homolog B1 (UNC93B1), family with sequence similarity 193 member B (FAM193B), protein O-glucosyltransferase (POGLUT3), fibrillin-1 (FBN1), microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B), and RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2). The model demonstrated marked differences among the risk groups. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed significant disparities in key pathways, including the melanoma pathway (p < 0.05). Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis has identified 12 distinct immune cell types, including naive B cells, which showed a p < 0.05 distribution. The observed distribution was uneven. In the drug sensitivity analysis, 112 drugs (including WZ3105; p < 0.05) showed differential responses, and UNC93B1 showed high positive expression in BLCA tissues (positive cell proportion > 75%). Our studies confirmed that TRPM4 has significant prognostic value and is a potential novel diagnostic and therapeutic target for BLCA.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Qin, Liu, Zuo, Guo, Jing and Li.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41983707 is a review article
There is a pressing need for effective alternatives to opioid analgesics, the development of which requires the identification of novel anti-nociceptive drug targets. Here, we have further investigated the anti-nociceptive properties of a GPR35 agonist, cromolyn, in an in vitro model of inflammatory sensitisation. We used ratiometric Ca2+ imaging of cultured sensory neurons to examine the effect of cromolyn on prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-mediated sensitisation of the pro-nociceptive ion channel, transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily V, member 1 (TRPV1). The sensitisation of TRPV1 by PGE2 was inhibited by cromolyn in a GPR35-dependent manner. These observations provide further evidence in support of an anti-nociceptive role for GPR35, highlighting the potential use of GPR35 agonists as analgesics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a broad classification including various chronic inflammatory gastrointestinal conditions that comprises two main disorders: Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). The key components of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) are highly expressed within the gastrointestinal tract, playing a crucial role in maintaining homeostasis and providing protection against intestinal inflammation.To investigate possible impairment of the genes belonging to ECS by analyzing their expression levels in IBD patients and controls.The paired biopsies of endoscopically inflamed (IM) and noninflamed (NIM) colonic mucosa from 30 IBD-diagnosed patients (17 UC and 13 CD), and the colonic mucosa from 17 non-IBD controls, were collected and analyzed. The messenger RNA expression level of cannabinoid receptor (CNR) 1, CNR 2, diacylglycerol lipase alpha, diacylglycerol lipase beta, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), G protein-coupled receptor (GPR) 18, GPR55, monoglyceride lipase, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG), and transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily V, member 1 (TRPV1) was determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction.Six out of the 10 investigated genes were found to be dysregulated in at least one comparison. Specifically, in IBD patients, FAAH, PPARG, and TRPV1 were significantly downregulated in IM compared to NIM (FAAH, P = 0.012; PPARG, P = 0.001; TRPV1, P = 0.032) and in IM compared to controls (FAAH, P < 0.001; PPARG, P < 0.001; TRPV1, P = 0.002). An opposite trend was reported for CNR2 and GPR55, which showed an upregulation in IM compared to NIM (CNR2, P = 0.005; GPR55, P = 0.001).We found a significant impairment of the ECS in IBD patients. Further analyses on larger cohorts are needed for a better understanding of the potential of cannabinoids in managing IBD.©The Author(s) 2026. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Exposure to cold environments is physiologically challenging, with extreme cold stress (ECS) impairing the function of the left ventricle (LV) of the heart. We aimed to determine the role and mechanism of action of the miR-499-5p/phosphofurin acidic cluster sorting protein 2 (PACS2)/transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) axis in ECS-induced cardiomyocyte injury and LV dysfunction. Mice were placed in a -20 °C chamber to simulate an extremely cold environment. MiR-499-5p overexpression in the mice decreased PACS2 levels, and mitochondrial function was inhibited in vivo following ECS. Inhibiting miR-499-5p enhanced PACS2 expression, thereby reversing the structural and functional LV deficits caused by ECS. Cardiac-specific Pacs2 knock-in restored the decreases in mitophagy and mitochondrial energy metabolism caused by ECS via enhancing endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial calcium flux through TRPV1, a nonselective calcium channel. The findings indicate targets for preventing cardiac disease during exposure to extremely cold environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is characterized by tubular inflammation and impaired metabolism, yet effective treatments remain lacking. Here, we identify the purinergic receptor P2Y12 as a key regulator of these pathological processes in renal proximal tubule cells. P2Y12 expression is markedly upregulated after lipopolysaccharide challenge. Mechanistically, P2Y12 activation promotes Gi signaling, suppresses the cAMP-PKA pathway, increases proinflammatory cytokine production, and disrupts gluconeogenesis. Using single-molecule imaging, we directly visualize the interaction between P2Y12 and Gi proteins in tubular cells. Genetic deletion of P2Y12 or pharmacological inhibition with ticagrelor, a clinically approved P2Y12 antagonist, restores cAMP-PKA signaling, attenuates inflammation, and preserves gluconeogenic function, ultimately mitigating kidney injury. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized role of P2Y12 in SA-AKI and highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting P2Y12 signaling with existing drugs. Our study provides new mechanistic insight and suggests a promising strategy for repurposing ticagrelor in the treatment of SA-AKI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Environmental enrichment (EE) has been widely reported to improve functional recovery after stroke, yet its effects on chronic inflammation and white matter pathology remain less well defined. The aim of this study was to investigate whether poststroke EE modulates chronic neuroinflammation and white matter pathology and how these changes relate to functional recovery.Here, we investigated how EE influences the microglial response and myelin integrity during the recovery phase after photothrombotic stroke in male C57Bl/6J mice. Mice were randomized by using a computer-generated sequence into standard environment (SE) or EE housing conditions 2 days poststroke (SE: n = 6; EE: n = 7 for histological analyses; behavioral data unavailable for 2 SE mice). Sensorimotor performance was assessed at 7, 14, and 21 days poststroke using paw placement, foot fault, and limb symmetry tests, integrated into a composite Neuroscore. Housing in EE improved and sustained behavioral recovery up to 21 days. To explore whether specific microglial subpopulations are involved in tissue reorganization and functional outcome, immunofluorescence was performed for ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1), galectin-3 (Gal3), purinergic receptor P2Y12 (P2RY12), cluster of differentiation 68 (CD68), and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), together with Black Gold myelin staining, in peri-infarct and white matter regions. Statistical analyses included correlation analyses and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA).In SE mice, the inflammatory microglial marker Gal3 and the phagocytic marker CD68 correlated positively with infarct size (r = 0.937, p = 0.006; r = 0.845, p = 0.034, respectively), and the accumulation of myelin debris (r = 0.865, p = 0.026) together with loss of myelin coverage (r = -0.907, p = 0.013) followed lesion-driven trajectories. By contrast, these correlations were absent in EE mice (r = -0.028, p = 0.953; r = 0.671, p= 0.099; r = 0.053, p = 0.910; r = 0.292, p = 0.525) indicating that enrichment attenuated lesion-driven inflammatory responses and myelin damage. Importantly, Gal3 expression correlated specifically with peri-infarct myelin debris (r = 0.82, p = 0.048), reinforcing its role as a pro-inflammatory mediator. Finally, correlation analysis between Neuroscore and both microglial and myelin markers revealed a unique positive association between TREM2 coverage in white matter and improved Neuroscore in EE mice (r = 0.890, p = 0.007; ANCOVA p = 0.039).These results support the idea that EE modulates processes of chronic post-stroke inflammation, peri-infarct myelin debris clearance and demyelination, and highlight white matter TREM2-positive microglia as a potential cellular link to functional recovery.© 2026 The Author(s). Neuroprotection published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Chinese Medical Association.
Based on integrated analysis of multi-source heterogeneous biomedical data combined with animal experimental validation, this study systematically explored the advantageous therapeutic pathways and molecular mechanisms of Jianpi Huogu Formula(JPHGF) in treating steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head(SONFH). First, the candidate active components and targets of JPHGF were obtained from the Encyclopedia of Traditional Chinese Medicine(ETCM v 2.0). Meanwhile, the Human Phenotype Ontology(HPO) database was used to identify potential genes associated with the corresponding syndrome pattern. Finally, clinical transcriptomic data were analyzed to obtain relevant targets for the phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral syndrome of SONFH. The intersection of these three types of targets was used to construct a multidimensional &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-syndrome&quot; network. The STRING database was employed for protein-protein interaction(PPI) network analysis, and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis of core targets was performed via the DAVID platform to predict key biological processes and signaling pathways. Pharmacodynamic and mechanistic validation was subsequently conducted using a rat model of SONFH with phlegm-blood stasis obstructing collateral syndrome. Data integration and mining yielded a &quot;disease and syndrome gene-formula and drug target&quot; network containing 146 core targets. Pathway enrichment analysis indicated that JPHGF primarily regulates lipid-coupled intervention in the SONFH phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral phenotype through the purinergic receptor P2Y12(P2RY12)-phosphoinositide 3-kinase(PI3K)-serine/threonine kinase(Akt)-fibrinogen gamma chain(FGG) signaling pathway. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining revealed that rats with SONFH of the phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral type exhibited reduced calcification in femoral head tissues, loosely arranged trabeculae, hypoplastic osteocytes, significantly increased lacunae, and elevated numbers of intramedullary adipocytes. Lipid profile analysis showed elevated triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein(LDL) levels, along with decreased high-density lipoprotein(HDL). Coagulation assays demonstrated shortened activated partial thromboplastin time(APTT) and prothrombin time(PT), as well as prolonged thrombin time(TT) and increased plasma fibrinogen levels. Immunohistochemical staining showed that compared with the normal group, the model group exhibited significantly increased positive expression areas of P2RY12, phosphorylated PI3K(p-PI3K), phosphorylated Akt(p-Akt), and FGG proteins in femoral head tissues(P&lt;0.05). In contrast, all drug-treated groups showed significantly reduced expression of these proteins(P&lt;0.05), with the most pronounced inhibitory effect observed in the high-dose group. These results indicate that JPHGF modulates the P2RY12-PI3K-Akt-FGG signaling axis in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, JPHGF exerts a syndrome-specific therapeutic effect through multi-target and multi-pathway synergistic actions. By particularly suppressing the excessive activation of the P2RY12-PI3K-Akt-FGG signaling axis, it improves lipid and bone metabolism abnormalities in SONFH with phlegm-blood stasis blocking collateral syndrome.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40973402 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40923197 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) represents a particularly aggressive and highly malignant neoplasm, characterized by its unfavorable prognosis and restricted treatment alternatives. The present study aimed to use bioinformatics methodologies to assess transcriptomic data sourced from The Cancer Genome Atlas and the Gene Expression Omnibus to pinpoint biomarkers associated with manganese metabolism that may forecast outcomes in PDAC. Utilizing differential expression analysis, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression and multivariable Cox regression, 12 essential genes were identified that demonstrate notable associations with the prognosis of PDAC (Natriuretic Peptide A, Kynureninase, Integrin Subunit β6, Cytochrome P450 Family 27 Subfamily A Member 1, C-X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 10, Protein Phosphatase 2 Regulatory Subunit Bβ, MET Proto-Oncogene Receptor Tyrosine Kinase, Matrix Metalloproteinase 3, Keratin 19, ATPase Na+/K+ Transporting Subunit α3, Pyridoxal Phosphatase and Interleukin 1 Receptor Accessory Protein Like 2). The validation of these genes was performing using both a training cohort and external datasets (GSE62452 and GSE28735), demonstrating the robustness of the model with area under the curve values of 0.82 and 0.83 in the training set and the external validation cohort, respectively. The results of the present study further elucidated the molecular processes underlying PDAC and highlight the crucial importance of manganese metabolism in its development. These biomarkers may provide significant prognostic insights and facilitate the advancement of targeted therapeutic strategies for PDAC.Copyright: © 2025 Xiong et al.
Clinical evidence indicates that cognitive impairment is a common comorbidity of chronic pain, including neuropathic pain, but the mechanism underlying this comorbidity remains unclear. Neuroinflammation plays a critical role in the development of both neuropathic pain and cognitive impairment. A previous study showed that minocycline, an inhibitor of microglia, ameliorated allodynia and cognitive impairment in partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) mice. Therefore, the current study examined a potential role of brain microglia in allodynia and cognitive impairment in male mice with neuropathic pain due to PSNL. Immunohistochemistry of the microglial markers ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba1), transmembrane protein 119 (TMEM119), and purinergic receptor P2Y12 (P2RY12) was performed to examine microglial status. Two weeks after PSNL, significant microglial activation was observed in the hippocampus and amygdala, but not in the perirhinal cortex. Inhibition of brain-region-specific microglia with a local microinjection of clodronate liposomes was examined to elucidate the involvement of these microglia in PSNL-induced allodynia and cognitive impairment. Local clodronate liposome microinjection to the hippocampus, but not the amygdala, ameliorated allodynia and cognitive impairment. Other changes in the hippocampus of PSNL mice, e.g., decreased hippocampal dendrite length and intersections number, were prevented by microinjection of clodronate liposomes. The current findings suggest hippocampal microglia are related to cognitive impairment and allodynia through neuronal plasticity changes observed in PSNL mice. Blocking hippocampal microglia-mediated neuroinflammation may be a novel approach for reducing comorbidities such as cognitive impairment associated with neuropathic pain.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Despite the emerging consensus that microglia are critical to physiological and pathological brain function, it is unclear how microglial roles, and their underlying mechanisms differ between brain regions. Microglia throughout the brain express common markers, such as the purinergic receptor P2Y12, that delineate them from monocytes and brain macrophages. P2Y12 is a critical sensor of injury but also contributes to the sensing of neuronal activity and remodeling of synapses, with microglial loss of P2Y12 resulting in behavioral deficits. P2Y12 has largely been studied in cortical microglia, despite the fact that a growing body of evidence suggests that microglia exhibit a high degree of regional specialization. Cerebellar microglia, in particular, exhibit transcriptional, epigenetic, and functional profiles that set them apart from their better studied cortical and hippocampal counterparts. Here, we demonstrate that P2Y12 is required for a full microglial response to focal injury in the cortex but not in the cerebellum, suggesting that cerebellar and cortical microglia utilize P2Y12 signaling differently. We therefore investigated the effects of P2Y12 deficiency on cerebellar microglial physiology and function, and overall contributions to synaptic plasticity. We found that P2Y12 deficiency does little to disturb the distinct transcriptomic profiles of cortical and cerebellar microglia and does not alter the morphology, distribution, or homeostatic dynamics of microglia in the cerebellum. However, we show that P2Y12 deficiency impairs cerebellar learning in a delay eyeblink conditioning task, a common test of cerebellar plasticity and circuit function. Overall, our findings suggest not only region-specific roles of microglial P2Y12 signaling in the focal injury response, but also indicate a conserved role for P2Y12 in microglial modulation of plasticity across regions.
The adaptive immune response has a role in Parkinson's disease (PD). Patients with LRRK2 or GBA1 mutations often exhibit distinct clinical characteristics.To evaluate the involvement of adaptive immune response genes in three PD groups: GBA1-PD, LRRK2-PD, and non-carrier (NC)-PD.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with PD were identified using four datasets. Of them, adaptive immune response genes were evaluated using whole-genome-sequencing of 201 unrelated Ashkenazi-Jewish (AJ) PD patients. Potential pathogenic variants were identified, and P2RX7 variants were assessed in 1200 AJ-PD patients. Burden analysis of rare variants (allele frequencies (AF) < 0.01) on disease risk, and association analyses of common variants (AF ≥ 0.01) with disease risk and age-at-onset (AAO) were conducted. AFs were compared to AJ-non-neuro cases reported in gnomAD. Variants associated with PD were further examined in an independent AJ cohort from AMP-PD.Of the four adaptive immune DEGs identified, CD8B2, P2RX7, IL27RA, and ZC3H12A, three common variants in P2RX7 were statistically significant: Tyr155His was associated with NC-PD (allelic OR = 1.15, p = 0.015) ; Arg276His was associated with LRRK2-PD (allelic OR = 2.10, p = 0.037), while Glu496Ala was associated with earlier AAO in LRRK2-PD (p = 0.014). Burden analysis showed no significant effect on PD-risk. In the AMP-PD cohort, odds ratios of the two risk variants were similar to the primary cohort, but did not reach significance, probably due to small control sample size (n = 263).Common variants within P2RX7 are likely associated with PD-risk and earlier AAO. These findings further suggest P2RX7's involvement in PD and its potential interplay with LRRK2.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A total of 480 Jinghong No. 1 laying hens (400 d of age) were randomly assigned to five groups for a 7-week feeding trial: a control group and four treatment groups supplemented with 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, or 2.0 mg/kg pyrroloquinoline quinone disodium salt (PQQ·Na2), respectively. This study evaluated the effects of dietary PQQ·Na2 on production performance, egg quality, calcium and phosphorus metabolism, tibial microstructure, intestinal morphology, and cecal microbiota. Dietary supplementation with 0.5 mg/kg PQQ·Na2 significantly increased laying rate, eggshell strength, and albumen height (P < 0.05). Serum alkaline phosphatase, 25-hydroxyvitamin D3, osteocalcin, and calcium concentrations were increased, whereas calcitonin and parathyroid hormone concentrations were decreased (P < 0.05). Micro-CT analysis showed that the 0.5 mg/kg PQQ·Na2 treatment increased tibial bone mineral density and bone volume fraction and improved trabecular microstructure, although tibial calcium and phosphorus contents were not significantly changed. In addition, 16S rRNA sequencing indicated that PQQ·Na2 altered cecal microbial composition, including changes in the relative abundances of several dominant genera. Overall, supplementation with 0.5 mg/kg PQQ·Na2 improved laying performance, egg quality, and bone health in aged laying hens, potentially through coordinated regulation of calcium-phosphorus metabolism, intestinal morphology, tibial microstructure, and cecal microbiota.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42566702
Fracture risk increases along the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD) to become several-fold higher in patients with CKD G4-5D as compared to the kidney-healthy background population matched for age and sex. In 2023, Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) introduced the term CKD-associated osteoporosis to acknowledge and emphasize the overlap in diagnostic workup and therapeutic choices when treating bone fragility in CKD versus other conditions of osteoporosis, while maintaining the need to individualise the treatment plan with knowledge of CKD. Although evidence-based practice guidelines promote management strategies that are widely accepted in postmenopausal women and elderly men, there is a clear need to perform randomized controlled trials to confirm or disprove the benefits of therapy in the setting of advanced CKD. Lifestyle modification, as a 'low risk/potentially high return' intervention, should be considered in all patients. Current evidence furthermore supports a sequential approach to treatment, where mineral metabolism should be optimised, including parathyroid hormone targeting therapy, before initiating bone targeting drugs. We review the current standards of treatment and discuss novel developments in the pathophysiology, diagnosis, outcome prediction and management of CKD-associated osteoporosis and propose a pragmatic treatment algorithm, pending more definite evidence from appropriately designed and powered clinical trials.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the ERA. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
A 52 year old male, without medical history, had painful shins for several months. X-ray showed lytic bone reaction and blood results showed a primary hyperparathyroidism. The diagnosis was osteitis fibrosa cystica, a rare, benign bone lesion. Increased parathyroid hormone leads to high osteoclastic bone turnover causes osseous deformities and fractures.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Population ageing is associated with increasing rates of osteoporosis, frailty, and functional decline. Vitamin D deficiency and disturbances in calcium-parathyroid hormone (PTH) homeostasis are common in older adults and may contribute to bone loss. However, real-world data describing the frequency and skeletal relevance of these endocrine abnormalities in very old hospitalized populations remain limited.We conducted a retrospective cross-sectional study including 1,202 hospitalized patients aged ≥70 years (mean age 85.0 ± 7.1 years) who underwent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry at a tertiary endocrine and geriatric centre in Germany. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, calcium, parathyroid hormone (PTH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and renal function parameters were extracted from electronic medical records. Hip bone mineral density (BMD) served as the primary skeletal outcome. Multivariable linear regression models were used to assess associations between endocrine parameters and BMD after adjustment for age, sex, body mass index, and living setting.Vitamin D deficiency was highly prevalent in this very old cohort. Vitamin D levels <20 ng/mL were present in 68.6% of participants with available vitamin D measurements, and levels <10 ng/mL in 45.5%. Hypocalcaemia was observed in 39.1% of participants, while elevated PTH levels occurred in 29.9%. The combination of hypocalcaemia and elevated PTH-consistent with secondary hyperparathyroidism-was identified in 13.7% of patients. Participants with elevated PTH had significantly lower hip BMD compared with those without PTH elevation (median -2.3 vs -1.9, p = 0.004). This association remained significant after adjustment for age and sex (β -0.23, 95% CI: -0.45 to -0.01; p = 0.042). In multivariable models, increasing age (β -0.046 per year, 95% CI: -0.063 to -0.029; p < 0.001) and higher PTH levels (β -0.006 per unit, 95% CI: -0.010 to -0.002; p = 0.002) were independently associated with lower hip BMD. In contrast, vitamin D supplementation (β = -0.113, 95% CI -0.493 to 0.266; p = 0.56) and calcium supplementation (β = 0.101, 95% CI -0.556 to 0.758; p = 0.76) were not independently associated with BMD. Living setting was also not independently associated with hip BMD after adjustment (β -0.326, 95% CI: -0.858 to 0.207; p = 0.23). Exploratory analyses suggested a U-shaped relationship between TSH and hip BMD, with both suppressed and elevated TSH levels associated with lower BMD compared with the euthyroid range.Severe vitamin D deficiency is common in very old hospitalized patients and frequently coexists with hypocalcaemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Elevated PTH levels are independently associated with lower hip bone mineral density, highlighting the importance of evaluating the calcium-vitamin D-PTH axis. Both suppressed and elevated TSH levels were associated with lower BMD. These findings underscore the need for comprehensive endocrine assessment of bone health in geriatric patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic inflammation associated with excess adiposity can compromise bone microstructure, increasing fragility and fracture risk. Thus, developing strategies to improve bone health in adults with obesity (OB) is critical, particularly in premenopausal females, to protect bone before menopause. While acute exercise transiently increases bone turnover, beginning with resorption, dairy products containing bone-supporting nutrients may attenuate the bone resorption phase. This secondary analysis assessed the effects of post-exercise Greek yogurt (GY) consumption versus a carbohydrate pudding (CP) on bone status indicator responses in premenopausal females with OB. Using a randomized crossover design, 20 participants (age: 36±5years; BMI: 38.7±7.6kg/m2) completed high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE; 10x1-min cycling intervals at ≥90%HRmax) followed by consumption of GY (247kcal, 14g carbohydrate, 32g protein, 350mg calcium) or isoenergetic CP (247kcal, 62g carbohydrate, 0g protein, 0mg calcium). Trials were separated by 4 weeks. Blood samples were collected pre-exercise (fasted), immediately post-exercise, 1h and 3h postprandially, and 24h post-exercise. Significant time*trial interactions were observed whereby osteoprotegerin (OPG) and osteocalcin (OC) were higher at 1h (p<0.001) and 3h (p=0.03) postprandially, respectively, and parathyroid hormone (PTH) was lower at both 1h (p<0.001) and 3h postprandially (p=0.001) in GY versus CP. Net incremental area under the curve analysis also revealed a significant elevation in PTH across the CP trial compared to GY. Therefore, GY consumption following HIIE may support a more favourable bone turnover response by attenuating resorption (PTH), maintaining bone formation (OC), and supporting anti-resorptive responses (OPG) compared with CP during the 1-3h postprandial period in premenopausal females with OB.
Non-surgical hypoparathyroidism is a rare endocrine disorder associated with substantial long-term morbidity, with limited data from low- and middle-income countries.This single-centre ambispective observational cohort study included 27 patients with non-surgical hypoparathyroidism evaluated at a University Hospital between 2013 and 2025. Clinical manifestations, biochemical parameters, treatment requirements, complications, and outcomes were prospectively recorded. Patients with syndromic features underwent whole-exome sequencing.The median age at presentation was 16 years (range 1-60), with a mean follow-up of 6.9 ± 2.9 years. Neuromuscular manifestations of hypocalcaemia were the most frequent presenting features. Severe hypocalcaemia was observed in 23(85.2%) of patients, with inappropriately low parathyroid hormone levels in all cases. Conventional therapy significantly improved mean serum calcium concentrations to 7.95 ± 0.59 mg/dL. Basal ganglia calcification was detected in 15(55.6%), cataracts in 7 (25.9%), QT prolongation in 5(18.5%), and nephrocalcinosis in 4(14.8%). Four patients had syndromic hypoparathyroidism. Genetic analysis identified a novel homozygous splice-site variant in AIRE (c.308-1G > C), a novel frameshift heterozygous AIRE variant (c.758_771del; p.Lys253SerfsTer13), and a novel heterozygous frameshift duplication in GATA3 (c.159dup; p.Asp54Argfs*250). Calcium dose correlated positively with 24-hour urinary calcium excretion (ρ = 0.59, p = 0.002) and nephrocalcinosis (ρ = 0.45, p = 0.018).Non-surgical hypoparathyroidism is associated with significant long-term neurological and renal complications. Renal morbidity is primarily related to treatment intensity and hypercalciuria, whereas extra-renal manifestations appear independent of urinary calcium losses. Identification of novel AIRE and GATA3 mutations expanded the genetic spectrum of syndromic hypoparathyroidism in Indian patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Neuroinflammation plays a central role in the progression of tauopathy via the glial activation and T cell accumulation in the brain parenchyma. However, the key molecular mediators that link these processes to tau pathology remain poorly understood.Here, we identify C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) as a critical inflammatory mediator that is markedly upregulated in the brains of P301S-mutant tau transgenic mice and associated with regions of severe tau pathology. Spatial transcriptomics revealed that CXCL10 is mainly expressed by disease-associated astrocytes, defining an astrocytic CXCL10-rich inflammatory niche within the tauopathy brain.Genetic ablation of Cxcl10 significantly attenuated soluble and insoluble tau accumulation selectively in 9-month-old female mice, whereas no attenuation of tau accumulation was observed at 11-12 months of age. In addition, Cxcl10 deficiency significantly prolonged survival specifically in female tauopathy mice. Although Cxcl10 deficiency reduced the number of parenchymal T cells in both sexes, this reduction did not explain the female-specific effects. Furthermore, Cxcl10 deficiency did not alter neurodegeneration and motor dysfunction, suggesting that downstream sex-dependent regulatory mechanisms govern tauopathy progression. Moreover, CXCL10-dependent inflammatory activation within the local microenvironments was observed in both sexes. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the sex-dependent effects of CXCL10 remain unclear, these findings suggest that CXCL10 contributes to tau pathology through multiple inflammatory pathways.In summary, our findings identify CXCL10 as a key inflammatory mediator of sex specific tau-associated pathology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic pain is sustained by complex neuroimmune interplay within the spinal cord, yet how astrocytes constrain immune amplification remains poorly understood. Here we identified Src-homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP1; encoded by Ptpn6) as a key suppressor of spinal neuroinflammation and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Astrocyte-specific SHP1 deletion in the spinal dorsal horn induced profound astrocytic morphological changes, increased C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) expression, disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and facilitated the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes into the spinal parenchyma. These infiltrating T cells promoted microglial activation, enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission, increased the excitability of somatostatin (SOM)-positive neurons, and ultimately triggered nociceptive hypersensitivity. Mechanistically, T cell recruitment was governed by an SHP1-dependent regulatory circuit, in which SHP1-mediated Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dephosphorylation restrained Cxcl10 transcription. Blocking the STAT1-CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling axis alleviated T cell infiltration and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, we found that during the development of neuropathic pain, spinal SHP1 expression was significantly downregulated, accompanied by upregulation of CXCL10. Overexpression of SHP1 in astrocytes markedly attenuated astrocyte activation and alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by spared nerve injury (SNI). Collectively, our findings revealed an astrocyte-defined immune checkpoint that restrains neuroinflammatory escalation and pain persistence, emphasizing SHP1 as a promising therapeutic target for chronic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to investigate the ameliorative effects of the traditional Chinese herbal compound formula, Shenge Yifei Formula, on pulmonary inflammation and function in mice with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD) and to elucidate its underlying mechanism from the perspective of inhibiting T helper 1(Th1) immune responses. A COPD model was established in C57BL/6 mice by intratracheal instillation of lipopolysaccharide(LPS) combined with passive smoking exposure. The mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, a tiotropium bromide group, and low-and high-dose Shenge Yifei Formula groups. Following a 5-week intervention, pulmonary function tests and HE staining were performed to assess lung histopathological changes. Flow cytometry, multicolor immunofluorescence, and ELISA were employed to detect the proportion and distribution of CD4~+ C-X-C chemokine receptor 3(CXCR3)~+ Th1 cells in lung tissue, as well as the levels of interferon-γ(IFN-γ), interleukin-12(IL-12), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10(CXCL10) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid(BALF). Additionally, transcriptomic sequencing was conducted on lung tissue from the high-dose Shenge Yifei Formula group. The study demonstrated that, compared with the model group, Shenge Yifei Formula significantly improved pulmonary function in COPD mice and attenuated alveolar structural damage, airway remodeling, and inflammatory cell infiltration in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistic investigations revealed that the high dose of Shenge Yifei Formula markedly reduced the proportion and density of CD4~+CXCR3~+Th1 cells in lung tissue and decreased the levels of IFN-γ, IL-12, and CXCL10 in BALF. Transcriptomic analysis further confirmed that its mechanism of action is closely associated with the modulation of immune pathways such as T cell differentiation and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. In conclusion, Shenge Yifei Formula effectively ameliorates pulmonary inflammation and dysfunction in COPD mice by inhibiting Th1 cell differentiation, recruitment, and the associated cytokine network. Unlike tiotropium bromide, which primarily improves ventilatory function, Shenge Yifei Formula exerts a significant inhibitory effect on the Th1 axis, suggesting a distinct advantage complementary to bronchodilator therapy at the level of immune inflammation. This study provides modern experimental evidence for the clinical application of Shenge Yifei Formula and indicates its therapeutic potential in COPD by concurrently targeting anti-inflammatory and anti-remodeling processes.
A case-control study was conducted in Basrah, Iraq, between September 2023 and December 2024. Stool samples from 110 symptomatic individuals were examined microscopically using direct wet mounts, concentration methods, and permanent staining techniques. Confirmed cases included 43 patients infected with Entamoeba spp. and 30 patients infected with Giardia duodenalis, while 50 apparently healthy individuals served as controls. Hemoglobin and leukocyte differential counts, serum total protein, albumin, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10), malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were evaluated. The results demonstrated significant hematological, biochemical, inflammatory, and oxidative stress alterations among infected individuals. Hemoglobin, serum total protein, and albumin levels were significantly reduced in both amoebiasis and giardiasis patients compared with healthy controls, with more pronounced alterations observed in amoebiasis. IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, CXCL10, MDA, and LDH levels were significantly elevated, whereas increased GSH levels may reflect a compensatory antioxidant response rather than antioxidant depletion, particularly among amoebiasis patients. Giardiasis patients exhibited inflammatory and oxidative stress changes, although these alterations were less pronounced than those observed in amoebiasis. Comparative analysis indicated that amoebiasis induced stronger inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue injury responses than giardiasis, due to the invasive nature of amoebic infection. Overall, Entamoeba spp. infection elicited stronger inflammatory, oxidative stress, and tissue injury responses than giardiasis, providing further insight into the distinct host-parasite interactions associated with these intestinal protozoan infections.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neddylation regulates diverse cellular processes, yet its role in osteoclast-mediated bone resorption is poorly understood. Here, we identify NAE1 (NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1)-mediated neddylation as a critical regulator of postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoclast differentiation through two distinct regulatory mechanisms. Pharmacological inhibition of Nae1 or myeloid-specific genetic ablation of Nae1 attenuated osteoclastogenesis in vitro and ameliorated ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporosis in vivo without impairing osteoblast function. Mechanistically, Nae1 depletion disrupted intracellular iron metabolism, thereby suppressing ferritinophagy initiation in osteoclast precursors. Concurrently, integrated transcriptomics and affinity purification-mass spectrometry revealed ACSL3 as a direct neddylation substrate. Nae1-mediated neddylation modulates monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) biosynthesis, regulating the sensitivity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) to ferroptosis. This dual regulatory mechanism coordinately governs ferritinophagy initiation in iron metabolism and the sensitivity to ferroptosis mediated by ACSL3 neddylation, thereby critically influencing osteoclastogenesis. Clinically, serum MUFA levels positively correlated with bone mineral density (r = 0.329, p < 0.05). These findings support MLN4924, a clinical-stage NAE inhibitor, as a potential therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis and define an Nae1-ACSL3-MUFA-ferroptosis axis regulating osteoclast metabolism.Abbreviations: 4-HNE: 4-hydroxynonenal; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase, tartrate resistant; ACSL3: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 3; ACSL4: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4; BGLAP/OCN: bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; BV/TV: bone volume per total volume; CHX: cycloheximide; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTSK: cathepsin K; DFO: deferoxamine; MDS: myelodysplastic syndrome; MUFA: monounsaturated fatty acid; NAE1: NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NEDD8: NEDD8 ubiquitin like modifier; NFE2L2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NFATC1: nuclear factor of activated T cells 1; OC: osteoclast; OVX: ovariectomy; PUFA: polyunsaturated fatty acid; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUNX2: RUNX family transcription factor 2; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Sp: trabecular separation; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TNFSF11/RANKL: TNF superfamily member 11; UBE2M: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M.
Intra-abdominal infection frequently progresses to sepsis, where the liver is an early and commonly injured organ. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mouse model combined with bulk and single‑cell RNA sequencings, we observed marked neutrophil infiltration in the liver that correlated with injury severity. Sepsis‑associated neutrophils displayed a pro‑inflammatory phenotype and specifically upregulated the divalent metal transporter solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1). Conditional knockout of Slc11a1 in neutrophils (Ly6G-Cre+ Slc11a1f/f) significantly alleviated liver injury and improved survival. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 drives intracellular Fe2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species production via the Fenton reaction, promoting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Hepatocytes were found to secrete C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) through nuclear factor kappa B (NF‑κB) activation, which both recruit neutrophils and stimulates the JAK/STAT1/SLC11A1 axis, thereby enhancing NETs‑mediated pro‑inflammatory macrophage polarization. Clinically, peripheral blood CXCL10 levels correlated with liver injury markers in sepsis patients. Neutralization of CXCL10 using an anti-CXCL10 antibody or liver-specific knockdown of CXCL10 via Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) reduced NETs formation and attenuated liver damage in CLP mice. This study delineates a "CXCL10-SLC11A1-NETs" signaling axis that exacerbates sepsis‑induced liver injury, offering a novel target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Although multi-omics studies have increasingly revealed molecular alterations associated with epilepsy, clinically accessible cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers that are stably detectable and biologically relevant remain scarce. This study aimed to identify measurable biomarkers associated with epilepsy-related molecular alterations. Kainic acid (KA)-induced mouse model, single-cell RNA sequencing, and public transcriptomic datasets identified secreted protein-coding genes associated with inflammation, glial activation, and metabolic dysregulation. Candidate biomarkers were validated across mouse and human datasets and quantified in CSF of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and non-epileptic controls using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Machine learning models were built to evaluate diagnostic performance and interpretability using SHAP analysis. Six proteins (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 [CXCL10], transthyretin [TTR], apolipoprotein E [APOE], apolipoprotein D [APOD], galectin-3-binding protein [LGALS3BP], and lysozyme [LYZ]) were dysregulated in human CSF. CSF levels of CXCL10, APOE, APOD, LGALS3BP, and LYZ were significantly elevated in TLE, whereas TTR was markedly reduced (all p < 0.001). Machine learning models demonstrated promising classification performance, with TTR and CXCL10 emerging as major contributing features. CSF CXCL10 levels positively correlated with preoperative seizure frequency (Spearman's ρ = 0.698, p < 0.0001). Multilevel evidence from animal models and clinical CSF samples indicates that microglial activation and glia-related molecular alterations are associated with TLE progression, and related secreted proteins may provide candidate biomarkers for future translational investigation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42427488 is a review article
Broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) are a promising tool for HIV prevention and treatment. Here we conducted a first-in-human, phase 1 trial of the bispecific 10E8.4/iMab antibody, which consists of a 10E8.4 arm binding the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein membrane-proximal external region and an ibalizumab (iMab) arm binding the human CD4 molecule. 10E8.4/iMab was administered intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC). Safety/tolerability within 2 weeks of 10E8.4/iMab administration (primary outcome) and the pharmacokinetics (PK), antiviral activity, induction of anti-10E8.4/iMab antibodies, longitudinal CD4+ and CD8+ T cell counts and long-term safety (secondary outcomes) were evaluated. 54 participants living with HIV (PLWH) or without HIV (PLWoH) received 10E8.4/iMab or placebo. In arm 1, PLWoH received 10E8.4/iMab 0.3 mg kg-1 IV, 1 mg kg-1 SC, or 1 mg kg-1 IV (n = 3 each). In arm 2, PLWoH received 10E8.4/iMab 3 mg kg-1 IV, 10 mg kg-1 IV or 30 mg kg-1 IV (n = 6 each). In arms 3/3a, PLWH received 10E8.4/iMab 10 mg kg-1 IV (n = 3) or 30 mg kg-1 IV (n = 6). In arm 4, PLWoH were randomized to receive 10E8.4/iMab or placebo 2.5 mg kg-1 SC or 10 mg kg-1 SC (n = 9 each). Participants in arms 1-3 were not randomized. No treatment-related serious adverse events (AEs) or AEs ≥ grade 3 were reported. The most common solicited AEs were tenderness (10/54, 18.5%), fatigue (18/54, 33.3%) and headache (12/54, 22.2%). Related grade 2 local and systemic solicited AEs occurred in one and six participants, respectively. Three of nine PLWH developed a generalized rash 8-12 days after infusion that resolved within 9-16 days. The primary objective of the study to evaluate the safety/tolerability of 10E8.4/iMab was met. These data support further study of 10E8.4/iMab to expand HIV treatment and prevention options. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03875209 .© 2026. The Author(s).
Melatonin is traditionally classified as a melanogenesis inhibitor. However, in some tissues it has been recently found to stimulate melanogenesis, paradoxically, with a parallel decrease of tyrosinase activity. This study explores this paradox by examining melatonin's potential role in pigment formation. Pigments were synthesized from DL-DOPA and melatonin via autooxidation or enzymatic reaction with tyrosinase. The resulting biopolymers were characterized using dry-mass determination, Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) spectroscopy, potentiometric titration, Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS), and spectrophotometry. The biological effect of melatonin supplementation on the mitochondrial activity of primary melanocyte cell culture (HEMn-DP) after solar-simulated illumination was assessed using the MTT assay. The presence of melatonin during autooxidation increased the overall melanin free radical signal as determined using EPR, however did not impact the signal during enzymatic synthesis. More so, enzymatic oxidation of melatonin alone yielded a detectable pigment (Melat-Mel) with about 4.4% efficiency. EPR spectra of melatonin-derived polymers and copolymers in the presence of zinc (II) ions and after thermal treatment demonstrated behavior typical to melanin pigments. UV-Vis spectrometry showed a change in the absorption profile for copolymer (DOPA/Melat-Mel) with higher UV and lower VIS absorbance compared with homopolymer (DOPA-Mel). DLS measurements confirmed the formation of supramolecular aggregation for all the examined variants. Potentiometric titration showed that copolymer with melatonin exhibits the highest buffering capacity among examined pigments. Loading of HEMn-DP cells with melatonin yielded a dose-dependent reduction of mitochondrial activity following solar-simulated light treatment with no dark toxicity observed. The study provides a chemical model that may help explain part of the "melatonin paradox" in pigmentation, while emphasizing that direct confirmation of melatonin-containing pigment formation in cells remains to be established.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study was conducted to determine whether early dietary supplementation with an intermediate vitamin D metabolite could improve metabolic efficiency and liver function in rainbow trout. Over a 20-week feeding trial from first feeding, rainbow trout were fed either a control diet containing vitamin D3 alone or a diet additionally supplemented with 80 µg/kg 25-OH-D3. Plasma analysis confirmed that 25-OH-D3 was efficiently absorbed, with detectable levels of 25-OH-D3 and its epimer, indicating enhanced vitamin D status. While growth was similar between the experimental groups, fish receiving 25-OH-D3 exhibited a significantly improved feed efficiency, indicating a better nutrient utilization. Whole-body composition analysis revealed higher protein and ash content and reduced lipid levels, consistent with transcriptomic evidence of modulated cholesterol and bile acid metabolism. Transcriptome profiling revealed 1301 differentially expressed genes in the liver, with strong modulation of pathways related to vitamin D metabolism, lipid handling, bile acid recycling, and ferroptosis. Additional signatures suggested improved nutrient partitioning and metabolic efficiency, potentially mediated by transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms, including mRNA splicing. Consistent with its role on genome regulation via the vitamin D receptor, the data support the role of an active vitamin D system as a key potent modulator of efficient hepatic metabolism and function supporting improved feed utilization and long-term health outcomes in aquaculture.© 2026. The Author(s).
Amphibian skin is a multifunctional physiological interface involved in cutaneous respiration, water balance, immune defense, pigmentation, and environmental sensing. High-altitude anurans from the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau (QXP) provide useful models for examining skin-related trait variation under complex environmental conditions. Here, we compared dorsal skin morphology, antioxidant- and pigmentation-related enzyme activities, and skin transcriptomic profiles between two high-altitude anurans, Rana kukunoris and Nanorana pleskei, sampled from lower- and higher-altitude localities. The two species exhibited distinct, trait-specific skin-response profiles. Histological comparisons based on individual-level values did not reach statistical significance, although the group means showed species-specific directional variation. In R. kukunoris, the higher-altitude group had a greater mean epidermal thickness but lower mean dermal thickness, pigment-cell abundance, and pigment-cell area. In N. pleskei, the higher-altitude group had greater mean numbers of epidermal and dermal pigment cells, granular glands, and mucous glands, but lower mean dermal thickness, granular gland area, and pigment-cell area. The biochemical responses were more pronounced: peroxidase activity was elevated in higher-altitude R. kukunoris, whereas tyrosinase activity was markedly elevated in higher-altitude N. pleskei. Transcriptomic analyses identified species-specific candidate functional signatures related to redox regulation, extracellular matrix organization, immune and inflammatory signaling, DNA repair-related processes, and melanogenesis-associated regulation. Overall, species-associated differentiation was more evident at the biochemical and transcriptomic levels than in the measured histological traits. The descriptive histological patterns, together with the enzyme-activity and transcriptomic profiles, suggest that the two species may differ in the relative contributions of structural, antioxidant, and pigmentation-related processes under multifactorial high-altitude environmental conditions. These findings provide a physiological framework for understanding skin-response variation in plateau amphibians without attributing the observed patterns to a single environmental driver.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Endometriosis (EM) is an intractable gynecological condition with uncertain etiology. Gut microbiota have been increasingly implicated in EM, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identify a gut microbe-metabolite-uterus axis that drives EM pathogenesis. In our EM cohort, we found that the gut bacterium Olsenella profusa (O. profusa) and metabolite lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) (16:0) were significantly enriched in patients with EM and showed positive correlation. In a mouse model of EM, oral gavage with O. profusa accelerated ectopic lesion growth through producing LPC (16:0) via its phospholipase, an effect recapitulated by LPC (16:0) alone. Mechanistically, LPC (16:0) promotes EM by inducing endometrial stromal cell proliferation and migration through the secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)-PI3K-AKT pathway. Moreover, O. profusa and LPC (16:0) show potential as early diagnostic biomarkers. This study suggests a causal role for the gut O. profusa-LPC (16:0) metabolic axis in EM progression and identifies promising targets for diagnosis and therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A series of 4-(4-fluorobenzyl)piperazine derivatives (2a-u) were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as potential tyrosinase inhibitors. In vitro enzymatic assays using L-DOPA as a substrate revealed that several derivatives exhibited higher inhibitory activity than kojic acid under identical experimental conditions. Among them, compounds 2 h (4-NO2) and 2n (2-NO2) were identified as the most active derivatives, with IC50 values of 85.24 and 89.38 μM, respectively, compared with 206.42 μM for kojic acid. Structure-activity relationship analysis revealed that a short methylene linker, nitro substitution, and limited steric bulk were favorable for tyrosinase inhibition. Molecular docking studies supported these findings by demonstrating favorable interactions of the active compounds with key residues within the tyrosinase binding pocket. The biological profile of compound 2 h was further investigated through melanin content, cytotoxicity, and antioxidant activity assays. Melanin content studies revealed concentration-dependent biphasic effects on melanogenesis, while cytotoxicity assays demonstrated low toxicity toward 3 T3 cells. DPPH radical scavenging experiments indicated weak antioxidant activity for both compound 2 h and kojic acid. Overall, the combined biological, SAR, and molecular docking results identify compound 2 h as a promising lead structure for the further development of tyrosinase inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42555868 is a review article
Tinnitus is a multifactorial condition with complex and not fully elucidated pathophysiology. Emerging evidence suggests that vitamin D deficiency and neuroinflammatory mechanisms may contribute to tinnitus development. Although vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene polymorphisms have been investigated in otologic disorders, their association with chronic tinnitus remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the relationship between VDR polymorphisms and chronic tinnitus susceptibility.This case-control study included 208 participants (104 chronic tinnitus patients and 104 healthy controls). Four VDR polymorphisms (rs2228570/FokI, rs1544410/BsmI, rs7975232/ApaI, and rs731236/TaqI) were genotyped using real-time PCR. Genotype and allele frequencies were analyzed under dominant, recessive, and additive models. Haplotype distributions were estimated using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm. Bonferroni correction was applied for multiple testing. Cis-eQTL analyses were conducted using GTEx v8 data, and functional annotations were assessed using public databases.Among the analyzed variants, only FokI showed a significant association with chronic tinnitus at the allelic level after multiple comparison correction (p = 0.011). The C allele was more frequent in patients, whereas the T allele appeared protective. No significant associations were observed for BsmI, ApaI, and TaqI. Haplotype analyses yielded nominal findings that did not remain significant after correction. Cis-eQTL evaluation revealed no significant relationship between FokI genotype and VDR expression levels in brain tissues or whole blood. Functional annotation suggested a potential effect on receptor isoform structure.The VDR FokI polymorphism may be associated with susceptibility to chronic tinnitus. However, the underlying biological mechanisms remain to be elucidated and require further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
This study investigated the in vitro effects of varying extracellular calcium concentrations on the proliferation and multilineage differentiation of Stem Cells from Human Exfoliated Deciduous Teeth (SHEDs), aiming to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.SHEDs were cultured in induction media supplemented with extracellular calcium concentrations ranging from 1.8 mM to 16.2 mM. Proliferation was evaluated using cell viability assays. Osteogenic differentiation was quantified via Alizarin Red S assays, while adipogenic differentiation was assessed by Oil Red O staining. Quantitative real-time PCR (q-PCR) determined the transcript expression of osteogenic marker genes (RUNX2, COL1A1, ALP, OPN, OSX, OCN) and adipogenic marker genes (LPL and PPARγ). To identify the specific pathways involved, pharmacological inhibitors was executed using nifedipine (an L-type voltage-gated calcium channel [L-VGCC] blocker), NPS2143 (a calcium-sensing receptor [CaSR] antagonist), and U0126 (a MEK/ERK signaling inhibitor).Extracellular calcium concentration did not significantly affect SHEDs proliferation. Regarding osteogenesis, elevated calcium concentrations significantly enhanced physical calcium deposition and matrix mineralization, whereas concurrently downregulated the expressions of RUNX2 and COL1A1. Pharmacological assays showed that L-VGCC blockade significantly abolished calcium induced matrix mineralization. Regarding adipogenesis, elevated calcium consistently downregulated both LPL and PPARγ expressions. Application of the CaSR antagonist completely reversed this suppression. Conversely, L-VGCC inhibition partially restored LPL expression, while calcium supplementation successfully rescued LPL expression under conditions of MEK/ERK pathway blockade.Extracellular calcium exerts a dual, pathway specific regulatory control on SHEDs differentiation. It drives osteogenic mineralization predominantly through L-VGCC-mediated calcium influx while suppressing adipogenic lineage commitment via CaSR activation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Several protocols have been reported for inducing parathyroid differentiation from human pluripotent stem cells in vitro. However, the efficiency of terminal differentiation into mature parathyroid cells remains limited. In this study, we performed comparative transcriptomic analyses of parathyroid lineage-induced human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to clarify their developmental stage identity. Comparative analyses with adult parathyroid adenoma, used as a surrogate reference for mature parathyroid cells, and thymuses revealed that the differentiated cells exhibited gene expression patterns consistent with early-stage parathyroid and thymus development, including TBX1, which is required for fate determination of the parathyroid-thymic primordium. On the other hand, the expression of mature parathyroid marker genes, such as PTH, GCM2, and the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR), remained markedly lower than that in parathyroid adenoma. Under the differentiation conditions and durations examined, application of modified differentiation protocols did not significantly enhance the expression of mature parathyroid markers, although pharyngeal pouch developmental gene expression was maintained. Our findings indicate that current in vitro differentiation systems effectively induce the parathyroid-thymic primordium stage, while a developmental bottleneck at the transition from the primordium toward parathyroid lineage commitment remains.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) usually has a high mortality and disability rate, and inflammatory stimulation is an important risk factor for CIRI. ISL LIM Homeobox 1 (ISL1) is involved in the regulation of inflammatory response, and its role in CIRI progression has not been reported. Here, we established an animal model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) and found that ISL1 was up-regulated in the peri-infarct cortex of tMCAO/R mice (log2FC = 4.7, adj. p < 0.01) and improved neurological dysfunction and reduced infarct size. At the same time, we found that ISL1 suppressed the expression of proinflammatory markers in the peri-infarct cortex. Consistently, in an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced microglial HMC3 cell model, ISL1 overexpression significantly curtailed the inflammatory response, as evidenced by reduced iNOS and CD16/32 expression. Mechanistically, dual-luciferase and ChIP assays confirmed that ISL1 promotes the transcriptional activation of Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) by enhancing H3K4me3 enrichment at its promoter region. Furthermore, GST pull-down analyses suggested that this transcriptional regulation is likely mediated through the physical interaction between ISL1 and WDR5, which may recruit the MLL complex to facilitate H3K4me3 deposition. Collectively, our findings indicate that the ISL1-WDR5-H3K4me3 axis contributes to the upregulation of STC1, thereby attenuating neuroinflammation and CIRI-induced brain injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42495460 is a review article
Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) is an immune checkpoint in macrophages that promotes tumor immune evasion and resistance to immunotherapy. This study aims to elucidate the functional role and underlying regulatory mechanisms of STC1 in gastric cancer (GC) and its associated tumor microenvironment.GC cells were transfected with STC1-knockout (KO-STC1) and overexpression (OE-STC1) plasmids. To evaluate the effect of STC1 expression on the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) into the M2 phenotype, KO-STC1 GC cells were cocultured with M0 macrophages. To understand whether STC1 modulates the malignant behaviors of GC cells through the promotion of TAM polarization into the M2 state and elucidate the regulatory mechanisms, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8), Transwell, Western blotting (WB), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were performed.In patients with GC, the expression level of STC1 markedly increased (P <0.0001), which resulted in an unfavorable clinical prognosis. Dysregulated STC1 bound integrin subunit beta 6 (ITGB6) to modulate the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) pathway in vitro and in vivo, which influenced the malignant behavior of GC cells, including proliferation, migration, invasion, apoptosis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). STC1 modulated the polarization of TAMs into the M2 state, which affected the proliferation, invasion, and EMT of GC cells. KO-STC1 GC cells cocultured with M0 macrophages inhibited the progression of GC through the inactivation of the Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) pathway in TAMs, which suppressed M2 polarization and the secretion of interleukin-10 (IL-10).STC1 binds ITGB6 and modulates the progression of GC through the activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway, polarization of TAMs into the M2 state, and secretion of IL-10 via the JAK2/STAT3 pathway. This study may imply that STC1 has the potential to be a new target to suppress the development of GC.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42483646 is a review article
Autosomal dominant hypocalcemia with hypercalciuria (ADHH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by gain-of-function mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) gene. It is characterized by hypocalcemia, inappropriately low parathyroid hormone (PTH), and renal hypercalciuria. We describe a 13-year-old boy who was diagnosed with congenital hypoparathyroidism, persistent hypercalciuria, and mild medullary nephrocalcinosis. Despite calcium and vitamin D supplementation, hypercalciuria was aggravated. Genetic testing revealed a heterozygous c.2518G>A (p.Gly840Ser) mutation in the CaSR gene, classified as likely pathogenic (American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) Class 4). Supplementation was discontinued, and hydrochlorothiazide and potassium citrate were initiated to reduce urinary calcium and alkalinize urine. At the one-year follow-up, renal function remained preserved with no progression of nephrocalcinosis. This case underscores the importance of considering ADHH in children with hypocalcemia, suppressed PTH, and renal hypercalciuria. Early genetic testing prevents misdiagnosis and enables targeted therapy to mitigate long-term renal complications.Copyright © 2026, Makki et al.
Spirulina platensis chelating peptide has broad application prospects as a new calcium supplement, yet its structural information remains unclear. A novel calcium-binding peptide was successfully separated and characterized via multispectral techniques and mass spectrometry. The calcium-binding capacity (CBC) of Spirulina platensis peptide purified using hydroxyapatite affinity chromatography (SPH) reached 14.32 ± 1.41 μg/mg, which was associated with the predominance of peptide exhibiting a molecular weight of less than 1 kDa. Moreover, Ca2+ have been demonstrated to promote folding and aggregation of peptide chains by creating coordination bonds with the carboxyl groups of aspartic acid (Asp) and glutamic acid (Glu), thus improving orderliness and structural stability of the peptide backbone. Two potential calcium-binding peptides (SGEDAAE and GEDAAEA) were predicted, and further confirmed that hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions exerted effects in the binding process with the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR). These results offer substantial support for further developing microalgae peptide-based calcium supplements.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Type I collagen is the most abundant form of collagen and forms the organic component of bone. Pathogenic variants in genes encoding its constituent polypeptide chains, COL1A1 and COL1A2, can result in autosomal dominant osteogenesis imperfecta and other connective tissue disorders. Although osteogenesis imperfecta is clinically well-described, the molecular basis of clinical heterogeneity among patients is not well understood. We undertook a global proteomic approach to uncover alterations in osteogenesis imperfecta patient bone-derived stromal cells as well as their secretome. We performed multiplexed tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomics analysis of cells from three patients along with three controls to investigate global changes in the proteome of these cells as well as their secretome. This was combined with analysis of proline hydroxylation to catalog the modification of type I collagens in this disorder. We observed significant changes in both the cellular and secreted proteomes including the levels of proteins involved in osteoblast proliferation such as nitric oxide synthase-interacting protein (NOSIP), secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SRFP1) and transforming growth factor beta-1-induced transcript 1 protein (TGFB1I1) as well as others involved in endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis such as protein disulfide isomerase A6 (PDIA6) and reticulophagy regulator 3 (RETREG3). Notably, a number of alterations were observed in proline hydroxylation in intracellular collagens - COL1A1 and COL1A2. These findings expand our current understanding of the cellular pathophysiology in osteogenesis imperfecta and could lead to the identification of novel therapeutic targets.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sepsis-associated acute liver injury (SALI) is an independent risk factor that significantly worsens sepsis prognosis, underscoring the need for mechanistic insights to guide targeted therapy. Accordingly, we established a sepsis mouse model via cecum ligation and puncture (CLP) and performed in vitro experiments using murine hepatic Kupffer cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Here, we found that growth arrest and DNA damage 45A (GADD45A) was highly expressed in liver tissues of CLP-induced septic mice, and its knockdown ameliorated liver injury and systemic inflammation. Mechanistically, GADD45A knockdown upregulated ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha (ATP5A1) expression by disrupting the interaction between tripartite motif-containing 25 (TRIM25) and ATP5A1, thereby suppressing pyroptosis and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in LPS + ATP-stimulated murine Kupffer cells. Additionally, Aly/REF export factor (ALYREF), a 5-methylcytosine (m5C) reader, was upregulated in septic liver tissues and LPS + ATP-treated Kupffer cells. ALYREF likely stabilized GADD45A mRNA in an m5C-dependent manner, thereby promoting its expression. ALYREF knockdown inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent macrophage pyroptosis and alleviated SALI, likely by modulating the GADD45A/TRIM25/ATP5A1 axis. Notably, the increased expression of ALYREF in SALI appeared to be driven by activated STAT3 signaling. In conclusion, ALYREF, likely driven by activated STAT3 signaling, appears to activate the GADD45A/TRIM25/ATP5A1 axis in an m5C-dependent manner to promote NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent macrophage pyroptosis, thereby contributing to the development of SALI and suggesting a promising therapeutic strategy for targeted SALI intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Normal lung development is an intricate process that depends on temporally regulated mesenchymal signaling to coordinate structural maturation, cell differentiation, and extracellular matrix organization. How endogenous Wnt modulators, such as secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1), influence mesenchymal behavior in the developing lung remains incompletely characterized, but a deeper understanding could reveal potential therapeutic targets relevant for neonatal lung diseases.Using a genetic Sfrp1 knockout model, we studied the role of Sfrp1 in distal lung development and mesenchymal signaling.Histological and morphometric studies were performed to compare lung developmental stages in the Sfrp1-/- and Sfrp1+/+ mice. Single cell RNA sequencing and proximity ligation in situ hybridization studies determined cell specific Sfrp1 expression in early development. Bulk RNA sequencing and pathway enrichment analysis detected differentially expressed genes in mesenchymal cells in the saccular stage of development.Ablation of Sfrp1 led to abnormal morphometry in the canalicular, saccular, and alveolar stages of lung development. Single cell RNA sequencing and proximity ligation in situ hybridization studies confirmed expression of Sfrp1 in mesenchymal cells, predominantly fibroblasts, in early development. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed changes in signaling pathways within the whole lung and PDGFRα+ cells in the saccular stage.These findings provide new evidence that the Wnt signaling molecules exert control over sacculation and alveologenesis through fibroblast signaling and differentiation. These results provide an important link between studies demonstrating Wnt signaling patterns in alveologenesis, aberrant Wnt signaling in BPD, and Sfrp1 mediated control of fibroblast differentiation after injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Melanoma is a highly aggressive cancer with a strong metastatic potential, and therapeutic resistance remains a major clinical challenge despite advances in targeted therapies and immunotherapies. Secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (sFRP1) exhibits context-dependent roles in cancer; however, its function in metastatic melanoma remains poorly defined. This study investigated the role of sFRP1 in melanoma progression and evaluated the anti-tumor effects of the pharmacological compound WAY-316606. Methods: sFRP1 expression was quantified in metastatic melanoma cell lines, xenograft models, and TCGA datasets. The anti-tumor effects of WAY-316606 on cell viability, cell cycle progression, cell migration and invasion, and expression of extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes were assessed using WST assays, flow cytometry, wound healing and transwell invasion assays, and quantitative real-time PCR, respectively. Results: sFRP1 expression was consistently elevated in metastatic melanoma cell lines, xenograft models, and TCGA datasets, and high sFRP1 expression was associated with poor overall survival. WAY-316606 selectively suppressed melanoma cell viability with minimal cytotoxic effects on non-tumorigenic cells, and induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, WAY-316606 markedly impaired the migratory and invasive capacities of metastatic melanoma cells, accompanied by downregulation of key ECM remodeling and fibrosis-related genes, including VIM, CCN2, FN1, and TGFBI. sFRP1 knockdown partially phenocopied the anti-migratory and gene expression effects of WAY-316606. Conclusions: Collectively, our findings identify sFRP1-asscoaited signaling contribute to aggressive melanoma phenotypes and highlight the therapeutic potential of its pharmacological inhibition using WAY-316606.
Vesicular stomatitis virus is a zoonotic rhabdovirus that infects livestock and can cause economically important disease. Tripartite motif-containing 25 (TRIM25) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in innate antiviral signaling, but its role in pigs during vesicular stomatitis virus infection is unclear.To define the mechanism by which swine TRIM25 restricts vesicular stomatitis virus replication.Porcine 3D4/21 cells with TRIM25 overexpression or knockdown were infected with vesicular stomatitis virus. Viral replication was quantified by immunoblotting, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, and 50% tissue culture infectious dose assays. Type I interferon signaling was assessed by transcript quantification, interferon-beta and interferon-stimulated response element reporter assays, and co-immunoprecipitation. Viral RNA binding was tested by RNA immunoprecipitation.TRIM25 overexpression reduced viral RNA and infectious titers, whereas TRIM25 knockdown increased replication (p < 0.01). TRIM25 increased interferon-beta and interferon-stimulated gene expression and enhanced interferon-beta and interferon-stimulated response element promoter activity (p < 0.01). Mechanistically, TRIM25 promoted Lys63-linked ubiquitination of RIG-I and increased phosphorylation of TANK-binding kinase 1 and interferon regulatory factor 3. TRIM25 also bound vesicular stomatitis virus genomic RNA, and binding required the C-terminal region.Porcine TRIM25 restricts vesicular stomatitis virus replication by amplifying type I interferon signaling and directly binding viral RNA.© 2026 The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
Secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) exerts a context-dependent dual role in cancer, and its epigenetic silencing drives pro-tumorigenic non-canonical Wnt activation, a potentially promising therapeutic target for advanced malignancies. In this study, a preliminarily validated 3D SFRP1 model was built by comprehensive computational approach. High-throughput virtual screening of a commercial compound library identified a common core scaffold, which was rationally design to synthesize lead compound. The target molecule was synthesized via organic synthetic approaches. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assays indicated concentration-dependent and specific binding of compound L1 to SFRP1 with a dissociation constant (KD) of 79.1 nM. Furthermore, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation provided insights into the interaction between compound L1 and SFRP1 at the molecular level and in simulated physiological conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
This study aimed to examine the association between serum Secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 1 (SFRP1) levels and the presence of coronary artery calcification (CAC) in patients with Stage 5D chronic kidney disease (CKD) undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (MHD). A case-control study was conducted involving 76 patients with CKD Stage 5D undergoing MHD. Participants were stratified into three groups based on Coronary Artery Calcium Scores (CACS): non-calcified (CACS < 100), low-score calcification (100 ? CACS ? 400), and high-score calcification (CACS > 400). Serum concentrations of SFRP1, hemoglobin, albumin, ferritin, C-reactive protein (CRP), calcium, phosphorus, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and intact parathyroid hormone were measured. Correlations between biochemical parameters and CAC were evaluated, and multivariate linear regression analysis was employed to identify independent risk factors for CAC. CAC was detected in 60.5 % of the study population. Serum SFRP1 concentrations were significantly elevated in the high-score calcification group compared to both the low-score and non-calcified groups, with the lowest levels observed in the non-calcified group (p < 0.01). Positive correlations were observed between CAC and serum levels of SFRP1 levels, phosphorus, age, hemoglobin, alkaline phosphatase, and age. Multivariate linear regression analysis identified serum SFRP1 and phosphorus levels as independent risk factors for CAC in this population (p < 0.05). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis demonstrated that serum SFRP1 levels yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.898 (95 % CI: 0.826-0.970, p < 0.0001) for predicting CAC, with a Youden index of 0.738 at a cut-off value of 4.242 ng/ml. Elevated serum SFRP1 levels were associated with an increased likelihood of CAC in patients with Stage 5D CKD undergoing MHD. These findings suggest that SFRP1 may represent a potential biomarker for identifying patients at risk for CAC in this population.
The Nipah virus (NiV) matrix (M) protein, essential for viral assembly, has been increasingly recognized for its potential immunomodulatory functions. However, its role in modulating the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling pathway-a central regulator of inflammation and innate immunity-remains poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that NiV-M significantly promotes activation of the classical NF-κB pathway. Our data showed that NiV-M interacts with multiple cellular signaling molecules of the NF-κB pathway, including tripartite motif containing 25 (TRIM25), inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase subunit alpha (IKKα), nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cell inhibitor alpha (IκBα), and the p65 subunit of NF-κB. Further analyses revealed that NiV-M enhanced the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of TRIM25, facilitating its interaction with both retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2), thereby promoting K63-linked ubiquitination of RIG-I and TRAF2. Moreover, NiV-M strengthened the interaction between IKKα and IKKβ, leading to enhanced IKK complex activity and accelerated degradation of IκBα. In addition, NiV-M promoted phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of p65, thereby amplifying NF-κB-driven gene expression. In summary, our results demonstrate a multifaceted strategy by which NiV-M regulates the NF-κB pathway, a mechanism that may contribute to NiV pathogenesis via inflammatory dysregulation. These findings suggest potential therapeutic approaches for alleviating symptoms associated with immunopathology of NiV by targeting virus-host interactions.IMPORTANCEThis study reveals a previously unknown role of the Nipah virus matrix (M) protein in driving excessive inflammation, a key factor in the virus's high mortality. We discovered that the M protein acts as a master switch, hijacking a central human immune pathway (NF-κB) at multiple points to trigger a "cytokine storm." This explains how the virus causes severe tissue damage and organ failure in infected individuals. By identifying the specific human proteins targeted by the M protein, our work establishes that this viral component functions not only in viral assembly but also in the dysregulation of host inflammatory responses, thereby providing a new perspective on its potential contribution to severe NiV-associated disease. These findings open new avenues for treating NiV infections by developing drugs that target these interactions, potentially controlling the devastating inflammation rather than just the virus itself.
Fibrosis represents a complex pathological process that culminates in organ damage and failure. Cataract, specifically anterior subcapsular cataract (ASC) and posterior capsular opacity (PCO), is a common manifestation of ocular fibrosis, primarily driven by the epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Tripartite motif containing 25 (TRIM25), an E3 ubiquitin ligase and member of the TRIM protein family, plays a pivotal role in various biological processes including protein homeostasis, signaling pathways, immune responses, and cell growth. This study aims to elucidate the role of TRIM25 in LECs EMT and its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby identifying a novel therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of fibrotic cataracts.To investigate the expression level of TRIM25, we utilized an TGF-β2-induced human lens epithelial cell (SRA01/04) EMT model and employed lentivirus mediated knockdown techniques to examine the effects of TRIM25 on cellular proliferation, migration, and EMT in lens epithelial cells. These effects were assessed using Western blot analysis, wound healing assays, EdU incorporation assays, and immunoprecipitation experiments. Additionally, we explored the interaction between TRIM25 and PCBP1, as well as the regulation of the Notch signaling pathway.TRIM25 was found to be up-regulated in the TGF-β2-induced EMT model of lens epithelial cells. The knockdown of TRIM25 significantly attenuated the TGF-β2-induced EMT process, leading to a reduction in cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, TRIM25 interacts with PCBP1 and potentially targets PCBP1 for degradation via its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, thereby activating the Notch signaling pathway and promoting EMT along with associated cellular behavior changes.TRIM25 activates the Notch signaling pathway through the targeted degradation of PCBP1, thereby promoting the epithelial-mesenchymal transition and fibrosis in lens epithelial cells. These findings suggest that TRIM25 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of fibrotic cataracts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Renal fibrosis is a representative pathological trait of renal aging and chronic kidney disease. However, the regulatory mechanisms of histone deacetylation in renal fibrosis remain unclear. A mouse renal fibrosis model was constructed using the unilateral ureteric obstruction method, and HK2 cells treated with TGF‑β were used to create a renal fibrosis cell model. Low expression of Klotho in renal fibrosis is associated with histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3)‑mediated histone deacetylation. After TGF‑β treatment, H3K9ac and Klotho binding was markedly decreased, while H3K9ac was enriched in the Klotho group after the addition of the HDAC3 inhibitor. Further experiments demonstrated that HDAC3 binding activates transcription factor 3, inhibits Klotho transcription and promotes cellular renal fibrosis. The absence of Klotho may activate the Wnt/β‑catenin and NF‑κB pathways to promote oxidative stress and inflammation, thereby exacerbating the fibrotic process. HDAC3 binds to ATF3 to transcriptionally repress Klotho, leading to activation of the Wnt/β‑catenin and NF‑κB pathways and exacerbation of renal fibrosis.
Endocrine fibroblast growth factors (FGF19 subfamily) play a key role in regulating metabolic homeostasis in vertebrates. However, their functional diversification in salmonids remains poorly understood. In this study, we conducted an integrative characterisation of Fgf19 and Fgf21 signalling in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) by combining phylogenetic, structural and expression analyses. Phylogenetic analyses revealed the conservation of single fgf19 and fgf21 genes, despite the extensive expansion of receptors post-Ss4R (salmonid-specific fourth-round whole genome duplication). Structural modelling and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated the stable interactions of both ligands to multiple Fgfr isoforms, with receptor-specific energetic profiles and conserved core interaction residues. Tissue expression profiling revealed clear differences from mammalian models, such as predominant hepatic fgf19 expression and the absence of hepatic fgf21 under basal conditions. In addition, there were complex and tissue-dependent distributions of fgfr and klotho transcripts. These findings support a receptor-driven diversification model of endocrine Fgf signalling in salmonids, suggesting enhanced endocrine plasticity associated with the retention of receptors following post-genomic duplication. Taken together, our findings provide new insights into the structural and regulatory organisation of endocrine Fgf signalling, as well as its potential role in metabolic regulation in rainbow trout.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Klotho is an anti-aging protein involved in phosphate homeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, and tissue regeneration. Although circulating Klotho levels decline with chronological aging, its response to acute disuse- induced skeletal muscle alterations remains unclear. In this experimental study, sixteen male Wistar rats (3 months old) were randomly assigned to a control group (n = 8) or an intermittent hindlimb unloading group (3 h/day for 15 consecutive days) (n = 8). Skeletal muscle morphology was evaluated in the extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and soleus muscles using hematoxylin-eosin staining, and muscle fiber cross-sectional area (CSA) was quantified with ImageJ software. Interstitial connective tissue changes were qualitatively assessed using Masson's trichrome staining, and serum Klotho concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Intermittent unloading induced histological features consistent with early disuse-associated muscle remodeling in both EDL and soleus muscles, accompanied by a modest reduction in muscle fiber CSA compared with controls. Serum Klotho levels were significantly lower in the unloading group (7.44 ± 0.54 vs 8.21 ± 0.81, p = 0.045), and a moderate positive correlation was observed between circulating Klotho concentrations and mean muscle fiber CSA (r = 0.58, p = 0.02). Mild interstitial connective tissue expansion was qualitatively noted in the soleus muscle following unloading. These findings suggest that short-term intermittent hindlimb unloading in young adult rats is associated with reduced circulating Klotho levels and mild skeletal muscle remodeling. Serum Klotho may represent a candidate biomarker of early disuse-associated muscle alterations; however, further studies are required to confirm its clinical applicability. These results may have potential implications for orthopedic conditions characterized by immobilization, including fracture treatment, casting, and postoperative rehabilitation.
Chronic morphine consumption induces oxidative stress and renal dysfunction, effects that may be exacerbated by aging-related declines in adaptive capacity. Regular endurance exercise enhances antioxidant defense and mitochondrial regulation; however, its ability to counteract morphine-induced renal alterations across different stages of aging remains insufficiently characterized.Male wistar rats, categorized as young and aged based on chronological age and body weight, were allocated to control, morphine, exercise, and morphine plus exercise groups within each age category. Morphine was administered via drinking water for four weeks. Concurrently, animals in the exercise groups performed moderate-intensity continuous training on a treadmill. At study completion, serum and renal tissues were collected for assessment of oxidative stress markers (MDA, TAC, SOD), MPO, renal function indices (BUN and creatinine), and renal expression of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Klotho, Mitochondrial compatibility markers (Citrate synthase activity and TFAM).Chronic morphine exposure was associated with increased oxidative stress markers and decreased antioxidant capacity in kidney tissue, and simultaneously increased serum urea and creatinine levels in young and old mice, indicating impaired renal functional status. Chronic morphine administration also decreased SIRT1 and Klotho levels in young and old animals. In contrast, 4 weeks of endurance training improved markers of mitochondrial adaptation, oxidative balance, and renal function, which were associated with increased expression of SIRT1 and Klotho in kidney tissue. These changes could indicate a potential link between exercise training and molecular pathways involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and renal homeostasis. However, these findings suggest an association, and causal or mechanistic interpretations will require further investigation in future studies.These findings indicate that endurance training is associated with more favorable renal biomarker profiles in the context of chronic opioid exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Objective: To explore the causal relationships between human inflammatory proteins and hypertrophic scars (HS) and keloids. Methods: This study was conducted based on bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Data of human inflammatory proteins, HS, and keloids were acquired from genome-wide association study database. The inverse variance weighted (IVW) method was adopted to evaluate the causal relationships between 91 kinds of human inflammatory proteins and HS and keloids, i.e., a forward MR analysis. For the above associations, Cochran's Q test was used to assess heterogeneity, MR-Egger regression and MR-PRESSO outlier tests were performed to evaluate horizontal pleiotropy, and the leave-one-out method was applied to analyze the robustness of the results. The IVW method was also used to evaluate whether there was a reverse causal relationship between HS, keloids and inflammatory proteins screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis. Results: CD6, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 12 (TNFSF12), programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), interleukin-17C (IL-17C), LIF receptor (LIFR), osteoprotegerin (OPG), and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) had significant causal relationships with HS (with ORs of 1.365, 0.506, 1.567, 1.683, 0.621, 1.375, 0.623, and 0.553, respectively, 95% CIs of 1.100-1.693, 0.289-0.887, 1.081-2.273, 1.090-2.599, 0.408-0.947, 1.025-1.845, 0.402-0.966, and 0.315-0.971, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR were risk factors for HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 were protective factors for HS. CD5, IL-10 receptor subunit alpha (IL-10RA), IL-5, LIF, and OPG had significant causal relationships with keloids (with ORs of 0.744, 1.303, 0.686, 0.603, and 0.715, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.573-0.965, 1.024-1.660, 0.472-0.996, 0.431-0.842, and 0.553-0.924, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, IL-10RA was a risk factor for keloids, whereas CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG were protective factors for keloids. No significant heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy was observed in the above associations (P>0.05), and the robustness of the results was not driven by any single nucleotide polymorphism. Significant reverse causal relationships existed between HS and TNFSF12 and LIFR of the 8 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with HS screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (with ORs of 0.972 and 0.968, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.949-0.997 and 0.942-0.994, respectively, P<0.05). No reverse causal relationship was found between keloids and the 5 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with keloids screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (P>0.05). Conclusions: CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR may increase the risk of HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 may decrease the risk of HS. IL-10RA may increase the risk of keloids, while CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG may decrease the risk of keloids.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547381 is a review article
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) is a member of the endocrine subfamily of fibroblast growth factors. In mammals, FGF21 regulates glucose and lipid metabolism, and energy balance. Fgf21 was recently demonstrated to stimulate feed intake and regulate energy balance in zebrafish. The physiological mechanisms that regulate energy balance are tightly interlinked with reproduction. As a first step to extend our original findings on Fgf21 and energy balance, this research aimed to determine whether Fgf21 regulates the reproductive axis in zebrafish. Using quantitative PCR, we demonstrate the expression of fgf21, its receptor fgfr1c, and co-receptor β-klotho; and FGF21-like immunoreactivity (immunohistochemistry) in the zebrafish ovary and liver cells. These results suggest local production of FGF21 and possible actions within the ovary. Single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 1, 10, or 100 ng/g bodyweight FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated reproductive hormone genes in the brain; gonadotropin-releasing hormone isoforms (sgnrh/cgnrh-III) and kisspeptin (kiss1), and gonads; aromatase (cyp19a1a) and gonadotropin receptors (fshr, lhr) that are critical for reproductive success. FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated vitellogenin transcript levels and total vitellogenin concentration (ELISA) in zebrafish liver cells at 1 h and 24 h post-incubation, respectively. Lastly, at 100 ng/mL, FGF21 induced (ANOVA P < 0.05) oocyte maturation in vitro (determined by germinal vesicle breakdown quantification). These results support a very strong positive role for Fgf21 in the reproductive endocrine axis of zebrafish.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD), the leading cause of end-stage renal disease, involves injury across multiple renal compartments. Autophagy dysregulation is a key pathogenic mechanism and may reduce Klotho, a renoprotective protein diminished in DKD. This study evaluated whether bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), combined with empagliflozin and calorie restriction, could modulate autophagy and preserve Klotho expression in DKD. Male BTBRob/ob mice, a leptin-deficient model that develops diabetes and DKD in a progressive manner, were assigned to experimental groups and euthanized at 14-15 or 18-20 weeks. Kidney tissues were analyzed by qPCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. MSCs therapy improved hyperglycemia in a time-dependent manner (p < 0.0001), decreased albuminuria, and modestly improved eGFR, though weight gain persisted. Treatment modulated LC3 protein expression in cortical and medullary regions (p < 0.05), suggesting attenuation of early autophagy hyperactivation. It also helped maintain Klotho expression, correlating with reduced oxidative stress (p < 0.05). Overall, MSCs combined with empagliflozin and calorie restriction show promise as a translational approach for DKD, warranting further long-term preclinical studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The regenerative capacity of the liver critically determines recovery outcomes following partial liver transplantation or hepatectomy. While cytokines, immune responses, and metabolic dynamics modulate hepatic regeneration, the role of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (Acod1)-a key enzyme catalyzing itaconate biosynthesis-remains underexplored. This study elucidates the regulatory function of Acod1 in liver regeneration and its underlying mechanisms. Male wild-type (WT) and Acod1-knockout (Acod1-/-) mice underwent 70% or 90% partial hepatectomy (PHx), with interventions including 4-octyl itaconate (4OI) and citraconate administration. Postoperative assessments at 0, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36 and 48 h included liver-to-body weight ratios, serum ALT/AST levels, histopathology, proliferation markers (Ki67, PCNA), cell cycle gene expression, and survival analysis. RNA seq and metabolic profiling were performed to explore mechanistic pathways. Our results demonstrated that Acod1 expression peaked at 36 h post-hepatectomy. In 90% lethal PHx model, Acod1-/- mice showed significantly improved survival versus WT controls. Following 70% PHx, Acod1-/- mice exhibited enhanced liver regeneration at 36 h, with significantly lower serum transaminase levels compared to WT controls. Exogenous 4-OI administration abrogated this pro-regenerative phenotype in Acod1-/- mice, whereas CITRA treatment in WT mice produced a similar pro-regenerative pattern, improving both regeneration-associated readouts and survival. Mechanistically, RNA-seq revealed upregulated ketone body metabolism genes in Acod1-/- mice, concomitant with elevated hepatic β-hydroxybutyrate and reduced intrahepatic lipids versus WT controls. This study demonstrates that Acod1 deficiency enhances post-hepatectomy liver regeneration by suppressing itaconate production, thereby promoting fatty acid mobilization. These findings support Acod1-associated metabolic regulation as a potential therapeutic target for optimizing liver regeneration and postoperative recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autoimmune uveitis is a vision-threatening inflammatory disorder driven by dysregulated T helper 17 (Th17) responses, yet therapeutic strategies targeting Th17 differentiation are lacking. Through transcriptomic screening of an experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model and validation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients, we identified MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S) as a pivotal, conserved regulator. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1S constrains pathogenic Th17 responses and alleviates EAU through a dual mechanism coordinating transcriptional control and autophagic degradation. Mechanistically, MAP1S binds to EGR2 (early growth response 2) and restrains its acetylation at Lys368, thereby suppressing Lcn2 (lipocalin 2) transcription. Besides, MAP1S facilitates autophagosome biogenesis and lysosomal trafficking, promoting the autophagic clearance of LCN2 protein. Notably, MAP1S deficiency enhances EGR2 acetylation, increases Lcn2 transcription, disrupts autophagosome trafficking, impairs LCN2 degradation, and promotes LCN2 accumulation, collectively driving Th17 polarization and exacerbating EAU pathology. Adoptive transfer of cervical lymph node cells from map1s knockout mice reproduced severe disease in wild-type recipients. Moreover, pharmacological activation of MAP1S with spermidine suppressed Th17 responses and alleviated disease severity. Our findings establish MAP1S as a critical node integrating acetylation signaling of EGR2 and autophagic flux to govern LCN2 homeostasis and Th17 pathogenicity, revealing a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune uveitis and potentially other Th17-mediated diseases.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACOD1: aconitate decarboxylase 1; AU: autoimmune uveitis; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; CDLNs: cervical draining lymph nodes; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EAU: experimental autoimmune uveitis; EGR2: early growth response 2; GDF15: growth differentiation factor 15; HDAC4: histone deacetylase 4; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; IL17: interleukin 17; IL17f: interleukin 17f; IL22: interleukin 22; K: lysine; KAT2A/GCN5: K(lysine) acetyltransferase 2A; KO: knockout; LCN2: lipocalin 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1S: microtubule-associated protein 1S; MS: mass spectrometry; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PCR: polymerase chain rection; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PTX: pertussis toxin; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription and quantitative real-time RCR; SAA3: serum amyloid A3; SPD: spermidine; Th1 cells: T helper 1 cells; Th17 cells: T helper 17 cells; TF: transcriptional factor; Tregcells: regulatory T cells; VKH disease: Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease; WT: wild-type.
Objective The deubiquitinating enzyme ubiquitin-specific protease 14 (USP14) has been implicated in LC; however, its specific mechanism in lung cancer (LC) remains inadequately clarified. This study investigated the mechanism of USP14 modifying heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1 (HSP90AA1) to activate nuclear factor erythroid-2 related factor 2 (NRF2) signaling in ferroptosis resistance of LC cells. Methods LC cell lines A549/H1299 were transfected with small-interfering (si)-USP14, oe-USP14, si-HSP90AA1, or oe-NRF2, followed by treatment with the ferroptosis inducer Erastin, the NRF2 inhibitor ML385, or the proteasome inhibitor MG132. Cell viability, USP14, HSP90AA1, NRF2, ferroptosis/oxidative stress-related protein expression, and lipid peroxidation were measured. Co-immunoprecipitation was used to examine USP14-HSP90AA1 interaction and HSP90AA1 ubiquitination. Cycloheximide chase assays and immunofluorescence were performed to assess HSP90AA1 stability and NRF2 nuclear translocation, respectively. Results USP14 knockdown markedly reduced cell viability in Erastin-treated LC cells, decreased solute carrier family 7 member 11/glutathione peroxidase 4 expression, and increased malondialdehyde, Fe2+, and reactive oxygen species levels while reducing glutathione and enhancing lipid peroxidation. Conversely, USP14 overexpression enhanced ferroptosis resistance. USP14 increased HSP90AA1 stability through deubiquitination, whereas HSP90AA1 silencing partially reversed USP14-mediated ferroptosis resistance. HSP90AA1 overexpression promoted NRF2 nuclear translocation. NRF2 inhibition enhanced ferroptosis and partially reversed USP14-induced ferroptosis resistance, whereas NRF2 overexpression partially reversed the promotion of ferroptosis induced by USP14 knockdown. Conclusion USP14 stabilizes HSP90AA1 through deubiquitination, thereby activating the NRF2 signaling pathway and consequently enhancing ferroptosis resistance in LC cells.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42392922 is a review article
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA), the most prevalent form of hair loss, is driven by the dysfunction of dermal papilla cells (DPCs). Emerging evidence implicates DPC senescence in the pathogenesis of AGA; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated.We employed a multi-faceted experimental approach, including analyses of human scalp tissues, primary DPCs, a dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced AGA mouse model, and immortalized DPCs stimulated with DHT. Cellular senescence was evaluated via expression of senescence markers (p16INK4a, p21, p53) and senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining. Cell proliferation, migration, and apoptosis were also assessed. Mitochondrial function was evaluated using transmission electron microscopy, MitoTracker, MitoSOX, JC-1, and Seahorse assays. RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analyses were performed to identify differentially expressed genes. The interaction between Aconitate Decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) and DDX1 was verified via co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and molecular docking. Metabolomic analysis was performed to profile intracellular metabolic alterations. Functional experiments included ACOD1 knockdown/overexpression and exogenous supplementation with 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI). Hair follicle morphology and hair loss in AGA mice were evaluated following 4-OI treatment.Senescence markers were significantly elevated in AGA DPCs, accompanied by increased senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining, reduced cell proliferation and migration, and enhanced apoptosis. DHT-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in DPCs was characterized by increased mitochondrial fragmentation, decreased mitochondrial cristae, superoxide accumulation, reduced membrane potential, and impaired oxidative phosphorylation. RNA sequencing identified ACOD1 as significantly downregulated in DHT-treated DPCs. ACOD1 knockdown induced mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular senescence, and functional impairment in DPCs, while ACOD1 overexpression ameliorated these DHT-induced phenotypes. Mechanistically, ACOD1 interacted with DDX1 to inhibit its methylation; ACOD1 knockdown enhanced DDX1 methylation, correlating with mitochondrial dysfunction and DPC senescence. Metabolomic analysis demonstrated that ACOD1 knockdown significantly reduced itaconate levels. Exogenous 4-OI supplementation reduced DDX1 methylation, ameliorated DHT-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and cellular senescence, promoted cell proliferation and migration, suppressed apoptosis, mitigated hair follicle miniaturization, and alleviated hair loss in AGA mice.Our findings reveal a novel mechanism underlying DPC senescence in AGA, wherein ACOD1 deficiency promotes DDX1 methylation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and subsequent DPC senescence. ACOD1 represents a promising therapeutic target for AGA, and 4-OI may have translational potential for the treatment of AGA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42028144 is a review article
To investigate the expression level of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its role in HCC cell growth, as well as the underlying mechanisms.The expression of the ACOD1 gene in HCC and its correlation with patient survival were analyzed using the GTEx and TCGA databases. ACOD1 protein expression in four paired HCC and adjacent non-tumor tissues was detected by Western blotting. After ACOD1 knockdown in HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 HCC cells, cell proliferation and death were assessed by MTT and LDH assays, respectively. Following ACOD1 knockdown, 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI) was administered to observe changes in cell proliferation. Potential mechanisms were predicted using the cBioPortal database through KEGG enrichment analysis, and the expression of autophagy-related proteins LC3-Ⅱ and p62 was measured by Western blotting. After ACOD1 knockdown, cells were treated with chloroquine (CQ) or supplemented with 4-OI to observe changes in autophagy marker proteins and cell proliferation.ACOD1 protein expression was significantly overexpressed in HCC tissues than in adjacent tissues (approximately 2-fold). Patients with ACOD1 overexpression had shorter overall survival (P < 0.05). Knocking down ACOD1 in HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells, which expressed high levels of ACOD1, inhibited cell proliferation (by approximately 20% and 30%, respectively; both P < 0.05) and increased cell death (by approximately 30% in both cell lines; both P < 0.05). 4-OI promoted cell growth in a concentration-dependent manner and reversed the decrease in cell viability caused by ACOD1 knockdown, restoring it to 93% and 90% of control levels, respectively (both P < 0.05). KEGG analysis suggested a potential association between ACOD1 and the autophagy pathway. ACOD1 knockdown significantly increased LC3-Ⅱ levels (by approximately 7-fold and 10-fold, respectively; both P < 0.05) and decreased p62 levels (by 40% and 30%, respectively; both P < 0.05) in HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells. CQ treatment increased the LC3-Ⅱ/LC3-Ⅰ ratio and p62 protein expression (both by approximately 2-fold; P < 0.05). Combined ACOD1 knockdown further increased the LC3-Ⅱ/LC3-Ⅰ ratio (by approximately 10%; P < 0.05), while p62 protein expression did not increase significantly (P > 0.05). Supplementation with 4-OI reversed the changes in LC3-Ⅱ and p62 protein expression induced by ACOD1 knockdown. Furthermore, CQ treatment partially rescued the decrease in viability of HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells caused by ACOD1 knockdown (restoring viability to 75% and 80%, respectively; both P < 0.05).ACOD1 is overexpressed in HCC and its' overexpression is associated with poor prognosis. ACOD1 promotes HCC cell growth by synthesizing itaconate, which inhibits cellular autophagy.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Kawasaki disease (KD), a systemic vasculitis and the leading cause of acquired heart disease in children, stems from an uncontrolled inflammatory response that fails to resolve in up to 20% of IVIG-treated patients. This treatment resistance increases the risk of cardiovascular complications and highlights the need for more targeted therapeutics.We used the Lactobacillus casei cell wall extract (LCWE) murine model of KD vasculitis to investigate the therapeutic potential of itaconate, an anti-inflammatory metabolite, in the pathogenesis of KD. The expression of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (Acod1), which encodes the mitochondrial enzyme that produces itaconate, was assessed in both samples from KD patients and vascular tissues of LCWE-injected mice. LCWE-injected mice were treated with itaconate, and the severity of LCWE-induced KD vasculitis was evaluated.LCWE injection led to the development of cardiovascular lesions, specifically aortitis, coronary arteritis, and abdominal aorta dilatation. Expression of ACOD1 was upregulated in KD patients during the acute phase of the disease and in cardiovascular lesions of LCWE-injected mice. Treatment with itaconate significantly reduced the development of LCWE-induced cardiovascular lesions. Mechanistically, exogenous itaconate suppressed NLRP3 inflammasome activation in LCWE-induced cardiovascular lesions and decreased IL-1β secretion.Itaconate treatment provides cardiovascular protection in an experimental mouse model of KD vasculitis by decreasing NLRP3 inflammasome activation and reducing vascular inflammation. Itaconate may be a promising therapeutic agent for patients with KD.Copyright © 2026 Lee, Namba, Atici, Aubuchon, Lane, Ross, Noval Rivas and Arditi.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41919324 is a review article
Itaconate is produced by inflammatory macrophages and promotes negative feedback on inflammation. It is synthesized by aconitate decarboxylase 1 (ACOD1) from cis-aconitate, a metabolite of the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Here, we focused on the role of ACOD1 in the immunometabolic reprograming of inflammatory microglia. Similar to macrophages, ACOD1 deficient microglia displayed a stronger inflammatory response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) compared to their wild type counterparts. The proinflammatory effects of ACOD1 deficiency were associated with enhanced ATP citrate lyase (ACLY) activity and elevated acetyl-CoA amounts, and reprogramed arginine metabolism entailing enhanced argininosuccinate synthesis at the expense of polyamine biosynthesis. These effects of ACOD1 deficiency on arginine metabolism were reversed by ACLY inhibition. These findings provide new insights in the immunometabolic role of ACOD1.Copyright © 2026 Karadima, Yilmaz, Sinha, Fodelianaki, Dimothyra, Nirakis, Traikov, Zamboni, Wielockx, Verginis, Peitzsch, Chavakis and Alexaki.
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder increasingly associated with gut microbiota alterations, yet the mechanisms by which microbial metabolites influence PD remain unclear. Here, we applied an integrative computational and experimental strategy to identify key gut microbial metabolites and host genes potentially involved in PD. Differentially abundant gut microbes were obtained from the gutMDisorder database and their corresponding metabolites from gutMGene, with predicted protein targets generated using the Similarity Ensemble Approach. Transcriptomic data from PD brain tissues were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, which were intersected with metabolite targets, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were applied for gene prioritization, while molecular docking evaluated metabolite-gene binding affinities and ProTox3.0 predicted toxicity and blood-brain barrier permeability. In vitro assays further assessed the functional effects of 3-indolepropionic acid in a rotenone-induced SH-SY5Y cell model. Our analyses identified 44 PD-associated microbial taxa linked to 77 metabolites and 905 predicted target genes, with 29 overlapping differentially expressed genes enriched in synaptic signaling and dopaminergic pathways. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) emerged as a central hub gene, with strong docking interactions predicted for two indole metabolites, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoate and 3-indolepropionic acid. Functional validation showed that 3-indolepropionic acid improved cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and preserved DRD2 expression under neurotoxic stress. Together, these findings suggest that specific gut microbial metabolites may modulate host dopaminergic signaling via DRD2, offering new insights into the microbiota-brain axis and potential targets for further PD research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512251 is a review article
To examine associations of inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (iciHHV-6) with incident dementia and mortality, characterize proteomic and metabolomic correlates of carrier status, and evaluate whether these biomarkers relate to dementia and mortality risk.We analyzed UK Biobank participants ≥50 years of age with plasma metabolomics (N = 138,676) and proteomics (N ≤ 15,416) data and ≈15 years of follow-up. Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for key confounding factors evaluated associations of iciHHV-6 with dementia and mortality. Multivariable linear models assessed iciHHV-6 associations with metabolomic and proteomic profiles. Mediation and interaction were evaluated using structural equation models and Cox models with biomarker interactions. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression identified independent proteomic and metabolomic predictors using imputed biomarker data.iciHHV-6 was associated with higher dementia risk (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.32), particularly among women (HR = 1.66) and individuals with elevated Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk (HR = 1.49). Branched-chain amino acids (leucine and isoleucine) were elevated among carriers without mediating dementia risk. Proteomic analyses identified 126 nominally associated iciHHV-6-related proteins, many of which (Neurofilament Light Chain (NEFL), Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP), Yes-Associated Protein 1 (YAP1), Sialic Acid-binding Immunoglobulin-like Lectin 5 (SIGLEC5), Interleukin 19 (IL19), A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs 16 (ADAMTS16), Sphingomyelin Phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1)) were also associated with dementia and/or mortality. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested enrichment of proteins related to immune regulation and post-translational modification. Predictive models identified NEFL, GFAP, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A (VEGF), Brevican (BCAN), remnant cholesterol, and polyunsaturated fatty acids as dementia predictors (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.83), whereas NEFL, Growth Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15) Latent Transforming Growth Factor Beta Binding Protein 2 (LTBP2), Ectodysplasin A2 Receptor (EDA2R) and Advanced Glycosylation End-product Specific Receptor (AGER) predicted mortality (AUC = 0.70).iciHHV-6 was associated with increased dementia risk, particularly among women and genetically susceptible individuals, with neuroimmune and metabolic biomarker profiles potentially relevant to brain aging and mortality risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma-cell malignancy driven by dysregulated NF-κB signaling, promoting tumor survival, proliferation, and chemoresistance. Given observed overexpression of NF-κB components in MM cell lines, we evaluated the selective NF-κB inhibitor QNZ (EVP4593) for anti-myeloma activity. QNZ selectively reduced viability and inhibited proliferation of MM cells in vitro and ex vivo, though stromal contact partly attenuated its cytotoxicity. QNZ dose-dependently suppressed MM xenografts, increased apoptosis, and reduced proliferation, while preserving MM plasma cell identity. Mechanistically, QNZ triggered mitochondrial, caspase- (cleavage of pro-caspase-9, -8 and -3) and PARP-mediated apoptosis with downregulation of Mcl-1, dismantled pro-survival NF-κB/Akt/c-Myc signaling with concomitant mTOR modulation, and induced cell-cycle perturbation accompanied by altered phospho-ATM and decreased levels of key regulators (SIRT1, Chk2/p-Chk2, Cdc2/p-Cdc2, p-4EBP1, CDK4, cyclin A2, and cyclin B1). Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated that QNZ treatment induced extensive gene expression reprogramming in MM cells, prominently upregulating stress- and metabolism-associated genes including DDIT3, PHGDH, SESN2, and NFE2L1, consistent with activation of ER stress-mediated apoptotic and amino acid metabolic pathways. Finally, QNZ displayed significant synergy with proteasome inhibitors and IMiDs, particularly second-generation carfilzomib and pomalidomide, as well as with dexamethasone and melphalan, providing a strong preclinical rationale for clinical evaluation of QNZ in MM.© 2026 The Author(s).
Tic disorder (TD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder in children. Acute histamine deficiency may be involved in the pathogenesis of TDs. In this study, we demonstrate that histamine depletion exacerbates tic-like behaviors in a rat model of TD. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control, TD model, TD plus saline, and TD plus α-fluoromethylhistidine (α-FMH) groups. TD was induced by intraperitoneal iminodipropionitrile, and α-FMH was administered intracerebroventricularly. Behavioral assessments showed that α-FMH treatment significantly increased stereotyped and motor behavior scores compared with TD groups (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemistry revealed marked microglial activation in the striatum of TD groups, which was exacerbated by histamine deficiency. Striatal IL-6 and TNF-α levels were elevated in all TD groups; IL-6 was significantly higher in the α-FMH group than in TD groups (p < 0.05). Striatal dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) expression was also upregulated in TD groups, with the highest levels observed after histamine depletion (p < 0.05). Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry result showed that glutamate levels were significantly reduced in the α-FMH group compared to the TD-NaCl group (p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed in the levels of dopamine, serotonin, or acetylcholine between the TD-NaCl and TD-α-FMH groups. Overall, our findings suggest that acute histamine deficiency aggravates TD-related behaviors by promoting neuroinflammation and upregulating DRD2 expression, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting histamine signaling in TD.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most lethal primary brain tumor, with a median survival of 15 months and a 10-year survival rate of <1%. While current research into the dopaminergic system has largely focused on dopamine receptor antagonists, we aimed to investigate the potential therapeutic benefit of dopamine agonists (dopamine receptor D2) through the observation of incidental "super-survivors."We report two cases of adult GBM patients who received concurrent treatment with dopamine agonists for unrelated comorbidities. The first patient, treated with the ergot derivative bromocriptine for a prolactinoma, presented with multifocal disease and underwent subtotal resection. Despite developing a recurrence, he remains alive and progression-free for >11 years after diagnosis. The second patient, a 70-year-old male with Parkinson's disease treated with the non-ergot dopamine agonist pramipexole and with Sinemet, which increases the amount of available dopamine. He had a low Karnofsky Performance Score and received minimal adjuvant therapy. Despite these poor prognostic factors, he achieved a progression-free survival of 15 months and did not succumb to tumor progression.These observational cases suggest a hypothetical association between dopamine agonist therapy and improved survival outcomes in GBM, challenging the current paradigm that favors receptor antagonism. Given the safety, low cost, and blood-brain barrier penetrance of these Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs, we propose that dopamine agonists warrant further investigation as repurposed adjuvant agents in GBM treatment.Copyright: © 2026 Surgical Neurology International.
Exploring the mechanism of Ding-Zhi-Xiao-Wan(DZXW) on disorders of sphingolipid metabolism in Alzheimer's disease(AD) through network pharmacology, molecular docking and animal experiments. The chemical constituents of DZXW were obtained via the TCMSP, with target prediction conducted using the SwissTargetPrediction database; the GeneCards database was consulted to identify targets associated with AD and sphingolipid metabolism disorders. The intersecting targets from these three databases underwent GO and KEGG enrichment analyses. Cytoscape was employed to construct networks and screen core components and targets for molecular docking validation. Animal experiments employed AD model mice, utilising the water maze, ELISA, qPCR, LC-MS, and Western blot to evaluate the effects of DZXW on behavioural, oxidative stress, inflammatory, apoptotic, and sphingolipid metabolism-related indicators. Network pharmacology identified 51 common targets, with enrichment analysis indicating their involvement in multiple pathways including signal transduction, apoptosis, and the phosphatidylinositol 3kinase/protein kinase B(PI3K/Akt) pathway. Molecular docking revealed that multiple components within DZXW(such as cerevisterol and isorhamnetin) interacted with targets including caspase 3(CASP3), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14(MAPK14), estrogen receptor 1(ESR1), and silent information regulator factor 2 related enzyme 1(SIRT1), with SIRT1 being particularly crucial. Animal studies indicate that DZXW enhances learning and memory capacity in AD mice, reduces ceramide levels, and inhibits oxidation factors [4-hydroxynonenal(4-HNE), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 4(NOX4)] and inflammatory factors [tumour necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin(IL)-1β], downregulates CASP3, MAPK14, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1-3(SMPD1-3), B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/lymphoma-2(Bcl-2)-associated X protein(Bax), and increases IL-10, ESR1, mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR), SIRT1, PI3K phosphorylation, Akt phosphorylation, and Bcl-2. In conclusion, DZXW may improve sphingolipid metabolism disorders in AD by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis and mitigating oxidative and inflammatory responses through the SIRT1/PI3K/Akt pathway.
Dopamine (DA) regulates diverse physiological processes via dopamine receptors (DRs), yet the molecular activity and physiological relevance of dopamine receptor D4 paralogs in teleosts remain unclear. Here, we identified and characterized Drd4b (LcDrd4b) from Larimichthys crocea. Sequence and phylogenetic analyses supported its assignment to the DRD4 lineage. Heterologous expression in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells showed that LcDrd4b exhibited membrane-associated localization and DA-associated redistribution, reduced forskolin-stimulated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation, and activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation. Gene expression profiling revealed relatively high Lcdrd4b expression in the intestine at early reproductive stages and prominent gonadal expression at stage IV, especially in mature testes. Tyrosine hydroxylase (Lcth) showed high hepatic expression at stages II-III and a sex-related shift at stage IV. Together, these findings establish LcDrd4b as a functional DR in a marine teleost and provide a molecular basis for further studies of DA signaling in teleost physiology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastrodin (GAS) is a potent neuroprotective compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicinal herb Gastrodia elata Blume. However, its role in mitigating bisphenol A (BPA)-induced dopaminergic dysfunction and cognitive impairment remains insufficiently explored. Many studies have shown that BPA exposure causes neurodegeneration via mechanisms involving dopaminergic system dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate whether GAS mitigates the effects of BPA-induced cognitive impairment through neuroinflammation in a rat model. Weanling male Wistar rats exposed to BPA (50 µg/kg b.wt. × 30 days, po) were subsequently treated with GAS at two dose levels (30 and 60 mg/kg b.wt., ip × 7 days). After 24 h, neurobehavioral functions (Barnes maze and Y-maze tests), cresyl violet staining, and ultrastructural analysis were performed, demonstrating significant memory deficits and neuronal degeneration in BPA-exposed rats. In contrast, GAS treatment significantly improved memory impairment and reduced neuronal cell death in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). mRNA, protein, and immunohistochemical expression of inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), (Iba-1), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and nuclear factor kappa B-p65 (NFκB-p65) were significantly increased in BPA-treated rats, indicating enhanced glial activation and neuroinflammation, whereas GAS effectively attenuated these alterations. Additionally, dopaminergic markers such as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter-1/solute carrier family 6 member 3 (DAT-1/SLC6A3), and dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) were significantly downregulated following BPA exposure and were restored by GAS treatment. Overall, findings suggested that GAS exerts protection against BPA-induced neurotoxicity by suppressing NF-κB-mediated neuroinflammatory response and modulating dopaminergic signaling, thereby improving cognitive and neuronal outcomes in the PFC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Friesian horses are recognized for severe genetic restriction due to intensive selection. Still, the genetic diversity, founder representation, and prevalence of inherited disorders in the Brazilian Friesian population, which is comprised of fewer than 500 individuals, have not been previously investigated AIMS/OBJECTIVES: characterize the genetic diversity, inbreeding, founder representation using pedigree-based tools, and frequency of known pathogenic, behavioral, and white spotting alleles in Friesian horses registered in Brazil METHODS: Pedigree data from 411 Friesian horses (2003-2024) were analyzed to estimate the mean pedigree-based inbreeding coefficient (Fped), and other pedigree-based population diversity measures using the R package PurgeR. Genetic testing was performed in 12 horses for pathogenic variants previously implicated in dwarfism and hydrocephalus, as well as depigmentation alleles, and the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) polymorphism associated with temperament RESULTS: Pedigree-based estimates (Fped:16.25 ± 3.8%, Ne = 32.6, Nae = 10.19) indicate a critical loss of genetic variability (p < 0.0001). Three stallions contributed 36% of all offspring, suggesting a popular sire effect. Carrier frequencies were 33% for the dwarfism variant and 16.7% for the hydrocephalus variant. Depigmentation alleles were present in 25% of horses without visible white markings. The DRD4 "curious" G/G genotype predominated (75%), indicating potential locus selection CONCLUSION: The Brazilian Friesian horse population exhibits low effective population size, high inbreeding, and moderate frequencies of deleterious alleles despite active importation of genetic material. Implementation of genetic testing, sire usage limits, and monitoring of inbreeding coefficients are recommended to maintain population health and breed integrity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Food intake is regulated by two systems: homeostatic and hedonic. An imbalance between these systems can induce overconsumption, such as binge eating disorder (BED), and is associated with dysregulation of the dopamine reward system. The cannabinoid type 2 receptor (CB2R) has been identified in dopamine neurons and may play an important role in motivated behaviors, including food intake. Nevertheless, the interaction between the dopamine D4 (DRD4) receptor and CB2R in binge-like intake has not yet been identified. Therefore, the present study aims to evaluate the effects of intraperitoneal administration of DRD4 antagonist (L-745870), as well as the coadministration of DRD4 antagonist with either CB2R agonist (HU308) or antagonist (AM630), on binge-like intake of palatable food (PF) in adult male mice.We used adult male 34 C57BL6/J mice. All animals were housed individually and had ad libitum access to standard diet (SD) and water. To evaluate binge-like intake, the animals had 1 h of access to PF during 12 baseline binge eating test (BET) sessions. Mice were then randomly assigned to the following treatment groups: 1) vehicle; 2) L-745870; 3) L-745870-HU308, 4) L-745870+AM630 to be evaluated under the effect of treatments for three additionally BET sessions.Our results show that DRD4 antagonist reduced binge-like intake of PF, and that a coadministration with a CB2R agonist induced an even more pronounced reduction of binge-like intake.These findings suggest an interaction between the dopaminergic and endocannabinoid systems in the modulation of binge-like intake of PF in adult mice, where CB2R activation participates in modulating reward pathways and reducing binge-like behavior.Copyright © 2025 Rodríguez-Serrano, López-Castillo, Cabrera-Mejía, Cedillo-Figueroa, Zepeda-Ortigosa, Carregha-Lozano and Chávez-Hernández.
Animal personalities are stable, context-dependent behavioral differences. Associations between the personality of birds and polymorphisms in the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) gene have been repeatedly observed. In mammals, our understanding of the role of the dopamine (DA) system in higher cognitive functions and psychiatric disorders is improving, and we are beginning to understand the relationship between the neural circuits modulating the DA system and personality traits. However, to understand the phylogenetic continuity of the neural basis of personality, it is necessary to clarify the neural circuits that process personality in other animals and compare them with those in mammals. In birds, the DA system is anatomically and molecularly similar to that in mammals; however, the function of DRD4 remains largely unknown. In this study, we used chicks as model birds to reveal the expression regions of the DA neuron-related markers tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopa decarboxylase (DDC), dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH), and DRD4, as well as other DRDs throughout the forebrain. We found that DRD4 was selectively expressed in the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb (OB). Furthermore, a detailed comparison of the expression regions of DA neurons and DRD4 in the OB revealed a cellular composition similar to that of mammals. Our findings suggest that the animal personality gene DRD4 is important for olfactory information processing in birds, providing a new basis for comparing candidate neural circuits for personality traits between birds and mammals.Copyright © 2025 Fujita, Aoki, Mori, Homma and Yamaguchi.
Dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) plays a vital role in regulating various physiological functions, including attention, impulse control, and sleep, as well as being associated with various neurological diseases, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, novelty seeking, and so on. However, a comprehensive analysis of harmful nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) of the DRD4 gene and their effects remains unexplored. The aim of this study is to uncover novel damaging missense nsSNPs and their structural and functional effects on the DRD4 receptor. From the dbSNP database, we found 677 nsSNPs, and then we analyzed their functional consequences, disease associations, and effects on protein stability with fifteen in silico tools. Five variants, including L65ICL1P (rs1459150721), V1163.33D (rs761875546), I1293.46S (rs751467198), I1564.46T (rs757732258), and F2015.47S (rs199609858), were identified as the most deleterious mutations that were also present in the conserved region and showed lower interactions with neighboring residues. To comprehensively understand their impact, we docked agonist dopamine and antagonist nemonapride at the binding site of the receptor, followed by 200 ns molecular dynamics simulations. We identified the V116D and I129S mutations as the most damaging, followed by F201S in the dopamine-bound states. Both the V116D and I129S variants demonstrated significantly high RMSD, Rg, and SASA, and low thermodynamic stability. The F201S-dopamine complex exhibited lower compactness and higher motions, along with a significant loss of hydrogen bonds and active site interactions. By contrast, while interacting with nemonapride, the impact of the I156T and L65P mutations was highly deleterious; both showed lower stability, higher flexibility, and higher motions. Additionally, nemonapride significantly lost interactions with the active site, notably in the I156T variant. We also found the V116D-nemonapride complex as structurally damaging; however, the interaction patterns of nemonapride were less altered in the MMPBSA analysis. Overall, this study revealed five novel deleterious variants along with a comprehensive understanding of their effect in the presence of an agonist and antagonist, which could be helpful for understanding disease susceptibility, precision medicine, and developing potential drugs.© 2025. The Author(s).
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are essential cell surface proteins involved in transducing extracellular signals into intracellular responses, regulating various physiological processes. This study validated the use of the Tango assay, a sensitive method for detecting GPCR activation, in Drosophila Schneider 2 (S2) cells, focusing on the human Dopamine Receptor D4 (DRD4). Plasmids encoding the LexA-tagged human DRD4 receptor and a luciferase reporter were co-transfected into Drosophila S2 cells and stimulated with dopamine. Receptor activation was measured by quantifying the luciferase activity. The system showed high specificity for dopamine, with no activation in response to octopamine, a non-ligand for DRD4. Furthermore, the system effectively detects activation by a novel compound. These results demonstrate that Drosophila S2 cells, coupled with the Tango assay, provide a viable model for studying human GPCR function and ligand specificity. This system enables the rapid screening of potential GPCR ligands in a cost-effective cellular model.
The functional and pharmacological significance of dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) in psychiatric and neurological disorders is well elucidated. However, the roles of DRD4 in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unclear. This study observes a significant upregulation of DRD4 expression in clinical samples, which is negatively correlated with patient prognosis. In vitro, overexpression of DRD4 causes a constitutive activation of β-Arrestin2/PP2A/AKT independent of dopamine. Interestingly, this classical signaling pathway is not associated with the phenotype of DRD4-promoted migration and invasion in CRC cells. Instead, DRD4 interacts with transforming growth factor beta receptors (TGFBR1 and TGFBR2) to activate Smad2 phosphorylation and promote Smad2/Smad4 complex nucleus translocation. Then, SNAI1 and JAG1 are transcriptionally activated to induce epithelial-mesenchymal transition and enhance the metastatic potential of CRC. Notably, the COOH-terminal domain is identified as the key intracellular region for the pro-metastatic roles of DRD4. Furthermore, treatment with a TGFBR1 inhibitor combined with a BMP inhibitor effectively counteracts the pro-metastatic effects induced by DRD4 both in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, these findings uncover an unconventional role for DRD4 beyond its classic function as a neurotransmitter receptor. The intracellular signaling of DRD4 interacting with TGFBR1 can be targeted pharmacologically for CRC therapy.© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Our aim was to develop a novel approach to identify disease-modifying drugs for osteoarthritis (OA), focusing on stimulating type II collagen anabolism in chondrocytes. As ELISA or western blot are destructive, laborious and time consuming, primary human chondrocytes expressing Gaussia luciferase under the control of the type II collagen promoter were developed and used. We cultured them in 3D cartilage aggregates under physioxia, to temporally screen a natural product library over 3-weeks. Hit compounds were analyzed for their potential targets in silico, first by structure, then by RNA-Seq. Two hit compounds were then further analyzed using biochemical assays, dose-response curves, and histological analyses to confirm their effects on type II collagen expression and chondrogenesis. Aromoline shows promise as a potential disease modifying compound, demonstrating an increase in type II collagen expression within cartilage sourced from chondrocytes of three distinct donors. Aromoline is a bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid that has been studied for its antiproliferative, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial properties, and we are the first to explore its effects on chondrocytes and chondrogenesis. In silico analysis revealed the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) as a potential target, confirmed by type II collagen upregulation after aromoline treatment and with DRD4-specific agonist ABT-724. This novel approach combining in silico and in vitro methods provides a platform for drug discovery in a challenging and under-researched area. In conclusion, a novel drug (aromoline) and target receptor (DRD4) were identified as stimulating type II collagen, with the future goal of treating or preventing OA.© 2024 Orthopaedic Research Society.
Artificial sexual maturation of eel (Anguilla japonica) involves rearing in seawater and injecting salmon pituitary extract (SPE). The salinity of seawater and components of SPE influence hormonal activities of the eel pituitary, leading to gonad development. This study investigated the direct effects of salinity change and SPE treatment on the eel pituitary gland using primary cell cultures. Pituitary cells were cultured into four experimental groups: control culture (control), SPE-treated culture (SPE), NaCl-treated culture (NaCl) and NaCl+SPE treated culture (NaCl+SPE). We investigated the expression of genes presumably related to reproduction and/or salinity, including luteinizing hormone (LHβ), follicle stimulating hormone (FSHβ), progesterone receptor-like (pgrl), prolactin (PRL), dopamine receptor D4 (drd4), neuropeptide B/W receptor 2 (NPBWR2) and relaxin family peptide receptor 3-2b (rxfp3-2b). Gene expression analysis revealed significant upregulation of LHβ in SPE and NaCl+SPE groups compared to control and NaCl (p<0.05). FSHβ expression did not show any significant changes. PRL showed a significant decrease in the NaCl group (p<0.05). Pgrl, NPBWR2, drd4, and rxfp3-2b displayed the highest expression in the control group, with downregulation observed in all treatment groups (NaCl, SPE, and NaCl+SPE) (p<0.05). This study demonstrated the direct effects of salinity changes and SPE treatment on the eel pituitary. Results from this study also suggest that salinity change is necessary but work together with SPE to induce reproductive process, and that LHβ, pgrl, PRL, drd4, NPBWR2, and rxfp3-2b genes are obviously associated with reproduction and salinity changes in eels.© Copyright 2024 The Korean Society of Developmental Biology.
Transglutaminases are enzymes with pleiotropic functions in the human body, among them are the A-subunit of coagulation factor XIII (FXIII; FXIII-A) and tissue transglutaminase (TG2). FXIII has a crucial function in clot formation and stabilization. FXIII also contributes to extracellular matrix formation, wound healing and tissue regeneration, a function it shares with TG2. Whether TG2 may also have a role in hemostasis has never been studied in detail. The aim of our project was to study the role of TG2 in clot formation, stabilization and hemostasis. Here, with the use of a microfluidic endothelialized whole blood bleeding model, we detected TG2 and its crosslinking activity at the site of vessel injury, and the addition of exogenous TG2 resulted in its co-localization with the fibrin clot. In turbidimetric clot formation and lysis tests, TG2 delayed clot lysis. Finally, mass-spectrometry and proteomic analyses revealed differences in fibrin chain crosslinking patterns and protein composition of purified and plasma fibrin clots generated in the presence of either FXIII or TG2. Our data suggest that TG2 is present at the site of clot formation upon vessel injury and contributes to fibrin crosslinking and clot stabilization. Hence, TG2 may be able support hemostasis.Copyright: © 2026 Stoklosa et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
Background: Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness characterized by progressive degeneration of the optic nerve. Elevated intraocular pressure, typically associated with glaucoma, exerts biomechanical strain on the optic nerve head, where mechanosensitive astrocytes contribute to profibrotic extracellular matrix remodeling. Cross-linking enzymes such as transglutaminase 2 play a role in this process. A unique function of transglutaminase 2 is its ability to catalyze the post-translational modification of proteins through the transamidation of serotonin onto glutamine residues ("serotonylation"). The serotonylation of extracellular matrix proteins, such as fibronectin, could plausibly be involved in extracellular matrix remodeling. Here, we investigated whether optic nerve head astrocytes could serotonylate extracellular proteins in response to a biomechanical insult. Results: Primary human optic nerve head astrocytes subjected to 0-12% cyclic stretch for 24 h exhibited increased extracellular levels of transglutaminase 2 and serotonin. Correspondingly, serotonylation of immunoprecipitated fibronectin samples, detected by immunoblotting, was 2.5-fold higher in stretched cells. Serotonylation of specific glutaminyl residues of fibronectin due to the catalytic effect of transglutaminase 2 was also proven though an in vitro experiment using nanoflow liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that fibronectin can be serotonylated by optic nerve head astrocytes and that this modification is enhanced by biomechanical stress. While transglutaminase 2 is classically associated with extracellular matrix cross-linking, these results suggest that serotonylation may represent an additional and unexplored mechanism by which transglutaminase 2 contributes to extracellular matrix remodeling in the glaucomatous optic nerve head.© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is the most common form of central nervous system (CNS) injury and is often characterized by persistent neuroinflammation, metabolic dysregulation, and oxidative stress. Repetitive injuries compound these pathologies and lead to multifocal axonal injuries and long-term functional deficits. Despite the prevalence of mTBIs, the cellular mechanisms that facilitate or prevent recovery following injury remain poorly defined. Here, we extend our previous work on the role of the protein transglutaminase 2 (TG2) in CNS injury and we hypothesize that transcriptional regulation by TG2 restricts metabolic versatility in astrocytes following TBI, thereby impairing neuronal energetic support and worsening pathological outcomes. We utilized an established weight-drop model of repetitive mTBI followed by multi-parametric analysis of TBI pathology in complete TG2 knockout (TG2-/-) and wild type mice. At 28 days post-injury, TG2-/- mice showed marked attenuation of TBI pathology, compared to wild type mice, in vulnerable white matter and default mode network (DMN) regions, as assessed by diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), resting-state functional MRI, and immunohistochemistry. Integrated epigenomic, proteomic, and metabolomic profiling of cortical astrocytes isolated 28 days after injury revealed a pronounced metabolic restriction in wild type astrocytes which was remarkably attenuated in the TG2-/- mice. This rescue was associated with a de-repression of gene networks involved in glutamate recycling, lipid metabolism, and metabolic homeostasis. Together, these studies provide novel mechanistic insights into the metabolic dysregulation that characterizes persistent TBI pathology, and establish a foundation for evaluating TG2 as a therapeutic target for TBI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522035 is a review article
Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) serves as a modifiable transamidating acyltransferase that precipitates calcium-induced protein alterations. The enzyme plays a crucial role in the cell and disease states, such as tissue repair, calcium signal transduction, celiac disease, and cancer. It is implicated in protein crosslinking and has been found in high concentrations in the small intestines of those with celiac disease. The function of TG2 hinges upon calcium ions binding to particular sites on the enzyme. In this study, we delve into the contribution of calcium-responsive transglutaminase 2 (TG2) in celiac disease, utilizing both molecular dynamics simulations and coarse-grained models, and investigate the impact of non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) on TG2. Molecular dynamics reveal prominent conformational differences between the open and closed conformations. In the coarse-grained model, key residues are found adjacent to the active site in the open conformation, while in the closed conformation, key residues are distant from the active site. We further explore the functional impact of nsSNPs in TG2 using both sequence-based and structure-based computational tools. Through a consensus approach, we identify ten nsSNPs that are predicted to destabilize TG2 or alter its structural flexibility, with mutations such as R48H, E186Q, C277S, and E549G likely to influence active site accessibility and calcium coordination. The findings from this research enhance our understanding of the molecular processes underpinning celiac disease and helps facilitate innovative treatment approaches that target calcium-responsive TG2.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurological manifestations of gluten sensitivity (GS) with gluten ataxia (GA) are well-recognised in adults. We present our experience in children and adolescents (C/A) seen with suspected GS, mainly GA, over a 5-year period. Retrospective case note analysis was performed on clinical, serological andneuroimaging data of 20 C/A seen in our specialist ataxia referral centre withsuspected NGS. 14 female and 6 male C/A (range: 6-15 years, median: 12.5 years) were referred to our specialist ataxia clinic with suspected GS. All 20 patients had motor coordination/balance difficulties with ataxia. Headaches were present in 12/20 C/A (60%), sensory neuropathic symptoms in 6/20 C/a (30%), postural dizziness in 6/20 (30%). 8/20 C/A (40%) had pre-existing autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Family history of GS/GA/Coeliac disease was present in 10/20 C/A (50%). Serological abnormalities were present in all 20 CYP, with raised antibodies: antigliadin in 15/20 (75%), transglutaminase-6 in 12/20 (60%), transglutaminase-2 in 7/20 (35%), and endomysial in 4/20 (20%). MR Spectroscopy of the cerebellum showed a reduced N-acetylaspartate: Creatine (NAA/Cr) ratio in 14/20 (70%). 18/20 (90%) received a gluten-free diet (GFD). 13/18 (72%) of C/A reported improvement of symptoms on GFD. We suggest considering GS as a differential diagnosis in the presence of motor coordination difficulties with abnormal MRS of the cerebellum and raised antigliadin and/or transglutaminase-6 antibodies. Early diagnosis of GS is important, as it is a treatable cause of childhood ataxia.Further follow-up will help in defining the natural history and GS in C/A.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508529 is a review article
Correction for 'Cyanidin and delphinidin inhibit transglutaminase 2 and mitigate inflammatory effects of IFN-γ and TNF-α by molecular interaction' by Andrea Diers et al., Food Funct., 2026, 17, 4865-4879, https://doi.org/10.1039/d6fo00704j.
The live-attenuated Vaxsafe MG304 (ts-304 strain) vaccine protects against respiratory tract lesions caused by Mycoplasma gallisepticum when it is administered to day-old chicks by aerosol spray in either an aqueous or a gel base. This study used mRNA sequencing to examine transcriptional changes in the tracheal mucosa after challenge with M. gallisepticum in chickens spray vaccinated with Vaxsafe MG304 at one day of age. Chickens vaccinated by spray in an aqueous base at a dose of 107.0 colour changing units did not have significant transcriptional changes, except for down-regulation of the CRHBP (corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein) gene, in the tracheal mucosa 2 weeks after challenge, indicating that this approach to vaccination effectively prevented immunopathological changes in the trachea caused by challenge with virulent M. gallisepticum. However, chickens spray-vaccinated with a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in an aqueous base, or with doses of 107.0 colour changing units or 105.7 colour changing units in a gel base, did have significant transcriptional changes in the trachea after challenge. In chickens vaccinated with a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in a gel base, the transcriptional changes, particularly those indicative of ciliostasis, were greater than those observed in the unvaccinated-challenged (positive) control group. The only other group in which the CRHBP gene was down-regulated was the one vaccinated with a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in a gel base. This gene was not differentially transcribed in the high tracheal mucosal thickness (high TMT) or low tracheal mucosal thickness (low TMT) positive controls, or in those vaccinated by spray at a dose of 107.0 colour changing units in a gel base or at a dose of 105.7 colour changing units in an aqueous base. Therefore, the CRHBP gene may be a candidate for further investigation as an indicator of effective vaccination, although its role in respiratory immunity remains unclear.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cisplatin, a widely used antitumor agent, is limited in clinical application due to its ototoxicity. This study investigates the protective effects of obacunone, an active compound from Phellodendron bark, against cisplatin-induced hearing loss. Obacunone significantly improved the survival of cisplatin-treated House Ear Institute-Organ of Corti 1 (HEI-OC1) cells, preserved the cochlear explant, and enhanced auditory function in mice upon cisplatin treatment. Mechanistically, obacunone inhibited cisplatin-induced apoptosis by activating autophagy. Transcriptome profiling revealed that the expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRHBP) was increased in the cisplatin and obacunone co-treated group compared to the cisplatin-only group. Overexpression of CRHBP significantly enhanced autophagy and inhibited apoptosis, mirroring the effects of obacunone. Our findings demonstrate that obacunone promotes autophagy by upregulating CRHBP, thereby reducing cisplatin-induced hair cell apoptosis. This study provides a novel therapeutic strategy using the natural product obacunone for preventing cisplatin-induced hearing loss and highlights the potential of CRHBP as a target for otoprotective interventions.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aimed to identify novel circulating protein biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) superior to alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) by integrating tumor stemness index and secreted protein screening, and to explore their roles in prognosis, immune microenvironment, and tumor mechanisms.Stemness-associated differentially expressed genes were identified from TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) and GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus) databases after applying ComBat batch effect correction and quantile normalization to harmonize the datasets. WGCNA (weighted gene co-expression network analysis), secreted protein databases, and plasma sequencing were used to select candidate genes. Functional and immune infiltration analyses were performed, alongside multivariable Cox regression modeling and inverse variance weighted (IVW) Mendelian Randomization (MR) for prognostic and causal validation.A total of 19 genes significantly associated with tumor stemness and detectable in circulation were identified. After filtering based on clinicopathological features and survival analysis, 10 key genes were selected. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed that, aside from FCN3 (ficolin 3), the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of CRHBP (corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein), CLEC3B (C-type lectin domain family 3 member B), TEK (TEK receptor tyrosine kinase), SOGA1 (SOGA family member 1), IL33 (interleukin 33), CXCL12 (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12), NENF (neudesin neurotrophic factor), and ITM2B (integral membrane protein 2B) (AUCs [area under the curves] ranging from 0.67 to 0.99) surpassed those of AFP (AUC = 0.64). Cibersort analysis indicated significant associations of CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, IL33, NENF, CXCL12, and AFP with various immune cell infiltrates. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) suggested that CRHBP, CLEC3B, TEK, NENF, and AFP were primarily enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, whereas IL33, CXCL12, SOGA1, and ITM2B were involved in MAPK, GNRH, and NOTCH signaling. A multivariable Cox regression model identified CLEC3B, TEK, and NENF for constructing a prognostic signature, which demonstrated strong predictive performance in the TCGA cohort, as evidenced by the concordance index (C-index), time-dependent ROC analysis (1-/3-/5-year AUCs: 0.74/0.72/0.70), and decision curve analysis. IVW MR analysis further confirmed a causal relationship between cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) of the NENF gene and HCC risk (P = 0.024), with no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity detected. Elevated NENF protein expression, validated by proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses of public databases and a tissue microarray cohort, was significantly associated with HCC progression and reduced overall survival (hazard ratio [HR], 2.456; 95% CI, 1.271-4.960; P = 0.012).This multi-omics study reveals a panel of eight circulating proteins with diagnostic performance superior to that of AFP and independent prognostic value in HCC, nominating NENF as a causal biomarker for disease progression and survival.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Patients with psychotic disorders have a lifetime risk of suicide attempt (SA) of around 10 to 50%. Genetic variants in the corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRHBP) and FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5) genes, which are implicated in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and childhood trauma (CT), are considered risk factors for SA. This study aimed to examine the interaction between the CRHBP and FKBP5 genes and CT in the development of SA. Methods: We included 350 patients, 180 patients with schizophrenia and 170 with bipolar disorder. The patients were divided into two groups: 175 with a history of SA and 175 without, and a sample of 350 healthy controls was also included. The Multifactor Dimensionality Reduction program was used to identify G × E interactions between the CRHBP (rs7728378, rs10474485, and rs1875999) and FKBP5 (rs3800373 and rs9296158) and CT in SA. Results: The analysis showed that the interaction of CRHBP and FKBP5 with CT increases the risk of presenting at least one SA (OR 4.17; 95% CI [2.67-6.52]; p < 0.0001). Additionally, we observed interaction with childhood abuse (OR 4.09; 95% CI [2.61-6.39]; p < 0.0001), mainly with emotional (OR 3.67; 95% CI [2.34-5.77]; p < 0.0001) and sexual abuse (OR 3.32; 95% CI [2.11-5.23]; p < 0.0001). Conclusions: Our research indicates that genetic variations in CRHBP and FKBP5 genes and a history of CT increase the probability of presenting at least one SA in patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Studies aiming at evaluating specific changes in gene expression in male zebrafish brains as a consequence of the exposure to acute stressors have not been conducted so far. However, the identification of genes that specifically respond to certain stress situations would improve our understanding of stress responses in fish. For this, a stress trial with acutely stressed male zebrafish was conducted, aiming at identifying relevant differences in gene expressions in different brain parts over time. The qPCR results showed changes of gene expression of genes belonging to the immediate early genes and the stress axis, as well as genes regulating the appetite or serotonergic and dopaminergic pathways in the different brain parts across all treatment groups. Several genes, including urotensin 1, corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein, and succinate dehydrogenase, were identified as strongly contributing to the outcome of stress regulation, but these genes considerably differ for each brain part. Thus, the study confirmed that the gene expression patterns strongly depend on the species that is investigated, the quality of the stressor, and the time point of investigation. Furthermore, the current results evaluating only the responses of males will allow the evaluation of gender-specific responses to stress in this fish species in the future.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is primarily regulated by the brainstem pons. In particular, the sublaterodorsal tegmentum (SubLDT) in the dorsal pons contains neurons whose activity is selective to REM sleep. Elucidation of the precise identities of these neurons and their roles in REM sleep regulation is challenging, however, due to the functional and molecular heterogeneity of the SubLDT. A recent study revealed that corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (Crhbp)-positive neurons in the SubLDT projecting to the medulla play a crucial role in REM sleep regulation and that loss of these Crhbp-positive neurons underlies sleep deficits observed in Parkinson's disease. The firing patterns of these neurons during sleep/wake, however, remained unknown. Here, we used an opto-tagging method and conducted cell-type-specific recordings from Crhbp-positive neurons using a glass pipette microelectrode in unanesthetized male mice. We recorded 58 Crhbp-positive neurons and found that many of these neurons are REM sleep-active neurons (41.4%) and that the remaining neurons are mostly either wake-active, wake/REM sleep-active, or non-REM sleep-active. In addition, projection-specific recordings revealed that the medulla-projecting Crhbp-positive neurons are mostly REM sleep-active neurons (75.0%). Based on clustering analysis and spike waveform analysis, REM sleep-active Crhbp-positive neurons can be further divided into different subtypes according to their electrophysiological properties, suggesting that Crhbp-positive neurons play diverse roles in REM sleep regulation.Copyright © 2025 the authors.
The corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRHBP) plays a crucial role in regulating corticotropin release. Little is known about the role of CRHBP, a major regulator of neuroendocrine, autonomic, and stress adaptation, in tumors. In this study, we aimed to investigate the clinical and molecular landscapes of CRHBP in various types of tumors.We investigated the role of CRHBP in different types of tumors using publicly available databases and performed a comparative expression analysis of CRHBP-related genes in pan-cancer prognosis using methylation profiling, tumor-infiltrating immune cell expression analysis, gene enrichment analysis, and protein-protein interaction analysis, identified common pathways, and in vitro evaluation.We evaluated CRHBP expression across tumor and corresponding normal tissues using the data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and the Genotype-Tissue Expression database. CRHBP was downregulated in most tumors and was identified as an important factor for predicting the prognosis of patients with cancer. Intracellular metabolic pathways and hormone-related processes were involved in the functional mechanisms of CRHBP. Mechanistically, the downregulation of CRHBP was attributed to the upregulation of four miRNAs in most tumors, and CRHBP expression was related to tumor-infiltrating immune cells in tumors. Overexpression of CRHBP significantly inhibited cell proliferation of LUAD, LIHC, and KIRC cell lines, while inhibition of cell mobility was found only in KIRC and HCC cells.This study provides a comprehensive summary of the systemic role of CRHBP expression in various types of tumors, highlighting the prognostic importance and clinical significance of tumors. Furthermore, CRHBP decreases cell proliferation and mobility in cancer cell lines associated with OS and DFS, further research is needed to understand the underlying mechanisms and explore clinical applications.© 2024. The Author(s).
Identifying the properties of the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep circuitry and its relation to diseases has been challenging due to the neuronal heterogeneity of the brainstem. Here, we show in mice that neurons in the pontine sublaterodorsal tegmentum (SubLDT) that express corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (Crhbp+ neurons) and project to the medulla promote REM sleep. Within the medullary area receiving projections from Crhbp+ neurons, neurons expressing nitric oxide synthase 1 (Nos1+ neurons) project to the SubLDT and promote REM sleep, suggesting a positively interacting loop between the pons and the medulla operating as a core REM sleep circuit. Nos1+ neurons also project to areas that control wide forebrain activity. Ablating Crhbp+ neurons reduces sleep and impairs REM sleep atonia. In Parkinson's disease patients with REM sleep behavior disorders, CRHBP-immunoreactive neurons are largely reduced and contain pathologic α-synuclein, providing insight into the mechanisms underlying the sleep deficits characterizing this disease.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone-binding protein (CRHBP) is involved in many physiological processes. However, it is still unclear what role CRHBP has in tumor immunity and prognosis prediction. Using databases such as the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), Tumor Protein Database, Timer Database, and Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), we evaluated the potential role of CRHBP in diverse cancers. Further research looked into the relationships between CRHBP and tumor survival prognosis, immune infiltration, immune checkpoint (ICP) indicators, tumor mutation burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), mismatch repair (MMR), DNA methylation, tumor microenvironment (TME), and drug responsiveness. The anticancer effect of CRHBP in liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) was shown by Western blotting, EdU staining, JC-1 staining, transwell test, and wound healing assays. CRHBP expression is significantly low in the majority of tumor types and is associated with survival prognosis, ICP markers, TMB, and microsatellite instability (MSI). The expression of CRHBP was found to be substantially related to the quantity of six immune cell types, as well as the interstitial and immunological scores, showing that CRHBP has a substantial impact in the TME. We also noticed a link between the IC50 of a number of anticancer medicines and the degree of CRHBP expression. CRHBP-related signaling pathways were discovered using functional enrichment. Cox regression analysis showed that CRHBP expression was an independent prognostic factor for LIHC. CRHBP has a tumor suppressor function in LIHC, according to cell and molecular biology trials. CRHBP has a significant impact on tumor immunity, treatment, and prognosis, and has the potential as a cancer treatment target and prognostic indicator.© 2024. The Author(s).
Chronic immobilization stress plays a key role in several neuropsychiatric disorders. This investigation assessed the possible ameliorative effect of chia seed oil (CSO) against the neurodisturbance-induced in rats by chronic immobilization. Rats were randomly allocated into control, CSO (1 ml/kg b.wt./orally), restrained (6 h/day), CSO pre-restraint, and CSO post-restraint for 60 days. Results revealed a significant reduction in serum corticosterone level, gene expression of corticotrophin-releasing factor, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and oxidative biomarkers in restrained rats treated with CSO. The histopathological findings revealed restoring necrosis and neuronal loss in CSO-treated-restraint rats. The immunohistochemical evaluation revealed a significant reduction in the immuno-expression of caspase-3, nuclear factor kappa B, interleukin-6, and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and an elevation of calbindin-28k and synaptophysin expression compared to non-treated restraint rats. The molecular docking showed the CSO high affinity for several target proteins, including caspase-3, COX-2, corticotropin-releasing hormone binding protein, corticotropin-releasing factor receptors 1 and 2, interleukin-1 receptor types 1 and 2, interleukin-6 receptor subunits alpha and beta. In conclusion, CSO emerges as a promising candidate against stress-induced brain disruptions by suppressing inflammatory/oxidative/apoptotic signaling pathways due to its numerous antioxidant and anti-inflammatory components, mainly α-linolenic acid. Future studies are necessary to evaluate the CSO therapeutic impacts in human neurodisturbances.© 2023. The Author(s).
This study aimed to evaluate the antidepressant activity of Piper laetispicum extract and preliminarily explore its underlying mechanism using a zebrafish model of depression combined with quantitative proteomics. A chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) paradigm was employed to establish the depression model. AB strain zebrafish were randomly assigned into four groups: control, model, P. laetispicum, and fluoxetine, with 15 fish in each group. Except the control group, all groups were subjected to CUMS for 2 weeks. Intervention of P. laetispicum extract or fluoxetine lasted for 3 consecutive weeks. Upon completion of the experiment, the pathological morphology of zebrafish brain tissue was observed, and the expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta(IL-1β), brain-derived neurotrophic factor(BDNF), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A(5-HT2A) were measured in each group. Brain tissue proteins were extracted and subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins(DEPs), which was followed by bioinformatics analysis. Key DEPs were validated using Western blot and RT-qPCR. The results demonstrated that P. laetispicum extract significantly ameliorated CUMS-induced brain histopathological damage, reduced the levels of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β, and reversed the aberrant expression of BDNF and 5-HT2A. Proteomic profiling identified a total of 11 633 proteins, among which the expression levels of 81 proteins were markedly reversed following P. laetispicum extract treatment. Subsequent validation by Western blot and RT-qPCR confirmed that P. laetispicum significantly modulated the expression of annexin A1(Anxa1) and transcription factor JunB(JunB). Collectively, these findings suggest that P. laetispicum exerts antidepressant effects potentially through the regulation of Anxa1 and JunB expression.
Cognitive improvement is mediated by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and connectome gradient analysis has important potential to explore more comprehensive information for treatment efficacy. However, it remains unclear whether and how rTMS mediates connectome gradient reconstruction and its spatial neurotransmitter associations in subjects on the AD spectrum.A total of 84 subjects on the AD spectrum underwent 4 weeks of conventional neuronavigated rTMS targeting the left angular gyrus (20 Hz, 20 sessions over 4 weeks, 20 minutes per session), including 60 subjects with true stimulation and 24 with sham stimulation. This study identified functional connectome gradients and investigated their neuroplasticity between pre- and post-rTMS intervention. A support vector regression model was subsequently used to explore the cognitive prediction value of baseline measures. Finally, connectome‒neurotransmitter association analysis was used to investigate neurotransmitter profiles related to rTMS therapeutic efficacy.These findings showed that rTMS treatment mainly mediated the decreased gradient values in the somatomotor regions and such baseline values of these regions showed preliminary predictive value for memory improvement after treatment (R 2: 0.40-0.63, mean absolute error: 1.54-3.19, root mean square error: 1.98-3.94, p = 0.0002). Moreover, connectome-neurotransmitter association analysis suggested spatial associations between these gradient changes and normative metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5HT2a) receptor distributions.rTMS mediates plasticity in high-order metric levels in the brain and is linked to the spatial distributions of specific neurotransmitter receptors in subjects on the AD spectrum.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482371 is a review article
New psychoactive substances (NPS) are a heterogeneous group of recreational drugs that mimic the actions and psychoactive effects of existing pharmaceutical products or recreational drugs. As NPS can be highly potent, even exceeding their template compound's potency, there are frequent reports of non-fatal and fatal intoxications. One principal target for hallucinogenic and psychedelic drugs, including NPS, is the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A). Since NPS are designed to evade legal restrictions, this drug market is quickly evolving, and researchers are playing catch-up, investigating these novel compounds for their toxicological and pharmacological properties. Receptor binding affinity (Ki) is an important property describing ligand-receptor interactions and is a prerequisite for receptor activation. Competitive in vitro assays can be used to assess Ki; this is a resource-intensive process. We used publicly available Ki data for the 5-HT2A, calculated molecular descriptors and fingerprints, and trained five classification machine learning models. The predictive performance of the models had precisions and recalls up to 93% and 92%, respectively. We used explainable artificial intelligence, i.e., SHAP values and similarity maps, for model interpretation. The results are in line with previous experiments and support its suitability to predict the binding affinities of possible 5-HT2A ligands.
Obesity remains a major global health challenge, and current pharmacotherapies have limitations in long-term efficacy, safety, and cost. Broccoli (Brassica oleracea L. var. italica) seeds are a rich source of sulforaphane (SFN), which has demonstrated anti-obesity effects. However, the bioavailability of SFN from broccoli seeds is limited by suboptimal conversion conditions and competing nitrile-formation pathways.This study aims to standardize a high-yield, SFN-rich broccoli seed hydrolysate (BSH), to evaluate its anti-obesity efficacy in mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), and to elucidate its mechanism via molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD).SFN hydrolysis was optimized by Liquid chromatography-high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) and High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) across pH, temperature, time, and L-ascorbic acid; 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A) binding was probed by network pharmacology, molecular docking, and 100 ns MD. HFD-fed male C57BL/6 mice (n = 6 per group) received oral broccoli seed water extract (BWE), BSH, or SFN for 8 weeks. Anti-obesity efficacy was assessed by body/tissue weights, micro-computed tomography (Micro-CT), histology, and serum lipid profiling, while 5-HT2A, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and other markers in epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) and liver were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot.SFN production from broccoli seeds was maximized under two hydrolysis regimes: short-term (pH 4 at 35°C for 2 h) and long-term (pH 5 at 25°C for 24 h). In silico analyses predicted stable binding of the sulforaphane-glutathione conjugate (SFN-GSH) to 5-HT2A. In HFD-fed mice, BSH (40-800 mg/kg, p.o.) dose-dependently attenuated HFD-induced body weight gain (800 mg/kg vs HFD, p < 0.001). BWE 400 mg/kg and BSH 40 mg/kg showed broadly comparable effects on body weight. Furthermore, gene and protein analyses in eWAT and liver showed 5-HT2A (Htr2a) suppression, restored AMPK phosphorylation, and downregulation of lipogenic regulators. However, co-administration of the AMPK inhibitor Compound C (5 mg/kg, i.p.) with BSH abolished these BSH-induced effects. Oral administration of a sulforaphane standard (1-10 mg/kg) produced similar effects to BSH (10 mg/kg vs HFD, p < 0.01), suggesting that the anti-obesity effect of BSH is mediated primarily by SFN.In this study, SFN-rich BSH ameliorated obesity in HFD-fed mice via a peripheral 5-HT2A suppression-AMPK activation axis. However, further mechanistic clarification will require studies to more precisely define the role of 5-HT2A in adipocytes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Although neuroticism is a major risk factor for adverse health outcomes, its neural basis is obscured by inconsistent findings from studies of regional gray matter volume (GMV) correlates. This study sought to identify convergent functional brain networks underlying these heterogeneous GMV correlates using functional connectivity network mapping (FCNM), and to explore their neurochemical basis.We systematically identified 10 voxel-based morphometry (VBM) studies (N = 1,595) reporting neuroticism-associated GMV coordinates. Using resting-state fMRI data from 1,093 healthy Human Connectome Project participants, FCNM was applied to map functional connectivity patterns associated with these coordinates. Overlap with canonical networks was assessed. The Juspace toolbox explored spatial relationships between identified networks and major neurotransmitter receptor distributions.Despite spatial heterogeneity, neuroticism-related GMV changes consistently mapped onto three principal functional networks: the default mode network (DMN), frontoparietal network (FPN), and ventral attention network (VAN). These mappings were robust across varied analytical parameters. Moreover, the implicated networks demonstrated significant spatial correlation with the distributions of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A), cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1), and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5).Despite regional variability, GMV correlates of neuroticism converge on common large-scale brain networks involved in self-referential processing, cognitive control, and salience processing. Their significant spatial coupling with 5-HT2A, CB1, and mGluR5 receptor distributions suggests serotonergic, endocannabinoid, and glutamatergic modulatory mechanisms contributing to network-level alterations. This cross-modal and network-based approach provides a unified framework for understanding the biological substrates of neuroticism, reconciling prior inconsistencies, and identifying key targets for prevention or biomarker development.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Yang, Sun, Zhang, Dai, Pan and Gu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41540686 is a review article
The involvement of the serotonin system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia has been proposed for over 60 years, but there has been no prior study to test if there is altered serotonin release in vivo in schizophrenia (to the authors' knowledge).To investigate serotonin release in vivo in schizophrenia and its association with negative symptoms. It was hypothesized a priori that frontal cortex serotonin release capacity would be lower in schizophrenia compared with healthy controls and that this would be associated with more severe baseline negative symptoms.This was a single-center case-control neuroimaging study conducted in London, UK. All participants had dynamic 90-minute [11C]Cimbi-36 positron emission tomography (PET) scans at baseline and 3 hours after oral administration of d-amphetamine 0.5mg/kg. Data were collected between 2015 and 2024. Participants included stable adult outpatients with DSM-5 schizophrenia (antipsychotic free or taking antipsychotics with negligible affinity for 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A [5-HT2A] receptors) and healthy controls matched for age, sex, and body mass index.The primary neuroimaging outcome was the group difference in serotonin release capacity, prespecified as the percentage change in frontal cortex [11C]Cimbi-36 binding potential between the baseline and d-amphetamine scans.A total of 54 individuals were included, 26 with DSM-5 schizophrenia (mean [SD] age, 33.3 [9.1] years, 16 male [62%]; 21 not taking antipsychotic medication [81%]) and 28 healthy controls (mean [SD] age, 32.0 [9.5] years, 19 male [68%]). Frontal cortex serotonin release was significantly greater in the group with schizophrenia compared with healthy controls (18.0%; 95% CI, 2.5%-33.6%; P = .02; Cohen d = 0.69). In schizophrenia, greater frontal cortex serotonin release was correlated with more severe baseline negative symptoms (Brief Negative Symptom Scale: Pearson r = 0.42; P = .04) and poorer functioning (Social Functioning Scale: Pearson r = -0.42; P = .04). Exploratory analyses showed significantly greater frontal cortex serotonin release in deficit schizophrenia, characterized by primary and enduring negative symptoms, compared with healthy controls (mean difference = 32.3%; FDR-corrected P value = 0.001; Cohen d = 1.10) and nondeficit schizophrenia (mean difference = 28.9%; FDR-corrected P value = 0.004; Cohen d = 0.89). These findings were all replicated in 21 individuals with schizophrenia not taking antipsychotic medication. Baseline cortical [11C]Cimbi-36 binding (indexing baseline cortical 5-HT2A receptor levels) was unaltered in schizophrenia.This case-control study found that serotonergic dysfunction in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia was associated with negative symptoms, suggesting the regulation of serotonin release as a target to treat negative symptoms. Results of the exploratory analysis suggest particularly marked serotonergic dysfunction in the subgroup with deficit schizophrenia.
Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a common diabetic complication with a obscure and complicated pathogenesis. Here, we determined that 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2 A (5HT2AR) is selectively and pathologically elevated in the sciatic nerve (SN) tissues of late-stage DPN patients and the SN/dorsal root ganglion (DRG) tissues of late-stage DPN model mice (both type 1 and 2 diabetic mice) compared with the other 13 subtypes of 5HTR, and desloratadine (DLT) as a discovered selective antagonist of 5HT2AR ameliorated the DPN-like pathology in mice. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms, proteomic analysis was performed against the SN tissues of DPN mice and verified by assays against both the SN tissues from DPN patients and the DPN mice with specific 5HT2AR knockdown in the SN and DRG tissues by injection of the adeno-associated virus php.s-5HT2AR-RNAi. We determined the activation of the neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) that is tightly linked to the vascular dysfunction and neuroinflammation in DPN pathology. NETs regulated vascular dysfunction through NE/TF/HIF-1α/MMP-9/2 pathway, and DLT-mediated 5HT2AR inhibition suppressed NETs activation through PKC/NADPH/ROS pathway. Collectively, our findings revealed that 5HT2AR associates with NETs activation in DPN pathology and supported that pharmacological inhibition of 5HT2AR shows promising as a therapeutic strategy for DPN and DLT exhibits high potential in treating the disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
To identify common functional brain networks underlying heterogeneous gray matter (GM) correlates of extraversion and to characterize the neurotransmitter receptor and transporter architecture associated with these networks.A systematic literature search identified 13 voxel-based morphometry (VBM) studies reporting GM correlates of extraversion in healthy individuals (N = 1,478). Functional connectivity network mapping (FCNM) approach using normative resting-state functional MRI data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP, N = 1,093) mapped divergent GM correlates extraversion onto common networks. Robustness was assessed via replication using an independent Southwest University Adult Lifespan Dataset (SALD, N = 329) and sensitivity analyses varying seed radii. Spatial relationships between the identified brain networks and the distribution of major neurotransmitter receptors/transporters were subsequently characterized using the JuSpace toolbox.FCNM analysis revealed that reported GM correlates of extraversion converge onto specific functional networks. Spatial overlap analysis showed the highest association with the frontoparietal network (FPN) (37.32%) and the default mode network (DMN) (32.99%). Furthermore, JuSpace analysis indicated that these extraversion-linked networks exhibited significant positive spatial correlations with 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5HT2a; p = 0.021, r = 0.215), cannabinoid receptor type-1 (CB1; p = 0.005, r = 0.392), and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5; p = 0.01, r = 0.330), and negative correlations with the norepinephrine transporter (NAT; p = 0.018, r = -0.221) and serotonin transporter (SERT; p = 0.023, r = -0.201).Despite regional heterogeneity in prior VBM studies, structural GM correlates of extraversion consistently map onto the DMN and FPN. This network-based approach reconciles previous inconsistencies and highlights the importance of these large-scale networks as a plausible functional substrate underlying structural variations associated with extraversion. These findings advance a systems-level understanding of the neural basis of this core personality dimension and suggest a distinct neurochemical architecture within these networks.Copyright © 2025 Sun, Yang, Liu, Zhang, Wang, Dai, Gu and Pan.
While genetic factors strongly influence brain aging trajectories, variants conferring cognitive resilience remain poorly characterized. The neurokinin-3 receptor (NK3-R), encoded by Tachykinin Receptor 3 ( TACR3) , modulates cholinergic signaling in memory circuits vulnerable to aging. Previous studies linked the non-WT expression of the TACR3 variant rs2765 with cognitive decline and reduced volume of the hippocampus and basal forebrain, but systematic replication and mechanistic validation were lacking.We investigated rs2765 in the preregistered AgeGain cohort of cognitively healthy older adults (n=188) with independent validation in the ADNI cohort (n=809) which includes persons with and without Alzheimer's Disease (AD) that show healthy cognition, mild cognitive impairment or dementia. Analyses integrated structural neuroimaging, longitudinal cognitive assessments, epigenetic aging (PhenoAge), genome-wide methylation profiling, and mechanistic validation through luciferase assays and cross-species protein expression studies.The infrequent protective rs2765 WT variant, found in 12.8% of Europeans, conferred 49% slower cognitive decline ( p = 0.002) for amyloid-positive individuals of the ADNI cohort and 3.7 years younger epigenetic age ( p = 0.013, 95% CI: 0.79-6.67 years) in the cognitively healthy AgeGain cohort. WT carriers showed larger hippocampal and basal forebrain volumes across cohorts, with Allen Brain Atlas integration revealing these outcomes to occur exclusively in regions where TACR3 expression positively correlated with gray matter volume. Mechanistically, the non-WT variant ameliorated RBMX-mediated post-transcriptional regulation, reducing NK3-R protein expression by 25-40% in vitro and ex vivo murine brain slice models. Senescence-accelerated mice exhibited reduced endogenous NK3-R expression, phenocopying the predicted functional consequences of the variant. In AgeGain participants, genome-wide methylation profiling identified 2,313 differentially methylated CpGs affecting 228 pathways spanning glutamatergic signaling, acetylcholine receptor pathways, chromatin remodeling, and angiogenesis, suggesting coordinated molecular reprogramming from synaptic function to systemic aging.rs2765 WT confers resilience to age- and AD-related cognitive decline through RBMX-dependent regulation of NK3-R expression, with effects of remarkable size cascading from memory to systemic aging. rs2765 genotyping could stratify individuals for NK3-R modulator therapy (e.g., fezolinetant or senktides) and identify those maintaining function despite pathological burden, complementing APOE-based risk assessment in precision geromedicine.
This study addressed the critical need for an integrated, personalized approach to perimenopausal mental health, addressing both biological and psychosocial factors. Current research highlighted the influence of hormonal fluctuations, genetic predispositions, and lifestyle factors in shaping perimenopausal mental health outcomes. This transitional period is marked by significant hormonal fluctuations contributing to heightened anxiety, depression, and sleep disturbances, affecting the women's quality of life. Traditional pharmacological treatments, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and hormone replacement therapy, have limitations due to variable efficacy and side effects, emphasizing the need for precision medicine. Advancements in pharmacogenomics and metabolomics provide new avenues for individualized treatments, with genetic markers (e.g., Solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 1B1, estrogen receptor 1/estrogen receptor 2, and tachykinin receptor 3) guiding hormone therapy responses. Emerging digital health technologies, such as artificial intelligence-driven diagnostics, wearable monitoring, and telehealth platforms, offer scalable, real-time mental health support, though regulatory and clinical validation challenges remain. Furthermore, integrative treatment models combining hormone-based therapy with non-pharmacological interventions demonstrate significant efficacy in alleviating perimenopausal symptoms. Future directions should prioritize the clinical validation and ethical implementation of digital health solutions, ensuring safety, efficacy, and user accessibility. A multidisciplinary, patient-centric model, incorporating genetics, endocrinology, digital health, and psychosocial interventions, is essential for optimizing perimenopausal mental health outcomes.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Fatty acid synthase (FAS) is a fundamental metabolic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of endogenous fatty acids; TACR3, also known as tachykinin receptor 3 or NK3R, is an important G-protein-coupled receptor that is primarily responsible for responding to neuropeptides such as neurokinin B (NKB) and plays a crucial role in embryonic development, organ formation, and cell differentiation. This study aimed to explore the association between the single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the FAS and TACR3 genes and the milk quality of Gannan yak and to determine them as potential molecular marker loci for the milk quality of yaks. The genotyping of 162 Gannan yaks was performed using liquid-phase chip technology. Association analyses were conducted between the obtained SNP loci genotypes and milk composition traits, including milk protein, casein, non-fat solids, and acidity. Comparative sequence analysis of two genes (FAS and TACR3) across multiple species revealed that the yak FAS gene exhibited the highest homology with Bos taurus and Bos indicus, while the yak TACR3 gene showed the greatest sequence similarity to Bos taurus. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium tests were performed on four SNP loci, and the equilibrium indices of the four loci were 0.799, 0.368, 0.689, and 0.948 (p > 0.05), indicating that all of these loci are in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium state. g.13,276T>C (FAS) was significantly correlated with lactose content traits (p < 0.05); g.74,382C>G (FAS) was significantly correlated with casein, protein, total solids, non-fat solids, and acidity traits (p < 0.05); g.40,529A>G (TACR3) was significantly correlated with protein, non-fat solids, citric acid, and acidity traits (p < 0.05). The influence of g.40,555C>T (TACR3) on these traits did not reach a significant level (p > 0.05). This study suggests that two genes can serve as potential candidate genes affecting the quality of Gannan yak milk, providing reference genes for improving the quality of Gannan yak milk.
Anxiety Disorder is a common neurological disorder for which ubiquitous environmental endocrine disruptors may be risk factors. 17β-trenbolone (17-TB) has been recognized as a potential environmental endocrine disruptor and its neurotoxic effects have attracted attention. Tachykinin receptor 3 (TACR3), a G protein-coupled receptor involved in pubertal anxiety, and its underlying neural mechanisms remain enigmatic. Therefore, this study investigated the possible relationship between 17-TB and TACR3, testosterone (T), and synaptic plasticity. Our results showed that adolescent male Balb/c mice developed significant anxiety-like behavior after four weeks of exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of 17-TB (100 μg/kg/day). Transcriptomic RNA-Seq results showed that 17-TB affected abnormal synaptic transmission signals in the hippocampus. Electrophysiological results showed that 17-TB reduced the activity of hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) neurons and led to the downregulation of hippocampal TACR3 and T levels. In addition, Western blot, immunohistochemistry, ELISA, and qRT-PCR showed that 17-TB exposure led to the downregulation of key hippocampal synaptic proteins PSD95, Gephyrin, and Syn, and induced a metabolic imbalance in glutamate (Glu)/GABA signaling, affecting dopamine signaling. Interestingly, testosterone supplementation (10 mg/kg/day) was effective in ameliorating the above phenomena and alleviating anxiety-like behaviors. These results suggest that 17-TB modulates anxiety-related synaptic plasticity by regulating hippocampal TACR3 and T interactions in vivo. In conclusion, our study contributes to understanding the neurobehavioral and potential mechanistic effects of environmental 17-TB exposure in mammals. It alerts the public to the health risks of chemicals to mammals and suggests new research directions and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tachykinin receptor 3 (TACR3) is a member of the tachykinin receptor family and falls within the rhodopsin subfamily. As a G protein-coupled receptor, it responds to neurokinin B (NKB), its high-affinity ligand. Dysfunctional TACR3 has been associated with pubertal failure and anxiety, yet the mechanisms underlying this remain unclear. Hence, we have investigated the relationship between TACR3 expression, anxiety, sex hormones, and synaptic plasticity in a rat model, which indicated that severe anxiety is linked to dampened TACR3 expression in the ventral hippocampus. TACR3 expression in female rats fluctuates during the estrous cycle, reflecting sensitivity to sex hormones. Indeed, in males, sexual development is associated with a substantial increase in hippocampal TACR3 expression, coinciding with elevated serum testosterone and a significant reduction in anxiety. TACR3 is predominantly expressed in the cell membrane, including the presynaptic compartment, and its modulation significantly influences synaptic activity. Inhibition of TACR3 activity provokes hyperactivation of CaMKII and enhanced AMPA receptor phosphorylation, associated with an increase in spine density. Using a multielectrode array, stronger cross-correlation of firing was evident among neurons following TACR3 inhibition, indicating enhanced connectivity. Deficient TACR3 activity in rats led to lower serum testosterone levels, as well as increased spine density and impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dentate gyrus. Remarkably, aberrant expression of functional TACR3 in spines results in spine shrinkage and pruning, while expression of defective TACR3 increases spine density, size, and the magnitude of cross-correlation. The firing pattern in response to LTP induction was inadequate in neurons expressing defective TACR3, which could be rectified by treatment with testosterone. In conclusion, our study provides valuable insights into the intricate interplay between TACR3, sex hormones, anxiety, and synaptic plasticity. These findings highlight potential targets for therapeutic interventions to alleviate anxiety in individuals with TACR3 dysfunction and the implications of TACR3 in anxiety-related neural changes provide an avenue for future research in the field.© 2023. The Author(s).
Neurokinin B (NKB), a peptide encoded by the tachykinin 3 (TAC3), is critical for reproduction in all studied species. However, its potential roles in birds are less clear. Using the female chicken (c-) as a model, we showed that cTAC3 is composed of five exons with a full-length cDNA of 787 bp, which was predicted to generate the mature NKB peptide containing 10 amino acids. Using cell-based luciferase reporter assays, we demonstrated that cNKB could effectively and specifically activate tachykinin receptor 3 (TACR3) in HEK293 cells, suggesting its physiological function is likely achieved via activating cTACR3 signaling. Notably, cTAC3 and cTACR3 were predominantly and abundantly expressed in the hypothalamus of hens and meanwhile the mRNA expression of cTAC3 was continuously increased during development, suggesting that NKB-TACR3 may emerge as important components of the neuroendocrine reproductive axis. In support, intraperitoneal injection of cNKB could significantly promote hypothalamic cGnRH-Ι, and pituitary cFSHβ and cLHβ expression in female chickens. Surprisingly, cTAC3 and cTACR3 were also expressed in the pituitary gland, and cNKB treatment significantly increased cLHβ and cFSHβ expression in cultured primary pituitary cells, suggesting cNKB can also act directly at the pituitary level to stimulate gonadotropin synthesis. Collectively, our results reveal that cNKB functionally regulate GnRH/gonadotropin synthesis in female chickens.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The coexistence of chronic pain and anxiety is a common clinical phenomenon. Here, the role of tachykinin receptor 3 (NK3R) in the lateral habenula (LHb) in trigeminal neuralgia and in pain-associated anxiety was systematically investigated. First, electrophysiological recording showed that bilateral LHb neurons are hyperactive in a mouse model of trigeminal neuralgia made by partial transection of the infraorbital nerve (pT-ION). Chemicogenetic activation of bilateral LHb glutamatergic neurons in naive mice induced orofacial allodynia and anxiety-like behaviors, and pharmacological activation of NK3R in the LHb attenuated allodynia and anxiety-like behaviors induced by pT-ION. Electrophysiological recording showed that pharmacological activation of NK3R suppressed the abnormal excitation of LHb neurons. In parallel, pharmacological inhibition of NK3R induced orofacial allodynia and anxiety-like behavior in naive mice. The electrophysiological recording showed that pharmacological inhibition of NK3R activates LHb neurons. Neurokinin B (NKB) is an endogenous high-affinity ligand of NK3R, which binds NK3R and activates it to perform physiological functions, and further neuron projection tracing showed that the front section of the periaqueductal gray (fPAG) projects NKB-positive nerve fibers to the LHb. Optogenetics combined with electrophysiology recordings characterize the functional connections in this fPAG NKB → LHb pathway. In addition, electrophysiological recording showed that NKB-positive neurons in the fPAG were more active than NKB-negative neurons in pT-ION mice. Finally, inhibition of NKB release from the fPAG reversed the analgesic and anxiolytic effects of LHb Tacr3 overexpression in pT-ION mice, indicating that fPAG NKB → LHb regulates orofacial allodynia and pain-induced anxious behaviors. These findings for NK3R suggest the cellular mechanism behind pT-ION in the LHb and suggest that the fPAG NKB → LHb circuit is involved in pain and anxiety comorbidity. This previously unrecognized pathway might provide a potential approach for relieving the pain and anxiety associated with trigeminal neuralgia by targeting NK3R.Copyright © 2023 Zhang, Chen, Li, Wang, Liu, Wang, Mi, Mao-Ying, Wang and Chu.
Structural changes and neuropathology in the hypothalamus have been suggested to contribute to the non-motor manifestations of Huntington's disease (HD), a neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expanded cytosine-adenine-guanine (CAG) repeat in the huntingtin (HTT) gene. In this study, we investigated whether hypothalamic HTT expression causes transcriptional changes. Hypothalamic RNA was isolated from two different HD mouse models and their littermate controls; BACHD mice with ubiquitous expression of full-length mutant HTT (mHTT) and wild-type mice with targeted hypothalamic overexpression of either wild-type HTT (wtHTT) or mHTT fragments. The mHTT and wtHTT groups showed the highest number of differentially expressed genes compared to the BACHD mouse model. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) with leading-edge analysis showed that suppressed sterol- and cholesterol metabolism were shared between hypothalamic wtHTT and mHTT overexpression. Most distinctive for mHTT overexpression was the suppression of neuroendocrine networks, in which qRT-PCR validation confirmed significant downregulation of neuropeptides with roles in feeding behavior; hypocretin neuropeptide precursor (Hcrt), tachykinin receptor 3 (Tacr3), cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (Cart) and catecholamine-related biological processes; dopa decarboxylase (Ddc), histidine decarboxylase (Hdc), tyrosine hydroxylase (Th), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (Vip). In BACHD mice, few hypothalamic genes were differentially expressed compared to age-matched WT controls. However, GSEA indicated an enrichment of inflammatory- and gonadotropin-related processes at 10 months. In conclusion, we show that both wtHTT and mHTT overexpression change hypothalamic transcriptome profile, specifically mHTT, altering neuroendocrine circuits. In contrast, the ubiquitous expression of full-length mHTT in the BACHD hypothalamus moderately affects the transcriptomic profile.Copyright © 2022 Dickson, Dwijesha, Andersson, Lundh, Björkqvist, Petersén and Soylu-Kucharz.
Pubertal onset is known to result from reactivation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis, which is controlled by complex interactions of genetic and nongenetic factors. Most cases of precocious puberty (PP) are diagnosed as central PP (CPP), defined as premature activation of the HPG axis. The cause of CPP in most girls is not identifiable and, thus, referred to as idiopathic CPP (ICPP), whereas boys are more likely to have an organic lesion in the brain. ICPP has a genetic background, as supported by studies showing that maternal age at menarche is associated with pubertal timing in their offspring. A gain of expression in the kisspeptin gene (KISS1), gain-of-function mutation in the kisspeptin receptor gene (KISS1R), loss-of-function mutation in makorin ring finger protein 3 (MKRN3), and loss-of-function mutations in the delta-like homolog 1 gene (DLK1) have been associated with ICPP. Other genes, such as gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor subunit alpha-1 (GABRA1), lin-28 homolog B (LIN28B), neuropeptide Y (NPYR), tachykinin 3 (TAC3), and tachykinin receptor 3 (TACR3), have been implicated in the progression of ICPP, although their relationships require elucidation. Environmental and socioeconomic factors may also be correlated with ICPP. In the progression of CPP, epigenetic factors such as DNA methylation, histone posttranslational modifications, and noncoding ribonucleic acids may mediate the relationship between genetic and environmental factors. CPP is correlated with short- and long-term adverse health outcomes, which forms the rationale for research focusing on understanding its genetic and nongenetic factors.
Vasomotor symptoms (VMS), hot flashes, and night sweats are cardinal symptoms of the menopausal transition. Little is known about genetic influences on VMS. This study evaluated whether previously identified genetic factors predictive of VMS, age at menarche, and age at menopause were associated with VMS in a multiracial/ethnic cohort.For 702 White, 306 Black, 126 Chinese, and 129 Japanese women from the Study of Women's Health Across the Nation (SWAN) Genomic Substudy, we created polygenic risk scores (PRSs) from genome-wide association studies of VMS and ages at menarche and menopause. PRSs and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from a previously identified VMS locus (tachykinin receptor 3 [TACR3]) were evaluated for associations with frequent VMS (VMS ≥6 days in the past 2 weeks at any visit) and with VMS trajectories (persistently low, early onset, final menstrual period onset, persistently high).The C-allele of rs74827081 in TACR3 was associated with reduced likelihood of frequent VMS in White women (odds ratio [OR] = 0.49 [95% CI, 0.29-0.83]). With higher menarche PRS (later menarche), Black women were less likely (OR = 0.55 [95% CI, 0.38-0.78]) to report frequent VMS. With higher PRS for age at menarche, Black women were also less likely to have a persistently high VMS trajectory (OR = 0.55 [95% CI, 0.34-0.91]), whereas White women (OR = 0.75 [95% CI, 0.58-0.98]) were less likely to have a final menstrual period onset trajectory (vs persistently low). Chinese women with higher menopause PRS were more likely to have frequent VMS (OR = 2.29 [95% CI, 1.39-3.78]). Associations were substantively similar after excluding rs74827081 C-allele carriers.Genetic factors predictive of reproductive aging are also associated with VMS, suggesting that VMS have a polygenic architecture. Further study in this area may help to identify new targets for novel VMS therapies.Copyright © 2021 by The North American Menopause Society.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized not only by progressive motor deficits but also by non-motor symptoms, such as depression, which often emerge during the prodromal stage and significantly impair quality of life. While Akkermansia muciniphila (AKK) has shown potential in modulating neuroinflammation, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in alleviating PD-associated non-motor symptoms remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of AKK intervention in 16-month-old female A53T α-synuclein (α-syn) transgenic mice. Behavioral assessments revealed that oral administration of AKK significantly ameliorated depression-like behaviors, evidenced by reduced immobility in the forced swim test and increased sucrose preference, without affecting motor function, spatial memory, or gastrointestinal motility. Mechanistically, the intervention exhibited genotype-specific effects: AKK significantly increased plasma 5-HT levels in C57 mice. This increase was associated with an enrichment of Lactobacillus taiwanensis and metabolic pathways favoring peripheral tryptophan conversion. Conversely, in A53T mice, the treatment specifically elevated hippocampal 5-HT levels without altering plasma concentrations. This central effect correlated with distinct microbial remodeling, characterized by the enrichment of butyrate/propionate-producing Lachnospiraceae and the activation of purine degradation. Collectively, these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the therapeutic potential of AKK for managing non-motor symptoms in PD. While limited to a female cohort, our results suggest that AKK ameliorates depression-like behaviors in PD through sex-specific remodeling of the gut microbiome and serotonergic signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Synucleinopathies are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the accumulation of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn), including Parkinson's disease, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, and Multiple System Atrophy. These diseases are marked by locomotor and non-motor impairments, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction and the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons. We have developed several anti-α-syn single-domain antibodies (sdAbs) and demonstrated the diagnostic imaging potential of two of them and the acute therapeutic benefit of one in clearing α-syn in a mouse model. However, whether these sdAbs can suppress α-syn-mediated neuronal loss and locomotor impairment in vivo remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of five anti-α-syn sdAbs to clear pathological α-syn in mouse neuronal culture and then demonstrated their in vivo efficacy in a Drosophila model of synucleinopathy. The sdAbs differed in their efficacy to lower levels of phospho-serine 129 α-syn, prevent loss of DA neurons, alleviate mitochondrial dysfunction, improve motor function, and prolong survival in synucleinopathy flies. The most effective sdAb, 2H1, has not been reported before. It binds strongly to the aggregation prone region of α-syn and robustly improves all these disease parameters. Additionally, that sdAb is associated with α-syn in the fly neurons, as shown through proximity dependent turboID biotinylation assays. The sdAb-turboID also biotinylated α-syn-associated proteins involved in synapse/vesicle trafficking pathways, pinpointing the location of their intracellular interaction. Our findings provide an insight into the therapeutic mechanism of action of these sdAbs and strongly support their clinical development.
Post-translational modifications, particularly SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, a key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). Curcumin, a natural polyphenol, has shown neuroprotective potential, but its effects on SUMOylation-related signaling in PD remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether curcumin modulates α-syn SUMOylation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms in PD model mice.A PD model was established in male C57BL/6 mice via unilateral intrastriatal injection of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs). Six months after α-syn PFFs injection, mice were treated intravenously with curcumin (25 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 1 month. Behavioral tests (open field, rotarod) assessed motor function. Neuropathology was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phosphorylated α-syn (p-syn), SUMOylation pathway components (SUMO1, SAE2, UBC9, PIAS1/2), and ubiquitin. Striatal dopamine levels were measured by HPLC.Curcumin treatment ameliorated motor deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in PD mice. It partially preserved dopaminergic neurons and reduced p-syn aggregation in the substantia nigra, accompanied by increased striatal dopamine levels. Mechanistically, curcumin was associated with reduced SUMO1 and increased ubiquitin levels, suggesting modulation of SUMOylation-related signaling. Among SUMOylation enzymes, UBC9 expression was decreased, whereas E1 (SAE2) and E3 (PIAS1/2) components were not substantially affected.Our findings demonstrated that curcumin exerted neuroprotective effects in a PD model by attenuating α-syn pathology. The protective mechanism involves the inhibition of α-syn SUMOylation, primarily through the downregulation of the UBC9 enzyme. This study identifies UBC9-mediated SUMOylation as a potential target for curcumin and highlight a promising strategy for modifying α-syn-associated pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Li, Zhu and Zhang.
Differentiating early-stage Parkinson's disease (PD) from the parkinsonian variant of multiple system atrophy (MSA-P) remains a significant challenge due to overlapping clinical phenotypes. This study aimed to identify novel, minimally invasive biomarkers by integrating high-resolution peripheral monocyte transcriptomics with erythrocytic alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) distribution patterns.We recruited 149 participants (75 PD and 74 MSA-P) to evaluate clinical features and composite peripheral inflammatory indices. To resolve subtle immune heterogeneity often masked in bulk blood analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from early-stage patients, followed by Quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) validation. Additionally, immunofluorescence was utilized to characterize the subcellular compartmentalization of alpha-Syn forms in erythrocytes.While MSA-P patients exhibited more rapid progression and severe autonomic failure, standard inflammatory markers (e.g., NLR, MLR) failed to distinguish PD from MSA-P in the early clinical stages. However, scRNA-seq revealed distinct monocyte landscapes. Early MSA-P monocytes displayed an aggressive pro-inflammatory profile driven by chemokine upregulation (CXCL10, CXCL5), interferon pathway activation (IFI27). Conversely, early-stage PD monocytes exhibited a profile of precise homeostatic regulation and protective mitochondrial adaptation, characterized by significant GATD3A downregulation verified by qRT-PCR. Furthermore, distinct pathological patterns were identified: oligomeric alpha-Syn was predominantly sequestered on erythrocyte membranes in MSA-P, whereas pS129 alpha-Syn localized primarily to the cytoplasm in PD.This study uncovers a divergent peripheral immune landscape where GATD3A-mediated monocyte homeostasis distinguishes early PD from the chemokine-driven inflammation and intense oxidative stress of MSA-P. Combined with distinct erythrocytic alpha-Syn membrane distribution patterns, these signatures offer a promising multidimensional strategy for the early differential diagnosis of these synucleinopathies.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Xu, Jin, Liu, Cai, Zhang, Zheng, Wu, Wang, Piao and Feng.
Based on an early-stage Parkinson's disease(PD) rat model, this study employed 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics to investigate the action mechanism of Tianma Gouteng Yin(TGY) in treating early-stage PD. The early-stage PD rat models were established by subcutaneous injection of rotenone for seven days and were randomly divided into a control group, a model group, a positive drug group(levodopa, 50 mg·kg~(-1)), and TGY groups with low, medium, and high doses(9.82, 19.64, and 39.28 g·kg~(-1)), with intragastric administration for seven days during modeling. Behavioral indicators of rats(open field, inclined plane, and pole tests) were determined. The pathological morphology of brain tissue and the expressions of tyrosine hydroxylase(TH) and α-synuclein(α-syn) were detected. The levels of neurotransmitters including dopamine(DA), 5-hydroxytryptamine(5-HT), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid(DOPAC), levodopa, and homovanillic acid(HVA) were measured. The inflammatory factors including tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-6(IL-6), and interleukin-1β(IL-1β) were detected. 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics were conducted on colonic contents to explore the pharmacodynamic effects of TGY and its regulatory mechanisms on gut microbiota and metabolism. RESULTS:: show that TGY can significantly improve motor dysfunction in early-stage PD rats, increase the number of TH-positive cells, inhibit the abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein(α-syn), up-regulate the levels of neurotransmitters, reduce the levels of inflammatory factors in the colon and striatum, thereby exerting a neuroprotective effect. Gut microbiota analysis reveals that TGY can reverse the trends of reduced α-diversity of gut microbiota, increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes(F/B) ratio, and increased abundance of pro-inflammatory genera(e.g., Ruminococcus), restore the abundance of beneficial genera(e.g., Bacteroides), and reshape the gut microbiota structure. Metabolomic analysis demonstrates that TGY intervention significantly reverses the differential metabolites in the model group, mainly involving energy and amino acid metabolic pathways such as pyruvate metabolism, β-alanine metabolism, and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis. In conclusion, TGY may exert therapeutic effects on early-stage PD by regulating the axis of microbiota, inflammation, and neuronal injury, with energy and amino acid metabolism as the hub, through these metabolic pathways.
The pathological accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) into amyloid fibrils is a key hallmark of Parkinson's disease and related synucleinopathies. Inhibiting the early stages of α-syn aggregation remains a major therapeutic challenge. In this work, we report the fabrication and investigation of five sugar-based nanoparticles (NPs), including glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose, and trehalose, and their ability to inhibit α-synuclein aggregation. Using a combination of biophysical strategies, comprising thioflavin-T fluorescence, dynamic light scattering, circular dichroism, and confocal microscopy, we illustrate that sugar NPs prevent β-sheet formation and the growth of α-syn fibrils in a concentration-dependent manner. Isothermal titration calorimetry revealed spontaneous, high-affinity interactions between α-syn and sugar NPs, suggesting direct binding to aggregation-prone regions. Importantly, cytotoxicity assays using SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells showed that NP-treated α-syn aggregates exhibited significantly reduced neurotoxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that sugar-derived nanoparticles act as potent inhibitors of α-syn aggregation during the lag phase, thereby stabilizing non-toxic conformers. These results highlight the promise of sugar-based nanostructures as biocompatible and mechanistically active molecules for modulating synucleopathies associated with various neurodegenerative disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Halting the progression of neurodegenerative diseases remains one of the foremost challenges in medicinal chemistry due to the complex biology that drives disease progression. For example, a hallmark of synucleinopathies, such as Parkinson's disease, is the misfolding and aggregation of the protein α-Synuclein (α-Syn), driving the formation of toxic oligomers and fibrils that avoid natural intracellular clearance mechanisms, participate in unusual protein-protein interactions, and ultimately contribute to the death of dopaminergic neurons. The field of targeted protein degradation (TPD) has emerged as an innovative therapeutic route to selectively degrade proteins of interest that leverage natural intracellular protein degradation machinery. First generation TPD therapeutics have traditionally been designed as bifunctional, chimeric compounds in which a short covalent linker tethers a ligand designed to bind target proteins to a ligand that initiates an either proteosome- or lysosome-dependent protein degradation cascade. While initial studies have indicated the promise of these approaches, translation to the clinical setting has been challenging due to difficulties in achieving cellular internalization, long-term stability, and establishment of a generalizable strategy. To overcome these obstacles, this work has focused on adding modularity and dynamic capability to this classical model by leveraging a multivalent macromolecular approach to TPD. Specifically, peptide amphiphiles (PAs) were designed to self-assemble into high-aspect-ratio supramolecular nanofibers and present peptide epitopes on the surface of the fibers to target simultaneous binding of α-Syn and recruitment of enzymes that facilitate entry into the lysosome-dependent chaperone-mediated autophagy protein degradation pathway. In vitro application of these bioactive PA nanofibers has demonstrated the ability to independently internalize in cells and reduce α-Syn protein levels selectively and effectively. While further optimization of this model has the potential to be a viable therapeutic against α-Syn aggregation, the modularity of these supramolecular nanofibers through facile monomer design and incorporation illustrates the potential of establishing a platform technology for targeting a diverse range of pathologic proteins.
Peripheral nerves regulate skin homeostasis by secreting neurotransmitters, but their role during skin aging remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that cutaneous denervation accelerates skin aging, as evidenced by collagen reduction. Neurofilament heavy chain (Nefh) is decreased in aged skin and is predominantly expressed in vesicular glutamate transporter 2-positive (Vglut2+) skin-innervating glutamatergic neurons. Notably, dermal fibroblasts, the primary producers of collagen, frequently contact Nefh+ nerve fibers. Moreover, Nefh deletion in Vglut2+ glutamatergic neurons drives skin fibroblast senescence and collagen loss, whereas additional glutamate improves skin aging phenotypes. Mechanistically, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) interacts with both Nefh and Vglut2 and maintains glutamate release and collagen homeostasis. Additionally, in skin fibroblasts, solute carrier family 1 member 3 (Slc1a3) governs the collagen-promoting and anti-senescence functions of glutamate. Together, these findings reveal Nefh-mediated glutamatergic neuromodulation of skin aging and provide therapeutic targets for aging-related skin disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration in regionally vulnerable brain areas, yet molecular insights into early pathogenic mechanisms remain limited.We conducted a meta-analysis of transcriptomic datasets from brain regions affected in early-to-moderate AD - including entorhinal cortex, CA1 hippocampus, angular gyrus, and frontal cortex synaptoneurosomes - using data from seven mRNA and one microRNA (miRNA) microarray studies (GSE16759, GSE110226, GSE37264, GSE26972, GSE36980, GSE37263, GSE39420, and GSE157239). Preprocessing included background correction, log2 transformation, quantile normalization, and batch correction via ComBat. Differentially expressed features were defined as false discovery rate <0.05 and | logFC| ≥ 1.23 (genes) or ≥ 2 (miRNAs).We identified 172 differentially expressed genes (122 upregulated and 50 downregulated) and 82 significant miRNAs. Hub genes included Inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB), Synaptotagmin 1, Dystrobrevin alpha (DTNA), X Inactive Specific Transcript, and Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4). Functional enrichment highlighted calcium signaling, synaptic failure, and neuroinflammation. Notably, hsa-miR-30d-5p was predicted to target both ITPKB and DTNA, suggesting a regulatory axis linking miRNA dysregulation to calcium dyshomeostasis. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that only RGS4 showed moderate discriminative capacity (area under the curve [AUC] =0.70), while other hub genes (e.g., ITPKB, AUC = 0.40) exhibited below-chance performance, underscoring the limitations of single-gene classifiers in postmortem tissue.This study provides mechanistic hypotheses - rather than diagnostic biomarkers - by uncovering region-specific, miRNA-mediated regulatory networks in AD-affected brain tissues. Future validation in accessible biofluids is essential before clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Medical Signals & Sensors.
Solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1, also known as excitatory amino acid transporter 3) is a member of the EAAT family of sodium-dependent glutamate carriers. Ferroptosis is a nonapoptotic cell death that is caused by phospholipid peroxidation promoted by radical reactions involving iron. Here, we identify SLC1A1 as a driver of ferroptosis resistance in PDAC cells and delineate the cause of its upregulation. SLC1A1 was overexpressed in PDAC tumors and correlated with poorer prognosis. Knockdown of SLC1A1 reduced cystine uptake by inhibiting glutamate transport, leading to decreased cysteine, GSH, and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) content, and the production of ROS and lipid peroxidation. Knockdown of SLC1A1 enhanced the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC cells and promoted ferroptosis inducer RSL3-induced ferroptosis and tumor suppression. Long noncoding RNA RASSF1-AS1 bound to CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) protein, thereby inhibiting CTCF-mediated SLC1A1 transcription. Overexpression of RASSF1-AS1 enhanced the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC by blocking glutamate transport in vitro and in vivo, which was reversed by restoring CTCF/SLC1A1 signaling. Taken together, RASSF1-AS1 enhances the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC by inhibiting the CTCF/SLC1A1 axis-mediated intracellular transport of glutamate.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Glioblastoma (GBM), the most aggressive primary brain malignancy, presents an urgent need for novel therapeutic targets addressing metabolic reprogramming in tumor progression. Natural product-based molecular probes have emerged as powerful tools for target discovery and mechanistic elucidation in cancer biology. Here, we identified the fungal polyketide auxarconjugatin B (AUX-B) as a potent inhibitor of GBM proliferation through both in vitro and in vivo models. Chemical biology strategies revealed secretory carrier membrane protein 2 (SCAMP2) as the covalent cellular target of AUX-B. SCAMP2 exhibited significant overexpression in human GBM specimens and orthotopic GBM mouse models, correlating with tumor progression. Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that SCAMP2 orchestrates metabolic reprogramming through the regulation of aspartate transporters (solute carrier family 1 member 3 and solute carrier family 25 member 12) and asparagine synthetase, thereby sustaining aspartate metabolic flux critical for GBM growth. AUX-B-mediated reduction of SCAMP2 effectively disrupted this pathogenic metabolic network, leading to a decrease in intracellular aspartate levels. Our findings establish SCAMP2 as a novel therapeutic target in GBM and characterize AUX-B as a new SCAMP2 inhibitor with translational potential through metabolic modulation.© 2026 The Authors.
The molecular determinants underlying the heterogeneity and proliferative behavior of Steroidogenic Factor-1 (SF-1) lineage Pituitary Neuroendocrine Tumors (PitNETs) remain insufficiently defined.We performed an integrated analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptomic datasets from SF-1 lineage PitNETs to identify molecular subgroups and their defining biomarkers. The functional significance of the top candidate gene, Regulator of G-protein Signaling 4 (RGS4), was examined using gain- and loss-of-function approaches and pharmacological inhibition in pituitary adenoma cell lines. Mechanistic studies were conducted using protein interaction and stability assays.We identified a previously unrecognized SF-1 lineage subgroup characterized by markedly elevated RGS4 expression, which correlated with larger tumor size and higher MIB-1 proliferation index. Functional experiments demonstrated that Rgs4 enhances tumor cell proliferation and inhibits apoptosis. Mechanistically, RGS4 promotes p53 ubiquitination, resulting in its destabilization and proteasomal degradation.This study defines a new SF-1 lineage PitNETs subgroup characterized by high-RGS4 expression. RGS4 promotes tumor proliferation by destabilizing p53, highlighting the RGS4-p53 axis as a promising therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Han, Fang, Zhang, Yuan, Xu, Yang, Wang, Gao, Xiong and Xu.
Despite a growing body of evidence implicating genetic variants and proteins encoded by them with risk and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), this knowledge has not been successfully translated into effective AD treatments. We integrated current genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic profiles of AD into a network pharmacology framework that leverages comprehensive gene-gene and drug-target interactions. This approach allowed us to screen 2,413 drugs for repurposing opportunities in AD. Computational validation and drug prioritization was followed by experimental validation in 33 cell culture-based phenotypic assays combined with Bayesian hypothesis testing. Our network-based screen rediscovered drugs in clinical trials for AD, providing computational validation. Besides many cancer drugs, the screen identified three drugs previously implicated in AD-related endophenotypes: the primary bile acid chenodiol, arundine (3,3'-diindolylmethane), and cysteamine. In analysis of results from culture-based phenotypic assays, large Bayes factors supported the hypothesized benefits of arundine and the chenodiol derivative, tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), in amyloid- β clearance and release and neuroinflammation. Follow-up network analyses mechanistically implicated Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4) in the plausible therapeutic actions of arundine and TUDCA. A network pharmacology approach identified TUDCA and arundine as promising repurposing candidates in AD that rescue disease-relevant molecular phenotypes by acting on AD-associated genes through regulation of G protein signaling.
This research sought to examine the role of solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1) in renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF), exploring its relationship with fibrosis extent and its influence on amino acids absorption and ion levels.Renal tubulointerstitial damage was assessed using tissue microarray analysis combined with HE staining. Immunohistochemistry was used to identify SLC1A1 expression in fibrotic tissues, and its relationship with renal tubulointerstitial damage was examined. Additionally, an in vitro fibrosis model was created using HK-2 cells stimulated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). The levels of SLC1A1 protein were evaluated by immunofluorescence staining, while glutamate uptake capacity and extracellular ion and amino acid levels were monitored.The expression of SLC1A1 decreases in cases of renal interstitial fibrosis, with a more pronounced reduction as fibrosis worsens. Following 48 h of exposure to TGF-β1 (15 ng/mL), these alterations became even more apparent. At this 48 h mark, the glutamate uptake in the experimental group was significantly lower compared to the control group, while the levels of extracellular Na+ and Cl- showed a notable increase. Additionally, aspartic acid (ASP) levels rose, whereas glutamic acid (Glu) levels fell, and cysteine (Cys) levels remained unchanged.The downregulation of SLC1A1 during renal interstitial fibrosis is inversely related to the severity of fibrosis and impacts both glutamate uptake and the balance of extracellular ions, indicating its potential as a therapeutic target for enhancing kidney function.Copyright © 2025 Lv, Cheng, Luo, Yang, Liu, Huang and Chen.
Hidden hearing loss (HHL) is an inner ear disorder that is characterized by synaptopathy despite normal hearing thresholds. In HHL mouse models, synaptopathy and decreased wave I amplitude were the key pathological and auditory features. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of HHL remain unclear. We used gene-knockout mice to investigate the potential mechanisms underlying synaptopathy. The mice displayed pathological and auditory features consistent with HHL following glutamate-aspartate transporter [GLAST; also known as solute carrier family 1 member 3 (SLC1A3), or excitatory amino acid transporter 1] knockout (KO). In KO mice, surface expression of postsynaptic proteins was significantly decreased in the inner ear, and the cytoskeleton, especially intermediate filaments, was impaired. We also observed susceptibility to overt hearing loss in response to aging. Our findings indicate that GLAST KO induces synaptopathy, disrupts intermediate filament organization, and accelerates age-related hearing loss, providing insights into HHL development and its progression to overt hearing loss.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Long-term abuse of methcathinone reduces grey matter volume in the prefrontal cortex and consequently impairs learning and memory abilities. However, the exact mechanism of damage remains unknown. Therefore, this study aimed to analyse the potential mechanisms underlying methcathinone-induced neural damage using transcriptomic analysis. Accordingly, 32 Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups: control, low-dose, medium-dose and high-dose. Low, medium and high methcathinone doses (0.25, 5 and 20 mg/kg) were administered to the animals in the three treatment groups once daily via intraperitoneal injection for 2 weeks. Finally, the learning and memory functions of all the animals were tested using the Morris water maze. Electron microscopy and Golgi staining were used to observe changes in synaptic structure, and transcriptome sequencing was performed in the prefrontal cortex of the control and high-dose groups. Key differentially expressed genes were quantified using quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Collectively, methcathinone induced learning and memory decline in rats and destroyed the synaptic structure of the rat prefrontal cortex. In the transcriptomic analysis, 1457 (694 up-regulated and 763 down-regulated) genes were differentially expressed in the prefrontal cortex of rats in the high-concentration group compared to that in the control group. Gene Ontology terms and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis revealed that differential genes were enriched in synapses, neurotransmitter systems, homeostasis of Ca2+ concentration and membrane potential regulation. This indicates that methcathinone adversely affects neurotransmitter regulation, Ca2+ signalling and membrane potential regulation, thereby destroying synapse structure and causing learning and memory dysfunction. Combined with the above molecular mechanisms, seven key genes were identified: nerve growth factor (NGF), dopamine receptor D1 (DRD1), dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2), solute carrier family 1 member 2 (SLC1A2), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II alpha (CAMK2A), synaptotagmin 1 (SYT1) and glutamate ionotropic receptor N-methyl-d-aspartate type subunit 2A (GRIN2A). This study demonstrates that methcathinone causes neural damage and provides possible molecular mechanisms and target genes to clarify the mechanism of methcathinone-induced neural damage.© 2025 The Author(s). Addiction Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.
Cognitive dysfunction in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves significant impairments in synaptic plasticity and dendritic spines integrity. Intriguingly, exercise interventions have demonstrated efficacy in enhancing cognitive function. However, the precise molecular mechanisms, particularly the upstream endogenous regulators (such as miRNAs) through which exercise mediates this synaptic improvement, remain unclear. Our findings indicated that 12 weeks of aerobic exercise effectively increased learning and memory, promoted amyloid beta (Aβ) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) clearance in early-stage AD. Furthermore, aerobic exercise markedly enhanced dendritic spines density of pyramidal neurons in cortical layers II/III and the hippocampal CA1 region, as well as the expression of synapse-associated proteins such as cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), synaptophysin (SYN), and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). Whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify miR-3473e, a target closely related to AD and also a response factor that serves as a key mediator of aerobic exercise benefits. Subsequent findings revealed that miR-3473e was overexpressed in the brains of APP/PS1 mice, whereas aerobic exercise led to a decrease in its expression. Moreover, aerobic exercise enhanced its downstream targets, EPH receptor B2 (EphB2) and solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (Slc1a1) as well as increased downstream GluN1, GRIA1 and p-GluN2B/GluN2B protein expression levels. In summary, we demonstrate that aerobic exercise can improve synaptic plasticity, and these effects are mediated via suppression of miR-3473e and regulation EphB2-NMDA/AMPA receptor signaling pathway, underscoring the potential of aerobic exercise to enhance cognitive function in early-stage of AD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study aims to investigate the effect and mechanism of baicalein in improving alveolar epithelial cell senescence. A cellular model of alveolar epithelial cell senescence induced by transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) was established. Cells were randomly divided into control group, model group, baicalein group, small interfering RNA(siRNA) targeting Smad family member 2(Smad2) group, siRNA targeting Smad3 group, and baicalein + Smad3 plasmid group. Western blot was employed to detect the protein expression level of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1(PAI-1), a marker protein of alveolar epithelial cell senescence. Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was used to measure the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells. The results show that baicalein can significantly inhibit the protein expression of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells and markedly reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Baicalein can also significantly decrease the phosphorylation levels of Smad2 protein and Smad3 protein in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Knockdown of Smad2 does not affect the protein expression level of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells, nor does it alter the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of Smad3 can significantly downregulate the protein expression level of PAI-1 and reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Overexpression of Smad3 can notably reverse the inhibitory effects of baicalein on PAI-1 protein expression and the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In conclusion, baicalein improves alveolar epithelial cell senescence by downregulating the TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling, but this effect might be independent of Smad2 signaling.
Background and Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of oridonin on a cisplatin-induced ovarian injury rat model. Materials and Methods: Thirty female rats were divided into three groups. Group 1: control; group 2: cisplatin; group 3: cisplatin plus oridonin group. In groups 2 and 3, the rats were injected with 2.5 mg/kg (twice weekly) cisplatin intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 4 weeks. In Group 3, rats received oridonin (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.). At the end of the study, the ovaries were removed in all groups. Histopathologic analysis and follicle counting were performed. Plasma anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), malondialdehyde (MDA), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were measured, while ovarian transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) levels were evaluated. Results: Oridonin alleviated cisplatin-induced histopathological changes in the ovarian tissue. The numbers of primordial, primary, secondary, and tertiary follicles were significantly decreased, while ovarian fibrosis was significantly increased in Group 2 compared with Group 1 (p < 0.05). Co-treatment with oridonin statistically significantly increased follicle counts at all developmental stages and markedly reduced ovarian fibrosis in group 2 compared with group 3. Compared with Group 1, AMH decreased, whereas MDA, TNF-α, TGF-β1, SMAD3, and TIMP-1 increased in Group 2 (p < 0.001); these alterations were markedly attenuated in Group 3. Conclusions: These findings suggest that oridonin may exert protective effects against cisplatin-induced ovarian injury.
Astrocyte reactivity critically shapes neuroinflammatory outcomes after ischemic stroke, yet the upstream regulators governing astrocyte state transitions remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify the immunoproteasome subunit low molecular weight protein 2 (LMP2) as an important modulator of astrocyte functional remodeling following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Using global and astrocyte-specific knockout models, we demonstrate that LMP2 deficiency markedly reduces infarct volume, attenuates neuroinflammation, and improves neurological and cognitive outcomes. Mechanistically, LMP2 coordinately modulates inflammatory and reparative signaling networks by promoting nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)-dependent inflammatory activation while constraining transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (Smad3)-associated reparative responses, thereby biasing astrocyte reactive states toward more inflammatory and maladaptive programs along the inflammatory-reparative continuum. Conversely, LMP2 inhibition promoted more adaptive and neuroprotective astrocyte-associated programs, enhanced neurotrophic support, and limited apoptosis under ischemic stress. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell analyses further revealed that astrocyte responses exist along a continuum of functional states, with LMP2 influencing the distribution of astrocyte states rather than acting as a binary switch. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized immunoproteasome-astrocyte regulatory axis involved in neuroinflammatory remodeling and highlight LMP2 as a promising target for precision modulation of post-ischemic brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Despite significant advances in identifying susceptibility genes for bronchial asthma (BA), the immunogenetic and other molecular mechanisms underlying disease risk and progression remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the association between two common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs17293632 and rs2033784, located within the SMAD3 (SMAD family member 3) gene-previously identified in genome-wide association studies-and susceptibility to atopic asthma and allergen sensitivity in Russian children.This study included DNA samples from 999 unrelated children from the Kursk region, comprising 526 patients with BA (316 boys and 210 girls) and 473 healthy children. SNP genotyping was performed using the MassARRAY-4 system.Both SNPs were associated with an increased risk of BA under the additive genetic model (p ≤ 0.001). In the sex-stratified analysis, the rs17293632 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.15-2.77; p = 9.0 × 10-4) and rs2033784 (OR = 1.80, 95% CI: 1.28-2.52; p = 6.0 × 10-4) variants were exclusively associated with asthma risk among girls, whereas no significant associations were observed in boys. The rs17293632T-rs2033784G haplotype was associated with an increased risk of asthma in girls (OR = 2.01, 95% CI: 1.38-2.92, p = 3.0 × 10-4). Notably, SMAD3 gene polymorphisms were associated with an increased risk of asthma exclusively among children living in urban environments (p ≤ 0.0001). Polymorphisms in the SMAD3 gene have also been linked to specific allergies, including those to horsehair, chicken eggs, beef, wheat, oatmeal, barley, and foxtail.The present study of Russian children confirmed that the rs17293632 and rs2033784 polymorphisms of the SMAD3 gene are significant genetic markers associated with BA and allergies. However, an association between these SMAD3 variants and asthma was observed only among girls, marking the first time this association has been reported. Further research is necessary to determine whether the SMAD3 gene constitutes a viable therapeutic target for treating asthma and allergic diseases.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
In this study, we explored the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of baicalin (BA) in a dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC)-induced chronic pancreatitis (CP) rat model using metabolomics and network pharmacology. The results showed that BA significantly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis in pancreatic tissues, lowered serum levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), amylase (AMS), and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and thereby decreased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and fibronectin (FN) in pancreatic tissues. Metabolomic analyses revealed that BA influences multiple metabolic pathways, including glycerophospholipid and arachidonic acid metabolism, in serum and urine. Network pharmacology identified key targets, such as phospholipase A2 group IVA (PLA2G4A) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), which are primarily involved in IL-17 signaling, as well as other pathways beyond inflammation. Further integrated analysis demonstrated that BA inhibits pancreatic stellate cell activation and reduces pancreatic fibrosis by regulating metabolites, such as arachidonic acid, that act on the PLA2G4A/TRPV4 and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) pathways. Molecular docking studies confirmed that BA binds strongly to these targets. In summary, BA exerts anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects through multiple targets and pathways, thereby alleviating the pathological progression of CP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study aimed to investigate the role of protein tyrosine kinase-like 7 (PTK7) in the progression of fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby evaluating the potential of PTK7 as a therapeutic target for renal fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were performed to examine PTK7 expression in a mouse model of renal fibrosis. Public single-cell transcriptomic datasets were employed to analyze the expression distribution of PTK7 among different renal cell types. A stable PTK7-knockout transformed C3H mouse kidney-1 (TCMK-1) cell line was generated via clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9), and following transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) stimulation, cellular morphological changes were observed. The expression levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins (E-cadherin and vimentin) and fibrosis-related proteins (α-SMA, fibronectin, and collagen I) were assessed. Cell proliferative activity and migratory capacity were evaluated by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound healing assays, respectively, and the phosphorylation levels of Smad family member 2 (Smad2)/Smad family member 3 (Smad3) were analyzed to explore the potential mechanisms. PTK7 expression was significantly upregulated in the kidney tissue of the mouse model and was highly expressed in renal tubular epithelial cells. PTK7 knockout suppressed TGF-β1-induced EMT progression and the expression of fibrosis-related proteins (P0.001), and it attenuated the migratory ability of renal tubular epithelial cells under TGF-β1 stimulation. From a mechanism perspective, PTK7 deficiency effectively inhibited TGF-β1-triggered activation of Smad2/Smad3 phosphorylation. PTK7 promotes the fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells through activation of the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway, and PTK7 knockout can effectively alleviate fibrosis-related phenotypes at the cellular level. This study provides experimental evidence for further exploration of PTK7 as a potential therapeutic target against renal fibrosis.
Clinical characteristics and outcomes of patients treated for dedifferentiated liposarcoma (DDLPS) at community oncology centers are not well studied. Our goal was to assess real-world patterns of diagnosis, clinical management, and outcomes of patients with DDLPS in US community settings.This was a retrospective observational study of electronic health records (EHRs) obtained from the iKnowMed EHR system for patients diagnosed with DDLPS between January 1, 2008, and October 31, 2023, within The US Oncology Network and non-Network practices. The primary outcomes were real-world overall survival (rwOS) from diagnosis and from the start of the first systemic therapy after documented metastatic disease (1L[M]) until death (due to any cause). Real-world progression-free survival (rwPFS) was assessed from 1L(M) systemic therapy initiation to the earliest date of progression or date of death (due to any cause).A total of 123 patients with DDLPS (women, 33.3%; White, 60.2%; metastatic disease, 34.0%) were included. Biomarker testing was most frequently performed for the MDM2 proto-oncogene (78.0%), followed by CDK4 (38.2%) and TP53 (10.6%). DDLPS treatments included surgery (76.0%), radiation therapy (35.0%), and systemic agents (46.3%), of which cytotoxic drugs, particularly first-line anthracycline, were the most common. Median rwOS was 44.2 months. For patients with metastatic disease, median rwPFS was 2.7 months, and rwOS from start of 1L(M) systemic therapy was 11.7 months.Patients with DDLPS treated in US community settings are heterogeneous in terms of demographic and clinical characteristics, biomarker testing, treatment, and outcomes. The relatively poor survival rates suggest an unmet need for better therapeutics.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To investigate fibrosis-related gene expression profiles in benign ureteral strictures and their association with restenosis after ureteroplasty and to develop a predictive risk score model.A total of 100 patients with benign strictures who underwent ureteroplasty were included.Stenotic tissues were collected intraoperatively, and the expression levels of 15 fibrosis-related genes were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. According to whether restenosis occurred at 12 months postoperatively, the patients were assigned to stenotic group (n = 39) and non-stenotic group (n = 61). Independent predictors were identified using logistic regression, a risk score model was constructed and model performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve, calibration curves and decision curve analysis (DCA). The restenosis-free rates of the risk groups were compared through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, and internal validation was performed through Bootstrap resampling.High expression levels of type I collagen α1 chain (COL1A1), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGFB1), Snail family member 1 (SNAI1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) and thrombospondin 2 (THBS2) genes were identified as independent risk factors for postoperative restenosis (all p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the restenosis-free rate at 12 months was significantly lower in the high-risk group than in the low-risk group (51.02% vs. 70.59%, log-rank p = 0.007). The area under the curve (AUC) of the risk scoring model was 0.854 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.772-0.973], with a sensitivity of 87.12% and specificity of 84.55%. Bootstrap internal validation yielded a corrected AUC of 0.848 (95% CI: 0.812-0.891), confirming the model's stability. The calibration curve demonstrated good agreement between predicted probabilities and observed outcomes (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, p > 0.05). DCA showed that the model provided a net clinical benefit across a wide range of threshold probabilities. Further analysis showed that the expression levels of the above five genes were significantly positively correlated with the pathological fibrosis grade of stenotic tissues (all p < 0.001).The high expression levels of COL1A1, TGFB1, SNAI1, SMAD3 and THBS2 in benign ureteral strictures is closely related to the degree of tissue fibrosis and postoperative restenosis. The risk scoring model based on these genes showed good predictive performance and can thus serve as useful tool for clinical individualised treatment and prognostic assessment.© 2026 The Author(s).
Adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) of the salivary glands is an aggressive tumour that can resemble other basaloid or biphasic neoplasms, particularly when only focally represented. We evaluated the diagnostic and prognostic utility of engrailed homeobox 1 (EN1) and MYB immunohistochemistry.Eighty-eight archival tumours, including 42 AdCC and 46 non-AdCC, were analysed. EN1 and MYB expressions were scored from 0 to 6, and positivity was defined as a score of ≤4. Associations between clinicopathological parameters and survival curves were assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis.Follow-up data were available for 40/42 AdCC, with a median PFS of 22.3 months. EN1 was positive in 41/42 AdCC (97.6%) and was associated with adverse clinicopathological features and outcomes, including recurrence and death. MYB was positive in 36/42 AdCC (85.7%) and was associated with angioinvasion and high-grade transformation. Among other tumour types, EN1 showed high specificity for epithelial-myoepithelial carcinomas, basal cell adenomas, and cellular pleomorphic adenomas, although it was more frequently positive in polymorphous adenocarcinomas. Conversely, MYB demonstrated greater specificity in distinguishing AdCCs from polymorphous adenocarcinomas. The difference in MYB expressions between AdCCs and polymorphous adenocarcinomas was statistically significant (p=0.0042).EN1 is a highly sensitive marker for AdCC and has prognostic value. MYB is a useful complementary marker, particularly when polymorphous adenocarcinoma is a consideration.Copyright © 2026 Sociedad Española de Anatomía Patológica. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Bovine leukemia virus (BLV) is a cell-associated retrovirus of cattle transmitted mainly through the transfer of infected lymphocytes, but the possible role of hematophagous insects in its epidemiology remains incompletely understood. This study investigated BLV DNA in field-collected Culicoides biting midges and Stomoxys calcitrans from cattle farms in Poland. Insects were collected on four farms in northeastern Poland. Culicoides spp. were identified morphologically, classified by gonotrophic status, and pooled by species and status, whereas S. calcitrans were analyzed individually. DNA quality was verified by PCR targeting insect markers. Bovine host DNA was detected by PCR targeting mitochondrial cytochrome b in Culicoides and prepronociceptin (PNOC) in S. calcitrans. BLV proviral DNA was detected by TaqMan real-time PCR targeting the pol gene, followed by nested PCR and sequencing of a 400 bp fragment of the env gene. BLV DNA was detected in 20 of 138 Culicoides pools (14.5%). BLV copy numbers ranged from 2 to 19,000 copies per 500 ng of total DNA. All BLV-positive Culicoides pools were also positive for bovine cytochrome b DNA. Among the pol-positive pools, 18 were positive in nested env PCR, and 15 yielded high-quality sequences. One S. calcitrans specimen was also positive in both BLV assays. Sequences obtained from insects were identical to those from infected cattle, and phylogenetic analysis assigned them to genotypes G4 and G7, the predominant BLV genotypes circulating in Poland. These findings provide field-based molecular evidence that Culicoides biting midges and S. calcitrans can carry bovine blood and BLV DNA under natural farm conditions, supporting their possible role in the mechanical transfer of BLV between cattle.Copyright © 2026 Aneta Pluta et al. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The arcuate nucleus (ARC) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) are highly specialized hypothalamic nuclei controlling appetite and energy expenditure. Here, we demonstrate that human VMH and ARC neurons can be generated from pluripotent stem cells by fine-tuned timing and duration of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) exposure. We identified SHH-/NKX2.1+/FGF10+/RAX+/TBX3+ posterior tuberal progenitors as the source of ARC cell types, including agouti-related peptide (AGRP)-, prepronociceptin (PNOC)-, growth-hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)-, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-expressing neurons and β2-tanycytes. Differentiated ARC cultures showed high transcriptomic similarity to human ARC and responded to energy homeostasis-regulatory peptides including leptin, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), ghrelin, and fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1). In contrast, anterior tuberal TBX3- progenitors generated VMH-associated neurons expressing NR5A1, SOX14, and GPR149. Strikingly, two transcriptionally distinct pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) subpopulations emerged from these lineages, mapping spatially to either the ARC (POMC+/TBX3+/NR5A2+) or the VMH (POMC+/SOX14+/NR5A1+). This model provides a cellular platform to study human hypothalamic subtype specification and pathways involved in central appetite regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are increasingly being recognized to play important roles in cancer pathogenesis. However, the functional mechanisms of most lncRNAs remain poorly understood.RNA sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed lncRNAs between non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). In vitro and in vivo assays were conducted to investigate the functional role of lncRNA deoxyguanosine kinase 1 antisense RNA 1 (DGUOK-AS1). Meanwhile, RNA pull-down, RNA immunoprecipitation, co-immunoprecipitation, Western blot, and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays were performed to explore the potential regulatory mechanisms of DGUOK-AS1 on its target genes.Our analysis revealed a significant upregulation of lncRNA DGUOK-AS1 in MIBC compared with NMIBC. Functionally, DGUOK-AS1 was found to enhance the proliferation and invasion of bladder cancer (BC) cells by interacting with elongation factor Tu GTP binding domain containing 2 (EFTUD2), a 116-kDa U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein component. Mechanistically, DGUOK-AS1 directly binds to EFTUD2 and the deubiquitinating protein valosin-containing protein-interacting protein 1, thereby shielding EFTUD2 from ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. Furthermore, EFTUD2 orchestrates the exclusion of cassette exon 11 from macrophage-stimulating 1 receptor, leading to the production of the RON∆165 isoform. This isoform activates the Akt/PKB signaling pathway, which is crucial for cancer progression.DGUOK-AS1 drives BC progression via the EFTUD2/MST1R/Akt axis, offering a promising therapeutic target for BC treatment.
Nager syndrome (NS) is a rare congenital disorder characterized by craniofacial anomalies and preaxial limb defects. Its underlying pathogenic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Recent in vivo and in vitro studies have implicated increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) in NS pathogenesis. In this study, we focused on craniofacial development and employed network pharmacology and bioinformatics to investigate the potential pharmacological targets and mechanisms of glutathione (GSH), an antioxidant, in NS. We identified 139 intersecting targets between GSH and NS. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses revealed that GSH may influence RNA splicing pathways essential for craniofacial morphogenesis. Additionally, molecular docking using AutoDock Vina indicated potential hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions between GSH and three spliceosomopathy-associated proteins (elongation Factor Tu GTP binding domain containing 2 (EFTUD2), splicing factor 3B subunit 2 (SF3B2) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A3 (EIF4A3)). This study highlights possible molecular mechanisms by which GSH may ameliorate craniofacial abnormalities in NS and related craniofacial spliceosomonpathies, providing new directions for functional validation and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysregulation in neural circuits that encode arousal responses to aversive stimuli is thought to contribute to changes in motivated behaviors associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the relationship between arousal and motivation remains poorly understood. We previously identified that prepronociceptin-expressing neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (Pnoc BNST neurons) modulate rapid physiological arousal responses to a motivationally salient aversive odor. However, whether Pnoc BNST neurons also signal behavioral actions triggered by an aversive odor is still unknown.In this study, we investigated the role of Pnoc BNST neurons in signaling behavioral responses to an aversive odor. We leveraged miniaturized head-mounted microscopes to monitor the calcium activity of Pnoc BNST neurons in vivo while freely behaving mice performed an odor preference test.We found that the bulk activity of Pnoc BNST neurons increased as mice approached an aversive odor. Single-cell analyses revealed heterogeneity in response dynamics within the Pnoc BNST neuronal population upon initial exposure to the odor. Subsequent analysis revealed that the response dynamics of Pnoc BNST neurons that showed excitation when mice were in close proximity to the aversive odor were due to the initiation of darting away from the odor.These results highlight a novel role of Pnoc BNST neurons to signal escape behavior in response to an aversive stimulus. This, in combination with our previous findings that Pnoc BNST neurons encode arousal responses, supports a neurobiological relationship of arousal and motivation within extended amygdala circuits.© 2025 The Authors.
Nociceptin (N/OFQ) and its receptor OPRL1 play crucial roles in emotional processing, reward-related behaviors, learning, and neurotransmitter regulation, but their involvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology remains poorly understood. This study investigated possible relationships between prepronociceptin ( PNOC ) and OPRL1 expression and psychiatric symptoms in AD, utilizing Natural Language Processing (NLP) to assess Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) domains.Post-mortem brain tissue from the dorsal anterior cingulate gyrus (BA32) was analyzed in 61 donors across different Braak and Braak (B&B) stages. RNA expression of PNOC and OPRL1 was quantified and correlated with RDoC scores derived from medical records using NLP. Sex-stratified analyses, circadian rhythmicity analysis, and cell-type specific expression patterns were examined.Both genes showed significant downregulation in AD cases ( PNOC : p = 0.024; OPRL1 : p < 0.001), with notable sex differences. Men displayed higher post-mortem PNOC (Cohen's d = -0.482) and OPRL1 (Cohen's d = -0.237) expression compared to women. In adjusted models controlling for B&B stage and post-mortem interval, PNOC expression significantly correlated with dimensional scores of positive valence (β = -0.38, p = 0.035) and arousal regulatory systems (β = -0.43, p = 0.015) derived from a text classification algorithm applied to medical records. OPRL1 showed disrupted circadian rhythmicity in AD cases (p = 0.151 vs. p = 0.020 in controls).These findings suggest distinct roles for PNOC and OPRL1 in AD pathology, with PNOC primarily associated with psychiatric symptoms and OPRL1 showing disrupted circadian regulation. Sex-specific expression patterns further indicate the need for personalized therapeutic approaches targeting the nociceptin system.
Nociceptin orphanin F/Q has been implicated in stress-related depressive phenotypes. Specifically, exposure to chronic stressors upregulates nociceptin receptors (NOPR), whereas NOPR antagonism has anti-depressant/anti-anhedonic effects. The mechanisms underlying these effects remain, however, unclear. Here, we investigated the role of NOPR in depressive phenotypes alongside potentially prohedonic effects of NOPR antagonism across species. In Study 1, we evaluated whether exposure to early-life adversity (ELA) upregulated ventral tegmental area (VTA) and striatal prepronociceptin ( Pnoc ) gene expression in adult mice. In Study 2, we tested whether chronic social defeat altered Pnoc gene expression in reward-related regions. To establish whether direct NOPR modulation is implicated in reward-related behaviors, in Study 3, we assessed whether NOPR antagonism alters reward learning in rats. Finally, in Study 4, we tested whether NOPR antagonism boosts motivation among depressed humans. ELA induced anhedonic behavior and increased Pnoc expression in the VTA; in females (but not males), ELA increased Pnoc expression in the dorsal striatum (Study 1). Furthermore, chronic stress reduced Pnoc -expressing cells in the VTA, dorsal striatum and prefrontal cortex and susceptible rats showed reduced VTA NOPR gene ( Oprl1)- expressing cells (Study 2). In a behavioral assay, a single 30-mg dose of a NOPR antagonist (BTRX-246040) boosted reward learning in rats (Study 3). Finally, in depressed humans, relative to placebo, 8-week treatment with BTRX-246040 increased incentive motivation (Study 4). Collectively, our findings indicate that chronic stressors alter Pnoc and mRNA levels of Pnoc -expressing cells in a sex-selective and region-specific manner impacting reward structures, and that NOPR antagonism shows anti-anhedonic properties.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a significant global cancer, particularly impacting individuals in Western countries. Despite that, the molecular mechanisms driving renal cell carcinoma progression remain poorly understood, highlighting the need to investigate these mechanisms and identify novel therapeutic targets. Literature evidence suggests that elongation factor Tu GTP binding domain containing 2 (EFTUD2) and prominin (PROM1) gene expression have significant diagnostic potential in early tumor detection, potentially reflecting the trends in progression, and may become a novel therapeutic target. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate EFTUD2 and PROM1 protein expression on clinical characteristics of ccRCC patients, especially overall and progression-free survival. To achieve that goal, we have combined publicly available liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) protein expression data with a comprehensive literature review to identify key protein markers for further study and immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis. Our findings highlight the importance of considering protein expression heterogeneity within tumors. The significant variation in EFTUD2 expression, its association with PFS, and its intricate connections with the mRNA splicing machinery underscore the need for a more nuanced understanding of its role in ccRCC. Similarly, the downregulation of PROM1 and its potential effects on cell surface interactions warrant further exploration. Future studies should focus on elucidating the mechanisms underlying these observations, exploring their potential as therapeutic targets, and investigating the specific pathways affected by their dysregulation.
During malnutrition, mammalian reproductive functions are suppressed by inhibition of the pulsatile release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)/gonadotropins. This study aimed to investigate whether nociceptin-opioid-related nociceptin receptor 1 (OPRL1) signaling mediates glucoprivic suppression of luteinizing hormone (LH) pulses in female rats.RNA sequencing analysis of tdTomato-positive arcuate (ARC) kisspeptin neurons obtained from Kiss1 (kisspeptin gene)-Cre/Cre-dependent tdTomato reporter female rats showed that Oprl1 messenger RNA expression was evident in ARC kisspeptin neurons. Double in situ hybridization for Kiss1 and Oprl1 or prepronociceptin gene (Pnoc) revealed that approximately 20% of Kiss1-expressing cells co-expressed Oprl1, but not Pnoc in ovariectomized (OVX) wild-type rats treated with diestrus levels of estradiol-17β (low E2). Administration of [N-Phe1]-orphanin FQ (1-13) amide (NC13), a selective OPRL1 antagonist, to the third ventricle (3V) transiently reversed the suppression of LH pulses induced by intravenous (iv) 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG), an inhibitor of glucose utilization, in OVX + low E2 rats. The frequency of LH pulses during the first hour of the 3-h sampling period was significantly higher in 3V NC13-treated rats than in vehicle-treated controls. In contrast, 3V NC13 administration failed to affect LH pulses in OVX + low E2 rats without iv 2DG treatment. Furthermore, iv 2DG treatment significantly increased the percentage of fos-positive ARC Pnoc-expressing cells in OVX + low E2 rats.These results indicate that ARC nociceptin-OPRL1 signaling partly mediates the glucoprivic suppression of LH pulses and that nociceptin may directly suppress ARC kisspeptin neurons, the GnRH/LH pulse generator in female rats.© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Elongation Factor Tu GTP-Binding Domain Containing 2 (EFTUD2), a core spliceosomal GTPase associated with Mandibulofacial Dysostosis with Microcephaly (MFDM), plays a mechanistically undefined role in cerebral development. To investigate its pathophysiological contributions, murine models are generated through conditional Eftud2 ablation and in utero electroporation of human pathogenic EFTUD2 variants into cortical neural stem cells (NSCs). Embryonic NSC-specific Eftud2 knockout resulted in cortical disorganization and microcephaly, while pathogenic variants led to significant neuronal loss. Integrative transcriptomic and immunofluorescence analyses revealed that Eftud2 deficiency triggers apoptotic pathways, contributing to cortical malformations. Mechanistic studies using RNA co-immunoprecipitation and full-length transcriptome sequencing demonstrated that Eftud2 directly interacts with Caspase3 and Aifm1 transcripts, regulating their alternative splicing to generate pro-apoptotic isoforms. Splicing assays functionally validated this regulatory mechanism, showing its role in activating cell death pathways and disrupting neurodevelopmental homeostasis. These findings elucidate EFTUD2's critical role in maintaining apoptotic balance during corticogenesis and identify defective splicing regulation as the molecular basis of MFDM. This study provides insights for advancing diagnostic frameworks and therapeutic strategies for neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539437 is a review article
To investigate the effects of methyl-CpG binding domain protein 1 (MBD1) on proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs).Cultured HUVECs were infected with a lentivirus carrying sh-MBD1 or a scramble shRNA (sh-NC), and the successfully infected cells were screened using puromycin. RT-qPCR and Western blotting were used to assess MBD1 gene silencing efficiency. The changes in proliferation, cell cycle, and migration of the infected cells were assessed using CCK-8 and colony formation assays, flow cytometry, scratch assay, and Transwell assay. The impact of MBD1 knockdown on angiogenic capacity of HUVECs was evaluated using angiogenesis assay. Immunofluorescence staining was used to investigate the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) in the infected HUVECs.Compared with the sh-NC cells, HUVECs infected with the lentivirus carrying sh-MBD1 exhibited significantly reduced proliferation capacity and migration ability. The total length of vessels formed in vitro, closed vascular loops, and the number of branching points were all lower in sh-MBD1 cells than in sh-NC cells. VEGFA expression was significantly reduced in sh-MBD1 cells compared to the sh-NC cells.MBD1 promotes proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis of HUVECs possibly by regulating the expression of VEGFA.
The biological significance of forkhead box A1 (FOXA1) in non-steroid-driven malignancies, such as pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), has garnered increasing recognition. It assumes a pivotal role in regulating critical processes such as PDAC cell lineage, metabolism, and metastasis. However, its regulatory mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that histone deacetylase 5 (HDAC5) mediates the deacetylation of FOXA1 at lysine residue 270 (K270), leading to repression of FOXA1's global chromatin occupancy. In HDAC5-loss PDAC, K270 hyper-acetylated FOXA1 is reprogrammed to the transcription start sites (TSSs) of HIF1α-targeted genes, functioning as a pioneer factor of HIF1α signaling. Additionally, we show that HDAC5 antagonizes LSD1-mediated FOXA1 activation by converging on the dynamic equilibrium of acetylation-methylation transition at K270. Pharmacological inhibition of HIF1α/LSD1 suppresses the growth and progression of HDAC5-deficient PDAC in in vivo and in vitro models. Our study reveals the role of FOXA1 as a pioneer factor of HIF1α in PDAC, providing potential therapeutic strategies for HDAC5-deficient PDAC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pulmonary artery smooth muscle cell (PASMC) proliferation is a hallmark of the pathogenesis of hypoxic pulmonary hypertension (PH), and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) plays a crucial role. Many studies have implicated that tRNA-derived fragment, tiRNAs, in a variety of biological processes, but their roles in hypoxia-induced PASMC ERS and proliferation have not been investigated. In this study, we identified a significantly upregulated 3'tiRNA-GlyGCC in hypoxic mouse lung tissues using Arraystar small RNA microarray analysis. Functional assays, including CCK8, EdU incorporation, Western blot, and immunofluorescence, demonstrated that inhibition of 3'tiRNA-GlyGCC reversed hypoxia-induced ERS and proliferation in PASMCs. Mechanistically, 3'tiRNA-GlyGCC interacts with the eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1 (Eef1a1) protein and reduces the binding capacity between Eef1a1 and myelin regulatory factor (Myrf) mRNA, leading to decreased stability of Myrf mRNA. Additionally, 3'tiRNA-GlyGCC targets Myrf mRNA and inhibits its expression. We further verified that angiogenin (Ang) mediated the biogenesis of 3'tiRNA-GlyGCC under hypoxic conditions. Collectively, these findings highlight a novel mechanism underlying PASMC ERS and proliferation and suggest that 3'tiRNA-GlyGCC could serve as a potential therapeutic target for hypoxic PH.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neural functional impairment following stroke is strongly linked to the loss of white matter (WM) integrity, a process critically dependent on the successful differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). Given that hyperhomocysteine (HHcy) aggravates stroke prognosis, we hypothesized that it impairs OPCs differentiation during the recovery period. Using in vivo (MCAO) and in vitro (OGD/R) models, we showed that HHcy hinders functional recovery, impairs OPC differentiation, and compromises WM integrity. Mechanistically, HHcy acts by upregulating tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), which subsequently promotes the nuclear translocation of protein arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4). This leads to the upregulation of nucleosomal citrullinated histone 3 (CitH3) and the subsequent downregulation of myelin regulatory factor (MyRF), resulting in the observed inhibition of OPCs differentiation. Crucially, pharmacological inhibition of PAD4 using the pharmacological inhibitor YW3-56 effectively promoted OPCs differentiation and enhanced WM repair after ischemic stroke. Therefore, our findings identify the TNF-α/PAD4 pathway as a novel therapeutic target for reversing HHcy-induced white matter impairment and improving neurological outcomes after stroke.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
In this issue of Developmental Cell, Luna et al.1 identify myelin regulatory factor (MYRF) as a critical determinant of lung mesothelial specification and quiescence. Their study demonstrates that MYRF loss leads to congenital diaphragmatic hernia or a pleuroparenchymal fibroelastosis-like phenotype, revealing the mesothelium as an actively restrained progenitor population.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Both histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs) control the acetylation state of conserved lysine residues in histone tails. Thereby, modulating chromatin structure and gene transcription. Disturbance of this precisely balanced acetylation state contributes to neuronal, cardiovascular, muscle degenerative, autoimmune diseases and cancer. To restore this delicate balance, HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) are employed. However, employing pan-HDAC inhibitors, that target a broad spectrum of HDACs, often leads to significant side effects. Therefore, the development of isoform specific inhibitors is urgently needed. Among the HDAC family, class IIa HDACs, particularly HDAC5, have emerged as promising drug targets due to their tissue-specific expression patterns and presence in large regulatory complexes. Recent progress in selective class IIa HDAC inhibition has led to the development of novel HDACi that contain a 5-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazole (TFMO) zinc-binding group (ZBG) to interact with the Zn²⁺ ion in the active site, avoiding the drawbacks associated with promiscuous hydroxamic acid–based HDACi. This study focuses on the in vitro characterization of the catalytic domain of human HDAC5 and its inhibition by the TFMO-based HDACi FFK24 and NT160. Our findings contribute to a better biochemical understanding of the kinetic parameters of HDAC5 activity and support the development of selective inhibitors targeting class IIa HDACs.
Improper light focus on the retina, refractive error, is primarily caused by eye size differences and is the leading cause of vision loss worldwide. C-terminal variants in the Myelin regulatory factor (MYRF) gene, a retinal pigment epithelium-derived (RPE-derived) transcription factor, lead to isolated nanophthalmos characterized by a small, though structurally sound eye. However, other MYRF loss-of-function variants cause syndromic disease. To address this discrepancy, in vitro and animal studies were performed on a pathogenic C-terminal variant dG-MYRF (p.Gly1126fs30*, c.3376-1G>A). Human RPE cells or primary RPE transduced with dG-MYRF showed reduced target gene expression, with decreased steady-state levels of the C-terminal cleavage product, but normal cleavage and localization. A homozygous humanized MYRF C-terminal mouse model (MyrfhumdG/humdG) was embryonic lethal by E18.5, while WT (MyrfhumWT/humWT) mice were viable. Single-cell RNA-seq from E17.5 MyrfhumdG/humdG and KO RxCre;Myrffl/fl (E15.5 and P0) mice revealed shared differentially expressed genes, with decreased effect size in the MyrfhumdG/humdG eyes. These findings support dG-MYRF as a hypomorphic allele. Additionally, 2 MYRF splicing variants creating nonfunctional isoforms were found in families with isolated nanophthalmos. Overall, hypomorphic MYRF alleles underlie isolated nanophthalmos, supporting a tissue-specific threshold effect and highlighting unique roles for the MYRF C-terminus in the RPE.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41720560
Hypospadias is a common congenital malformation of the male external genitalia, with severe cases presenting considerable surgical and long-term challenges. Despite the clinical importance of severe hypospadias demonstrated by prolonged hospital stays, repeated surgeries, and substantial costs, the genetic etiology of severe hypospadias remains incompletely understood, particularly in diverse populations. To determine the molecular basis, we performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 30 Chinese patients from southeastern China with confirmed 46,XY karyotypes. Our analysis identified clinically relevant genetic variants, including single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and copy number variations (CNVs), with subsequent phenotypic correlation. Clinically relevant genetic variants were identified in 33.3% (10/30) of cases, including novel SNVs in gonadal regulators (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 1 [ NR5A1 ] c.1344dupC/c.244+1G>T and SRY-box 3 [ SOX3 ] c.1273G>C), morphogenetic modulators (GLI family zinc finger 3 [ GLI3 ] c.4731delA and aristaless-related homeobox [m ARX ] c.644C>G), and syndromic genes (patched domain containing 1 [ PTCHD1 ] c.667G>A and euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 1 [ EHMT1 ] c.3081C>T). Additionally, recurrent CNVs at 22q12.3 and a novel CNV exon 18 deletion in myelin regulatory factor ( MYRF ) and 18q11.2 were identified. Mutation carriers showed a significantly higher frequency of cryptorchidism (40.0% vs 5.0%, P < 0.01) and a higher prevalence of ≥3 associated malformations (80.0% vs 35.0%, P < 0.05) than non-carriers, highlighting genotype-phenotype correlations. The 33.3% diagnostic yield tripled conventional estimates, demonstrating WES efficacy in identifying SNVs and CNVs in severe phenotypes. These findings reveal the genetic heterogeneity of severe hypospadias and support WES utility in uncovering novel variants and structural genomic alterations.Copyright ©The Author(s)(2026).
Global plastic production has led to widespread contamination by micro- and nanoplastics, with polystyrene nanoplastics (PSNPs) increasingly being detected in human biological samples, including blood and cardiac tissue. Given the critical role of mitochondria in cardiac energy metabolism, this study investigated whether 100 nm PSNPs interact with mitochondria and affect mitochondrial function in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts. Cellular uptake and intracellular distribution were examined, followed by an evaluation of mitochondrial ultrastructure, intracellular and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy-related gene expression, mitochondrial DNA copy number, and metabolic function. PSNPs were internalized but did not directly localize to mitochondria within 24 h. No significant cytotoxicity, increase in intracellular or mitochondrial ROS production, or alteration in basal metabolic activity was observed. However, PSNP exposure resulted in intracellular accumulation, an altered mitochondrial ultrastructure characterized by crista loosening and vacuole-like structural changes. These changes were accompanied by reduced mitochondrial membrane potential; the upregulation of mitochondrial dynamics-related genes, including optic atrophy 1 (Opa1) and dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1); the suppression of PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1)/Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin)-mediated mitophagy-related genes; and decreased maximal respiratory capacity. Lactate production and the extracellular acidification rate remained unchanged, suggesting that compensatory glycolysis was not activated. These findings indicate that PSNP exposure induces early mitochondrial structural and functional alterations without substantial cell damage, suggesting a potential reduction in cardiac adaptive capacity under PSNP-induced stress conditions.
While the pro-inflammatory M4 macrophage phenotype contributes to cardiovascular pathogenesis, its specific involvement in chronic post-myocardial infarction (MI) remodeling and responsiveness to different exercise modalities remain unexplored. We hypothesized that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) confers enhanced cardioprotection compared to moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) by mitigating M4 macrophage polarization.A murine MI model was randomized to 4-week HIIT, MICT, or sedentary groups. Cardiac function, structural remodeling, and macrophage phenotypes were evaluated, followed by transcriptomic profiling of the myocardium. For clinical translation, plasma samples from a human coronary artery disease (CAD) cohort (with/without prior MI) were analyzed. Causality was investigated in vitro using PF4-stimulated human macrophages with targeted genetic knockdown, co-cultured with AC16 ventricular cardiomyocytes.Both exercise modalities improved functional capacity and attenuated adverse remodeling post-MI, with HIIT demonstrating enhanced efficacy over MICT. HIIT significantly attenuated MI-induced M4 macrophage polarization, evidenced by diminished expression of MMP7, S100A8, and downstream pro-inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, plasma S100A8 levels were significantly elevated in post-MI patients. Transcriptomic profiling identified integrin subunit alpha M (Itgam) as a critical upstream target; while significantly upregulated post-MI, its expression was effectively suppressed by HIIT. In vitro, targeted ITGAM knockdown effectively suppressed PF4-induced M4 polarization and mitigated macrophage-mediated cardiomyocyte apoptosis.Compared to MICT, HIIT demonstrates superior efficacy in attenuating post-MI adverse remodeling, accompanied by significant suppression of pro-inflammatory M4 macrophage polarization. In vitro validations link this protective phenotype to ITGAM downregulation. These findings inform post-MI exercise regimens and highlight potential molecular targets for developing exercise mimetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) and the neuroinflammatory disease, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). The HTLV-1 Tax regulatory protein plays a critical role in HTLV-1 persistence and pathogenesis; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that Tax dynamically regulates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and membrane potential to trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. Tax is recruited to damaged mitochondria through its interaction with the IKK regulatory subunit IKBKG/NEMO and directly engages the ubiquitin-dependent PINK1-PRKN/parkin pathway to induce mitophagy. Tax also recruits autophagy receptors CALCOCO2/NDP52 and SQSTM1/p62 to damaged mitochondria to induce mitophagy. Furthermore, Tax requires PRKN to limit the extent of CGAS-STING1 activation and suppress type I interferon (IFN) induction. HTLV-1-transformed T-cell lines and PBMCs from HAM/TSP patients exhibit hallmarks of chronic mitophagy, and inhibition of PRKN in HTLV-1-transformed cell lines downregulates p19 Gag expression and induces cell death. Collectively, our findings suggest that Tax manipulation of the PINK1-PRKN mitophagy pathway represents a new HTLV-1 immune evasion strategy important for maintaining viral gene expression and cell survival.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATLL: adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DOX: doxycycline; GFP: green fluorescent protein; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; HAM/TSP: HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; HTLV-1: Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1; IFN: interferon; IkB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: IkB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MT-CO2: mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase II; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; OPTN: optineurin; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qRT-PCR: quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction; RFP: red fluorescence protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SAR: selective autophagy receptor; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; Ub: ubiquitin; VCL: vinculin; WT: wild-type.
MicroRNAs have been widely demonstrated to participate in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular diseases. In this study, an in vitro cellular oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) model was established in mouse BV2 microglial cells, and differentially expressed microRNAs (DEMs) were screened by small RNA sequencing. The significant downregulation of miR-714 during OGD/R process was confirmed and its effects was verified by CCK-8 and apoptosis assays. MSC-derived exosomes (MSC-exo) were used to transport miR-714, and the mRNA expression level and cellular uptake of miR-714 were detected by qRT-PCR and fluorescence microscopy, respectively. The effects of MSC-exo-miR-714 on the proliferation and apoptosis of OGD/R BV2 cells were evaluated by CCK-8, Annexin V-FITC/PI double staining and TUNEL assays. In addition, bioinformatics analysis was performed to predict the target genes of miR-714. qRT-PCR and Western blotting were used to verify the regulatory effects of MSC-exo-miR-714 on ITGAM (integrin subunit alpha M) at mRNA and protein levels. The potential anti-inflammatory mechanism was further explored using gene enrichment analysis and Western blotting. The results showed that MSC-exo-miR-714 could significantly promote proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, and reduce protein expression of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α, NF-κB, and p-NF-κB in OGD/R-injured BV2 cells by directly targeting ITGAM. In conclusion, miR-714 is significantly down-regulated under in vitro OGD/R injury and serves as a key regulator in BV2 microglial injury. MSC-exo-miR-714 protects glial cells against OGD/R damage in vitro by directly targeting ITGAM and inhibiting inflammatory signaling. These findings are limited to the in vitro setting, and further in vivo validation is required.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a globally prevalent pathogen that poses a significant health threat due to its lifelong latency. This persistence is driven by intricate immune evasion mechanisms, the deciphering of which remains a challenge. Here, we identified the HSV-1 tegument protein UL16 as a novel viral immunosuppressive factor, which significantly suppresses the RIGI-like receptor (RLR)-mediated antiviral immunity. We found that UL16 can interact with MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein) and induce its degradation, thereby inhibiting type I interferon (IFN-I) production. Further investigation revealed that UL16-induced MAVS degradation was facilitated via mitophagy involving the mitochondrial cargo receptor FUNDC1 (FUN14 domain containing 1). Knockout of FUNDC1 expression completely disrupted UL16-induced MAVS degradation and restricted HSV-1 replication. In contrast, overexpression of FUNDC1 augmented the suppressive effect of UL16 on MAVS-triggered IFN-I signaling and consequently benefited viral replication. Notably, the C-terminal domain (CTD) of UL16 primarily accounted for its immunosuppressive function, which was also demonstrated to be essential for UL16 engagement with MAVS, FUNDC1 and MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3). A conserved LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif within the UL16 CTD was identified to play a critical role in LC3 recruitment enhancement. Furthermore, the UL16-deficient HSV-1 exhibited markedly attenuated viral infectivity and pathogenicity in vivo. In summary, our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized pathway through which HSV-1 UL16 subverts host immunity by inducing mitophagy. This study provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions and establishes a rational foundation for developing novel therapeutics against HSV-1 infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CARD: caspase recruitment domain; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; CXCL10: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ds: double-stranded; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HEK: human embryonic kidney; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; IAV: influenza A virus; IFIH1/MDA5: interferon induced with helicase C domain 1; IFIT1/ISG56: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFN-I: type I interferon; IgG: Immunoglobulin G; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; kDa: kilodalton; KO: knockout; KSHV: Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; Mdivi-1: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; NanoBiT: NanoLuc Binary Technology; NC: negative control; NTD: N-terminal domain; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RIGI/RIG-I: RNA sensor RIG-I; RLR: RIGI-like receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SeV: Sendai virus; sgRNA: single guide RNA; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TM: transmembrane; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TRAF: TNF receptor associated factor; TUFM: Tu translation elongation factor, mitochondrial; UL16: unique long region 16; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD-FMK: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
Epigenetic regulators such as DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha (DNMT3A), p300 histone acetyltransferase (HAT), and histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) govern adipocyte differentiation, lipid metabolism, and metabolic memory, contributing to obesity progression. However, whether approved anti-obesity drugs directly modulate these enzymes remains unclear. This study evaluated five FDA-approved agents-bupropion, naltrexone, orlistat, phentermine, and topiramate-against DNMT3A, p300, and HDAC3 using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, Markov state modeling, PCA, free-energy landscape analysis, DCCM, RMSF, and MM-GBSA calculations. Distinct ligand-specific interactions were observed. Orlistat and phentermine showed stable binding and favorable energetics with DNMT3A, engaging catalytic residues and restricting flexibility. In p300, orlistat and topiramate stabilized regions involved in acetyl-CoA and substrate positioning. For HDAC3, only orlistat and topiramate maintained stable binding, with orlistat showing the most favorable energetics within the catalytic tunnel and Zn2+-associated region. Overall, orlistat-followed by topiramate and phentermine-most effectively stabilized catalytically relevant conformations. These findings indicate that certain anti-obesity drugs may exert epigenetic effects, influencing adipocyte function and metabolic regulation, warranting further experimental validation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42342158 is a review article
Exosomes derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) represent a promising cell-free strategy for intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Here, we obtained oxidative stress-preconditioned exosomes (O-Exos) from BMSCs exposed to low-concentration hydrogen peroxide. Compared with exosomes from untreated cells (N-Exos), O-Exos more effectively delayed nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and attenuated IDD in vitro and in vivo. The superior effects of O-Exos were associated with restoration of mitophagy and improved mitochondrial homeostasis in TNF/TNF-α-treated NP cells. BMF (Bcl2 modifying factor) was identified as a functionally relevant downstream target suppressed by O-Exos, and Bmf deficiency promoted mitophagy and alleviated IDD. Further analyses showed that O-Exos relieved the inhibitory effect of BMF on BCL2L13-LC3B coupling, thereby restoring mitophagy. In addition, exosomal Mir29a-3p was required for BMF suppression and the superior activity of O-Exos. Together, these findings identify oxidative stress preconditioning as an effective strategy to enhance exosome potency against IDD.Abbreviations: ACAN: aggrecan; BCL2L13: BCL2 like 13; BMF: Bcl2 modifying factor; BMSCs: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CDKN1A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1A; CDKN2A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; COL2A1: collagen type II alpha 1 chain; DHI: disc height index; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; H2O2: hydrogen peroxide; IDD: intervertebral disc degeneration; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP3: matrix metallopeptidase 3; MRI: nuclear magnetic resonance imaging; N-Exos: exosomes derived from untreated BMSCs; NP: nucleus pulposus; O-Exos: exosomes derived from H2O2-preconditioned BMSCs; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction; SA-GLB1/β-gal: senescence-associated galactosidase beta 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TP53: tumor protein p53; WT: wild type.
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential reproductive toxicity of bisphenol S (BPS) and the related molecular mechanisms through a network toxicology approach. By utilizing various databases, including the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB), and the Therapeutics Target Database (TTD), and limiting the species to Homo sapiens, we confirmed 45 potential targets related to both BPS exposure and reproductive injury. Additional analysis via STRING and Cytoscape pinpointed 4 key targets: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1-beta (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses indicated that the principal targets of BPS-mediated reproductive damage are mainly involved in oxidative stress signaling and cell secretion pathways. Because PI3K/AKT regulates the secretion of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα, we focus on AKT1 in the molecular docking experiments. Unexpectedly, we found a strong interaction between BPS and AKT1. Furthermore, the results suggested that women may be more susceptible to BPS-mediated reproductive toxicity than men. This study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms through which BPS causes reproductive toxicity and lays the foundation for preventing and treating reproductive disorders related to BPS exposure. In addition, our network toxicology-based method can accelerate the discovery of pathways involved in the toxic effects of environmental chemicals that are currently unknown.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
This case report describes a rare presentation of rippling muscle disease (RMD) due to a pathogenic CAV3 variant, manifesting with myocarditis-like cardiac involvement in an adolescent patient. To the best of our knowledge, this represents an exceedingly rare pediatric case of RMD associated with clinically significant cardiac findings.A previously healthy 15-year-old male adolescent presented with vomiting and markedly elevated creatine kinase and troponin levels, raising suspicion of acute myocarditis. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated non-ischemic myocardial fibrosis, and genetic testing identified a pathogenic de novo variant in the CAV3 gene consistent with rippling muscle disease.This case highlights the potential for myocarditis-like cardiac involvement in caveolin-3-related rippling muscle disease and underscores the importance of considering underlying genetic myopathies in adolescents presenting with unexplained elevations of serum creatine kinase (hyperCKemia) and cardiac biomarkers.
To investigate the expressions of cofilin-1 (CFL1) and its phosphorylated form p-CFL1 in colon cancer, their relationship with clinicopathological features and patient prognosis, and their regulatory roles in colon cancer cell migration.The expression of CFL1 and p-CFL1 and their correlation with clinicopathological parameters were analyzed using the TCGA database and immunohistochemistry of colon cancer tissue microarrays. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to explore the association of CFL1/p-CFL1 expression levels with survival of colon cancer patients. The localization of CFL1 and p-CFL1 in the nucleus and cytoplasm was observed using immunofluorescence staining. Wild-type (CFL1-WT) and nuclear localization signal mutant-type (CFL1-MUT) overexpression vectors were constructed and transfected into HCT116 cells, and the changes in cell migration were assessed using Transwell chamber migration assay. Transcriptome sequencing combined with KEGG enrichment analysis was performed to identify the differentially expressed genes and signaling pathways.Immunohistochemistry results showed significantly increased expressions of CFL1 and p-CFL1 in colon cancer tissues compared with the adjacent tissues (P<0.0001), and their expression levels were positively correlated (r=0.4753, P<0.0001). High expressions of CFL1 and p-CFL1 were significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis, advanced clinical stage, and shorter overall survival of the patients (P<0.05). Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence staining demonstrated localization of CFL1 and p-CFL1 in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. Functional experiments showed that overexpression of CFL1-WT and CFL1-MUT both promoted HCT116 cell migration, and CFL1-WT exhibited a stronger effect. KEGG analysis suggested that the genes regulated by CFL1-WT were significantly enriched in tumor metastasis-related pathways involving Ras, PI3K-Akt, and cell adhesion molecules.CFL1/p-CFL1 are highly expressed in colon cancer and can be potential biomarkers for poor prognosis. CFL1 overexpression further activates tumor metastasis-related signaling pathways through nuclear localization, thereby promoting colon cancer migration.
A large number of functional disorders and uncomfortable symptoms often remain following ischemic stroke (IS). Existing drug therapy is not ideal for the direct improvement of symptoms, which often leads to poor patient compliance with physical rehabilitation therapy. Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHWD) is a famous prescription that is effective in treating IS, especially during the sequela stage of IS. We analyzed the therapeutic mechanism of BYHWD through network pharmacology. This study aims to investigate the potential active ingredients, targets, and signaling pathways of BYHWD for the treatment of IS, utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active ingredients of 7 Chinese herbs in BYHWD were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology and HERB databases, and IS-related disease targets were searched in the DisGeNET, GeneCards, and OMIM databases. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the STRING database and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.10.2 software. Additionally, the target genes were uploaded to the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery website for Gene Ontology alongside Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. With the assistance of AutoDockTools and PyMOL software (Schrödinger, Inc.), a validation of molecular docking results and a visualization of the results were performed. The results showed that there were 190 intersection targets between the active drug components and IS, corresponding to 61 active components, among which the top 5 target genes were tumor suppressor protein 53, Jun proto-oncogene, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, and estrogen receptor alpha. The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway is one of the top 10 pathways. The molecular docking results indicated that most of the top 5 targets had good affinities for the 8 core compounds. This computational analysis suggests that BYHWD may treat IS through multiple targets and pathways. It may play a neuroprotective role by regulating the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, autophagy, and vascular endothelial homeostasis. The identification of core effective components provides a theoretical foundation and candidate compounds for further investigation into new drugs for the treatment of sequelae after IS.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Merkel cell carcinoma is an aggressive neuroendocrine skin malignancy rarely reported in non-domestic species.A cutaneous nodule from an endangered Caucasian squirrel (Sciurus anomalus pallescens) was examined using histopathology, immunohistochemistry, imaging mass cytometry, spatial transcriptomics (10× Visium) and metagenomic sequencing.Histology revealed a high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma with frequent mitoses (52 per 2.37 mm2) and necrosis. Tumour cells were positive for cytokeratin 20 (paranuclear dot pattern), synaptophysin and chromogranin A, with a high Ki-67 index (68%). Spatial analyses delineated a distinct tumour core and combined invasive front and stromal compartments, revealing upregulation of neuroendocrine (atonal basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 and neurogenic differentiation factor 1) and proliferative (marker of proliferation Ki-67) programmes, and activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-mechanistic target of rapamycin and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. No evidence of Merkel cell polyomavirus was found. The tumour microenvironment was immune-excluded, with programmed-death ligand 1 expression on ~22% of tumour cells and CD8+ T cells restricted to the stroma.This study provides a comprehensive methodological framework for high-resolution tumour profiling in conservation pathology and highlights the emergence of neoplasia in threatened wildlife.© 2026 Peyman Mohammadzadeh et al.
The escalating global prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires the development of sensitive, non-invasive diagnostic strategies capable of detecting pathological changes previous the clinical onset. By exploiting the spontaneous formation of the biomolecular corona (BC) around nanoparticles (NPs), it's possible to capture a rich, disease-specific fingerprint from the plasma that reflects systemic alterations often invisible to traditional diagnostic assays. In the present study, we demonstrate the efficacy of an innovative nanotechnological platform utilizing a synergistic dual-silica NPs system (comprising amino- and sulfonate-functionalized surfaces) integrated with proteomic and lipidomic profiling of the NP-associated BC. Our results revealed a significant enrichment of ribosomal machinery in the BC of AD patients, contrasted by a simultaneous decrease of glycolytic enzymes and mitochondrial respiratory components. This metabolic impairment is further corroborated by the lipidomic profile, which shows a reduction in short-chain acyl-carnitines (C2, C3, C5) and essential membrane phospholipids. Additionally, the observed loss of structural proteins, such as Cofilin-1 and Vinculin, contributes to a comprehensive molecular fingerprint unique to the AD phenotype.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Healthcare Materials published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Due to the increasing pressure of modern society, premature ovarian failure (POF) has become a widespread issue in women. POF not only impacts women's fertility but also heightens the risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. Oviductus Ranae (OR) is a natural product that is used as medicine and food to exert "estrogen-like effects." Previous studies have reported that the compound improves follicle growth, which may be beneficial for POF. Thus, an experiment was designed to explore OR's positive effects on POF rats. POF rat models were established by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (CTX), and OR was orally administered to the rats. Subsequently, serum estrogen and gonadotropin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Uterine status, endometrial epithelial thickness, and follicle numbers at different stages in ovaries were analyzed by H&E staining, and follicle atresia by TUNEL staining. Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of key proteins in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (Akt) signaling pathway, as well as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) in ovarian tissues. The results showed that OR administration to POF rats alleviated estrous cycle disorder, increased estrogen levels (p < 0.05), decreased gonadotropin levels (p < 0.05), mitigated uterine atrophy, increased endometrial epithelial thickness (p < 0.01), ovarian weight (p < 0.05), secondary and Graafian follicle numbers (p < 0.05), while reducing secondary and Graafian follicle atresia rate (p < 0.05). These beneficial effects may be attributed to OR-mediated upregulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and modulation of the Bcl-2/Bax apoptotic axis in ovarian tissue. In conclusion, OR can improve the follicular condition in ovaries and relieve symptoms in POF rats.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Elevated homocysteine (Hcy) levels contribute to the onset and progression of childhood epilepsy. However, Hcy-lowering therapies provide limited benefits, suggesting additional pathogenic mechanisms. Here, we identified N-homocysteinylated Cofilin-1 (N-Hcy-CFL1) as a molecular link between elevated Hcy levels and childhood epilepsy. We detected N-Hcy-CFL1 in patients with epilepsy and in a mouse model of hyperhomocysteinemia. Mass spectrometry identified Hcy-dependent lysine modifications in CFL1, and functional assays, including actin depolymerization, the F/G-actin ratio, and axonal elongation, demonstrated impaired CFL1 activity and consequent cytoskeletal rigidity. These changes manifested as increased F-actin levels, increased F/G-actin ratio, and abnormal axonal growth. In vivo, hyperhomocysteinemic mice exhibited prolonged seizures and axonal remodeling, both of which were attenuated by CFL1-directed interventions. Clinically, blood Hcy levels correlated with N-Hcy-CFL1 levels in patients' brain tissues, supporting its potential as a biomarker. Together, these findings identify N-Hcy-CFL1 as a pathogenic mediator and suggest that N-homocysteinylation is a therapeutic target beyond conventional Hcy-lowering strategies.© 2026. Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
A key challenge in structure-based drug design is generating three-dimensional molecules while preserving essential protein-ligand interactions. We propose DiffPharma, a structure-based pharmacophore modeling framework based on a conditional diffusion model, to generate molecules that satisfy specified interaction constraints. The proposed method incorporates a semantic fusion architecture that integrates multiple interaction-specific neural networks, each designed to capture distinct molecular interactions such as hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. Experimental results demonstrate that DiffPharma achieves a residue-level interaction similarity of up to 0.9, significantly outperforming baseline models. To assess the method's generalizability, ligands were generated for AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 and serine β-lactamase, successfully preserving key interaction features. The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated through a practical case study targeting the SARS-CoV-2 main protease. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that the generated molecules maintain both structural stability and key interactions comparable to those of a bioactive reference ligand. In addition, the molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM/GBSA) calculations based on MD trajectories suggest that several generated molecules may exhibit relatively favorable binding tendencies compared with the reference. The implementation of the DiffPharma, including code and an execution environment on Google Colab, is available under the MIT license at GitHub: https://github.com/sekijima-lab/DiffPharma .© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitophagy is vital for preventing cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (CI/R) injury. Naringin, a flavanone glycoside, reduces CI/R injury by blocking harmful mitophagy induced by peroxynitrite (ONOO⁻). Our earlier studies identified that mitochondrial calcium (mtCa2+) efflux stabilizes mitochondrial endosymbiosis and initiates protective mitophagy. However, it is unclear whether and how naringin inhibits harmful mitophagy in association with mtCa2+.This study aimed to examine the influence of the S-nitrosylated dynamin-related protein 1 (SNO-DRP1)/leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)/mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) pathway on harmful mitophagy, which is inhibited by naringin in CI/R injury.To validate the hypotheses, a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) model in rats and oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced PC12 cells were used to investigate the effects of naringin. Specifically, linsidomine hydrochloride (SIN-1) was used to enhance SNO-DRP1, whereas spermine (Spm) was used to activate MCU. Mitochondrial fragmentation was assessed by measuring the average mitochondrial diameter via transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and evaluating the protein levels of mitofusin 1 (MFN1) and dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) through western blotting (WB). The SNO-DRP1 formation was determined by a biotin switch assay. The extent of SNO-DRP1-mediated excessive mitophagy was examined by quantifying the number of autophagosomes using TEM and assessing the colocalization of translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane complex subunit 20 (TOMM20)-DRP1-3-NT and 3-NT-DRP1-LC3 via immunofluorescence (IF). The interaction between SNO-DRP1 and LRRK2 was confirmed using co-immunoprecipitation and IF colocalization. MtCa2+ overload induced by MCU was evaluated by analyzing MCU protein levels, measuring mtCa2+ fluorescence intensity following Rhod-2 AM treatment, and assessing the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. The mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial DNA release were used to evaluate the mitochondrial endosymbiosis failure.Naringin exhibited a dose-dependent protective effect against CI/R injury in rats subjected to the tMCAO/R model. It effectively reduced mitochondrial fragmentation and SNO-DRP1-mediated mitophagy, attenuated the interaction between SNO-DRP1 and LRRK2, and decreased the protein level of MCU in the penumbra region of the cortex. SIN-1 and Spm counteracted the neuronal protection of naringin in OGD/R-induced PC12 cells. They also mitigated the impact of naringin on mitochondrial fragmentation, harmful mitophagy, and MCU-mediated mtCa2+ overload and mitochondrial endosymbiosis disruption. Notably, only SIN-1 reversed naringin's suppression of SNO-DRP1 formation and its interaction with LRRK2 in vitro.This study demonstrates that naringin reduces ONOO⁻-caused harmful mitophagy in CI/R injury by blocking the SNO-DRP1/LRRK2/MCU pathway, which helps prevent mitochondrial fragmentation and preserve mitochondrial endosymbiosis. This pathway may be among the mechanisms by which naringin exerts its protective effects.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
To explore how vacuolar protein sorting 35 (VPS35) regulates astrocytic inflammation, impairs retinal endothelial function and drives early diabetic retinopathy (DR) neurovascular lesions in diabetic mouse model.A streptozotocin (STZ)-induced C57BL/6J diabetic mouse model was established. Retinal tissues were collected from 0 to 12wk after successful induction of diabetes. Protein expression levels of VPS35, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and vascular endothelium-associated proteins were assessed by Western blotting (WB). The interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation. Vascular leakage and astrocyte activation were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography and retinal flat-mount immunofluorescence staining. Primary astrocytes were cultured in vitro and subjected to high-glucose stimulation or VPS35 knockdown. Cell activation, expression of glutamate transport-associated proteins, and inflammatory cytokine expression were examined. Supernatant fluid from the primary astrocytes was applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to assess cell migration, proliferation, and tube formation capacity. The expression of proteins related to the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was also evaluated.In diabetic mice, retinal VPS35 protein expression exhibited a progressive decline beginning at 4wk post-diabetes onset, whereas GFAP protein expression increased significantly. By 8wk, marked astrocyte activation was observed, accompanied by retinal microvascular leakage and a reduction in vascular area. In vivo and in vitro experiments further confirmed that under high-glucose conditions, retinal VPS35 and EAAT2 protein levels were markedly decreased, while GFAP and LRRK2 protein levels were significantly elevated. Co-immunoprecipitation verified the physical interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 in astrocytes. Finally, in vitro experiments demonstrated that both high-glucose stimulation and VPS35 knockdown led to astrocyte activation, upregulation of inflammatory cytokine expression, downregulation of EAAT2 and AMPA receptor subunit GLUA2, and upregulation of LRRK2. Treatment of HUVECs with supernatant fluid from these astrocytes enhanced cell migration but significantly inhibited cell proliferation and tube formation. WB analysis revealed markedly increased levels of NF-κB and phosphorylated NF-κB in the treated HUVECs.During early DR in mice model, decreased retinal VPS35 protein expression induces astrocyte-mediated inflammatory responses and glutamate transport dysfunction. Through the interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2, paracrine inflammatory cytokines subsequently activate the NF-κB signaling pathway in vascular endothelial cells, leading to endothelial dysfunction and further driving DR-associated neurovascular injury. This study provides novel insights into the pathogenesis of DR and highlights the potential of VPS35 as a target for early intervention in DR.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Variants in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, yet how these variants alter immune cell function remains unclear. Because LRRK2 is activated by lysosomal damage in macrophages, we investigated how the pathogenic G2019S variant affects macrophage responses to lysosomal damage. Here, we show that LRRK2 G2019S has an effect during lysosomal damage through kinase-dependent and kinase-independent mechanisms. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that lysosomal damage induces selective rewiring of LRRK2-dependent Rab GTPase phosphorylation, characterised by increased Rab12 phosphorylation and reduced Rab35 phosphorylation without global kinase hyperactivation. Strikingly, LRRK2 G2019S macrophages showed increased susceptibility to apoptosis following lysosomal damage. This increase in cell death occurred independently of the kinase activity, indicating a distinct kinase-independent role of LRRK2 in regulating cell survival. We generated isogenic induced pluripotent stem cells from patients carrying the LRRK2 G2019S variant and confirmed that LRRK2 G2019S macrophages are more susceptible to cell death in a kinase-independent manner. Together, our findings support a model in which the LRRK2 G2019S variant selectively changes the phosphorylation of Rab GTPases in macrophages and increases cell death after lysosomal damage in macrophages.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are a leading contributor to developing familial and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Most PD-causing LRRK2 mutations increase the kinase activity, leading to increased phosphorylation of Rab GTPases, disrupting vesicular trafficking, cytoskeletal dynamics, and autophagy. Under homeostatic conditions, the bulk of WT and PD-mutant LRRK2 is found in the cellular cytosol. However, exogenously expressed LRRK2 can form microtubule-associated filaments that have been shown to affect molecular transport along microtubules in vitro. While the physiological relevance of microtubule binding has not been established yet, inhibitors being designed and tested as therapeutics have been shown to either promote or prevent filament formation of LRRK2. In this study, we examine the localization and resulting molecular organization of hyperactive LRRK2-I2020T, a common PD mutant, in HEK 293FT cells treated with type I (MLi-2) or type II (GZD-824) kinase inhibitors. Treatment with a type I kinase inhibitor results in extensive LRRK2-I2020T decoration around microtubules and microtubule bundling. Stabilization of LRRK2-I2020T filaments by type I inhibitor treatment allowed us to build a full-length closed-kinase model of LRRK2-I2020T in its cellular environment. Conversely, treatment with a type II inhibitor resulted in minimal microtubule decoration by LRRK2-I2020T compared to type I inhibitor-treated cells. This study provides a structural framework for understanding how type I and type II kinase inhibitors differentially modulate LRRK2 filament formation, demonstrating that type I inhibitor treatment promotes a distinct filament architecture, whereas such assemblies are not observed with type II inhibitors.© 2026, Basiashvili et al.
In contrast to neurons in the central nervous system, neurons in the peripheral nervous system can regenerate axons after injury via activation of a pro-regenerative transcriptional programme. Pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, and several small-molecule LRRK2 kinase inhibitors have been developed, with some in clinical trials. However, the physiological role of endogenous, non-pathogenic LRRK2 remains largely unknown.LRRK2 expression was examined in murine dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) following sciatic nerve crush (SNC) injury. Regenerative axon growth was assessed using cultured adult DRG neurons after genetic or pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2. Axon regeneration after SNC injury was evaluated in vivo following oral administration of the LRRK2 inhibitors, MLi-2 or PF-06447475. Axonal trafficking experiments and phosphoproteomic analyses were performed to investigate mechanisms underlying axon growth promotion induced by LRRK2 inhibitors.SNC injury reduced LRRK2 expression in DRGs. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2 enhanced regenerative axon growth in culture. Oral administration of MLi-2 or PF-06447475 promoted axon regeneration in vivo after SNC injury. MLi-2 enhanced mitochondrial trafficking, and phosphoproteomic analyses identified cellular processes and kinase-substrate signalling networks associated with a pro-regenerative state triggered by LRRK2 inhibition.These findings identify endogenous, non-pathogenic LRRK2 as a suppressor of axon regeneration. They also support the potential repositioning of small-molecule LRRK2 inhibitors, including clinically advanced compounds and those in preclinical development, as therapeutic strategies to enhance peripheral nerve regeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Allelic variants in the leucine-rich repeat kinase-2 (LRRK2) gene are linked to Parkinson's disease, Crohn's disease and leprosy; however, a consensus role of LRRK2 in infection has not yet emerged. Parkinson's disease-linked p.G2019S mutation of LRRK2 results in increased kinase activity. We evaluated the impact of the p.G2019S mutation during the infection of mice with Salmonella typhimurium (ST) or Listeria monocytogenes. We demonstrate that the p.G2019S mutation promotes the phosphorylation of the p40phox and p47phox subunits of the NADPH oxidase-2 complex in the cytosol of neutrophils, leading to their relocation to lysosomes for enhanced bacterial control. Activation of Cathepsin B, Rab10 or PKC was not modulated by p.G2019S. Activation of the cytosolic subunits of NADPH oxidase-2 subunits was inhibited by the virulence factor SifA, which promotes the phagosomal localization of ST. Deletion of SifA resulted in an even greater effect of the p.G2019S mutation on the control of ST by neutrophils. These results suggest a mechanism by which the p.G2019S mutation promotes better control of infections at the cost of excessive tissue damage via NADPH oxidase-2 activity under chronic inflammatory conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Micropropagation of Selenicereus hybrids is a key tool for breeding and conservation; however, further refining the balance between high multiplication rates and morphological quality remains a complex challenge within conventional protocols. This study explores targeted signaling modulation using nine bioactive small molecules-including three mammalian glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) inhibitors (TDZD-9, VP3.15 and VP0.7), three leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) inhibitors (JZ1.24, JZ1.3 and IGS4.75), and three phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors-to complement traditional micropropagation. Explants were evaluated in two distinct contexts: a hormone-free basal medium (BM) and a plant growth regulator-supplemented medium (PIT2) and the response rates, yield, and quality were measured and integrated using a Global Efficiency Index (GEI). Results demonstrate that inhibitor efficacy is strictly context-dependent; while most molecules repressed budding in BM, they acted as response modulators by determining the specific type of morphogenic pathway in PIT2. Notably, the GSK3 inhibitor TDZD-9 reached the highest GEI (0.85) by maximizing productivity, whereas LRRK2 inhibitors effectively preserved architectural integrity. Flow cytometry confirmed cytogenetic stability across all treatments, with a 98.5% plantlet survival rate during acclimatization. In conclusion, the strategic integration of targeted signaling modulators and multi-parametric indices offers a refined and objective framework to enhance the efficiency of mass propagation protocols in pitahaya and other recalcitrant species. Furthermore, our findings provide new evidence of the strong potential of these small molecules as novel tools to improve plant micropropagation beyond traditional plant growth regulators.
LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) and Parkin (PRKN) act in shared pathways and are implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD), leprosy, and other diseases. While leprosy likely imposed strong evolutionary pressure, PD's relatively late onset renders it largely invisible to natural selection. We examined the evolutionary history of LRRK2 and PRKN in primates and human populations and found evidence of positive selection on both genes, alongside strong constraint at LRRK2 disease-associated sites. Gibbons were found to carry a pathogenic PRKN mutation (R33Q) causing protein instability. Using ancient DNA, we traced the dynamics of LRRK2 and PRKN variants in Europe and showed that the common PD risk allele LRRK2 G2019S-also protective against salmonellosis-was absent in Paleolithic populations but rose rapidly during the Early Neolithic, likely driven by selection from emerging human-adapted Salmonella. Four leprosy susceptibility variants in PRKN and other loci increased in frequency before the Middle Ages, with little evidence of strong selection during the medieval epidemic itself. Together, these results link a major PD mutation to ancient infectious pressures and suggest that pathogen-driven selection shaped leprosy susceptibility in Europe prior to its medieval peak.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). Strategies that directly inhibit the LRRK2 kinase active site have not demonstrated disease-modifying efficacy in recent clinical testing. A naturally occurring protective variant, R1398H, provides an alternative route for understanding how reduced disease risk may be achieved by tuning the regulatory GTPase domain rather than the kinase domain itself. Here, we combine structural, computational, biochemical, and cell-based analyses to define how R1398H alters the Ras of complex proteins (ROC) G domain of LRRK2. Purified ROC carrying R1398H is folded but resolves as a stable homodimer corresponding to the GDP-bound off state previously defined for wild-type ROC. A 2.0 Å A crystal structure shows unambiguous density for H1398 and reveals close superposition with the GDP-bound wild-type ROC dimer. Molecular dynamics modeling predicts that R1398 engages the γ-phosphate of GTP to stabilize switch-region interactions required for activation, whereas histidine at this position weakens γ-phosphate sensing. Consistent with this model, R1398H reduces GTP hydrolysis, selectively weakens GTP-state stabilization while preserving GDP binding, and decreases Rab29-dependent trans-Golgi recruitment of full-length LRRK2. These findings identify R1398 as a γ-phosphate sensor that couples nucleotide chemistry to ROC conformational switching and suggest a genetics-anchored strategy for stabilizing a protective off-state conformation of LRRK2.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly affecting substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine (DA) neurons. Here, we investigate how the R1441G mutation in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), a key genetic contributor to familial and sporadic PD, impacts mitochondrial function in midbrain DA neurons.We employed a BAC transgenic mouse model overexpressing human LRRK2-R1441G (BAC-hR1441G) and crossed it with TH-mito-roGFP mice to enable mitochondria-targeted redox imaging specifically in DA neurons. Acute midbrain slices from 3-, 6-, and 10-month-old mice were imaged using two-photon microscopy to assess mitochondrial oxidative stress. In parallel, mitochondrial respiratory function, membrane potential flickering events, and expression of uncoupling proteins (UCP4/UCP5) were analyzed. Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the GeoMx® Digital Spatial Profiler to uncover associated molecular alterations.We observed a progressive increase in mitochondrial oxidative stress in SNc DA neurons of BAC-hR1441G mice at 3, 6, and 10 months of age. This was accompanied by reduced respiratory complex activity, attenuated mitochondrial membrane potential flickering, and diminished expression of UCP4 and UCP5. Spatial transcriptomic analysis revealed dysregulation of genes linked to mitochondrial uncoupling, calcium signaling, and redox regulation in BAC-hR1441G SNc DA neurons.These findings reveal an age-dependent progression of mitochondrial dysfunction in BAC-hR1441G SNc DA neurons. Dysregulation of calcium channels and uncoupling proteins emerges as a key mechanism contributing to bioenergetic failure, suggesting potential therapeutic targets to mitigate PD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512891 is a review article
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening syndrome with high mortality, characterized by alveolar epithelial barrier disruption and excessive inflammatory injury. The epithelial glycocalyx, a layer critical for barrier integrity, undergoes shedding during ALI. However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study investigates the role of Golgi phosphoprotein 3 (GOLPH3) in glycocalyx-mediated barrier dysfunction in ALI.A Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI model was established in MLE-12 cells and C57BL/6 mice. Bioinformatics analysis of the GSE18341 dataset was performed to identify differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways. GOLPH3 was silenced or overexpressed to determine its function, and the MEK inhibitor U0126 was used for rescue experiments. Glycocalyx integrity, tight junction proteins, and ERK/MMP pathway mediators were analyzed by western blotting, immunofluorescence, transmission electron microscopy, and ELISA.LPS markedly reduced MLE-12 cell viability, disrupted tight junction protein expression, and induced glycocalyx damage. Bioinformatic analysis identified GOLPH3 as a potential regulator of LPS-induced ALI. GOLPH3 expression positively correlated with MAPK/ERK pathway and MMP2/9-associated biological processes and was elevated in both LPS-treated cells and mouse lung tissues. GOLPH3 knockdown attenuated LPS-induced ERK activation, MMP2/9 upregulation, inflammatory cytokine release, glycocalyx shedding, and barrier disruption. Conversely, GOLPH3 overexpression exacerbated these effects, which were reversed by U0126.GOLPH3 is a critical mediator of LPS-induced ALI. GOLPH3 promotes alveolar epithelial glycocalyx shedding and barrier disruption by activating the ERK-MMP2/9 axis, highlighting GOLPH3 as a potential therapeutic target for ALI that warrants further in vivo validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Inborn errors of immunity with atopy (IEIs-A) are an IEI subgroup with eczema as a prominent clinical feature that can mimic atopic dermatitis (AD). However, IEIs-A-associated eczema can differ from that of classic AD, and its frequency, genotype-specific clinical patterns and temporal relationships with other IEIs-A manifestations (infections, allergic manifestations, autoimmunity) remain poorly defined.To characterize eczema frequency, timing and phenotypes in IEIs-A patients, and explore eczema's relationship with other clinical IEIs-A manifestations.This retrospective study used data from the French national IEI (CEREDIH) Registry database, focusing on patients with genetically defined IEIs-A followed in three large CEREDIH-participating centers and available clinical data. Eczema frequency and onset in relationship to other clinical events, particularly severe-or-unusual infections, was assessed, as were eczema phenotypes, concomitant allergic manifestations, treatments and autoimmunity. Clustering analyses were computed to identify distinct IEI-A-eczema-associated clinical phenotypes.Among 373 IEIs-A patients, varying widely by genotype, 50.9% had eczema. All dedicator of cytokinesis-8 (DOCK8)-deficient patients were affected, followed by Forkhead box-P3 (FOXP3)-deficient patients (73.3%), and those with signal transducer and activator of transcription-1-loss-of-function (STAT3-LoF; 74.6%). Onset was usually early (median: 4 months). Eczema frequency and clinical presentation varied markedly across IEIs-A genotypes; four phenotypic clusters were identified, with particular localizations and severe pruritus being strongly associated with pathogenic STAT3 or DOCK8 variants. For children with isolated eczema at 24 months, the risk of developing IEI-related severe-or-unusual infections was lower than that of persistent isolated eczema until 6.8 years.Eczema is a common, early IEIs-A feature, often preceding infections by years.While 38.4% of IEIs-A patients with eczema fulfilled the UK Working Party diagnostic criteria for AD, some clinical pictures may differ from that of classic AD. At a time when systemic AD treatments are rapidly advancing in pediatrics, recognizing these patterns to identify IEIs-A patients could refine diagnostic strategies, improve IEI detection among children with eczema, shorten the time to IEIs-A diagnosis, guide tailored management and ensure these patients receive the optimal care.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been recognized as one of the three hallmark biological features of autism spectrum disorder. This study is intended to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying prenatal psychological fear stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the calcium signaling pathway, particularly the phospholipase C beta 1(PLCβ1)- inositol 1,4,5‑trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)- voltage‑dependent anion channel 1(VDAC1) pathway, may play a key role in prenatal stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. To validate this, we examined pathway activation in the offspring hippocampus of prenatal fear stressed rats and in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH; also known as CRF in rodents) overexposed SH‑SY5Y cells, along with mitochondrial calcium levels in the cells. Prenatal fear stress induced depressive-like behavior and HPA axis activation in pregnant dams, and reduced survival and growth in offspring. Placental and neonatal brain CRF levels were elevated. At the early socialization stage (Postnatal day 21-30), model offspring showed normal basal but exaggerated stress-induced HPA responses. Their hippocampus exhibited expanded MAM coverage, reduced ER-mitochondria distance, and upregulated PLCβ1, IP3R1, VDAC1 expression, along with increased GRP75‑VDAC1 co‑localization, confirming MAM remodeling at the molecular level. In vitro, CRH (20 µM for 48 h or 5-20 µM for 96 h) inhibited SH-SY5Y cell proliferation, upregulated CRH receptor 1(CRHR1), PLCβ1, VDAC1, and increased mitochondrial calcium; these effects were reversed by the CRHR1 antagonist CP376395 or PLCβ1 knockdown. Furthermore, the MCU inhibitor DS16570511 partially reversed CRH‑induced mitochondrial calcium elevation and proliferation inhibition, suggesting that mitochondrial calcium overload contributes to the proliferation inhibition. Collectively, these results suggest that prenatal fear stress may, via the CRF-CRFR1 axis, influence the PLCβ1-IP3R-VDAC1 pathway, inducing MAM remodeling and mitochondrial calcium overload, thereby contributing to offspring hippocampal neuronal damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
Preclinical data suggests a potential role for OX40 agonists in cancer treatment, though clinical trials have yielded modest results.We assessed OX40 and other immune checkpoint RNA expression in advanced solid malignancies and their clinical outcomes.We conducted a retrospective cohort study analyzing tissue samples from 514 cancer patients.Immune marker transcripts were evaluated using a clinical-grade laboratory test. OX40 expression was normalized, and percentiles ranked as "moderate/low" (0-74) or "high" (75-100).High OX40 expression was found in 24% of tumors, primarily in esophageal, liver/bile duct, stomach, small intestine, and lung cancers. High OX40 was associated with increased expression of programmed death-1, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4, and forkhead box P3 but did not predict overall survival in immunotherapy-naïve patients or outcomes post-immunotherapy.OX40 expression is heterogeneous and strongly associated with immunosuppressive checkpoints, potentially suggesting that effective use of OX40 agonists may depend on patient selection based on tumor immunomics.© The Author(s), 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450051 is a review article
Leprosy remains a significant public health challenge in endemic regions, particularly among vulnerable populations. Immune dysregulation and community health factors, including environmental conditions and socio-economic status, may play a crucial role in the transmission and progression of the disease. This study aims to estimate the magnitude of the effects of immune dysregulation and community health status on the occurrence of leprosy among mothers and children in endemic areas.A cross-sectional study was conducted. This study collected patient data from mothers and children with leprosy in endemic regions and non-leprosy subjects in endemic and non-endemic areas. This involved assessing immune dysregulation, focusing on T helper 1 (Th1; interferon-γ [IFN-γ]), T helper 2 (Th2; interleukin-4 [IL-4]), regulatory T cells (Treg; forkhead box P3 [FoxP3+]), and T helper 17 (Th17; interleukin-17 [IL-17]) markers. Because immune parameters were available only in a sub-sample, these variables were incorporated into the structural equation modelling as exploratory immune constructs. Community health status was evaluated through maternal nutrition, household environment, family education, economic status, household smoking habits, village endemicity, presence of Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) scars in children, access to healthcare, and perinatal risk factors. The results were analysed using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows (version 26.0, IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA), and SmartPLS 4 (SmartPLS GmbH, Bönningstedt, Germany).One hundred six subjects were included in this study. Path analysis revealed significant effects within the studied factors. The health environment had a significant negative impact on village endemicity (β=-0.294; P<0.001). Leprosy in the family was significantly influenced by health environment (β=0.146; P<0.001), family education (β=-0.289; P<0.001), family economic status (β=-0.237; P<0.001), smoking in the family (β=0.191; P<0.001), access to health facilities (β=-0.051; P<0.001), and village endemicity (β=0.305; P<0.001). Mother immunity was significantly influenced by village endemicity (β=0.138; P<0.001), leprosy in the family (β=-0.554; P<0.001), maternal nutritional status (β=0.191; P<0.001), and maternal BCG scar (β=-0.149; P<0.001), which was noteworthy but should be interpreted cautiously. Child immunity was significantly affected by village endemicity (β=-0.148; P<0.001), leprosy in the family (β=-0.280; P<0.001), mother immunity (β=-0.156; P<0.001), child BCG scar (β=-0.021; P<0.001), perinatal risk (β=0.067; P<0.001), and mother leprosy (β=0.429; P<0.001). Maternal leprosy was significantly influenced by maternal immunity (β=-0.208; P<0.001). Finally, Child leprosy was significantly affected by mother immunity (β=0.441; P<0.001), child immunity (β=-0.374; P<0.001), and mother leprosy (β=-0.165; P<0.001).This study highlights the intricate interplay between immune dysregulation and community health factors in the occurrence of leprosy. These findings underscore the need for targeted interventions to address these factors and reduce leprosy prevalence.© 2026 by The Korean Society of Infectious Diseases, Korean Society for Antimicrobial Therapy, The Korean Society for AIDS, and Korean Society of Pediatric Infectious Diseases.
Based on the Janus kinase 2(JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) signaling pathway, this study investigated the effects of Zhuyu Pills on the immune balance of helper T cell(Th) 1/Th2 and Th17/regulatory T cell(Treg) populations in a mouse model of acne. The acne model was established by applying oleic acid to the right auricle combined with subcutaneous injection of Propionibacterium acnes, resulting in auricle lesions of 1 cm~2 over a 14-day modeling period. Fifty successfully modeled ICR mice were randomly assigned to five groups: model, low-, medium-, and high-dose Zhuyu Pills, and isotretinoin(n=10 per group). An additional 10 age-matched healthy ICR mice were included as a control group without modeling. The control and model groups received equal volumes of sterile distilled water via gavage, while the low-, medium-, and high-dose Zhuyu Pills groups received Zhuyu Pills at 130.54, 261.08, and 522.16 mg·kg~(-1), respectively. The isotretinoin group received isotretinoin at 4.55 mg·kg~(-1), once daily. All treatments were administered for four weeks. After administration, auricle tissue pathology was evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin(HE) staining. Serum levels of interleukin(IL)-17, interferon-γ(IFN-γ), IL-10, transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β), IL-12, IL-22, IL-4, and IL-5 were measured by ELISA. Protein expression of p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 in auricle tissue was assessed by Western blot. Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg cell populations in the spleen were analyzed by flow cytometry. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect T-box expressed in T cell(T-bet) and GATA binding protein 3(GATA3) expression, and immunofluorescence was used to detect retineic-acid-receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor gamma(RORγt) and forkhead box P3(Foxp3) expression in auricle tissue. Western blot and real-time PCR were used to measure protein and mRNA levels of T-bet, GATA3, RORγt, and Foxp3. Compared with the control group, the model group exhibited significantly thickened auricle epidermis and extensive inflammatory cell infiltration(P&lt;0.01); increased serum IL-17, IFN-γ, IL-12, and IL-22(P&lt;0.01); decreased TGF-β, IL-10, IL-4, and IL-5(P&lt;0.01); elevated p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.01); increased Th1 and Th17(P&lt;0.01) and decreased Th2 and Treg cell populations in the spleen(P&lt;0.01); and upregulated protein and mRNA levels of T-bet and RORγt(P&lt;0.01) but downregulated GATA3 and Foxp3 protein and mRNA levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.01). Compared with the model group, all Zhuyu Pills groups and the isotretinoin group showed reduced epidermal thickness and inflammatory infiltration(P&lt;0.01); decreased serum IL-17, IFN-γ, IL-12, and IL-22(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01) and increased TGF-β, IL-10, IL-4, and IL-5(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01); lower p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.01); decreased Th1 and Th17(P&lt;0.01) and increased Th2 and Treg cell populations in the spleen(P&lt;0.01); and decreased protein and mRNA levels of T-bet and RORγt(P&lt;0.01) but increased GATA3 and Foxp3 protein and mRNA levels in auricle tissue(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, Zhuyu Pills may regulate inflammatory cytokines through the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway, restore Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg polarization balance, maintain immune cell homeostasis, and thereby exert therapeutic effects on inflammatory skin lesions in acne.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42389517 is a review article
Efficient purification of recombinant proteins is essential for both fundamental biochemical research as well as industrial biotechnology applications. The use of affinity tags has emerged as one of the most powerful and widely adopted method for protein purification. This paper contains recent advancements of design and functions of different affinity tags namely, polyhistidine (His-tag), glutathione S-transferase (GST), small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) tag, maltose-binding protein (MBP), calmodulin-binding protein (CBP), intein-chitin-binding domain tag, N-utilization substance A tag, Halo Tag®, PDZ domain-based tags, thioredoxin tag, polyarginine (Arg-tag) and polyaspartate (Asp-tag) tags, and heparin-binding tag used in recombinant protein purification in bacteria. In addition, we discuss the merits and demerits of each affinity tag.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
A new series of cyclohexyl-quinoxaline-7-carboxylate-1,4-di-N-oxide derivatives was synthesized and evaluated in vitro against the trypanosomatids Trypanosoma cruzi and Leishmania mexicana, and the amitochondriates Giardia lamblia, Trichomonas vaginalis, and Entamoeba histolytica. The potential mechanism of action was investigated through molecular docking on T. cruzi and L. mexicana trypanothione reductase (TcTR and LmTR, respectively), and on T. cruzi, G. lamblia, and T. vaginalis triosephosphate isomerase (TcTIM, GlTIM, and TvTIM, respectively), and E. histolytica thioredoxin reductase (EhTrxR). Enzyme inhibition assays were performed on recombinant TcTR, TcTIM, GlTIM, and EhTrxR. Compounds 6, 7, and 10 exhibited the best trypanocidal activity against T. cruzi trypomastigotes (IC50 = 1.9, 8.6, and 0.8 µM, respectively), while compound 4 was the most active derivative against T. cruzi intracellular amastigotes (IC50 = 72.96 µM). Compounds 6, 10, 14, and 15 exhibited uncompetitive inhibition on TcTR (Ki = 26, 50, 30, and 146 µM, respectively). Compounds 7 (IC50 = 4.99 µM) and 14 (IC50 = 65.32 µM) were the most leishmanicidal agents against QEPS and M379 L. mexicana strains, respectively; additionally, 7 was the most selective (SI = 34.37). On the other hand, compounds 8 and 14 had the best giardicidal, trichomonacidal, and amoebicidal activity (IC50 < 0.20 µM); additionally, compound 13 had a potent trichomonacidal and amoebicidal activity (IC50 = 0.12 and 0.18 µM, respectively), while compounds 8 and 14 were the most selective (SI > 800). Finally, compounds 7 and 14 exhibited broad-spectrum activity, as they showed noteworthy activity against trypanosomatids and amitochondriate organisms. These results encourage the development of more potent and selective antiparasitic agents using the quinoxaline 1,4-di-N-oxide scaffold.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Radiation-resistant microorganisms that survive high doses of ionising radiation serve as valuable models for understanding stress adaptation; however, the genomic determinants underlying extreme radiation tolerance in bacteria from natural environments with high background radiation remain insufficiently characterised. Bacterial isolates from the Chavara-Neendakara HBRA (Kerala, India) were evaluated for desiccation tolerance, and the desiccation-resistant isolates were subsequently exposed to gamma irradiation (1-10 kGy) using a 60Co source. Isolates were identified through 16S rRNA sequencing, morphologically characterised by FE-SEM, and screened for antibiotic susceptibility. The highly radiation-resistant strain underwent whole-genome sequencing via Oxford Nanopore Technology, with De novo assembly, polishing, and genome annotation. Four bacterial isolates (Micrococcaceae and Paenibacillaceae) exhibited D10 values of 1-7 kGy, including one multidrug-resistant strain; no endospores were observed in the Paenibacillus isolate under the tested conditions. Paenibacillus sp. HBRA004 survived 10 kGy gamma radiation, exceeding all previously reported HBRA isolates by over fourfold. Its 5.0 Mbp genome (GC = 48.27%, ≥ 99% completeness) encodes five mechanistically independent DNA repair pathways; homologous recombination (recA, recN, radA), base excision repair (mutM, mutY, mutT), mismatch repair (mutL, mutS), nucleotide excision repair (uvrA, uvrB, uvrD), and non-homologous end joining (ku, ligD), alongside a redundant antioxidant network comprising triple-copy Fe/Mn-family superoxide dismutases and ahpC peroxiredoxin. A thioredoxin system (trxA, trxB, msrA) and manganese uptake via mntH may contribute to further layers of ROS defence. Their specific contribution to the HBRA004 phenotype remains to be experimentally and comparatively validated. These findings represent the first genomically characterised 10 kGy-resistant bacterial isolate from the Chavara-Neendakara HBRA, establishing a new benchmark for radiation tolerance within this ecologically significant environment. Pathway depth, gene copy amplification, and Mn/Fe homeostasis appear to be candidate mechanisms contributing to high-level radiation tolerance, consistent with patterns in other radiation-resistant taxa, though their contribution requires functional validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by profound resistance to therapy, driven in part by its capacity to adapt to oxidative, metabolic, and proteotoxic stress. In this study, we investigated how the redox-active selenium compound Se-methylselenocysteine (MSC), following metabolic activation by kynurenine aminotransferase 1 (KYAT1), reprograms stress-response pathways in PDAC cells. RNA sequencing across three PDAC cell lines revealed pronounced, phenotype-dependent transcriptional adaptations upon MSC exposure. CAPAN-2 cells predominantly activated an NRF2-centered antioxidant response accompanied by ferroptosis-associated gene signatures, whereas PANC-1 cells exhibited robust co-activation of NRF2 and ATF4, along with induction of unfolded protein response signaling and extensive redox and metabolic remodeling. MSC treatment suppressed TXNIP, a negative regulator of the thioredoxin system, while inducing canonical NRF2 target genes including TXNRD1, NQO1, G6PD, SLC7A11, and GLRX. In MSC-responsive models, pathways linked to iron metabolism and ferroptosis-associated processes were significantly altered, accompanied by changes in iron-handling proteins and lipid peroxidation defenses. Functional assays further demonstrated increased lipid peroxidation and partial rescue of cytotoxicity by ferrostatin-1 and the iron chelator deferoxamine, supporting the involvement of iron-dependent oxidative stress mechanisms. In contrast, HPAF-II cells, characterized by low KYAT1 expression, showed minimal transcriptional engagement and intrinsic resistance to MSC. Collectively, these findings identify KYAT1-dependent metabolic activation and convergence of NRF2-ATF4 stress pathways as key determinants of MSC responsiveness, revealing phenotype-dependent remodeling of redox and ferroptosis-associated networks in PDAC. This work provides a mechanistic framework for exploiting redox vulnerabilities and supports the continued development of selenium-based therapeutic strategies in pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
West Nile virus (WNV)-associated neurological diseases pose a global public health burden, yet no approved antiviral treatments are available. This is primarily due to the challenges of crossing the blood-brain barrier and the lengthy, costly process of drug development.High-throughput screening of a blood-brain barrier-penetrating FDA-approved compound library was performed to identify anti-WNV candidates in a neuronal cell infection model. Antiviral efficacy was further evaluated across different target cells and a range of flaviviruses, as well as in a mouse model of central nervous system (CNS) WNV infection. Stage-of-action analysis and mechanistic studies were conducted.Miconazole emerged as a promising candidate with significant antiviral efficacy against multiple flaviviruses in different cell types. In the CNS infection mouse model, miconazole treatment reduced viral load in brain tissue and improved survival rates. The compound primarily inhibited viral replication, without affecting binding, internalization, or membrane fusion. Mechanistic studies suggested that this antiviral effect may be mediated through the downregulation of host protein thioredoxin-like 1 (TXNL1).Our findings highlight miconazole as a promising candidate for repurposing in anti-flavivirus therapy and identify TXNL1 as a potential host target for the development of broad-spectrum antivirals.Copyright © 2026 Xia, Luo, He, Peng, Zheng, Qian, Ding, Zhao, Liu and Qi.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552658 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547642 is a review article
Leishmania panamensis, a protozoan parasite of the Viannia subgenus, causes American tegumentary leishmaniasis (ATL) throughout Central and South America, with clinical manifestations ranging from cutaneous lesions to mucosal involvement. Despite the availability of a reference genome for L. panamensis MHOM/COL/81/L13 strain, comprising 30.69 megabases across 35 chromosomes and 8665 predicted protein-coding genes, comprehensive proteogenomic analyses to refine these annotations have remained limited. This study utilised a proteogenomic approach to enhance the genome annotation of the L. panamensis MHOM/COL/81/L13 strain by integrating publicly available liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry data with a custom six-frame translated genome database. Through systematic peptide mapping and validation, we identified 50 novel protein-coding genes previously absent from the reference annotation and corrected 50 existing genes. The newly identified genes encode proteins containing functional domains, including thioredoxin, glucosyltransferases, and myotubularin, which likely contribute to parasite metabolism, host-pathogen interactions, and intracellular survival mechanisms. These findings substantially refine the genomic resource available for L. panamensis research and provide potential targets for diagnostic and therapeutic development. Future studies will incorporate orthogonal validation methods such as RNA-seq and Ribosome profiling to distinguish between functional genes and translational noise. The refined annotation enables more accurate functional genomic studies and enhances our understanding of the molecular basis underlying L. panamensis pathogenicity and immune evasion strategies. Moreover, the peptide-supported novel and corrected protein-coding genes identified in this study represent a valuable resource for the future exploration of candidate biomarkers and may provide the molecular targets for improved diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic intervention in American tegumentary leishmaniasis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Despite hyposmia being a dominant non-motor manifestation of Parkinson's disease (PD), its underlying driving mechanisms are poorly defined. The redox protein Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) offers neuroprotection against various insults; however, its potential involvement in the neural proliferation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and neural differentiation in the olfactory bulb (OB) related to MPTP-induced olfactory dysfunction have not been previously established. Our research demonstrates that when Trx-1 is downregulated in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), MPTP-triggered olfactory deficits are significantly intensified. A key anatomical discovery in our study is the existence of projections from the SNpc to the SVZ. We established that the MPTP-driven death of SNpc dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons correlates with decreased dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) levels in the SVZ, an effect that is magnified by the loss of Trx-1. Alongside D1R reductions, MPTP suppressed a cascade of SVZ signaling molecules (phosphorylated PKA, Wnt3a, β-catenin, Pax6, cyclin D1, and CDK4), with Trx-1 deficiency causing even steeper declines. Furthermore, Trx-1 knockdown hindered the generation of immature neurons and disrupted DAergic neuronal differentiation within the OB. Collectively, our findings suggest that reduced Trx-1 expression in the SNpc may contribute to PD-related olfactory deficits, potentially via inhibiting SVZ neural proliferation, decreasing immature and mature neuron populations, and disrupted differentiation of OB immature neurons. By accelerating MPTP-triggered degeneration of DAergic neurons in the SNpc, Trx-1 downregulation reduces the SVZ of DAergic input. This disruption impairs D1R-mediated the neural proliferation in the SVZ, as well as the maturation and differentiation of immature neurons in OB, ultimately driving the progression of olfactory dysfunction in a PD mouse model.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Overactivation of thioredoxin reductase 1 (TrxR1) is implicated in tumor development. This study aims to elucidate the efficacy and mechanisms by which neferine (Nef) exerts its anti-tumor effects in pancreatic cancer through targeting TrxR1. The results demonstrate that Nef directly binds to and inhibits the enzymatic activity of TrxR1, leading to an abnormal accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mitochondria. This accumulation subsequently results in a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, DNA damage, and the activation of apoptotic pathways, characterized by changes in the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and a cascade reaction involving caspases. Reversal experiments indicated that the ROS scavenger NAC significantly counteracted the inhibitory effects of Nef on pancreatic cancer cell proliferation and its induction of apoptosis. Genetic experiments confirmed that the knockdown of TrxR1 enhances the anti-pancreatic cancer effects of Nef. Furthermore, a nude mouse xenograft tumor model validated the in vivo efficacy of Nef in suppressing tumor growth via TrxR1 inhibition. Bioinformatic analysis suggested that elevated TrxR1 expression is associated with a poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer. Collectively, our results confirm that Nef is a novel inhibitor of TrxR1 and provide experimental evidence for a therapeutic strategy targeting TrxR1.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential micronutrient involved in carbohydrate metabolism and mitochondrial function. Allithiamine, a lipid-soluble thiamine derivative, has been proposed to exhibit thiamine bioactivity.Here, we conducted complementary studies in Drosophila melanogaster and laboratory mice to compare the bioavailability and bioactivity of thiamine and allithiamine. First Drosophila was established as a whole-organism model to assess thiamine activity. Flies were reared on a chemically defined, thiamine-free medium supplemented with thiamine, allithiamine or benfotiamine as a lipophilic reference compound. Developmental progression was monitored from egg to adult. In a subsequent mouse experiment, growing thiamine-deficient mice were supplemented with either thiamine or allithiamine up to 7 days. Thiamine status was determined by HPLC-based quantification of whole blood thiamine levels, in parallel with assessments of metabolic and enzymatic parameters.In flies, thiamine deficiency caused developmental arrest at the first-instar larval stage, whereas supplementation with thiamine or allithiamine fully restored normal development. Notably, HPLC analysis revealed slightly higher tissue thiamine levels following allithiamine supplementation. In thiamine-depleted mice, supplementation with either thiamine or allithiamine resulted in similarly elevated whole blood thiamine levels and increased phosphorylated pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 subunit alpha (pPDHA1) to total PDHA1 ratios. Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) related protein levels remained largely unchanged, except for moderate increases in ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha (ATP5A). Likewise, only minor effects on mRNA levels of thiamine-related genes were observed following supplementation with either vitamer.Together, these findings provide the first direct in vivo comparison of thiamine and allithiamine across two complementary animal models. Thiamine and allithiamine exhibited comparable bioavailability and biological activity under controlled experimental conditions, while revealing subtle differences in early metabolic regulation. These results establish allithiamine as a biologically active thiamine vitamer in vivo. They further highlight post-translational regulation as a key mechanism governing metabolic adaptation to thiamine repletion with implications for nutrition research and the evaluation of thiamine vitamers in dietary strategies.Copyright © 2026 Nevermann, Weiß, Fischer, Lüersen, Chikamoto, Nakata, Ishida, Furune, Terao and Rimbach.
Based on the magnetic bead &quot;fishing&quot; technology, this study explored the direct targets of the active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules in preventing and treating myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury. Three active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules, namely dehydrocorydaline, salvianolic acid B, and ginsenoside Rg_1, were selected based on previous work. Firstly, three complexes of magnetic bead-single active ingredient of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules were synthesized. Then, they were incubated with the protein solutions of SD rat heart tissue, mouse myocardial microvascular endothelial cells, and rat H9c2 cardiomyocytes separately to form magnetic bead-active ingredient-target protein complexes. The target proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis(SDS-PAGE), and then in-gel digestion was performed. The proteins were identified by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Potential target proteins were screened by bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking. A rat model of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury was established, and the biological function was verified preliminarily through Western blot experiments. The results showed that three complexes of magnetic bead-TCM monomer were successfully prepared, and the potential direct targets of the three active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules were obtained through the &quot;fishing&quot; method. Through mass spectrometry identification and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, it was found that most of the target proteins were involved in metabolic pathways related to glucose, fatty acids, amino acids, and energy. After Venn analysis and molecular docking, proteins such as electron transfer flavoprotein subunit alpha(ETFA), pyruvate kinase M1/M2(PKM), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase medium chain(ACADM), ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha(ATP5F1A), isocitrate dehydrogenase(NADP~+) 2(IDH2), and aspartyl-tRNA synthetase(DARS) were finally screened out. Through the rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury model, it was found that Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules significantly up-regulated the expression of ATP energy production-related proteins such as ATP5F1A, ETFA, 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1(OXCT1), and succinate-CoA ligase GDP-forming subunit beta(SUCLG2). This suggested that restoring mitochondrial energy supply was an important aspect for Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules to exert myocardial protective effects. In conclusion, ATP5F1A, ETFA, OXCT1, SUCLG2, etc. may be the direct targets of the active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules in preventing and treating myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Objective To investigate the early transcriptomic characteristics of neutrophils and monocytes stimulated by the major surface protein 2 (MSP2) of anaplasma phagocytophilum(AP), to preliminarily explore their functional differences and potential common pro-inflammatory mechanisms of these two cell types in the inflammatory response, and to provide a theoretical basis for understanding the inflammatory pathogenesis of Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) and for developing anti-inflammatory strategies. Methods HL60 cells (rHL60) differentiated with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 8 days were used as a neutrophil-like cell model, and human acute monocytic leukemia (THP-1) cells were used as a monocyte model. Both cells were stimulated with recombinant MSP2 (rMSP2) for 2 hours. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and their biological functions and related signaling pathways were analyzed via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. The mRNA expression levels of key DEGs were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the concentrations of cytokines in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Results Transcriptome analysis showed that in rHL60 cells, DEGs were mainly enriched in inflammation. qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), while CD1D molecule and C-X-C motif chemokine receptors 1/2 (CXCR1/2) were down-regulated. In THP-1 cells, DEGs were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation. qPCR validated the up-regulation of nuclear factor kappa B inhibitor zeta (NFKBIZ) and nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), whereas thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and interleukin-16 (IL-16) were down-regulated. ELISA results demonstrated that both cell types significantly secreted C-C motif chemokine ligands 3/4/20 (CCL3/4/20) following MSP2 stimulation. Conclusion In the early phase of MSP2 stimulation, neutrophils serve as the primary cells initiating the inflammatory response, whereas monocytes focus on immune regulation. The co-secretion of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL20 may represent a potential molecular mechanism by which these two innate immune cell types jointly promote inflammatory responses during AP infection.
To evaluate the clinical prognostic value of the core circadian transcription factor brain and muscle ARNT-like 1 (BMAL1) in sepsis-induced acute lung injury (SI-ALI) and explore its mechanistic role in orchestrating organellar homeostasis and macrophage resilience.Prospective clinical cohort study and randomized blinded preclinical laboratory investigation.ICU and research laboratory of Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University.Thirty patients with SI-ALI and 12 healthy controls; adult male C57BL/6 mice and mouse alveolar macrophage cell line (MH-S) alveolar macrophages.Clinical monitoring of BMAL1, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) genes, and hormones. Murine cecal ligation and puncture models, lipopolysaccharide treated MH-S cell treated with nobiletin, small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of BMAL1, and pharmacological modulators of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-phagy.Patients with SI-ALI exhibited profound circadian arrhythmia with significantly reduced expression of BMAL1 and CLOCK. BMAL1 levels were significantly lower in nonsurvivors and served as a robust predictor of 28-day mortality (area under the curve = 0.8177), showing a significant negative correlation with Sequential Organ Failure Assessment scores. In preclinical models, pharmacological activation of BMAL1 via nobiletin significantly mitigated lung histopathological damage, improved 5-day survival, and enhanced macrophage phagocytic and bactericidal activity. Mechanistically, BMAL1 deficiency impaired family with sequence similarity 134, member B-mediated ER-phagy, leading to inositol-requiring enzyme 1 increased and NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit V1, ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha, and seahorse-derived respiration/adenosine triphosphate production decreased. Nobiletin rescued these organellar defects in a BMAL1-dependent manner.BMAL1 is a master regulator of cellular homeostasis in SI-ALI. It protects against lung injury by orchestrating a coordinated response between ER-phagy and mitochondrial metabolism. BMAL1 represents a clinically valuable prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target for SI-ALI.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the Society of Critical Care Medicine and Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinoma (ICC) has poor prognosis, especially with lymph node (LN) metastasis (LNM). Lysine methyltransferase SET and MYND domain-containing 2 (SMYD2) has critical roles and is reportedly associated with poor prognosis in various cancers, but the role of SMYD2 in ICC is unclear. Here, we examined the role of SMYD2 in the progression of LNM of ICC. We immunohistochemically analyzed SMYD2 expression using resected specimens first in primary ICC and then in metastatic LNs derived from ICC. For functional analyses, we then performed cell proliferation assay following SMYD2 inhibition using two ICC cell lines such as HuCCT-1 and HuH28. To explore the detailed mechanisms of LNM, immunocytochemistry and western blotting related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were first performed. Moreover, we performed clinically immunohistochemical staining of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) in metastatic LNs, immunofluorescence staining and western blotting for functional analyses to evaluate the relationship between SMYD2 and CCR7. Finally, p65 of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and phospho-p65 (Ser536) status were checked as the regulator of CCR7. Protein expression levels of SMYD2 in the primary ICC lesion were not associated with any clinicopathological characteristics or prognosis. However, SMYD2 was expressed in metastatic LNs of all cases and LNM was strongly associated with poor disease-free and overall survival also as previously reported. This study therefore aimed to clarify the molecular-biological roles for LNM by SMYD2. SMYD2 knockdown significantly inhibited ICC cell proliferation. According to subsequent EMT-related research, SMYD2 knockdown did not induce morphological changes or cadherin switching. Next, chemotaxis assay revealed that SMYD2 knockdown reduced chemotaxis in HuCCT-1 from metastatic ascites but not in HuH28 from the primary lesion. CCR7 expression in metastatic LNs was immunologically confirmed in all cases and had a positive correlation with SMYD2 expression. Decreased expression of CCR7 was observed in SMYD2-suppressed HuCCT-1 cells by immunofluorescence staining and western blotting simultaneously with the decreasing phosphorylation of p65S536. SMYD2 could be demonstrated to express in all metastatic LNs derived from ICC and may regulate this metastatic mechanism through CCR7-dependent chemotaxis rather than EMT via the SMYD2-phospho-p65S536-CCR7 pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Previous studies have shown that SIGMAR1/Sigma-1 receptor (sigma non-opioid intracellular receptor 1) provides protective effects against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute lung injury (ALI), however the underlying mechanism remains unclear. A recent study highlighted SIGMAR1's protective role against ferroptosis but did not fully elucidate the mechanism involved. Endothelial ferroptosis, which significantly affects microvascular permeability, has garnered increasing attention in research. In this context, we aimed to investigate how SIGMAR1 mitigates endothelial ferroptosis in ALI induced by LPS. PRE-084 (SIGMAR1 activator) inhibited endothelial ferroptosis and microvascular hyperpermeability in ALI induced by LPS; however, this effect was blocked by mitophagy inhibition. Knockout of sigmar1 worsened microvascular hyperpermeability and endothelial ferroptosis, but these effects were mitigated by activating SIRT3 (sirtuin 3). Conversely, inhibiting SIRT3 blocked the upregulation of SIGMAR1-mediated mitophagy and limited endothelial ferroptosis in ALI induced by LPS. In addition, LPS exposure led to the acetylation of lysine 498 in ATP5F1A/ATP5A1 (ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha). Importantly, downregulating ATP5F1A acetylation prevented the SIRT3 inhibition from blocking the effects of SIGMAR1 in facilitating mitophagy and preventing ferroptosis. Interestingly, downregulating ATP5F1A acetylation or activation of SIRT3 did not alter the effects of PRE-084 on ALI when mitophagy was inhibited, suggesting that SIGMAR1's ALI protective effects involve ATP5F1A- or SIRT3-dependent mitophagy. In conclusion, our findings indicate that SIGMAR1 alleviates endothelial ferroptosis and microvascular hyperpermeability in LPS-induced ALI through SIRT3-mediated mitophagy. Furthermore, the deacetylation of ATP5F1A at lysine 498 by SIRT3 is essential for SIGMAR1-mediated PRKN/parkin-dependent mitophagy.Abbreviations: ALI, acute lung injury; ARDS, acute respiratory distress syndrome; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; ATP5F1A, ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; BCA, bicinchoninic acid; EB, Evans blue dye; ECM, endothelial cell medium; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FITC, fluorescein isothiocyanate; Fer-1, ferrostatin-1; GAPDH, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP-LC3, green fluorescent protein-microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha; GPX4, glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH, glutathione; GSSG, glutathione disulfide; KO, knockout; LPS, lipopolysaccharide; LRRK2, leucine rich repeat kinase 2; MDA, malondialdehyde; MPMVECs, mouse pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells; MTT, 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PECAM1/CD31, platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PRKN, parkin RBR E3 uniquitin protein ligase; ROS, reactive oxygen species; RSL3, RAS-selective lethal 3; SDS-PAGE, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SIGMAR1, sigma non-opioid intracellular receptor 1; SIRT3, sirtuin 3; siRNA, small interfering RNA; TUNEL, terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine 5-triphosphate-digoxigenin nick end labeling; VHP, vascular hyperpermeability; W:D, wet:dry; WT, wild type.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism and a high propensity for developing resistance to targeted therapies. Mitophagy is a key process involved in the progression of various cancers, including RCC. Here, using in vivo genome-wide CRISPR screening, we identified PRKAB2 as a crucial tumor suppressor in RCC. Reduced PRKAB2 expression correlated with poor prognosis and aggressive clinical features, whereas overexpression of PRKAB2 markedly inhibited RCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, tumor growth, and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, PRKAB2 overexpression inhibited mitophagy primarily through two distinct mechanisms. First, PRKAB2 enhanced the binding between LRPPRC and PRKN/parkin, competitively reducing PRKN's interaction with PINK1 and thus suppressing ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy. Second, PRKAB2 promoted AMPK phosphorylation, which in turn suppressed SREBF1/SREBP1-mediated transcriptional activation of CRLS1, leading to decreased CRLS1 expression and reduced synthesis of cardiolipin, a lipid essential for mitophagy. Importantly, PRKAB2 overexpression significantly restored sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in sunitinib-resistant RCC cells. Conversely, forced PRKN expression promoted resistance to these drugs, further implicating mitophagy as a key mechanism underlying TKI resistance. Depmap analysis confirmed the association between increased mitophagy and TKI resistance. Overall, our findings identify PRKAB2 as a critical tumor suppressor in RCC, regulating both protein-protein interactions and lipid metabolism to suppress mitophagy. Targeting PRKAB2-associated pathways may provide a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance treatment efficacy and overcome drug resistance in RCC.Abbreviations: ACACA/ACC1: acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATCC: American Type Culture Collection; ATP5F1A: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BRCA1: BRCA1 DNA repair associated; Cas: CRISPR-associated; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; ccRCC: clear cell renal cell carcinoma; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CRLS1: cardiolipin synthase 1; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; DOX: doxorubicin; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; HSPA8: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; HSPD1: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; GO: gene ontology; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; LDLR: low density lipoprotein receptor; m-SREBF1: mature sterol regulatory element binding transcriptional factor 1; LRPPRC: leucine rich pentatricopeptide repeat containing; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MFN1, mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OS: overall survival; PA: phosphatidic acid; PG: phosphatidylglycerol; PGS1: phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthase 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1/AMPKα1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKAA2/AMPKα2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; PRKAB1/AMPKβ1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit beta 1; PRKAB2/AMPKβ2: protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit beta 2; PRKAG1/AMPKγ1: protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit gamma 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RCC: renal cell carcinoma; SASA: solvent-accessible surface areas; SUCLG1: succinate-CoA ligase GDP/ADP-forming subunit alpha; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TKI: tyrosine kinase inhibitors; UCP1: uncoupling protein 1; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WCL: whole-cell lysate.
The rapid and sustained proliferation of cancer cells necessitates increased protein production, which, along with their disrupted metabolism, elevates the likelihood of translation errors. Ribosome-associated quality control (RQC), a recently identified mechanism, mitigates ribosome collisions resulting from frequent translation stalls. However, the precise pathophysiological role of the RQC pathway in oncogenesis remains ambiguous. Our research centered on the pathogenic implications of mitochondrial stress-induced protein carboxyl-terminal alanine and threonine tailing (msiCAT-tailing), a specific RQC response to translational arrest on the outer mitochondrial membrane, in human glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). The presence of msiCAT-tailed mitochondrial proteins was observed commonly in glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs). The exogenous introduction of the mitochondrial ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha (ATP5α) protein, accompanied by artificial CAT-tail mimicking sequences, enhanced mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) and inhibited the formation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MPTP). These alterations in mitochondrial characteristics provided resistance to staurosporine (STS)-induced apoptosis in GBM cells. Consequently, msiCAT-tailing can foster cell survival and migration, whereas blocking msiCAT-tailing via genetic or pharmacological intervention can impede GBM cell overgrowth.© 2024, Zhang, Cai et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41580100 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553762 is a review article
The Cavβ4 subunit of voltage-gated Cav1.2 channels regulates gene expression in neurons and cardiac cells. It increases the expression of interferon-β-related genes in H9c2 cardiomyocytes derived from rat ventricular tissue, but the possibility that it also regulates the expression of microRNAs (miRs) remains unexplored. Furthermore, its role in cardiac hypertrophy is unknown. Although the mechanisms underlying cardiac hypertrophy have been studied extensively, the antihypertrophic response is poorly understood. We conducted quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunofluorescence experiments with H9c2 cardiomyocytes to examine the effects of Cavβ4 overexpression on isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy; the protein abundance of the transcription factors nuclear receptor 4A2 (NR4A2) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), which counter agonist-induced hypertrophic growth; and the expression of miR-183-5p, which targets NR4A2 and FOXO1 mRNAs. We found that the Cavβ4 subunit prevented the development of H9c2 cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, down-regulating miR-183-5p expression and increasing the protein abundance of NR4A2 and FOXO1. We also observed a transient decrease in Cavβ4 mRNA expression in rat ventricles at 6 h after isoproterenol injection. These results suggest that the Cavβ4 subunit plays a channel-independent role in the antihypertrophic response in cardiac muscle cells.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Persistent injury and impaired regeneration of the alveolar epithelium are key contributors to the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. In idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), type 2 alveolar epithelial (AT2) cells fail to fully differentiate into type 1 alveolar epithelial (AT1) cells, remaining instead in a transitional state. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors are promising therapeutic agents for pulmonary fibrosis. Therefore, this study investigated whether MPT0E028, a pan-HDAC inhibitor, ameliorated bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis in a therapeutic model of mice by promoting AT2-to-AT1 cell differentiation.The effects of MPT0E028 on pulmonary fibrosis were assessed by evaluating the expression of fibrogenic proteins and cell markers of AT1 (T1α and aquaporin 5 [AQP5]), AT2 (surfactant protein C [SPC]) and alveolar epithelial transitional cells (Keratin 8 [KRT8]) in a therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. The role of the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM)/AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)/forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) signaling pathway in MPT0E028-induced T1α expression was examined in murine AT2 cells (MLE-12 cells).Administration of MPT0E028 significantly reduced fibrosis scores; suppressed the expression of connective tissue growth factor, collagen I, fibronectin, and α-smooth muscle actin; and improved lung function in the therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. MPT0E028 enhanced the expression of T1α and AQP5 but reduced the expression of SPC and KRT8 in lung tissues from BLM-treated mice. In MLE-12 cells and primary human AT2 cells, MPT0E028 upregulated T1α and AQP5 expression in a time-dependent manner, with this accompanied by a decrease in SPC expression. AS1842856, an FoxO1 inhibitor, and FoxO1 siRNA transfection inhibited MPT0E028-stimulated T1α expression, whereas transfection with FoxO3 siRNA had no effect. FoxO1 siRNA transfection also inhibited MPT0E028-stimulated T1α-luciferase activity. MPT0E028 induced FoxO1 serine phosphorylation, increased FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter, and enhanced FoxO1-luciferase activity. Compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, and AMPK siRNA transfection suppressed MPT0E028-stimulated T1α expression, and compound C also inhibited MPT0E028-promoted FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter. MPT0E028 induced AMPK phosphorylation in a time-dependent manner and increased ATM acetylation and phosphorylation in MLE-12 cells. ATM siRNA transfection suppressed MPT0E028-induced T1α expression, AMPK and FoxO1 serine phosphorylation, FoxO1 recruitment to the T1α promoter, and FoxO1-luciferase activity. MPT0E028 induced FoxO1 phosphorylation in AT2 cells in the therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.MPT0E028 is the first pan-HDAC inhibitor shown to activate ATM acetylation-mediated AMPK/FoxO1 signaling to induce AT2-to-AT1 differentiation in a therapeutic model of BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. Administration of MPT0E028 after BLM challenge effectively ameliorated pulmonary fibrosis by suppressing fibrogenic protein expression and promoting AT2-to-AT1 cell differentiation. These results suggest that MPT0E028 holds potential as a therapeutic agent for IPF treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
In recent years, the association between abnormal cholesterol metabolism and Parkinson's disease (PD) has attracted considerable attention, but the specific mechanism remains controversial. First, we used Mendelian Randomization (MR) analysis to clarify the relationship between cholesterol and PD. Subsequently, scRNA-seq and RNA-seq were used to identify the crucial role of astrocyte 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) in this process. Moreover, we verified its downstream target genes by RNA-seq, in vivo and in vitro experiments. The upstream transcriptional regulator of HMGCR was identified by database and validated by luciferase reporter and siRNA knockdown assays. The results of the MR analysis showed that low cholesterol levels may increase the risk of PD. This phenomenon was also observed in the PD mouse model. The scRNA-seq and RNA-seq results showed that astrocyte HMGCR played an important role in PD. Increasing astrocytic HMGCR alleviated cholesterol level and PD-related phenotypes. Mechanistically, astrocytic HMGCR-mediated cholesterol alleviated PD phenotypes by inhibiting Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NF-κB) neuroinflammation. Furthermore, knocking down Forkhead Box O1 (FOXO1) restored HMGCR expression and cholesterol levels, subsequently inhibiting NF-κB activation. Our research indicated that the cholesterol synthesis disorder in astrocytes driven by HMGCR can exacerbate the pathogenesis of PD by promoting neuroinflammation. Targeting HMGCR in astrocytes will be a potential therapeutic approach.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Identifying pathological markers to differentiate between high- and low-grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) remains an unmet clinical need. Recent studies suggest that the tumor microenvironment undergoes dynamic changes during PanIN progression. To establish objective pathological markers, this study investigated histological, immunohistochemical, and molecular alterations in PanIN-associated stroma across different grades.Fibroblastic cluster (FC) was defined and characterized using immunohistochemistry (IHC) for SMA, CD31, and CD34, and their frequency was assessed according to PanIN grade in 202 PanIN lesions and 58 normal ducts. To identify molecular differences among PanIN types, multiple gene expression analysis (MGEA) was performed for six normal ducts, and for three PanIN1, three PanIN2, and six PanIN3 lesions. IHC and fluorescent dual IHC for CD31 and CD36 were performed to quantify CD36-positive stromal vessels. RNA scope for PPAR and IHC for thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO-1) were performed to explore the molecular basis of CD36 downregulation.FCs were identified in 86.6% of PanIN3 stroma and were significantly more frequent than in lower-grade PanINs. MGEA revealed downregulation of CD36 in PanIN2-3 compared with PanIN1, and CD36-positive vessels were significantly fewer in higher-grade PanIN stroma. PPAR signals were present in low-grade but absent in high-grade PanIN stroma. TSP-1 expression paralleled CD36 expression. These findings suggest that the possible relationship between the repression of CD36 in the stromal vasculature of high-grade PanIN and reduced PPAR and TSP-1 signaling.Higher-grade PanINs harbor a unique stroma characterized by FC formation and an increased proportion of CD36-negative vessels.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Although Mettl3-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification has confirmed to regulate mammalian development, the precise mechanisms by which it controls myoblast differentiation and fusion remain unclear. Here, we found that Mettl3 expression and global m6A levels decreased during myogenic differentiation. Mettl3 knockdown inhibited myoblast proliferation, promoted myoblast differentiation and fusion, and reduced protein degradation in myotubes, whereas its overexpression had the opposite effects. High-throughput sequencing identified forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) as a potential target of Mettl3-mediated myogenesis. Mechanically, Mettl3-mediated methylation of FOXO1 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) promotes its translation in a Ythdf3-dependent manner, thereby suppressing the MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and activating the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Furthermore, FOXO1 knockdown alleviates the impaired myoblast differentiation and fusion induced by Mettl3 overexpression by upregulating the MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and suppressing the UPS. Collectively, these findings indicate that Mettl3 inhibits myoblast differentiation and fusion via the FOXO1-mediated MyoD1-Myomaker/Myomixer axis and UPS in an m6A-Ythdf3-dependent manner.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The mechanism of cholestatic liver injury (CLI) is unclear, and effective therapies are lacking. While peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) agonists show potential hepatoprotective effect and pyroptosis is implicated in hepatocellular damage, how PPARα activation mitigates lithocholic acid (LCA)-induced pyroptosis remains unknown.The hepatoprotective effect of PPARα agonists was evaluated in a mouse model of intrahepatic cholestasis induced by LCA. Liver injury was assessed via serum biochemistry, hematoxylin and eosin and TUNEL staining, and electron microscopy. Pyroptosis pathways were analyzed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and co-immunoprecipitation.Combined morphological, histopathological, and biochemical analyses confirmed that PPARα activation protects against CLI. Compared with LCA treatment alone, PPARα activation significantly attenuated the elevation of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), the increased TUNEL-positive cells, and the formation of hepatocyte membrane pores. Mechanistically, PPARα activation suppressed both NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis and apoptosis protease-activating factor-1 (APAF-1)/CASPASE-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPARα agonist pretreatment inhibited activation of the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) signaling pathways.PPARα protects against LCA-induced CLI by inhibiting both NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis associated with NF-κB and APAF-1/CASPASE-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis associated with the FOXO1 signaling pathway.© 2026 The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common pregnancy complication associated with adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. Although the prevalence of GDM is high, the molecular mechanisms involved in GDM-related placental dysfunction remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the roles of Forkhead box O1 (FoxO1) and fibroblast growth factor 12 (FGF12; a non-FGF receptor) in regulating trophoblast survival under GDM conditions.Placental tissue from women with GDM and matched non-GDM controls were collected to assess FGF12 expression. HTR8/SVneo trophoblast cells under high-glucose conditions were used to assess cellular functional assays, including proliferation, migration, and apoptosis, following FGF12 knockdown or overexpression.The level of FGF12 was significantly attenuated in placental tissues from GDM cases. Silencing FGF12 decreased trophoblast growth and migration, and increased apoptosis induced by high glucose, while FGF12 overexpression reversed these effects. Mechanistically, FoxO1 directly bound to the FGF12 promoter, downregulated its expression. In placental samples from GDM pregnancies, FoxO1 expression was negatively correlated with FGF12 levels. Furthermore, FoxO1 inhibited trophoblast proliferation and migration, while FGF12 overexpression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of FoxO1.These findings suggest that the FoxO1/FGF12 pathway may contribute to impaired trophoblast function in GDM. This study provides preliminary evidence for a regulatable molecular pathway involved in GDM-associated placental dysfunction; however, further validation in larger cohorts and physiologically relevant models is required before clinical applications can be applied.
Abnormal cardiac trabeculation often leads to congenital heart disease (CHD). TIE2-ANG1 signaling is a key regulator of endocardial growth during trabeculation. However, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Here, we demonstrate that loss of endocardial Tie2 via Nfatc1Cre resulted in increased nuclear localization of forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), reduced phosphorylation of AKT (the direct regulator of FOXO1) and reduced expression of several proliferation promoting genes in endocardial cells (EdCs). The cardiac defects seen in endocardial Tie2-deficient mouse hearts were phenocopied by forced activation of FOXO1 within the endocardium and partially rescued by loss of Foxo1. Conversely, excessive PI3K signaling (the direct regulator of phosphorylation of AKT) in EdCs caused cardiac hypotrabeculation. Further, we identify that endocardial loss of Tie2 resulted in impaired cleavage of versican, which was associated with enhanced expression of ADAMTS endogenous inhibitor TIMP3 in Tie2-cko EdCs. Thus, our results suggest that TIE2 signaling in the early embryonic endocardium promotes endocardial growth via sequestering FOXO1 within the cytoplasm and modulates cardiomyocyte proliferation via stimulating versican cleavage to orchestrate myocardial trabeculation, providing insights into the pathogenesis of CHD.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
This study aimed to investigate the effects and mechanism of Sparassis latifolia polysaccharides (SLPs) on hepatic glucose metabolism disorders induced by a high-fat diet combined with streptozotocin (STZ) in mice. A mouse model of hepatic glucose metabolism disorder was established and treated with different doses of SLPs (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg) via gavage for 8 weeks, alongside control, model, and positive control groups (metformin hydrochloride). The effects of SLPs were systematically evaluated through pyruvate tolerance tests (PTT), hepatic glycogen content measurement, liver histomorphological analysis (HE and oil red O staining), transcriptomics, and validation of key signaling pathways using RT-qPCR and Western blot. The results showed that, compared to the model group, medium and high doses of SLPs significantly reduced area under the curve (AUC) of PTT, increased hepatic glycogen content, and ameliorated liver histopathological damage and lipid accumulation in the liver. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that SLPs intervention significantly modulated differentially expressed genes related to glucose and lipid metabolism, which were enriched in signaling pathways such as phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT)/forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) signaling pathway. Further validation demonstrated that SLPs up-regulated mRNA expression levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), protein kinase B2 (AKT2), and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1) in the liver of mice with glucose metabolism disorders, and down-regulated the mRNA expression levels of FOXO1 and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1). Additionally, SLPs up-regulated p-FOXO1 protein expression level and down-regulated phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) protein expression level. These results suggest that SLPs can effectively improve hepatic glucose metabolism disorders in mice induced by a high-fat diet combined with STZ by activating the PI3K/AKT/FOXO1 signaling pathway, involving the inhibition of key gluconeogenic enzymes and promotion of glucose utilization.
Endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling is a key regulator of reward-related dopaminergic signaling, particularly in response to drugs of abuse, such as cocaine. To date, our understanding of this mechanism has primarily been limited to male subjects. Prior work establishes that female cocaine users have more adverse outcomes, and female rats show greater sensitivity to cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1R) regulation of cocaine self-administration. Therefore, we hypothesize that female rats exhibit enhanced eCB regulation of cocaine-evoked dopamine (DA). We used in vivo fiber photometry recording of the dopamine biosensor, dLight 1.3b, in the nucleus accumbens medial shell (NAcms) in response to cocaine in male and female rats. Rats were pretreated with cannabinoid-targeting drugs to investigate the effects of CB1R inactivation or augmentation of the eCB 2-AG on cocaine-evoked DA. Our results revealed that CB1R inactivation attenuates cocaine-evoked DA in male and female rats, but females showed enhanced sensitivity for CB1R regulation of cocaine-evoked DA. Cocaine-evoked DA was enhanced by augmenting 2-AG levels, and females again showed increased sensitivity to this manipulation. Finally, females show greater cocaine-evoked DA when in a non-estrous cycle compared to estrous, reinforcing that estrous cycle is a determinant of cocaine-evoked DA. These data indicate that females show enhanced eCB regulation of cocaine-evoked DA signaling, underscoring the importance of sex as a biological variable in our understanding of endocannabinoid regulation of drug reward.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Repeated exposure to psychostimulants can be followed by negative affective mood states when the drug is no longer present. These states can function as powerful negative reinforcers, intensifying drug cravings and increasing the likelihood of continued use. Although negative affective states are highly prevalent among cocaine users, and their severity is closely linked to relapse, the specific genetic factors driving these symptoms remain relatively unknown. Due to their high degree of genetic and neuroanatomical similarity to humans, and the availability of extensive reference genetic, genomic and neurobiological resources, mice provide an appropriate model for investigating the genetic basis of the behavioral traits associated with negative affective states following psychostimulant exposure.We investigated anhedonia- and dysphoria-like behaviors following saline or cocaine exposure across the eight inbred Collaborative Cross (CC)/Diversity Outbred (DO) founder strains to evaluate their feasibility for future genetic mapping studies of cocaine response.Mice were administered cocaine (10 mg/kg) or saline via intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections across 19 days, followed by behavioral assays to assess anhedonia- and dysphoria-like behaviors.We observed significant strain- and sex-dependent variation across all behavioral measures, indicating robust genetic influences on baseline affective traits, and strain-specific modulation by cocaine exposure. Heritability estimates ranged from ~ 0 to 0.86.Our findings demonstrate the utility of genetically diverse mouse populations for exploring the genetic underpinnings of traits relevant to negative reinforcement in cocaine use disorder (CUD) and highlight their value in modeling individual variation in negative affective states in response to cocaine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inbred mouse strains are essential to biomedical research, yet accumulating mutations and substrain divergence introduce phenotypic variability that can confound experimental outcomes. This study investigates behavioral differences among 13 inbred mouse substrains: eight C57BL/6 (B6) and five C57BL/10 (B10), bred in-house to control for environmental effects.Female F1 offspring underwent a standardized battery of behavioral assays-open field test (OFT), locomotor response to cocaine (LOCO), fear conditioning (FC), prepulse inhibition (PPI), and the forced swim test (FST)-chosen for their relevance to models of psychiatric and substance use disorders.Significant substrain-specific differences were observed across all behaviors. In the OFT, B6 substrains such as C57BL/6J showed higher activity than others, while B10 substrains exhibited distinct edge-zone preference patterns. Cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation varied significantly among B6 substrains but not among B10. In FC, substrain differences emerged in pre-training, contextual, and cued freezing behavior, particularly among B10 substrains. PPI testing revealed substrain-dependent variation in acoustic startle responses, with C57BL/10J displaying consistently lower startle amplitudes. In the FST, substrain-specific differences in swimming velocity and high mobility duration and frequency were found within the B6 group, while swimming distance showed substrain variation within the B10 group.These findings demonstrate substantial phenotypic variability among closely related substrains, underscoring the critical importance of substrain selection in behavioral research. By focusing on female mice (a group underrepresented in prior work), this study addresses an essential gap and provides insights for researchers designing preclinical models of psychiatric disorders. The results provide the basis for studies in reduced complexity crosses to identify causal genetic variants underlying behavioral traits.Copyright © 2026 St. Pierre, Gonzales, Sokoloff and Polesskaya.
Deficits in social behavior, such as reduced motivation and social avoidance, are key symptoms in several psychiatric disorders. Distinct modes of reward, such as drug and social, may rely on different dopamine release patterns in the mesolimbic pathway. We investigated the relationship between social reward behaviors and dopamine release elicited by phasic and tonic stimulation patterns in C57BL/6J mice. Cocaine (10 mg/kg, ip) was administered during dopamine recordings to assess drug-evoked dopamine release in relation to social reward behaviors. Social conditioned place preference was used to assess social reward, and in vivo fixed potential amperometry was used to measure nucleus accumbens dopamine release. Additional measures included the frequency and duration of social interactions during conditioning sessions. No relationship was found between baseline (pre-cocaine) dopamine and social place preference in either sex. However, in males, social place preference negatively correlated with cocaine-induced phasic dopamine release, indicating that increased social motivation was associated with a reduced phasic dopaminergic response to cocaine. In contrast, greater novel social interaction was associated with increased baseline dopamine elicited by tonic stimulations. These relationships were not observed in females. Overall, these findings suggest distinct, sex-dependent roles for phasic and tonic dopamine release in mediating social reward.
Endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling is a key regulator of reward-related dopaminergic signaling, particularly in response to drugs of abuse, such as cocaine. To date, our understanding of this mechanism has primarily been limited to male subjects. Prior work establishes that female cocaine users have more adverse outcomes, and female rats show greater sensitivity to cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1R) regulation of cocaine self-administration. Therefore, we hypothesize that female rats exhibit enhanced eCB regulation of cocaine-evoked dopamine (DA). We used in vivo fiber photometry recording of the dopamine biosensor, dLight 1.3b, in the nucleus accumbens medial shell (NAcms) in response to cocaine in male and female rats. Rats were pretreated with cannabinoid-targeting drugs to investigate the effects of CB1R inactivation or augmentation of the eCB 2-AG on cocaine-evoked DA. Our results revealed that CB1R inactivation attenuates cocaine-evoked DA in male and female rats, but females showed enhanced sensitivity for CB1R regulation of cocaine-evoked DA. Cocaine-evoked DA was enhanced by augmenting 2-AG levels, and females again showed increased sensitivity to this manipulation. Finally, females show greater cocaine-evoked DA when in a non-estrous cycle compared to estrous, reinforcing that estrous cycle is a determinant of cocaine-evoked DA. These data indicate that females show enhanced eCB regulation of cocaine-evoked DA signaling, underscoring the importance of sex as a biological variable in our understanding of endocannabinoid regulation of drug reward.
RATIONALE: Understanding the determinants of individual differences in cue-reactivity and drug sensitivity is critical to identifying neurobiological mechanisms underlying vulnerability to addiction. OBJECTIVES: In this study, we examined the relationship between dopamine D1 and D2 receptor sensitivity and the attribution of incentive salience to reward cues and sensitivity to cocaine. METHODS: Male Sprague Dawley rats were classified as having high or low sensitivity to the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole, and a subset was tested with the D1 receptor agonist SKF 82958. Cue-reactivity was assessed using a Pavlovian conditioned approach (PavCA) task, which distinguishes between sign-tracking (approach to a cue that predicts reward) and goal-tracking (approach to the site of reward delivery). Cocaine sensitivity was measured by locomotor activity and 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs), a putative measure of appetitive states. RESULTS: High D2 responders exhibited more sign-tracking and greater cocaine-induced USVs than low responders despite no difference in cocaine-induced locomotion. Sign-trackers also showed greater locomotor sensitivity to D1 receptor stimulation than goal-trackers and produced more cocaine-induced USVs. Rats with high sensitivity to both D1 and D2 receptor stimulation showed the strongest sign-tracking behavior and affective response to cocaine. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that dopamine receptor sensitivity is associated with the propensity to attribute incentive salience to reward cues and potentially the appetitive effects of cocaine in male rats. This dopaminergic phenotype may reflect a mechanism contributing to both individual differences in cue-reactivity and drug responsiveness.
Astrocytes bridge neuronal and cerebrovascular systems, regulating neurotransmitter dynamics and modulating neurovascular coupling (NVC). Cocaine disrupts neuronal, astrocytic, and cerebrovascular system function, which in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), could interfere with executive function. Though astrocytes are known to influence neurotoxic and addictive effects of cocaine through their regulations of local neurotransmitter environments, their role in cocaine-induced vasoconstriction and dysregulated NVC remains unclear. To investigate astrocytic regulation of vascular response to cocaine, we expressed the genetically encoded calcium indicator GCaMP6f in either neurons or astrocytes alongside concurrent expression of astrocytic DREADD(Gq) in the mouse PFC. Hemodynamic changes and cellular Ca2+ responses to an acute cocaine challenge (1 mg/kg, i.v.) with and without DREADD(Gq) activation were recorded through a cranial window using a custom multi-wavelength imaging platform. We found that when naïve animals were exposed to acute cocaine, intracellular Ca2+ increased in both astrocytes (Ca2+A) and neurons (Ca2+N), cerebral blood vessels vasoconstricted, and oxygenated hemoglobin in tissue (HbO2) decreased. Activation of astrocytes by DREADD(Gq) exposure also caused long-lasting increases in Ca2+A and vasoconstriction. Consequently, when cocaine was administered after astrocytic activation, there was further Ca2+A elevation and vasoconstriction but limited in magnitude, suggesting a ceiling effect. Meanwhile, cocaine induced increases in Ca2+N were unaffected. Correlation analysis revealed a strong negative association between Ca2+A and cerebrovascular diameters, while Ca2+N was negatively correlated with HbO2 and this correlation remained unchanged by astrocytic activation. These findings support astrocytes’ involvement in regulating vascular tone including cocaine’s vasoconstricting effects and its disruption of neurovascular coupling. Astrocytes present a potential therapeutic target to alleviate cerebrovascular pathology triggered by cocaine that merits further investigation.
Cannabis use during 2021pregnancy is common as many pregnant women consider cannabis as a safe way to alleviate symptoms associated with pregnancy because it is "natural". However, clinical evidence links perinatal cannabis exposure to externalizing behavior in offspring. In preclinical research, most studies focus on exposure to the psychoactive constituent of cannabis, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). THC is lipophilic, allowing it to cross the placental barrier and be secreted in maternal milk, thereby exposing the fetus/neonate.We used operant procedures to measure motivation and impulsivity in adult offspring perinatally exposed to THC.Dams were orally exposed to 0 or 5 mg/kg/day THC daily from 14 days prior to breeding to postnatal day (PND) 14. Differential reinforcement of high rates (DRH) and differential reinforcement of low rates (DRL) of responding tasks were used to examine motivation and impulsive action. We also measured dopamine (DA) functioning in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) via in vivo fixed potential amperometry in littermates of rats that completed behavioral testing.Perinatal THC exposure had minimal effects on impulsive action measures during DRL 15s. Rather, perinatal THC exposure decreased DRL 15s burst responses and completed trials in both sexes, and reinforcers earned in THC-exposed males. Decreased lever presses during DRH were observed in both sexes perinatally exposed to THC, as well as fewer reinforcers in THC-exposed males. THC exposure did not alter baseline DA release in the NAc or mPFC, but did attenuate the dopaminergic response to cocaine in the NAc.These results suggest perinatal exposure to THC can decrease motivation to work for reinforcers during high-effort tasks, that this effect may be more pronounced in males, and that the "amotivational state" resulting from perinatal THC exposure may be due to reinforcer devaluation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The role of Ras-related dexamethasone-induced 1 (RASD1) in multiple myeloma (MM) pathogenesis remains unclear. This study investigated the expression profile, clinical significance, and epigenetic regulation of RASD1 in MM.Bone marrow samples were collected from 26 newly diagnosed patients with MM and 8 healthy controls. RASD1 messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression were analyzed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry, respectively. DNA methylation status was assessed via methylation-specific PCR (MSP). The U266 MM cell line was treated with the demethylating agent decitabine (DAC) to evaluate its effects on RASD1 expression and apoptosis.RASD1 mRNA and protein expression were significantly downregulated in patients with MM compared to healthy controls (P < 0.001). Low RASD1 mRNA levels correlated significantly with advanced DS stage, anemia, hypercalcemia, and elevated M-protein concentrations (P < 0.05). The receiver operating characteristic curve indicated that RASD1 mRNA expression was a robust discriminator between patients with MM and healthy individuals (area under the curve = 0.882, sensitivity = 100%, specificity = 75%). MSP analysis revealed RASD1 promoter hypermethylation in patients with MM, whereas controls exhibited hypomethylation. Treatment of U266 cells with DAC restored RASD1 expression and significantly increased apoptosis compared with controls (12.08% vs. 5.04%, P < 0.01).RASD1 is frequently silenced in MM through promoter hypermethylation. This epigenetic inactivation is associated with adverse clinical features and enhanced cell survival, supporting a tumor suppressor role for RASD1 in MM pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Emerging evidence increasingly indicates that astrocytes are involved in neuropsychiatric disorders, including addiction, but the cocaine-induced astrocyte transcriptome has yet to be investigated. We performed RNA sequencing on whole-cell sorted astrocytes from the nucleus accumbens and bioinformatically characterized the astrocyte transcriptome following cocaine self-administration in male mice. We found that astrocytes exhibit robust and contextually specific transcriptional signatures that implicate adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) as a cocaine-induced transcriptional regulator in astrocytes. Cleavage under targets and release using nuclease sequencing (CUT&RUN) revealed increased astrocytic CREB DNA binding in response to cocaine. Viral-mediated manipulation of nucleus accumbens astrocytic CREB activity in combination with addiction-related behaviors revealed that astrocytic CREB increases the rewarding and reinforcing properties of cocaine. Furthermore, we identified potential molecular mechanisms of astrocytic CREB's influence through modulating astrocytic calcium dynamics and selectively increasing D1-type medium spiny neuronal activity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36587702 is a review article
