To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cyclic peptides are promising modalities for targeting intracellular sites; however, cell-membrane permeability remains a key bottleneck, exacerbated by limited public data and the need for well-calibrated uncertainty. Instead of relying on data-eager complex deep learning architecture, we propose a monomer-aware decoupled global alignment kernel (MD-GAK), which couples chemically meaningful residue-residue similarity with sequence alignment while decoupling local matches from gap penalties. MD-GAK is a relatively simple kernel. To further demonstrate the robustness of our framework, we also introduce a variant, PMD-GAK, which incorporates a triangular positional prior. As we will show in the experimental section, PMD-GAK can offer additional advantages over MD-GAK, particularly in reducing calibration errors. Since our focus is on uncertainty estimation, we use Gaussian Processes as the predictive model, as both MD-GAK and PMD-GAK can be directly applied within this framework. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods through an extensive set of experiments, comparing our fully reproducible approach against state-of-the-art models, and show that it outperforms them across all metrics.Scientific contributionWe introduce monomer-aware decoupled global alignment kernels for Gaussian processes (MD-GAK and position-aware PMD-GAK) that align cyclic peptides at the sequence level using chemically rich monomer fingerprints and explicit positional priors, yielding positive-definite similarity measures tailored to permeability modeling. Compared with order-agnostic fingerprint methods, standard global-alignment kernels and state-of-the-art graph and language-model baselines, our alignment-aware GPs provide improved discrimination, probabilistic calibration and scaffold-level robustness under stringent, leakage-controlled cyclic-peptide permeability benchmarks.© 2026. The Author(s).
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a globally distributed per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS), is increasingly recognized for its immunotoxic and metabolic effects in aquatic organisms; however, its role in viral disease susceptibility remains poorly understood. Using Pacific white shrimp (Penaeus vannamei) and white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) as a model system, we investigated the effects of chronic PFOA exposure on antiviral immunity and viral transmission. Chronic exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of PFOA resulted in significant accumulation of PFOA in the hepatopancreas and markedly increased WSSV replication, host mortality, and horizontal transmission. Integrated metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses identified lysine degradation as a consistently affected metabolic pathway, along with significant enrichment of lysosome-related pathways. Biophysical assays, including molecular docking, biolayer interferometry, and cellular thermal shift analysis, demonstrated that PFOA directly binds to the lysine-catabolizing enzyme aminoadipate semialdehyde synthase (AASS), which may contribute to lysine accumulation. Importantly, enzymatic activity assays further revealed that PFOA significantly inhibited both lysine-ketoglutarate reductase (LKR) and saccharopine dehydrogenase (SDH) activities, accompanied by marked lysine accumulation in shrimp hepatopancreas. PFOA exposure alone induced basal autophagic dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced LC3/LAMP1 co-localization, decreased LC3 abundance, increased p62 accumulation, and impaired autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Dietary lysine supplementation reproduced these autophagic defects and significantly promoted WSSV replication, supporting a role for lysine accumulation in mediating impaired antiviral defense. Together, this study uncovers a previously unrecognized lysine-autophagy-lysosome regulatory axis through which PFOA enhances viral susceptibility and transmission in shrimp, providing mechanistic insight into pollutant-driven disease risk in aquaculture ecosystems.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the mechanisms by which Huangqi Guizhi Wuwu Detection(HQGZWWT) ameliorates skeletal muscle injury, mitochondrial dysfunction, inflammatory responses, and autophagic flux in rheumatoid arthritis(RA)-associated sarcopenia from the perspective of the &quot;mitochondrial quality control and autophagy-lysosome flux&quot;. The collagen-induced arthritis(CIA) rat model was adopted. Rats were divided into a blank group, a model group, and HQGZWWT treatment groups with different doses: low(1.22 g·kg~(-1)), medium(2.44 g·kg~(-1)), and high(4.88 g·kg~(-1)) doses. Intragastric administration was conducted for 5 weeks. Forelimb grip strength of rats in each group was recorded and analyzed. Masson staining and sirius red staining were used to evaluate pathological changes in skeletal muscle. Transmission electron microscopy(TEM) was used to observe autophagosomes and mitochondrial ultrastructure. Immunofluorescence was employed to detect the colocalization of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3β(LC3B)-lysosome-associated membrane protein 1(LAMP1), as well as the expression of translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20(TOMM20). Immunohistochemistry was used to detect sequestosome 1(P62)protein expression. Western blot and RT-qPCR were used to analyze the expression levels of autophagic flux-related markers LC3B, P62, LAMP1, as well as mitochondrial function-related markers TOMM20 and mitofusin 2(MFN2)in skeletal muscle. The concentrations of serum inflammatory factors interleukin-1β(IL-1β) and interferon-γ(IFN-γ) were measured by ELISA to explore changes in the inflammatory environment. Compared with those in the blank group, Masson staining and sirius red staining of the gastrocnemius muscle in the model group showed increased collagen deposition and obvious fibrous hyperplasia. TEM revealed numerous autophagosomes in the cytoplasm of muscle cells, mitochondrial swelling, extensive cristae rupture and dissolution, matrix loss, and vacuolization. Immunofluorescence showed that the number of LC3B puncta and the LC3B-LAMP1 colocalization coefficient increased(P&lt;0.01), while TOMM20 fluorescence intensity decreased(P&lt;0.01). Immunohistochemistry showed increased P62 positive expression(P&lt;0.01). Western blot and RT-qPCR results showed that the expression of TOMM20, MFN2, and P62 in the gastrocnemius muscle significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01), while the expression of LC3B and LAMP1 was upregulated(P&lt;0.01). Serum ELISA results showed that IL-1β and IFN-γ were significantly increased(P&lt;0.01). After HQGZWWT intervention, the expression levels of TOMM20, P62, and MFN2 were significantly upregulated(P&lt;0.01), while the expression of LC3B and LAMP1 was significantly downregulated(P&lt;0.01). Electron microscopy showed improved mitochondrial morphology and reduced autophagosomes. The degree of fibrosis was significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01). Inflammatory factors such as IL-1β and IFN-γ were significantly downregulated(P&lt;0.01). In summary, HQGZWWT can ameliorate skeletal muscle injury in RA-associated sarcopenia by regulating mitochondrial quality control, the autophagy-lysosome flux, and inflammatory responses. This study provides new experimental evidence for the treatment of RA-associated sarcopenia with HQGZWWT and offers basic support for its better clinical application.
Synaptic dysfunction is increasingly recognized as a core feature of psychiatric disorders, yet fluid biomarkers that reflect such changes in vivo are lacking. Here, we applied targeted mass spectrometry to quantify low-abundant synaptic proteins in cerebrospinal fluid from 672 individuals with anorexia nervosa, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), bipolar disorder (BD), schizophrenia spectrum disorders (SCZ + ), and healthy controls. Synaptic protein levels were markedly reduced in SCZ + , with intermediate reductions in BD and ADHD. Using a data-driven approach to model transdiagnostic contrasts-psychotic experience, cognitive and functional impairment-a shared two-biomarker signature emerged: elevated LAMP1, a phagolysosomal marker, and reduced NPTX2, a synaptic activity marker which inhibits complement-dependent synapse elimination. Combining this ratio with polygenic scores improved diagnostic classification. Key findings were extended to an independent cohort at first-episode psychosis. These results support synaptic pathology as a measurable and transdiagnostic feature across several psychiatric disorders and highlight the potential of integrating fluid and genetic biomarkers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Retinal photochemical damage is associated with the development of ocular diseases, yet its underlying mechanisms are incompletely defined, and therapeutic strategies are limited. Delphinidin, an anthocyanidin with broad pharmacological activities, has been demonstrated to protect against retinal damage. However, the molecular basis of this effect remains unclear. Here, we investigated the pathogenic mechanisms of light-induced retinal damage and evaluated the therapeutic potential of delphinidin. We found that intense light exposure caused photoreceptor loss, accompanied by features of ferroptosis and autophagy, including disrupted iron homeostasis, lipid peroxidation, mitochondrial impairment, autophagosome accumulation, and dysregulated expression of key molecular mediators. Co-immunoprecipitation assays of FTH1 and NCOA4, together with confocal microscopy analyses of FTH1 and LAMP1 colocalization, demonstrated that light exposure exacerbates NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in retinal cells, whereas delphinidin attenuated this process. RNA-seq identified abnormal STING expression, and silencing STING with siRNA effectively inhibited NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy induced by light exposure. Delphinidin modulated the cGAS-STING pathway by reducing light-induced DNA damage. Molecular docking further suggested that delphinidin may occupy the ATP-binding pocket of cGAS, indicating a potential competitive inhibitory interaction. These findings, for the first time in the context of photochemical retinal damage, identify STING activation and NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy as contributors to retinal ferroptosis, and highlight delphinidin as a therapeutic candidate that acts by inhibiting cGAS-STING signaling, with molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and CETSA assays suggesting that delphinidin exerts its retinal protective effect by engaging the ATP-binding pocket of cGAS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS), dysfunctional autophagy results in the accumulation of progerin, a lamin A mutant variant that alters a plethora of processes, inducing senescence and driving premature aging. Therefore, the elimination of progerin through autophagy restoration emerges as a therapeutic intervention against HGPS. However, a comprehensive study of autophagy flux in HGPS remains to be addressed. In this study, the dynamics of autophagy in HGPS fibroblasts were analyzed utilizing different HGPS cell models and experimental approaches. The autophagy-associated transcriptomic profile was determined, and the autophagy-lysosome axis was comprehensively analyzed. We demonstrated that progerin induces the formation of autophagosomes but impairs their maturation and subsequent fusion with lysosomes. This alteration is attributed in part to the progerin-mediated decreased expression of STX17, a marker of mature autophagosomes, and LAMP1, a membrane lysosomal protein, as well as the presence of defective lysosomes. In line with this, the rescue of STX17 and LAMP1 expression improved autophagy flux. Interestingly, treatment of HGPS fibroblasts with Selinexor, an autophagy activator, elicited nuclear accumulation of TFEB and enhanced lysosomal biogenesis and function, thereby activating autophagy. Selinexor treatment improved both autophagosome maturation and autophagosome-lysosome fusion, which ultimately led to effective autophagic degradation of progerin. In summary, progerin impedes proper autophagy flux, thus preventing its own autophagic degradation, which underscores the relevance of targeting the autophagy-lysosome pathway to counteract the toxic accumulation of progerin.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Lysosomal dysfunction is a prominent feature of neurodegeneration and aging, yet how primary defects in lysosomal trafficking are converted into progressive cellular decline remains poorly understood. Niemann Pick disease type C (NPC), caused by impaired NPC1 dependent cholesterol export, provides a genetically defined model to address this question. Here, we show that NPC1 deficiency activates a lysosome, genome, immune axis linking cholesterol trafficking failure to neurodegeneration and hallmarks of cellular aging. In Npc1 mutant mice, NPC1 loss triggered DNA damage, neuroinflammation, microglial and astrocytic activation, Purkinje neuron degeneration, and motor dysfunction. Consistently, NPC patient-derived fibroblasts exhibited mitochondrial abnormalities and widespread DNA double-strand breaks. Genome-wide DNA break mapping and transcriptomic analyses revealed extensive genomic instability at regulatory regions, including enrichment of DNA breaks at transcription start sites and G quadruplex associated loci, accompanied by widespread transcriptional reprogramming, activation of innate immune pathways, disruption of fibroblast identity, and induction of cellular aging signatures. We further identify Fingolimod, an FDA approved sphingosine - 1 phosphate receptor modulator, as a potent modifier of this disease network. Fingolimod improved lysosomal cholesterol trafficking, increased LAMP1 abundance, attenuated STING associated inflammatory signaling, normalized mitochondrial function, reduced neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative phenotypes in Npc1 mutant mice, and broadly shifted disease-associated transcriptional programs toward a healthier state. Extending these findings beyond NPC, Fingolimod improved age-associated phenotypes in C. elegans and prolonged lifespan in aged male mice. Together, these findings identify genome instability and chronic innate immune activation as major downstream consequences of lysosomal cholesterol trafficking failure and establish Fingolimod as a clinically actionable modulator of lysosomal dysfunction, neurodegeneration, and aging-related decline.
Selective remodeling of nuclear architecture under pharmacological stress remains incompletely characterized in three-dimensional cancer models, particularly at the ultrastructural level. Lithium chloride (LiCl) is widely used as a cellular stressor capable of altering membrane organization, proliferation, and organelle dynamics; however, its effects on nucleus-associated structural remodeling in three-dimensional tumor systems remain unclear. In the present study, Ishikawa endometrial carcinoma spheroids were exposed to LiCl (10 or 50 mM) for up to 96 h, and cellular responses were evaluated using cell cycle analysis, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation, viability assays, and transmission electron microscopy. LiCl exposure was associated with sustained accumulation of cells in the G0/G1 phase and suppression of DNA synthesis without evidence of a dominant apoptotic or necrotic response under the examined conditions. Ultrastructural analyses showed prominent nuclear envelope elongation, membrane reorganization, and perinuclear double-membraned structures, particularly under prolonged LiCl exposure. These alterations were observed alongside mitochondrial and endomembrane remodeling, supporting the presence of a broader stress-associated ultrastructural adaptation response within LiCl-treated spheroids. Importantly, the present study is morphology-focused and descriptive in scope. Although some ultrastructural features were morphology-compatible with nucleophagy-associated remodeling, no molecular validation using LC3, p62/SQSTM1, LAMP1/lysosomal colocalization, lamin degradation, or autophagic-flux assays was performed. Therefore, the findings should be interpreted as evidence of stress-associated nuclear envelope remodeling rather than mechanistic proof of nucleophagy. Collectively, this study identifies nucleus-associated ultrastructural remodeling as a prominent cellular response to LiCl-induced stress in 3D endometrial cancer spheroids and highlights the utility of three-dimensional tumor models for investigating stress-related architectural adaptations in cancer cells.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are rare tissue-resident lymphocytes that functionally mirror cells of CD4+ T helper lineage but lack antigen receptors. Type 3 ILCs (ILC3s) are enriched at barrier sites, regulating inflammation and promoting tissue integrity. Here we profile the promoter-anchored chromosomal contacts of primary human ILC3s using low-input, high-resolution targeted chromosome conformation capture and compare them with those in CD4+ T cells. We use these data to link Crohn's disease genome-wide association study variants with target genes, implicating both known and unanticipated candidates, including CLN3, a causal gene for Batten disease. We show that Cln3 overexpression in a mouse ILC3-like cell line alters stimulation-induced transcriptional programs and cytokine secretion. Extending our approach to five additional immune genome-wide association study traits reveals enrichment for regulators of ILC3 activation. Our work develops methods, maps long-range gene regulation in ILC3s, and prioritizes immune disease risk genes with roles in this clinically relevant immune cell type.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prostate cancer (PCa) is characterized by molecular heterogeneity and metabolic reprogramming, but the relationships among transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolic signals remain incompletely defined. Here, we present a human-centered, cross-dataset analysis of public RNA, protein, and metabolomics data in PCa. We analyzed RNA and protein profiles from PC3 parental and drug-resistant cells together with an independent human matched tissue metabolomics dataset from Metabolomics Workbench (ST000784). RNA-protein overlap analysis identified seven genes that were significant at both layers, including five concordantly upregulated genes: UPP1, IGF2R, FLNC, DSP, and PLEC. Among these, UPP1 provided the most direct metabolic interpretation because it encodes uridine phosphorylase 1, an enzyme linked to pyrimidine salvage. Independent ST000784 matched prostate tissue metabolomics supported broader nucleotide metabolism remodeling, including significant changes in N-carbamoyl-L-aspartate, guanosine monophosphate, and adenosine 3,5-cyclic monophosphate. In contrast, uracil was not significantly altered and uridine 5'-monophosphate showed only a trend after multiple-testing correction. Repeated stratified cross-validation showed that UPP1-containing candidate gene sets achieved high within-layer AUC values in RNA and protein data, while nested statistical benchmark models also performed strongly. These results prioritize a UPP1-associated nucleotide remodeling hypothesis in PCa, but do not establish causal regulation of metabolite abundance or clinical diagnostic utility. Future matched multi-omics and perturbation experiments are required.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The somatotropic axis encompassing growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), myostatin (MSTN), and prolactin (PRL) signalling cascades is the master regulator of somatic growth, metabolism, and development in vertebrates. African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), a commercially pivotal aquaculture species, now possesses a chromosome-level reference genome (CGAR_prim_01v2); however, a systematic, genome-wide characterization spanning all five interconnected growth-related gene families has not previously been undertaken in this species. Here, we identified and characterized 15 growth-related genes spanning gh1, ghra, ghrb, Igf1, Igf2a, Igf2b, igf1ra, Igf1rb, Igf2r, Mstna, Mstnb, prl, prlra, prlrb, and smtlb distributed across 13 chromosomes. Complete one-to-one orthology with zebrafish confirmed strong dosage-balance conservation across >120 million years of teleost divergence. Physicochemical analysis resolved a clear biochemical dichotomy between compact, basic secreted ligands (19.88-45.81 kDa; pI up to 10.02) and large, acidic, heavily glycosylated membrane receptors (56.82-270.80 kDa; pI 4.85-5.97). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 3R whole-genome duplication origins for all paralog pairs, while synteny analysis revealed a disruption of the ancestral gh1-prl chromosomal block in C. gariepinus, a finding that warrants further comparative and functional investigation. This genomic atlas provides the sequence and structural information including exon-intron boundaries, domain architecture, and chromosomal coordinates needed as a prerequisite for future marker-assisted selection and CRISPR-based myostatin-editing efforts in African catfish aquaculture, though translation into applied breeding outcomes will require subsequent functional and expression studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uremic cardiomyopathy (UCM) is a severe complication of uraemia that lacks effective treatments. The role of immune dysfunction in haemodialysis patients with UCM remains unclear. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are major components of the immune system; however, they do not directly contact cardiomyocytes. In general, extracellular vesicles (EVs) function as intercellular communication mediators. Therefore, in this study, we first investigated the role of PBMC-derived EVs (PBMC-EVs) in UCM and identified EV-miR-744-5p as a key molecule involved in PBMC-cardiomyocyte communication. Mechanistically, indoxyl sulphate (IS) downregulated miR-744-5p expression in PBMC-EVs, leading to IGF2R upregulation in cardiomyocytes, thereby exacerbating myocardial injury via induction of hypertrophy, apoptosis and inflammatory pathway activation in the cardiomyocytes. We also explored the potential of natural products to treat UCM by modifying PBMC-EVs and found that the traditional Chinese medicine monomer salvianolic acid B (Sal B) could bind to YY1, enhancing miR-744-5p expression in PBMC-EVs and thus mitigating myocardial injury in UCM. Taken together, these findings indicate the critical role of PBMC-EVs in UCM and suggest the cardioprotective effects of Sal B via PBMC-EV modification. They also provide novel insights into immune mechanisms underlying UCM, particularly indicating that targeting PBMC-EVs may be a promising UCM treatment strategy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Immunoglobulins (e.g., IgGs) are critical effectors of the adaptive immune system that when overexpressed or dysregulated can result in autoimmune diseases. Thus, depletion of IgGs can be a promising therapeutic avenue. Here we developed g enetically- e ncoded lysosome targeting c himeras (GELYTACs) that target circulating IgGs for clearance and degradation. The GELYTACs comprised two protein modules derived from insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) and an IgG-binding nanobody, respectively, and mediated clearance of plasma IgG via the lysosomal trafficking receptor IGF2R. To achieve long-lasting IgG depletion, we encoded GELYTACs in an AAV gene therapy vector and established continuous expression in mice. We also developed conditional GELYACs that are activatable with disease-specific proteases or small molecule drugs. This work establishes GELYTACs as a possible therapeutic modality that is deliverable using genetic medicine approaches.
Most of adrenocortical carcinomas (ACC) are characterized by IGF2 overexpression; therefore, several studies have focused on its two oncogenic effectors, the tyrosine-kinase receptors IGF1R and IR. However, the specific IGF2 receptor, IGF2R, due to its scavenging activity, was considered a tumour suppressor and has never been fully investigated in this context. Nevertheless, recent evidence from other tumours identified IGF2R as a pro-tumorigenic actor able to exert its function through the downstream activation of the pro-mitotic sphingosine kinases (SphK) enzymes responsible for sphingosine phosphorylation. Hence, the main aims of this study were to elucidate the role of IGF2R in ACC cells, investigate its action mechanism, and test IGF2R and SphK inhibitors as possible novel therapies for ACC.The present study was conducted in vitro in 4 different ACC cell lines and in 3 ACC primary cultures, to reflect the heterogeneity of ACC. Target protein and transcript expression were evaluated on normal and tumoral adrenal tissues and cell lines, while the effects of IGF2R downregulation and overexpression, along with IGF2R and SphK inhibition, were tested on cell viability, proliferation, and apoptosis as well as cortisol secretion.ACC tissue analysis demonstrated the IGF2R overexpression compared to normal adrenal cortex, which was also positively correlated with IGF2 and IGF1R expression in ACC. In vitro assays proved the pro-mitotic involvement of IGF2R and its role in the downstream activation of SphK. Finally, we observed the anti-tumoral efficacy of three different inhibitors of this pathway on ACC cell lines and primary cultures: a specific neutralizing anti-IGF2R antibody was tested for its anti-proliferative action, while two SphK inhibitors, safingol (SAF) and fingolimod (FTY), were able to decrease cell proliferation, viability, and cortisol secretion, while promoting cell apoptosis.Overall, this comprehensive in vitro evaluation of the role of IGF2R in ACC demonstrates its tumorigenic effect through SphK activation. Moreover, the three pharmacological strategies here employed successfully controlled in vitro ACC growth, suggesting IGF2R/SphK pathway represents a novel therapeutic target for ACC.© 2026. The Author(s).
We report a site-specific PEGylation strategy to stabilize insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) as a functional ligand for insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R)-based lysosome-targeting chimera (LYTAC) systems. This chemical modification improves ligand folding and solubility, enabling efficient LYTAC-mediated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) degradation across multiple cell lines and significant tumor suppression (∼70%) in vivo with favorable safety. This study provides a general chemical approach for ligand optimization in lysosome-targeted protein degradation, providing new ideas for the future development of peptide drugs.
Sexual dimorphism in growth is a major factor affecting the economic efficiency of fish aquaculture; however, its molecular underpinnings remain incompletely elucidated. We combined comparative liver transcriptomics with genome-wide screening to identify growth-related genes in female and male S. hollandi. We identified 1063 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), with 869 being significantly upregulated in females. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed key growth-related pathways, including Growth hormone synthesis, secretion and action, mTOR, insulin and MAPK signaling pathway were significantly enriched. Furthermore, we identified seven core IGF system components at the genomic level: four ligands (igf1, igf2a, igf2b, igf3) and three receptors (igf1ra, igf1rb, igf2r). Phylogenetic and protein structure analyses indicated high conservation of these genes among teleosts. Multi-tissue expression profiling revealed marked tissue specificity and sexual dimorphism for several IGF members. Notably, hepatic expression levels of igf1, igf2a, igf2b, and igf1ra were significantly higher in females than in males. This expression pattern correlates with the faster female growth phenotype. Here, we present the first systematic characterization of the IGF/IGFR gene family in S. hollandi and based on comparative hepatic transcriptomics targeting growth-related pathways, suggesting that sexually dimorphic activity of the hepatic IGF system may serve as a central regulatory mechanism at the transcriptional level driving growth dimorphism. These findings offer novel theoretical insights and candidate genes for understanding the molecular mechanisms of sexual growth differences in fish and for advancing molecular breeding.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system is a key regulator of fetal growth and placental nutrient regulation.The objective of this study was to investigate associated gene and protein expressions of the insulin/IGF, adiponectin, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) pathways in placenta and cord blood from small-, appropriate-, or large-for-gestational-age (SGA, AGA, LGA) infants and corresponding first-trimester maternal blood.A total of 60 SGA, 109 AGA, and 55 LGA term infants (birth weight z scores <-2, -2 to +2, and >2, respectively) were included. Placental mRNA expression of 22 genes was analyzed using RT-qPCR. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to determine the protein localization and abundance of 5 differentially expressed genes in 78 representative placental samples. Cord blood and maternal blood concentrations of related proteins were analyzed by ELISA.Placental gene expression of IGF1, IGF2, IGBP2, IGF2R, and PPARA was significantly lower in the SGA group. A moderate correlation in expression levels was observed among differentially expressed genes, except for IGF2R. In the SGA group, IHC staining for IGF1, IGF2, IGF2R, and PPARα was weaker, while IGFBP2 staining was stronger. In the cord blood, the IGF1 and IGF2 concentrations increased successively from the SGA group to the LGA group, whereas the IGFBP2 concentration decreased successively. No differences in maternal blood were observed between the groups.Placental IGF1, IGF2, and PPARα signaling are positively associated with birth weight, whereas that of IGFBP2 is negatively associated, possibly reflecting a shared upstream regulation by nutrition. Conversely, placental IGF2R signaling may aid in normalizing abnormal fetal growth.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Blast-induced lung injury (BLI) is a life-threatening complication of explosive shock waves, yet its molecular mechanisms remain largely unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular mechanisms governing epithelial barrier integrity during BLI progression and define the core regulatory function of Transcription Factor EB (TFEB) and its downstream signaling axis in BLI pathogenesis. We also evaluated the therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism of the hydrogen sulfide (H2S)-releasing nanozyme (Pt@Pd-S), intending to offer novel targets and translational therapeutic strategies for BLI. Bioinformatic analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data revealed activation of adherens junction, tight junction, and multiple stress-related signaling pathways in epithelial cells. Transcription factor analysis identified TFEB as a pivotal regulator in these pathological processes. Functional experiments demonstrated that TFEB overexpression via lentiviral delivery significantly alleviated BLI, as evidenced by reduced pulmonary edema, inflammation, oxidative stress and improved barrier integrity. Insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) was identified as a novel target of TFEB and participates in the protection against shock wave-induced epithelial barrier damage by regulating the release of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP-2) and matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9). Furthermore, the Pt@Pd-S nanozyme promoted S-sulfhydration of TFEB at the Cys212 residue, thereby enhancing its transcriptional activity, upregulating autophagy, improving lysosomal function, and maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and mitigating lung injury through modulating the IGF2R/MMP-2/9 signaling pathway. Collectively, our findings uncover a previously unrecognized TFEB/IGF2R/MMP-2/9-autophagy and lysosomal axis in the pathogenesis of BLI and highlight the promise of engineered H2S-releasing nanozymes as a therapeutic strategy for pulmonary trauma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Defective intestinal epithelial tight junction (TJ) barrier function and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress are central pathological features of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), yet the molecular mechanisms ER stress to TJ disruption remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of autophagy in regulating intestinal TJ homeostasis during ER stress. ER stress was elevated in inflamed Crohn's disease tissue and chronic dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) colitis. In human intestinal epithelial Caco-2 monolayers, murine colon, and human colonic explants, induction of ER stress with tunicamycin, thapsigargin, or brefeldin A disrupted TJ barrier integrity, as demonstrated by reduced transepithelial electrical resistance and increased paracellular permeability. ER stress selectively increased the pore-forming TJ protein claudin-2 and altered occludin localization without significantly affecting other claudins. Pharmacologic activation of autophagy with rapamycin attenuated ER stress, restored TJ barrier function, reduced claudin-2 accumulation, and preserved occludin localization. Conversely, CRISPR-Cas9-mediated deletion of autophagy gene ATG7 exacerbated ER stress, apoptosis, and TJ barrier dysfunction in vitro, while intestinal epithelial-specific Atg7 knockout mice exhibited enhanced ER stress-induced intestinal permeability in-vivo. Mechanistically, prolonged ER stress impaired autophagic flux through IRE1α kinase signaling, resulting in accumulation of p62 and claudin-2. Inhibition of IRE1α kinase activity restored autophagy, reduced claudin-2 levels, and preserved TJ barrier function. We further identified adaptor-associated kinase 1 (AAK1) as a downstream mediator of IRE1α signaling during ER stress, with increased AP2M1 phosphorylation and altered claudin-2 trafficking. Claudin-2 overexpression alone induced ER stress and lysosomal damage, suggesting a feed-forward mechanism amplifying epithelial injury. Finally, enteric rapamycin administration reduced ER stress and restored autophagy in murine DSS colitis. Collectively, these findings identify an IRE1α-AAK1-autophagy axis as a critical regulator of intestinal TJ barrier integrity during ER stress.
Endocytosis regulates receptor trafficking and signaling, yet its role in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. We analyzed transcriptomic data from 15,025 CRC tumors to evaluate gene expression in clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) and the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) pathway. Pathway-level signatures were compared across consensus molecular subtypes (CMS) and examined in relation to oncogenic signaling programs, while individual endocytosis-related genes were evaluated for associations with clinical outcomes in an independent randomized trial cohort. Expression of CME and ESCRT pathways varied by CMS, with the highest expression in CMS4 and the lowest in CMS3. Endocytosis signatures correlated with multiple oncogenic signaling pathways, including MAPK, TGF-β, WNT, PI3K, NOTCH, and angiogenesis, suggesting broad links between endocytic activity and tumor biology. In the randomized phase III CALGB/SWOG 80405 trial, low expression of AP2M1-a core adaptor in the CME complex-was significantly associated with longer overall survival and progression-free survival in patients treated with anti-EGFR agents, but not in those receiving anti-VEGF agents. These findings suggest that endocytic trafficking may be associated with oncogenic signaling and differential therapeutic benefit in patients with metastatic CRC. The endocytosis pathway reflects biologically relevant heterogeneity in CRC and may help guide therapeutic stratification.
Periodontitis represents a persistent inflammatory condition marked by gradual damage to the gingival connective tissues and alveolar bone. Programmed cell death (PCD) is essential for preserving immune balance and includes various forms such as apoptosis, pyroptosis, necroptosis, and ferroptosis. Nevertheless, the principal PCD pathway that contributes periodontal inflammation has not been clearly identified. In this work, we integrated multiple publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets and applied diverse gene set scoring approaches to systematically characterize the dynamic expression of PCD-associated genes in periodontitis-affected tissues. Ferroptosis emerged as one of the important PCD pathways, mainly occurring in macrophages. Cell-cell communication and spatial analyses suggested that ferroptotic macrophages were located adjacent to fibroblast-enriched regions and may interact with fibroblasts through Galectin and OSM signaling pathways. Functionally, ferroptotic macrophages suppressed fibroblast proliferation and migration while amplifying their pro-inflammatory response, underscoring their pivotal role in sustaining chronic inflammation. Furthermore, machine-learning analyses identified LAPTM5 as one of the ferroptosis-associated hub genes in macrophages. Knockdown of LAPTM5 in macrophages suppressed ferroptosis and subsequently attenuated fibroblast inflammatory responses. Collectively, our study highlights ferroptosis as one of the key pathogenic mechanisms in periodontitis and identifies LAPTM5-driven macrophage ferroptosis as a key driver of fibroblast dysfunction and chronic inflammation, providing potential therapeutic insights for restoring periodontal immune balance.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the therapeutic potential and mechanism of Bushen Huoxue Acupuncture (BSHXA) against Alzheimer's disease (AD) using integrated in vivo and in vitro approaches. In eight-month-old SAMP8 mice, BSHXA treatment significantly improved cognitive performance, alleviated hippocampal neuronal damage and neuroinflammation, and downregulated LAPTM5 expression. Complementary in vitro experiments in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV2 microglia demonstrated that LAPTM5 knockdown reduced apoptosis, pathological protein accumulation, and pro-inflammatory M1 polarization. Through bioinformatic prediction and Co-IP assays, SMURF2 was identified as an E3 ubiquitin ligase directly interacting with LAPTM5 and promoting its ubiquitin-dependent degradation. SMURF2 overexpression in vitro reproduced protective effects similar to LAPTM5 knockdown. Importantly, in vivo knockdown of SMURF2 abolished the therapeutic benefits of BSHXA. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that BSHXA ameliorates AD progression by upregulating SMURF2, which promotes the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of LAPTM5, thereby suppressing microglial M1 polarization, inhibiting neuroinflammatory responses, and attenuating AD pathologies. The SMURF2-LAPTM5 axis is established as a key mechanistic pathway underlying the neuroprotective effects of BSHXA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Enfortumab vedotin (NECTIN4-ADC), a NECTIN4-targeting antibody-drug conjugate, has shown substantial efficacy in urothelial carcinoma, yet primary and acquired resistance remain major barriers to durable benefit. By integrating paired spatial transcriptomic profiling of tumors collected before and after NECTIN4-ADC plus anti-PD1 therapy with humanized mouse models, single-cell RNA sequencing, and resistant cell systems, we mapped tumor-state remodeling during ADC resistance and identified a resistant tumor-cell population with increased NECTIN4 expression but defective ADC uptake. Mechanistically, AKR1C1 binds NECTIN4 and impairs the AP2M1-dependent clathrin-mediated internalization of NECTIN4-ADC, while the AKR1C1-WWP2 axis promotes extracellular vesicle-mediated ADC export and clearance, thereby reducing intracellular payload accumulation. Pharmacologic inhibition of AKR1C1 restores ADC uptake, increases payload delivery, and enhances therapeutic sensitivity in preclinical models. Together, these findings define a clinically relevant target-high but uptake-defective resistance state and establish altered membrane trafficking as a therapeutic target for overcoming ADC therapy failure in cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aging accelerates renal fibrosis driven by renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs) senescence. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. We demonstrate that lysosomal transmembrane protein 5 (LAPTM5) is markedly upregulated in aged kidney models and correlates with renal senescence and fibrosis severity. Mechanistically, LAPTM5 drives RTECs epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by interacting with USP10 and facilitating its lysosomal degradation, thereby relieving PTEN-mediated inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR-mediated autophagy pathway. This accelerates kidney fibrosis. Functionally, PTEN overexpression rescues LAPTM5-induced EMT in RTECs, while the PTEN agonist sophocarpine ameliorates renal fibrosis and preserves function in D-galactose-induced progeroid mice by restoring autophagy. Our findings identify the LAPTM5-USP10-PTEN axis as a critical regulator of autophagy-mediated renal fibrosis in aging kidney.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Structural variants (SVs) are genomic rearrangements of 50 bp or more and contribute substantially to human genetic disorders. They are often incompletely resolved using cytogenetic and short-read sequencing approaches. Emerging technologies such as long-read sequencing (LRS) and optical genome mapping (OGM) provide complementary advantages for SV detection. This study aimed to evaluate the combined utility of OGM and LRS for the precise delineation of clinically relevant chromosomal rearrangements.Five patients with suspected chromosomal abnormalities were investigated using karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH), chromosomal microarray (CMA), and triplet repeat-primed PCR (TP-PCR), followed by integrative analysis using OGM and LRS.In Case 1 (short stature and recurrent miscarriages), OGM identified two insertions in addition to a balanced translocation, whereas LRS revealed disruptions in the NBAS and VTI1A genes. In Case 2 (Fragile X syndrome), LRS precisely determined the exact size of FMR1 CGG repeats, supported by OGM. In Case 3, LRS resolved inversion breakpoints with associated microdeletions and insertions associated with recurrent miscarriages. In Case 4, OGM identified an additional intrachromosomal rearrangement on chromosome 18. In Case 5, OGM detected an intrachromosomal fusion underlying intellectual disability. Overall, OGM provided genome-wide structural insights, while LRS enabled nucleotide-level breakpoint resolution. Except for case 2, all rearrangements are novel.Our study concludes that the combined application of technologies enables comprehensive characterisation of complex SVs that remain unresolved by standard methods. This integrative approach improves diagnostic yield, facilitates genotype-phenotype correlation, and supports the implementation in SV detection for patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Genomic data can provide valuable insights into the evolutionary history of rapidly diversifying groups and the genetic basis of phenotypic traits. We performed whole-genome resequencing of the warbler genus Myioborus to investigate the dynamics of its recent diversification in Neotropical mountains. Mitochondrial and nuclear DNA produced mostly concordant tree topologies and revealed a pattern of north-to-south and low-to-high elevation colonization. Within a young tropical Andes clade (M. albifrons, M. ornatus, and M. melanocephalus), we found topological incongruence between our phylogenies. In general, relationships coincided with plumage types; however, three taxa with striking plumage differences exhibited low mitochondrial divergence. The hybridizing taxa M. ornatus chrysops and M. melanocephalus bairdi showed very shallow genomic differentiation, with most divergence peaks across the genome shared with other parulid warbler pairs, pointing to shared genomic architecture shaping these regions. However, a unique differentiated region included the gene CCDC91, which is associated with melanin-based plumage differences in other birds. We also identified a large region of elevated differentiation on the Z chromosome showing strong signals of reduced recombination. Together, these results highlight the interplay of deep ancestral divergence, recent hybridization, and shared genomic architecture in shaping the evolution of phenotypic and genomic diversity in Myioborus.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE). All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42052769 is a review article
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is a major pathogen that poses a considerable threat to the global swine industry, particularly with emerging variants that complicate control efforts. However, the host factors involved in PRRSV entry are not well understood. In the present study, we identified members of the numb-associated kinase (NAK) family, specifically adaptor-associated kinase 1 (AAK1), G-associated kinase (GAK), and BMP-2-inducible kinase (BMP2K), as essential regulators of PRRSV entry utilizing both genetic and pharmacological approaches. Mechanistically, NAKs facilitate PRRSV entry by phosphorylating the adaptor protein complex 2 subunit mu-1 (AP2M1) at threonine 156, enhancing AP2M1 activation and thereby promoting its interaction with the YxxØ motif in PRRSV glycoprotein (GP) 5 and the receptor cluster of differentiation 163 (CD163). This interaction is critical for efficient trafficking of the virions to early endosomes (EEs). Disruption of AP2M1 phosphorylation or blockade of the AP2M1-YxxØ interaction significantly impaired PRRSV internalization, indicating the potential for targeting this pathway to inhibit infection. Notably, inhibition of the NAKs-AP2M1 axis effectively reduced infection across multiple PRRSV strains, highlighting its capacity as a broad-spectrum antiviral target. Collectively, our findings provide novel insights into PRRSV entry mechanisms and offer a promising therapeutic strategy to control emerging variants of this economically significant disease.Copyright © 2026 Longxiang Zhang et al. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying benzo[a]pyrene-induced esophageal cancer (EC), and to screen and identify the key targets and biomarkers associated with benzo[a]pyrene-related EC.Potential targets of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) were predicted using PharmMapper, SwissTargetPrediction, and ChEMBL databases, and were intersected with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the GEO database to screen candidate key genes. Subsequently, diagnostic models were constructed using 14 machine learning algorithms based on the identified key genes. Meanwhile, a prognostic model of key genes was constructed based on the TCGA esophageal cancer cohort, and the correlation between these key genes and tumor immune infiltration was further explored. Additional explainability was provided via SHAP analysis by determining the contributions of key features. Molecular docking was performed to verify the binding between BaP and core targets.A total of 82 genes were identified as potential targets of EC induced by BaP. These key genes were found to be mainly involved in core tumor-related pathways, cell cycle regulation, MAPK signaling, and immune-inflammatory pathways, covering the crucial biological processes underlying malignant transformation of EC. Subsequently, 12 core genes (ACOT9、ACOX3、AURKA、HMGCR、INHBA、MMP3、MSR1、SHC1、SORT1、MAOB、MMP13、CDK4) were identified as key regulators by machine learning analysis. Among them, SORT1 and ACOX3 were significantly down-regulated, while AURKA and MMP13 were markedly up-regulated (P < 0.05). The 12-gene prognostic model enables efficient prognostic stratification of esophageal cancer patients, and core genes are implicated in the remodeling of the esophageal cancer immunosuppressive microenvironment through the regulation of immune cell infiltration. Molecular docking revealed strong binding ability between BaP and target proteins.Bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking results revealed significant associations between BaP and 12 core esophageal cancer-related genes. BaP could stably bind to core proteins including AURKA, CDK4, MMP13 and INHBA, which is potentially correlated with altered cell cycle, metabolic disorders and dysregulated tumor immune microenvironment in esophageal cancer. 12 core genes were identified via machine learning, which offers new perspectives for the interdisciplinary field of environmental toxicology and precision oncology and provides a foundation for the development of individualized therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Lan, Huang, Lin, Sun, Guo, Li, Wang, Lin, Zhu and Guo.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated immune response to infection. Ammonia-induced cell death (AICD) is a novel form of cell death, and its association with sepsis remains unclear. This study aims to identify key genes involved in AICD in pediatric sepsis.Obtain batch transcriptome (bulk RNA) and single-cell transcriptome (scRNA) data of pediatric sepsis from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and key module genes of weighted gene co-expression networks in the bulk RNA data, and take the intersection with AICD-related genes. Construct diagnostic models using various machine learning algorithms and identify key genes. Evaluate immune infiltration using CIBERSORT. Analyze the expression characteristics of key genes using scRNA-seq and conduct cell communication analysis. Further perform functional enrichment analysis under virtual gene knockout conditions using scTenifoldKnk.The optimal diagnostic model identified a total of 9 key genes for pediatric sepsis AICD (STOM, SORT1, PADI4, MMP9, LCN2, CR1, TSPO, TXN, IL1RN). The immune infiltration analysis revealed that the proportions of cells such as Macrophages M0 and Neutrophils increased in the sepsis group, while the proportions of T cells CD8 and B cells naive decreased. Single-cell analysis showed that TSPO and TXN were upregulated in Monocytes in the sepsis group. After virtual knockout of TSPO and TXN, the perturbed genes are respectively enriched in pathways such as the B cell receptor signaling pathway and Platelet activation, and jointly enriched in pathways including Hematopoietic cell lineage.This study identified nine genes, including TSPO and TXN, as key genes for AICD in pediatric sepsis. The diagnostic model constructed has potential clinical application value. Monocytes may be the potential cell type that undergoes AICD in the high-ammonia environment of pediatric sepsis. TSPO and TXN may affect the AICD process of pediatric sepsis through different mechanisms.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Interferons (IFNs) are potent antimicrobial cytokines. However, effector mechanisms mediating their function in humans are poorly understood, partly because IFNs can induce numerous effector molecules. While guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) are IFN-inducible, their role in cell-autonomous resistance to intracellular pathogens is incompletely understood. We demonstrate that human GBP1-5 significantly inhibits intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) survival, but only GBP4 mediates autophagy. GBP4 facilitates Mtb containment by promoting lysosomal acidification and autophagy via type Ⅰ IFN-dependent TFEB and FOXO3a activation. Mechanistically, GBP4 binds progranulin (GRN), reducing SORT1-mediated GRN lysosomal degradation. Moreover, GBP4 facilitates the GBP4-GRN-BIP-AKT complex assembly while inhibiting the GBP4-BIP-TRIM21 complex formation, thereby enhancing GRN-mediated BIP accumulation and AKT degradation. This leads to AKT inhibition, and concomitant TFEB and FOXO3a activation. GRN, BIP, AKT, and TRIM21 are essential for GBP4-mediated mycobactericidal activity. Our study uncovers a key role for GBP4 in regulating cell-autonomous resistance in human macrophages and may facilitate the development of host-directed therapies against tuberculosis (TB).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the clinical significance of serum miR-339-5p in MASLD and explored its molecular mechanisms in hepatic steatosis and inflammation.87 MASLD patients (Np-MASLD, n = 51; MASH-F, n = 36) were enrolled. Serum miR-339-5p was quantified and correlated with clinical indices. In vitro studies used FFA-treated HepG2 cells to assess miR-339-5p and SORT1 effects on lipid accumulation, inflammation.Serum miR-339-5p was significantly elevated in MASLD, correlating positively with disease severity, and served as an independent risk factor for MASH-F progression. In HepG2 cells, miR-339-5p overexpression exacerbated FFA-induced lipid accumulation and IL-6/TNF-α secretion, whereas its inhibition exerted protective effects. SORT1 was validated as a direct target of miR-339-5p and was downregulated in MASLD. miR-339-5p suppressed AMPK phosphorylation and promoted NF-κB activation by targeting SORT1.Elevated miR-339-5p promotes hepatocyte lipid accumulation and inflammation in MASLD, potentially by targeting SORT1.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive primary brain tumor, and is characterized by rapid growth, therapeutic resistance, and a highly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Progranulin (GRN/PGRN), a secreted glycoprotein, promotes malignancy in various cancers, yet its role in GBM remains poorly defined. Bioinformatics analysis of GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus) and TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) datasets revealed that GRN expression is significantly upregulated in GBM and is associated with shorter overall survival and progression-free survival. High GRN levels correlated strongly with increased M2 macrophage infiltration (marked by CD163 expression) and elevated immune and stromal scores, suggesting that GRN contributes to an immunosuppressive TME. In vitro, silencing GRN in GBM cells markedly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and colony formation. Coculture assays demonstrated that GRN knockdown reduced GBM-induced M2 macrophage polarization (CD206+) while increasing M1 polarization (CD86+), accompanied by decreased secretion of the immunosuppressive cytokines IL-10 and TGF-β. Transwell experiments further showed that GRN promoted GBM invasion in a macrophage-dependent manner via the TGF-β pathway, an effect that was abrogated by the TGF-β receptor I inhibitor LY3200882. We developed SORT1-loaded hyaluronic acid methacrylate (HAMA) hydrogel microspheres to target GRN therapeutically. SORT1 competitively binds to GRN, reducing its concentration in the TME. Intratumoral injection of these microspheres significantly suppressed GBM xenograft growth in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify GRN as a key driver of GBM progression and TME immunosuppression through M2 macrophage polarization and TGF-β signaling. Targeting GRN with SORT1-loaded HAMA microspheres represents a promising adjuvant therapeutic strategy for GBM.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
ELOC-mutated renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a rare tumor with only ∼40 cases reported to date; it shares a molecular background with clear cell RCC (ccRCC) in terms of hypoxia-inducible factor-alpha (HIF-α) protein accumulation. ELOC-mutated RCC is characterized by prominent leiomyomatous stromal growth and a more indolent clinical course compared with ccRCC. In our previous study, whole-genome sequencing of 102 ccRCC cases identified 5 cases of ELOC-mutated RCC. In the present study, we conducted proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses on up to 13 Japanese ELOC-mutated RCCs, including 8 previously reported cases, to elucidate its distinct molecular mechanisms and identify biomarkers that may be useful in distinguishing ELOC-mutated RCC from ccRCC. Proteomic profiling revealed that molecules, including cytokeratin 7, scinderin (SCIN), and sortilin 1 (SORT1), were significantly overexpressed in ELOC-mutated RCC compared with ccRCC. Notably, SCIN and SORT1 emerged as novel potential diagnostic biomarkers for distinguishing ELOC-mutated RCC from ccRCC. The analysis further suggested that ELOC-mutated RCC relies more on oxidative phosphorylation and less on glycolysis than ccRCC. This metabolic shift may be linked to the relative depletion of NAD+ due to the low expression of NAPRT and QPRT. In addition, we observed geographic variation in the disease frequency among different cohorts, with a higher frequency in Japan. Our findings provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of ELOC-mutated RCC and highlight SCIN and SORT1 as potential supportive biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42425329 is a review article
Interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS) is characterized by complex cellular heterogeneity and inflammatory dysfunction in the bladder. However, the molecular pathogenesis of IC/BPS remains poorly understood, and few studies have provided comprehensive analyses. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying disease pathology, we performed integrated single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses of human bladder tissue. Comprehensive single-cell multiomics analyses have identified disease-specific alterations across multiple cell types. T helper 17 cells were significantly expanded in Hunner lesions and activated autoimmune and pro-inflammatory signaling pathways, suggesting a critical role in disease progression. Endothelial cells (ECs) shift from homeostatic (EC2) to pro-angiogenic inflammatory phenotypes (EC3), contributing to vascular remodeling. In the monocyte-macrophage lineage, we identified macrophage 2 cells with pro-angiogenic features that engaged in vascular endothelial growth factor-mediated and tumor necrosis factor-mediated interactions that promoted pathological angiogenesis. Smooth muscle cells (SMCs) display notable phenotypic plasticity, transitioning from a contractile to a synthetic state in IC/BPS tissues. Additionally, spatial transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulation of the EDN1-EDNRA/EDNRB signaling axis, suggesting a role for SMCs in bladder hypercontractility. Fibroblasts have emerged as key mediators of nociceptive signaling, with specific subpopulations enriched in neurotrophin-related pathways (for example, NTF3-NTRK2/NTRK3 and NGF-SORT1) and showing active crosstalk with SMCs, potentially contributing to the development of chronic pain. Collectively, these findings delineate a complex stromal-immune-vascular network underlying the pathological remodeling and pain characteristics of IC/BPS. Our study identified novel cellular players and intercellular signaling pathways that may be promising targets for therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42370591 is a review article
Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer mortality. The AP-1 adaptor complex, including AP1AR, AP1S1, AP1S2, AP1S3, AP1M1, AP1M2, AP1B1, and AP1G1, functions as a conserved hub of vesicular trafficking, selecting cargo and coordinating clathrin-mediated transport. By shaping receptor recycling, membrane composition, and signal duration, AP-1 influences core cancer phenotypes such as proliferation, migration, and therapy response. However, the family-level role of AP-1 adaptors in lung cancer is incompletely defined. We systematically profiled all eight AP-1 adaptor genes using multi-omics datasets, survival resources, pharmacogenomic panels, Human Protein Atlas data, pathway enrichment, and single-cell RNA sequencing with cell-cell communication modeling. AP1AR was consistently upregulated in lung adenocarcinoma and independently associated with poorer overall survival. It was linked to cell-cycle progression, DNA replication checkpoints, hypoxia, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). At single cell resolution, AP1AR also regulate malignant epithelial and fibroblast cell types. Pseudotime analyses revealed progressive activation along proliferative and EMT axes, and CellChat modeling indicated enhanced stromal and epithelial signaling. AP1S3 and AP1S1 showed complementary roles, associated with oncogenic/inflammatory signaling and immune-metabolic programs, respectively. These findings identify AP1AR as a clinically relevant biomarker and highlight AP-1 adaptor biology as an underexplored contributor to lung adenocarcinoma progression and therapeutic stratification.© The author(s).
This study employed a multi-omics approach to investigate the molecular and functional underpinnings of schizophrenia by integrating blood transcriptomic profiles, neuroimaging-derived brain phenotypes, and clinical symptomatology. RNA sequencing of blood samples from 43 patients with schizophrenia and 60 healthy controls identified 994 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), the vast majority of which were downregulated (n = 921, |FC| > 1.5, P < 0.05), with enrichment in pathways related to neuronal development and inflammation. Concurrent neuroimaging analyses revealed altered functional activation in key brain regions, including the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices. A Partial Least Squares correlation analysis demonstrated significant cross-modal relationships among gene expression, neuroimaging patterns, and clinical presentation. Furthermore, we identified six genes-GRK2, KLF3, TAOK2, ARFGAP45, AP1M1, and GPAT2-that were shared across gene sets associated with both brain function and clinical symptoms, suggesting a common transcriptional basis for these features of schizophrenia. Collectively, these findings provide novel insights into the integrated molecular and functional changes in schizophrenia, highlighting the value of a comprehensive multi-omics strategy to decipher its pathophysiology and potentially inform improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma, mainly arising from mesenchymal cells, is the most common bone tumor in children and adolescents, with high malignancy and a tendency for metastasis and recurrence. Epithelial cells undergoing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) often signal the start of tumor metastasis, as they gain mesenchymal characteristics that enhance their migration and invasion capabilities.Osteosarcoma patient gene expression and clinical data were retrieved from the TARGET database. EMT-related molecular subtypes were identified through consensus clustering. Immune microenvironment assessment was performed using the ESTIMATE algorithm. Using WGCNA, a co-expression network was developed to find modules linked to subtypes. Univariate Cox regression analysis identified prognosis-related genes. The development of a 9-gene prognostic risk model involved Lasso-Cox regression, and its accuracy was verified.Two molecular subtypes (C1 and C2) with distinct clinical outcomes were identified. The C1 group showed significantly higher immune and ESTIMATE scores compared to C2. Through WGCNA, the PINK module was identified as significantly associated with the subtypes. Cox regression analysis revealed 19 prognosis-related genes. A 9-gene risk model (EPHB3, GADD45GIP1, RAD23A, NGDN, SYCE2, SCD, AP1M1, POLR3D, FADS2) was constructed, demonstrating high predictive accuracy. Multivariate Cox analysis indicated GADD45GIP1, NGDN, AP1M1, and POLR3D as independent prognostic factors for osteosarcoma.Two EMT-related subtypes with distinct immune features were identified, aiding clinical decision-making. A model comprising 9 genes offers a dependable means of predicting osteosarcoma prognosis.
Anti-sense oligonucleotides (ASOs) are modified synthetic single-stranded molecules with enhanced stability, activity, and bioavailability. They associate with RNA through sequence complementarity and can reduce or alter mRNA expression upon binding of splice site positions. To target RNA in the nucleus or cytoplasm, ASOs must cross membranes, a poorly understood process. We performed an unbiased CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screen with a genetic splice reporter to identify genes that can increase or decrease ASO activity, resulting in the most comprehensive catalog of ASO-activity modifier genes. Here we reveal distinct targets, including AP1M1 and TBC1D23, linking ASO activity to transport of cargo between the Golgi and endosomes. AP1M1 absence strongly increases ASO activity by delaying endosome-to-lysosome transport in vitro and in vivo. Prolonged ASO residence time in the endosomal system may increase the likelihood of ASO escape. This insight into AP1M1 role in ASO trafficking suggests a way for enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of ASOs by manipulating the endolysosomal pathways.© 2025. The Author(s).
The clathrin adaptor protein 1 (AP1) plays a pivotal role in the endocytosis of cell surface proteins and transportation between the golgi apparatus and lysosomes. Despite its critical functions, the implications of AP1 dysregulation in human cancers have yet to be elucidated. The structural analysis of AP1 subunits was conducted utilizing data from the Protein Data Bank (PDB), which is composed of four subunits: AP1-S1, AP1-B1, AP1-G1, and AP1-M1. Notably, the expression levels of AP1 subunits exhibit significant variability between tumor and normal tissues across different cancer types using data from the CPTAC, GEO, and TCGA databases. Kaplan-Meier (K-M) curve analysis has revealed that certain AP1 subunits are correlated with patient prognosis in various cancers. For instance, the AP1-S1 subunit is related to poor survival outcomes in head and neck squamous carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, and lung adenocarcinoma. Furthermore, the aberrant expression of AP1-S1 demonstrated a negative correlation with immune cells infiltration, particularly in lung adenocarcinoma. Concurrently, a significant negative relationship between AP1-S1 and HLA molecules was observed, indicating a potential mechanism for AP1-induced HLA degradation. In vitro experiments demonstrated that the knockdown of AP1-S1 led to an upregulation of HLA-B protein expression and inhibited the viability, migration, and invasion capabilities of tumor cells in lung adenocarcinoma cell lines, specifically A549 and H1299. Immunohistochemical staining further revealed the abnormal expression of AP1-S1 in lung adenocarcinoma specimens. Through a comprehensive pan-cancer multi-omics analysis and experimental validation, this study explored the prognostic significance of four AP1 subunits. Additionally, it examined the regulatory relationship between AP1-S1 and HLA-B, which may play a role in immune escape. Additionally, the research identified AP1-S1 as a valuable biomarker and a potential target for treatment of lung adenocarcinoma.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In vertebrates, two homologous heterotetrameric AP1 complexes regulate the intracellular protein sorting via vesicles. AP-1 complexes are ubiquitously expressed and are composed of four different subunits: γ, β1, μ1 and σ1. Two different complexes are present in eukaryotic cells, AP1G1 (contains γ1 subunit) and AP1G2 (contains γ2 subunit); both are indispensable for development. One additional tissue-specific isoform exists for μ1A, the polarized epithelial cells specific to μ1B; two additional tissue-specific isoforms exist for σ1A: σ1B and σ1C. Both AP1 complexes fulfil specific functions at the trans-Golgi network and endosomes. The use of different animal models demonstrated their crucial role in the development of multicellular organisms and the specification of neuronal and epithelial cells. Ap1g1 (γ1) knockout mice cease development at the blastocyst stage, while Ap1m1 (μ1A) knockouts cease during mid-organogenesis. A growing number of human diseases have been associated with mutations in genes encoding for the subunits of adaptor protein complexes. Recently, a new class of neurocutaneous and neurometabolic disorders affecting intracellular vesicular traffic have been referred to as adaptinopathies. To better understand the functional role of AP1G1 in adaptinopathies, we generated a zebrafish ap1g1 knockout using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing. Zebrafish ap1g1 knockout embryos cease their development at the blastula stage. Interestingly, heterozygous females and males have reduced fertility and showed morphological alterations in the brain, gonads and intestinal epithelium. An analysis of mRNA profiles of different marker proteins and altered tissue morphologies revealed dysregulated cadherin-mediated cell adhesion. These data demonstrate that the zebrafish model organism enables us to study the molecular details of adaptinopathies and thus also develop treatment strategies.
Previously, we reported that the mediation of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) pathogenicity by the 524YLMY527 motif depends mainly on the regulation of F protein transport to the cell surface. The virus and host determinants that govern this intracellular trafficking remain unknown. Here, we confirmed that host adaptor protein (AP) complexes are involved in NDV infection using small interfering RNA. The transport of viral F protein to the cell surface depends on host transport proteins. We observed that the trends for host expression of AP complexes AP1M1 and AP2M1 were similar to those of mutated F proteins, especially in the membrane protein. NDV F protein interacted with AP1M1 and AP2M1, and the YLMY motif influenced this interaction. Knockdown of AP1M1 or AP2M1 suppressed the intracellular and extracellular virus titre of mutated-YLMY-motif NDVs, especially rSG10*-F/Y527A and rSG10*-F/Y524AY527A, to varying degrees. Therefore, the YLMY motif regulates AP-mediated viral F protein transportation from the cytoplasm to the cell surface and subsequently affects viral titer. We further found that the YLMY-motif mutants were differently associated with the process of AAK1 and GAK kinase-mediated AP - viral F protein interaction. These data demonstrate that the essential YLMY motif located in the NDV F protein cytoplasmic tail recruits AP to direct the F protein to the cell surface, which is necessary for its ability to affect virus budding. This study provides support for a deeper understanding of virus and host determinants that facilitate virus trafficking, which can be exploited in the design of novel antiviral therapies.
To analyze the proteomic profile of salivary pleomorphic adenoma (PA) and carcinoma ex pleomorphic adenoma (CXPA) samples and correlate them with the malignant transformation of the PA.Thirty samples (10 PA, 16 CXPA, and 4 residual PA) were microdissected and submitted to liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The proteomic data and protein identification were analyzed through LC-MS/MS spectra using the MaxQuant software.The proteomic analysis identified and quantified a total of 240 proteins in which 135 were found in PA, residual PA, and CXPA. The shared proteins were divided into six subgroups, and the proteins that showed statistically significant differences (p > 0.05) and fold-change > or <2.5 in one subgroup to another subgroup were included. Seven proteins (Apolipoprotein A-I-APOA1, haptoglobin-HP, protein of the synaptonemal complex 1-SYCP1, anion transport protein of band 3-SLC4A1, subunit μ1 of AP-1 complex-AP1M1, beta subunit of hemoglobin-HBB, and dermcidin-DCD) were classified as potential protein signatures, being HP, AP1M1, and HBB with higher abundance for PA to residual PA, APOA1 with higher abundance for PA to CXPA, SLC4A1 with lower abundance in the PA to CXPA, SYCP1with lower abundance for residual PA to CXPA, and DCD with higher abundance in the CXPA with epithelial differentiation to myoepithelial differentiation.In this work, we demonstrated the comparative proteomic profiling of PA, residual PA, and CXPA, and seven were proposed as protein signatures, some of which may be associated with the malignant phenotype acquisition.© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Tunable fluorescence emission endows luminescent materials with immense applications in optoelectronic devices and information security. Herein, broad-wavelength photoluminescence (PL) tuning from yellow to white to blue is realized in a zero-dimensional (0D) K4CdCl6 halide via a facile Rb/Sn codoping strategy. Interestingly, K4CdCl6 and isostructural Rb4CdCl6 halides exhibit yellow and blue PL emissions via the homovalent doping of Sn2+, respectively. The relative intensity ratio of yellow and blue emission bands can be effectively regulated in K4CdCl6:Sn2+ halides by Rb+ alloying; accordingly, the continuous luminescence color tuning covering yellow, white, and blue spectral regions was successfully achieved. Density functional theory calculations further verify that the doping of Sn2+ leads to the appearance of an impurity energy level within the band gap, accelerates electronic transitions, and ultimately enhances PL emission efficiency. On the basis of this rationally designed tunable luminescent system, the three-level color-coded intelligent password devices, combining multimode optical anticounterfeiting and digital information encryption, were developed. This work not only develops a reliable ion doping strategy for luminescence modulation in the metal halides but also expands their diversified application prospects in advanced optoelectronic fields.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Antibodies are known to prevent infection by binding to pathogens extracellularly and blocking their entry into cells. What is less well known is that a proportion of pathogens, called the persistent fraction, still succeed in entering cells despite the antibodies bound to their surface. Fortunately, all mammalian cells express a dedicated cytosolic antibody receptor called TRIM21 that intercepts these incoming antibody-bound pathogens as soon as they enter the cytosol. Once it has detected an infection event, TRIM21 uses its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity to target pathogens for degradation. Our early work showed that TRIM21-mediated neutralization was both a fast and efficient process, capable of causing the degradation of incoming viral particles within hours. What was less clear was how TRIM21 achieves this degradation. In a recent study, we reveal that TRIM21 mediates a system of selective autophagy to direct incoming pathogens into the lysosome.Abbreviations: TRIM21:Tripartite-motif containing protein 21; VCP: Valosin-Containing Protein. CRISPR: Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats; FACS: fluorescence activated cell sorting; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LC3: Microtubule-associated Protein 1 Light Chain 3; TBK1: TANK-binding kinase 1; FIP200: FAK family kinase-interacting protein of 200 kDa; ULK1: Unc-51-like autophagy activating kinase 1; PI3K: Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase; ATG: autophagy-related gene; TMEM41B: transmembrane protein 41B; VPS37A: Vacuolar Protein Sorting-Associated Protein 37A; RBSN: Rabenosyn-5; EPG5: Ectopic P-Granules 5 Autophagy Tethering Factor; NDP52: Nuclear Dot Protein 52; ADX: antibody-dependent xenophagy; p62/SQSTM1: Protein 62/ Sequestosome 1; LPS: Lipopolysaccharide.
Early detection of sepsis is essential for its successful management. Although genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have shown potential in identifying sepsis-related genetic variants, they often involve heterogeneous patient groups and use single-locus analysis methods. Here, we aim to identify new sepsis susceptibility loci in post-surgical patients using an explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) approach applied to GWAS data.GWAS was performed in 750 post-operative patients with sepsis and 3,500 population controls. We applied a novel XAI-based methodology to GWAS-derived single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to predict sepsis and prioritize new genetic variants associated with post-operative sepsis susceptibility. We also assessed functional and enrichment effects using empirical data from integrated software tools and datasets, with the top-ranked variants and associated genes.Our XAI-GWAS approach showed a notable performance in predicting post-surgical sepsis and prioritized SNPs (such as rs17653532, rs1575081785, and rs74707084) with higher contribution to post-operative sepsis prediction. It also facilitated the discovery of post-operative sepsis risk loci with important functional implications related to gene expression regulation, DNA replication, cyclic nucleotide signaling, cell proliferation, and cardiac dysfunction.The combination of GWAS and XAI prioritized loci associated with post-operative sepsis susceptibility. The determination of key genes, such as PRIM2, SYNPR, and RBSN, through pre-operative blood tests could enhance risk stratification, enable early detection of post-operative sepsis, and guide targeted interventions to improve patient outcomes. Further research with additional and ethnically diverse cohorts comprising sepsis and non-sepsis patients undergoing major surgery is needed to validate these exploratory findings.Copyright © 2025 Vaquerizo-Villar, Hernandez-Beeftink, Heredia-Rodríguez, Gómez-Sánchez, Lorenzo-López, López-Herrero, Bardaji-Carrillo, Tamayo-Velasco, Martín-Fernández, Sánchez-de-Prada, Álvarez-Escudero, Veiras, Baluja, Gonzalo-Benito, Martínez-Paz, García-Concejo, Fernández-Rodríguez, Jiménez-Sousa, Resino, Martínez-Campelo, Suárez-Pajés, Quintela, Cruz, Carracedo, Villar, Flores, Hornero and Tamayo.
Oxaliplatin (OXA) and 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) are standard chemotherapy agents used to treat advanced gastric cancer (GC). However, their clinical efficacy is often limited by systemic toxicity, poor tumor selectivity, and suboptimal therapeutic outcomes when administered as monotherapy. These limitations underscore the need for innovative approaches to improve chemotherapy sensitivity and treatment efficacy.We developed a glucose-responsive, RGD peptide-functionalized biporous silica nanocarrier (R-BSN). This system integrates hollow glucose oxidase (hGOx)-modified micelles onto hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles functionalized with RGD peptides, enabling targeted, sustained drug release and inducing a starvation effect in tumor cells.The glucose-triggered biporous release strategy significantly prolongs the drug release profile, ensuring sustained chemotherapy delivery while simultaneously depleting intratumoral glucose to enhance therapeutic efficacy. This strategy not only increases chemotherapy potency but also exacerbates oxidative stress in tumor cells, leading to the induction of immunogenic cell death (ICD). Furthermore, R-BSN exhibits robust anti-tumor activity in both subcutaneous tumor models and peritoneal metastasis models, supporting its potential for multi-pathway tumor eradication.The glucose-triggered biporous silica nanocarrier offers a promising strategy to enhance chemotherapy outcomes in advanced gastric cancer, integrating sustained drug release, starvation therapy, and amplification of oxidative stress. This approach holds significant potential for clinical translation in gastric cancer treatment.© 2025 Ren et al.
Metastasis, the primary cause of death in lung cancer patients, is facilitated by cytoskeleton remodeling, which plays a crucial role in cancer cell migration and invasion. However, the precise regulatory mechanisms of intracellular trafficking proteins involved in cytoskeleton remodeling remain unclear. In this study, we have identified Rabenosyn-5 (Rbsn) as an inhibitor of filopodia formation and lung cancer metastasis. Mechanistically, Rbsn interacts with CDC42 and functions as a GTPase activating protein (GAP), thereby inhibiting CDC42 activity and subsequent filopodia formation. Furthermore, we have discovered that Akt phosphorylates Rbsn at the Thr253 site, and this phosphorylation negates the inhibitory effect of Rbsn on CDC42 activity. Additionally, our analysis reveals that Rbsn expression is significantly downregulated in lung cancer, and this decrease is associated with a worse prognosis. These findings provide strong evidence supporting the role of Rbsn in suppressing lung cancer progression through the inhibition of metastasis.© 2024. The Author(s).
It is important to establish and clarify the relationship between stereochemically active lone pairs and birefringence, since it is one of the significantly effective routes to explore birefringent crystals by introducing Sn-centered polyhedra with stereochemically active lone pairs. Herein, four tin(II)-based ternary halides A3 SnCl5 and ASn2 Cl5 (A=NH4 and Rb) have been synthesized successfully. The experimental birefringence of Rb3 SnCl5 and RbSn2 Cl5 is larger than or equal to 0.046 and 0.123@546 nm, respectively. Through investigating the alkali or alkaline-earth metal tin(II)-based ternary halides, the structure-performance relationship has been concluded between stereochemically active lone pairs and optical anisotropy. It is beneficial to the analysis and prediction of birefringence in tin-based halides and provides a guide for exploring tin(II)-based optoelectronic functional materials.© 2023 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Rabenosyn (RBSN) is a conserved endosomal protein necessary for regulating internalized cargo. Here, we present clinical, genetic, cellular and biochemical evidence that two distinct RBSN missense variants are responsible for a novel Mendelian disorder consisting of progressive muscle weakness, facial dysmorphisms, ophthalmoplegia and intellectual disability. Using exome sequencing, we identified recessively acting germline alleles p.Arg180Gly and p.Gly183Arg, which are both situated in the FYVE domain of RBSN. We find that these variants abrogate binding to its cognate substrate phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P) and thus prevent its translocation to early endosomes. Although the endosomal recycling pathway was unaltered, mutant p.Gly183Arg patient fibroblasts show accumulation of cargo tagged for lysosomal degradation. Our results suggest that these variants are separation-of-function alleles, which cause a delay in endosomal maturation without affecting cargo recycling. We conclude that distinct germline mutations in RBSN cause non-overlapping phenotypes with specific and discrete endolysosomal cellular defects.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cemented particulate composite is a kind of composite material with high strength, high energy absorption, and multifunctional characteristics, which is widely used in engineering practice. The calculation of the mechanical properties of granular composites based on theoretical methods has always been a topic of discussion. A micromechanical model with a three-dimensional rigid beam-spring network (3D-RBSN) is proposed here. The stiffness matrix of the model was calculated theoretically. The model was applied to the analysis of the mechanical properties of composites material with glass beads and epoxy resin. The results indicate that the 3D-RBSN model can effectively predict the mechanical properties of composite materials, such as Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio. Furthermore, the damage evolution process of cemented particulate composite with initial defects was analyzed based on the 3D-RBSN model.
Proper functioning of the precisely controlled endolysosomal system is essential for maintaining the homeostasis of the entire cell. Tethering factors play pivotal roles in mediating the fusion of different transport vesicles, such as endosomes or autophagosomes with each other or with lysosomes. In this work, we uncover several new interactions between the endolysosomal tethering factors Rabenosyn-5 (Rbsn) and the HOPS and CORVET complexes. We find that Rbsn binds to the HOPS/CORVET complexes mainly via their shared subunit Vps18 and we mapped this interaction to the 773-854 region of Vps18. Based on genetic rescue experiments, the binding between Rbsn and Vps18 is required for endosomal transport and is dispensable for autophagy. Moreover, Vps18 seems to be important for β1 integrin recycling by binding to Rbsn and its known partner Vps45.Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Lead (Pb) is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the relationships between Pb and AD hippocampal transcription remains unclear. We evaluated overlap between Pb-response signatures and cell-type-independent AD transcriptomic signatures.Three toxicology studies (two neuronal cell lines, one mouse hippocampus) provided Pb-response genes. Five human postmortem hippocampal AD case-control transcriptional datasets (n=90 AD, n=106 normal cognition) were cell type deconvoluted and tested with beta regression. Differential gene expression, adjusted for age, sex, and estimated cell-types, were meta-analyzed. Overlapping Pb and AD genes and biological pathways were identified (p adj <0.05).Consistent Pb response was observed at 25 genes ( INPP5F , KIF20B , KIFC1 ) and 47 pathways (ensheathment of neurons, glial cell differentiation, regulation of nervous system processes). Relative to controls, AD samples had fewer neurons (-2.46%), greater microglia (0.42%), astrocytes (0.31%), oligodendrocytes (0.46%), and endothelial cells (0.95%), and 1,455 differentially expressed genes, which were enriched for cellular energy production and metabolism pathways. Six genes ( EHD3 , LAP3 , NRXN3 , PPP1R16B , RPL29 , THRA) and four pathways (synaptic vesicle maturation, vesicle docking) overlapped between Pb and AD.We identified overlapping Pb and AD transcriptomic signatures and pathways, providing molecular context for epidemiologic associations.
Diabetic kidney disease remains the major cause of kidney failure. VEGFA neutralizing antibodies also cause kidney disease in normal people. The present studies explored whether endogenous VEGFA deficiency might contribute to DKD.Plasma soluble VEGFR1 (aka sflt1), and the VEGFR1 ligands VEGFA, and placental growth factor (PlGF), were measured human DKD plasma samples from the CREDENCE trial. We also tested effects of VGFB1, a murinized VEGFR1-blocking antibody in the uninephrectomy ReninAAVdb/db DKD mouse including translational endpoints of serum creatinine and overall survival. Histology, transmission electron microscopy and RNA sequencing of mouse kidneys treated with or without VGFB1 or lisinopril were compared.Circulating sFlt1 and PlGF, increased in CREDENCE while intrarenal VEGFA mRNA decreased as GFR declined. VEGFR1 blockade with the VGFB1 mAb improved overall sinistrin clearance, serum creatinine, albuminuria, blood pressure, and kidney structure in uninephrectomy ReninAAVdb/db mice. VGFB1 treatment benefit differentiated from lisinopril by increasing endothelial fenestrea and glycocalyx related genes. Compared to lisinopril, VGFB1 also significantly increased glomerular endothelial genes including Emcn, Esm1, Ehd3 and Exoc3l2.An anti-VEGFR1 antibody restored VEGFA activity, endothelial health, and GFR in severe murine DKD. This effect was via a mechanism distinct from lisinopril.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42322139 is a review article
Flowering time of rice (Oryza sativa) plays important roles in regulating grain yield, quality, and adaptability. O. sativa GIGANTEAN (OsGI), heading date 1 (Hd1), and O. sativa flavin-binding, Kelch repeat, and F-box 1 (OsFKF1) are key factors controlling flowering time in rice. However, their relationships are not quite clear. In this study, we found that OsFKF1, an F-box domain-containing protein, physically interacts with OsGI and Hd1. OsFKF1 targets OsGI for degradation through ubiquitination-mediated 26S proteasome. OsFKF1 is functionally conserved with FKF1 in Arabidopsis. Mutations of OsFKF1, OsGI, and Hd1 generated through CRISPR-Cas9 in the same genetic background confer late flowering phenotypes. The osfkf1 mutations suppress the expression of Ehd1, Hd1, and Ehd2, while activating Ghd7 and Ehd3, which further reduces the expression of florigen genes Hd3a and RFT1, leading to delayed flowering time. Mutations of OsFKF1 also affect the agronomic traits and enhance grain yield. These findings reveal the molecular mechanisms of OsFKF1 on regulating flowering time and provide valuable germplasm resources for rice breeding to improve growth period.
Monomethylation of histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4me1) marks enhancers in mammals. However, the function of H3K4me1 in plants remains largely unclear. Here, we present the genome-wide distribution of H3K4me1 in diverse species across evolution, revealing a distinctive H3K4me1 distribution pattern in land plants. To explore the function of H3K4me1 in plants, we identified an H3K4me1-specific reader protein, Early heading date 3 (Ehd3), and solved the structure of Ehd3 in complex with the H3K4me1 peptide, revealing a unique binding module differing from the previously reported PHD finger proteins. We further identified an Ehd3-binding protein, SET domain group 724 (SDG724), and the deletion of either Ehd3 or SDG724 caused similar defects in plant phenotype and changes in transcriptome and epigenome profiles. Both Ehd3 and SDG724 are enriched at chromatin regions marked by H3K4me1 but not H3K4me2 or H3K4me3. Ehd3 activates the H3K36 methyltransferase SDG724, and H3K36me2/me3 are colocalized with H3K4me1 in the genomes of the examined land plants. Collectively, our results reveal that H3K4me1 directs the establishment of H3K36me2 and H3K36me3 in land plants.© 2026. The Author(s).
The aim of this study is to reveal key genes related to sphingolipid metabolism for distinguishing the invasive characteristics of pituitary adenomas (PA).Bulk-RNA sequencing datasets related to the invasive pituitary adenomas (IPA) were retrieved from the GEO database and integrated after batch effect correction. IPA-related genes were identified through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and differential gene expression (DEGs) analysis. Sphingolipid metabolism-related genes were sourced from the GeneCards database and intersected with IPA-related genes to identify IPA-specific metabolism genes (SMGs). Machine learning, including Lasso and SVM-RFE, was used to identify the key genes incorporated into a diagnostic model. The tumor immune microenvironment was analyzed, exploring correlations with key genes. Finally, key genes were validated through immunohistochemistry (IHC) and RT-qPCR in the IPA and PA samples.Four datasets were included. A total of 228 IPA-related genes were identified, with 10 IPA-SMGs obtained by intersecting with SM-related genes. Machine learning revealed three key genes, SLC27A2, EHD3, and SV2B. A logistic regression model was constructed, and after internal validation with 1000 bootstrap iterations, the ROC curve achieved an AUC of 0.767. Immune infiltration analysis showed that the ratio of endothelial cells and fibroblasts was significantly reduced in the IPA group compared to controls. IHC and RT-qPCR confirmed that SLC27A2 expression was significantly reduced, while EHD3 and SV2B were significantly increased in IPA tissues, which was consistent with the bioinformatics findings.This study identifies key genes potentially involved in the development and progression of IPA, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying IPA pathogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Appropriate flowering time is important for rice regional adaptation and optimum rice production, but little is known about the omics of heading date in rice. Here, we studied omics including transcriptome, proteome and transcriptional factors to identify regulatory genes related to flowering time. A total of 1402 differentially expressed genes (DEGs, 721 up-regulated and 681 down-regulated) were detected in wild and mutant. These transcripts are classified according to biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions. Among these differentially expressed genes, many transcription factor genes demonstrated multiple regulatory pathways involved in flowering time. Gene expression analysis showed that Os03g0122600 (OsMADS50), Os08g0105000 (Ehd3), Os06g0275000 (Hd1) were expressed higher and Os06g0199500 (OsHAL3), Os06g0498800 (OsMFT1), Os08g0105000 (Ehd3), Os06g0157700 (Hd3a), and Os02g0731700 (Ghd2), were expressed lower in wild compared to mutant, which are the key genes that regulate the flowering in rice. In addition, Ghd7 interacted with Os10g30860 and Os12g08260 using yeast two-hybrid assay. We identified 28 potential Ghd7 transcriptional regulators using the transcription factor-centered yeast one hybrid (TF-Centered Y1H) assay. Taken together, this study developed a new set of genomic resources to identify and characterize genes, proteins, and motifs associated with flowering time.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Obesity represents a significant risk factor in the development of type 2 diabetes (T2D), a chronic metabolic disorder characterized by elevated blood glucose levels, and a previous step for its development. Significant sex differences have been identified in the prevalence, development, and pathophysiology of obesity and T2D; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to identify sex-specific signatures in obesity and T2D and enhance our understanding of the underlying mechanisms associated with sex differences by integrating expression data. We performed a systematic review and individual transcriptomic analysis of eight selected studies which included 302 subcutaneous adipose tissue samples. Then, we conducted different gene-level meta-analyses and functional characterizations for obesity and T2D separately, identifying common and sex-specific transcriptional profiles, many of which were previously associated with obesity or T2D. The obesity meta-analysis yielded nineteen differentially-expressed genes from a sex-specific perspective (e.g., SPATA18, KREMEN1, NPY4R, and PRM3), while a comparison of the expression profiles between sexes in T2D prompted the identification and validation of specific transcriptomic signatures in males (SAMD9, NBPF3, LDHD, and EHD3) and females (RETN, HEY1, PLPP2, and PM20D2). At the functional level, we highlighted the fundamental role of the Wnt pathway in the development of obesity and T2D in females, and the roles of mitochondrial damage and free fatty acids in males. Overall, our sex-specific meta-analyses supported the detection of differentially expressed genes in males and females associated with the development of obesity and further T2D development, emphasizing the relevance of sex-based information in biomedical data and opening new avenues for research.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common condition affecting millions of men worldwide. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified genetic loci associated with ED risk, the potential causative genes and their biological mechanisms leading to ED remain largely unexplored.This study aimed to conduct a comprehensive cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) to identify susceptibility genes associated with ED risk.We conducted a cross-tissue TWAS analysis integrating GWAS data for ED with eQTL files from Genotype-Tissue Expression Project (GTEx) V8. We used the unified test for molecular signatures (UTMOST) for cross-tissue analysis and functional summary-based imputation (FUSION) for single-tissue validation. Candidate genes were further validated through multi-marker analysis of genomic annotation (MAGMA), conditional and joint (COJO) analysis, and colocalization analysis.The cross-tissue TWAS analysis identified 118 significant genes associated with ED, while the single-tissue TWAS validation revealed 3804 significant genes. Nine candidate genes (CPT1B, CSF2RB, DNAH7, EHD3, L3MBTL2, LCLAT1, MDH1B, REEP1, and SLC30A6) were consistently identified across the TWAS and MAGMA analyses. COJO analysis revealed that LCLAT1 accounted for most of the signals at their respective loci. Colocalization analysis confirmed LCLAT1 as the primary candidate gene, showing strong colocalization with ED in testis, brain cortex, and heart left ventricle.This comprehensive cross-tissue TWAS analysis identified LCLAT1 as a primary susceptibility gene for ED, highlighting its potential role in the mitochondrial function and lipid metabolism. The study also revealed several secondary candidate genes that may contribute to ED through pathways related to mitochondrial dynamics, neurotransmission, and cardiovascular function. These findings provide new perspectives on the genetic architecture of ED and suggest potential targets for future research and treatment.© 2025 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
The utilization of biomarkers for the diagnosis and management of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) remains a relatively unexplored frontier in clinical practice. Proteomics and metabolomics are important tools for revealing key biomarkers and evaluating biological pathways in ASD. We conducted an individual meta-analysis to compare the consistency of biomarkers of ASD from central nervous system (brain and cerebrospinal fluid), circulatory system (blood), and non-invasive samples (urine, saliva, and faeces) and performed pathway enrichment analyses to identify pathways enriched in ASD. After screening 926 proteomics and 619 metabolomics articles, we collected data from 10 studies involving 940 differential proteins and 16 studies assessing a total of 748 differential metabolites. In brain tissue, blood, and urine of ASD cases and controls, flotillin-2 (FLOT2), apolipoprotein E (ApoE), and EH domain-containing protein 3 (EHD3) exhibit differential expression, while vinculin (VCL) displays variations in saliva, blood, and urine. Similarly, in case-control studies, gelsolin (GSN) shows differential expression in brain tissue, saliva, and urine, and malate dehydrogenase 2 (MDH2) in brain tissue, blood, and saliva. Hippuric acid and salicyluric acid were simultaneously found in the brain, blood, urine, and faeces. In terms of pathways, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, carbon metabolism, and glutathione metabolism were enriched in the brain as well as in saliva or urine. In our study, we identified six shared protein and two metabolic markers in central nervous system, circulatory system, and non-invasive samples, underscoring their potential value for ASD diagnosis and management, warranting further research.© 2024. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emerging enteric pathogen that causes severe gastrointestinal disease in neonatal piglets and poses a potential risk of cross-species transmission. Although viral strategies that counteract host immune responses have been widely studied, host factors that restrict PDCoV replication remain poorly characterized. In this study, we identify ANKFY1 as a previously unrecognized host factor that restricts PDCoV replication. PDCoV infection markedly upregulated ANKFY1 expression in LLC-PK1 cells. Using gain- and loss-of-function approaches, we demonstrated that ANKFY1 significantly suppresses PDCoV replication, whereas depletion of ANKFY1 restored both viral RNA synthesis and progeny virus production. Mechanistically, ANKFY1 specifically interacts with the viral nonstructural protein nsp8 and promoted its degradation. We further show that ANKFY1 recruits the E3 ubiquitin ligase Cullin 3 to catalyze K63/K33-linked ubiquitination of nsp8, primarily at lysine 58. The ubiquitinated nsp8 is subsequently recognized by the selective autophagy receptor p62 and delivered to autolysosomes for degradation. Disruption of p62 or autophagy flux abolished ANKFY1-mediated nsp8 degradation and antiviral activity, underscoring the essential role of the ANKFY1-Cullin3-p62 axis. Collectively, our results reveal a novel host defense mechanism in which ANKFY1 mediates selective autophagic degradation of PDCoV nsp8 to restrict viral replication. This study not only advances our understanding of PDCoV-host interactions but also identifies the ANKFY1-Cullin3-p62 pathway as a potential target for developing of broad-spectrum antiviral strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study integrates transcriptomic, proteomic, and immunoinformatic analyses to identify peptide-based and repurposed drug candidates for Breast cancer therapy. Differential gene expression profiling across four independent datasets (GSE134938, GSE213481, GSE214054, and GSE148657) identified 455 significantly upregulated and 439 downregulated genes out of 6,124, with ANKFY1 (GSE134938) and ATE1 (GSE148657) emerging as robust markers. Functional clustering highlighted consistent upregulation of genes involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, tumor invasion, and metabolic reprogramming (COL1A1, FN1, SPP1, MMPs, SCD), alongside downregulation of adhesion and mitochondrial genes, suggesting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and metabolic vulnerabilities. Protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed ANKFY1, STARD4/5, and CADM1 as central hubs enriched in lipid metabolism, ECM regulation, and cytoskeletal signaling. Functional enrichment underscored cholesterol transport, steroid biosynthesis, and PPAR/AMPK signaling as key pathways in BC pathogenesis. Proteomic profiling of 21 breast cancer-associated proteins generated 28,732 human-specific peptides, prioritized using a composite scoring system integrating immunogenicity, physicochemical traits, and safety. Top peptides, including SCAMP2, CADM1, and FNBP1, exhibited high MHC binding affinity (IC50 < 30 nM), non-allergenic and non-toxic profiles, and favorable solubility, with motif analysis identifying conserved functional patterns across SCAMP2, CADM1, and FNBP1. Structural modeling and virtual screening validated these proteins as tractable targets, with nilotinib and tucatinib emerging as promising multitarget repurposed drug candidates. At the same time, terfenadine displayed strong binding but cardiotoxic potential. Collectively, these results highlight lipid-driven oncogenesis and ECM remodeling as central to BC biology and provide a translational framework for peptide-based immunotherapy and drug repurposing.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
While cryoablation demonstrates therapeutic potential for lung adenocarcinoma, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying its antitumor effects require further elucidation. We conducted the first transcriptome-based investigation of cryoablation's anti-tumor mechanisms using the Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) model. Subcutaneous LLC tumors were established in C57BL/6 mice, with subsequent randomization into the model, cryoablation, and cisplatin control groups (DDP). Systematic evaluations included the tumor volume and weight, histopathology (H&E staining), Ki-67 proliferative index (IHC). RNA sequencing identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and bioinformatics analysis constructed lncRNA/miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks, with key targets validated by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Our findings revealed that cryoablation significantly inhibited tumor growth (volume/weight reduction) and downregulated the Ki-67 proliferative index. Transcriptomic profiling identified 1136 mRNA, 215 lncRNA, and 39 miRNA DEGs, unveiling critical PDK1-VEGFA axis regulation and mmu-miR-210-5p-ANKFY1 targeting. Western blot analysis confirmed that cryoablation blocked the HIF-1 signaling pathway by inhibiting HIF-1α and VEGF protein expression. This study elucidates that cryoablation exerts anti-tumor effects via HIF-1 pathway blockade and non-coding RNA network remodeling, providing a theoretical foundation for optimizing cryotherapeutic strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ankyrin repeat and FYVE domain containing 1 (ANKFY1) is an indispensable protein in the development of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Our preliminary study revealed that its absence caused progressive spastic ataxia, accompanied by the loss of Purkinje cells in mice. Here, we generated Ankfy1-floxed (Ankfy1f/f) mice, in which conditional inactivation of the Ankfy1 gene was achieved specifically in cerebellar Purkinje cells via crossing with a transgenic mouse strain expressing Cre recombinase under the regulatory control of the Purkinje cell protein 2 (PCP2) promoter. We employed data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry to compare the protein expression profiles in cerebellar samples. The samples were obtained from two groups of male mice. The first group consisted of three Pcp2-Cre; Ankfy1f/f male mice, where the Ankfy1 gene was conditionally knocked out in Purkinje cells, and these mice were designated as the conditional knockout (CKO) group. The second group included three Cre-negative; Ankfy1f/f littermate male mice served as the wild-type (WT) control group. The results identified 69 (45 upregulated and 24 downregulated) differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in CKO vs. WT male mice with a 1.5-fold change. Enrichment analyses of these DEPs based on the Gene Ontology (GO), Orthologous Groups of Proteins (COG), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases revealed functional clusters associated with neuronal cell morphogenesis, extracellular structures, regulation of Rho-GTPase, calcium signaling pathway, etc. Itgb2, which was upregulated in CKO mice, was the top hub gene according to protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis. We selected seven interesting differentially expressed genes (Arhgdib, Impa2, Pcp2, Pcp4, Ppp1r17, Rhobtb2, and Cdc123) for further validation. Arhgdib and Imp2a expression was increased in the cerebellum of CKO male and female mice, and Pcp2 and Pcp4 expression was decreased. Western blotting and immunofluorescence verified the upregulation of ARHGDIB and the downregulation of PCP2 in the cerebellum. Our proteomic analysis of conditional Ankfy1 knockout mice may guide future research to help develop treatments for progressive spastic ataxia.© 2025. The Author(s).
Methylation capture sequencing (MC-seq), which relies on next-generation sequencing technology, offers advantages over the widely used array-based approach that Illumina Inc. developed regarding both resolution and comprehensiveness for detecting DNA methylation changes across genomes. In the present study, MC-seq was employed for the first time to identify DNA methylation markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD).We compared DNA methylation in the blood of 12 AD patients with brain amyloidosis and 12 cognitively normal elderly Japanese individuals without brain amyloidosis. Candidate methylation differences were validated in the two cohorts using bisulfite amplicon sequencing. Significant differentially methylated regions were identified in the ANKH, MARS, ANKFY1, LINC00908, and KLF2 genes and a slight methylation change in CHRNE (p = 0.061). Furthermore, our AD diagnostic prediction model showed that combining the methylation levels of ANKH and MARS with the APOE genotype provided diagnostic accuracy, achieving AUCs of 0.90 and 0.81 in the discovery and validation datasets, respectively.The present results suggest the potential of combining these markers for diagnosing AD and support the validity of our approach for identifying disease-related DNA methylation markers using next-generation sequencing.© 2025. The Author(s).
Spontaneous mouse mutants have helped define genetic contributions to many phenotypes. Here we report a spontaneous Novel Ataxic Phenotype in mice. Ataxia findings were evident at post-natal day 11 in NAP mice and rapidly worsened, resulting in preweaning lethality. Using genome sequencing and genome-wide mapping, we identified a 3' donor splice variant in exon 14 of Myo5a, encoding an actin-based motor protein. The variant in Myo5a (c.1752g>a) excises exon 14 and ablates MYO5A protein expression, which is implicated in intracellular transport and Griscelli syndrome type I in humans. NAP mice displayed expansion of PAX6-positive cells in the external granule layer of the cerebellum, and mass spectrometry analysis of cerebellar extracts uncovered differentially abundant proteins involved in short-range organelle transport, and specifically proteins implicated with early endosomes. Using cerebellar lysates and primary neurons, we provide evidence for an interaction between MYO5A and ANKFY1, a known effector for the endosomal protein, RAB5A. We also found neurons from NAP mice had elongated mitochondria, linking MYO5A to mitochondrial homeostasis. This allele provides new insight into Myo5a function in developmental neuropathology.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The ANKFY1 gene encodes a protein that belongs to double zinc finger proteins involved in endocytosis. Only one family with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome has been reported carrying a homozygous variant in ANKFY1 so far. Here we describe the second case where a 13-year-old boy presented with infantile-onset proteinuria and movement disorder. Whole-exome sequencing showed compound heterozygous variants (NM_001330063.2: c.2753C>G; p.Ser918Ter, and c.3287-11_3287-10del) in ANKFY1. In vitro functional study revealed the two variants led to reduced protein expression level of ANKFY1. This is the first case of co-existence of renal and nervous system phenotypes in a child with variants in ANKFY1, suggesting that bi-allelic variants in ANKFY1 might be associated with a new neuro-renal syndrome.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the ERA.
To extract exosomes from obese and non-obese mice, screen specifically expressed microRNAs by high-throughput sequencing and explore their roles.An animal obesity model was constructed, and the successful construction of the obesity model was verified by HE staining, Western Blot and RT-qPCR. In addition, exosomes were extracted and verified by Western Blot. High-throughput sequencing was performed on the extracted serum exosomes to screen for differentially expressed microRNAs. fluorescence quantitative RT-PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to validate the differentially expressed miRNAs and explore their functions.8 microRNAs were up-regulated and 11 microRNAs were down-regulated. mmu-miR-674-5p and X_28316 were significantly down-regulated and had the greatest impact on protein pathways. 8_13258 was significantly up-regulated and affected multiple protein pathways. GO enrichment analysis suggested that the differentially expressed microRNAs were mainly involved in the cleavage of microtubule activity, transferase activity/transferase pentameric acid. GO enrichment analysis suggested that differentially expressed microRNAs were mainly involved in the processes of cleavage microtubule activity, transferase activity/transfer pentamer, and threonine phosphatase/threonine kinase activity.KEGG pathway enrichment analysis showed that differentially expressed microRNAs were mainly involved in the processes of regulating the phosphorylation of TP53 activity, the G2/M DNA damage checkpoint, and the processing of the ends of DNA double-strand breaks. Protein interaction networks were enriched for Stat3, Fgr, Camk2b, Rac1, Asb6, and Ankfy1. Suggesting that they may be mediated by differential genes to participate in the process of insulin resistance. qRT-PCR results showed that the expression trend of mmu-miR-674-5p was consistent with the sequencing results. It suggests that it may be able to participate in the regulation of insulin resistance as a target gene.microRNAs were differentially expressed in serum exosomes of obese and non-obese mice and might be involved in the specific regulation of insulin resistance. mmu-miR-674-5p was differentially expressed significantly and the validation trend was consistent with it, suggesting that it might be able to participate in the regulation of insulin resistance as a target gene.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Macroautophagy is a process that cells engulf cytosolic materials by autophagosomes and deliver them to lysosomes for degradation. The biogenesis of autophagosomes requires ATG2 as a lipid transfer protein to transport lipids from existing membranes to phagophores. It is generally believed that endoplasmic reticulum is the main source for lipid supply of the forming autophagosomes; whether ATG2 can transfer lipids from other organelles to phagophores remains elusive. In this study, we identified a new ATG2A-binding protein, ANKFY1. Depletion of this endosome-localized protein led to the impaired autophagosome growth and the reduced autophagy flux, which largely phenocopied ATG2A/B depletion. A pool of ANKFY1 co-localized with ATG2A between endosomes and phagophores and depletion of UVRAG, ANKFY1 or ATG2A/B led to reduction of PI3P distribution on phagophores. Purified recombinant ANKFY1 bound to PI3P on membrane through its FYVE domain and enhanced ATG2A-mediated lipid transfer between PI3P-containing liposomes. Therefore, we propose that ANKFY1 recruits ATG2A to PI3P-enriched endosomes and promotes ATG2A-mediated lipid transfer from endosomes to phagophores. This finding implicates a new lipid source for ATG2A-mediated phagophore expansion, where endosomes donate PI3P and other lipids to phagophores via lipid transfer.© 2024. The Author(s).
Astragalus polysaccharide (APS) participates in various processes, such as the enhancement of immunity and inhibition of tumours. APS can affect osteoporosis (OP) by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of human bone mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs). This study was designed to elucidate the mechanism of APS in hBMSC proliferation and osteoblast differentiation.Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blotting were performed to determine the expression of microRNA (miR)-760 and ankyrin repeat and FYVE domain containing 1 (ANKFY1) in OP tissues and hBMSCs. Cell viability was measured using the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. The expression of cyclin D1 and osteogenic marker genes (osteocalcin (OCN), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2)) was evaluated using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Mineral deposits were detected through Alizarin Red S staining. In addition, Western blotting was performed to detect the ANKFY1 protein levels following the regulation of miR-760. The relationship between miR-760 and ANKFY1 was determined using a luciferase reporter assay.The expression of miR-760 was upregulated in OP tissues, whereas ANKFY1 expression was downregulated. APS stimulated the differentiation and proliferation of hBMSCs by: increasing their viability; upregulating the expression levels of cyclin D1, ALP, OCN, and RUNX2; and inducing osteoblast mineralization. Moreover, APS downregulated the expression of miR-760. Overexpression of miR-760 was found to inhibit the promotive effect of APS on hBMSC differentiation and proliferation, while knockdown of miR-760 had the opposite effect. ANKFY1 was found to be the direct target of miR-760. Additionally, ANKFY1 participated in the APS-mediated regulation of miR-760 function in hBMSCs.APS promotes the osteogenic differentiation and proliferation of hBMSCs. Moreover, APS alleviates the effects of OP by downregulating miR-760 and upregulating ANKFY1 expression.© 2023 Author(s) et al.
Sperm cryodamage is a key factor affecting its post-thaw quality. This study aims to systematically elucidate the molecular response mechanisms of bovine sperm cryodamage by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. By utilizing the swim-up technique to isolate sperm subpopulations with mild and severe cryodamage, thereby minimizing interference from individual genetic variation. Results demonstrated that mildly damaged sperm exhibited superior motility, structural integrity, and antioxidant capacity, along with less reactive oxygen species accumulation and more active Wnt, mTOR, and Hippo signaling pathways at the transcriptional level. Severely damaged sperm exhibited activation of pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, peroxisome, glutathione metabolism, phagocytosis, and DNA repair at the protein level, with ATP5MG, GPX1, XRCC1, and AP1M2 serving as core regulatory factors in these pathways. Additionally, integrated analysis identified eight potential biomarker proteins, including apoptosis-related protein ARL6IP5, anti-apoptotic protein GRINA, adhesion factors CDHR1/LGALS1, DNA repair proteins CUL4B/POLR2E, and core factors RPL14/A1BG in the protein-protein interaction network. Notably, the protein levels of ARL6IP5, CDHR1, and LGALS1 were inconsistent with their gene expression levels. These candidate molecules showed significant correlations with post-thaw sperm quality and were quantitatively validated. The results indicate that mitochondrial energy metabolism, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic defense systems, as well as self-repair and clearance responses, including nucleic acid repair and phagocytosis, represent the molecular response characteristics of sperm cryodamage. These findings complement the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of sperm cryodamage, and provide potential targets for evaluating the cryopreservation potential of bull semen and optimizing cryoprotectants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Gut homeostasis relies on the tightly controlled balance between intestinal stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. The clathrin adaptor complex AP-1B plays a pivotal role in establishing the polarity of enterocytes as well as in the asymmetric distribution of membrane proteins, including the brush border transporters that govern intestinal absorption. Additionally, AP-1B has been involved in the control of intestinal cell proliferation, which suggests that it may regulate various aspects of gut functional organisation. In this study, we investigated the consequences of conditional mutations of the gene encoding the AP-1B subunit μ1B (Ap1m2) in mouse enteroids. We first showed in this model that Ap1m2 mutations also induce strong polarity defects at the subcellular level in the absorptive enterocytes. Next, we unveiled that AP-1B regulates intestinal cell differentiation at the tissular level, through the commitment of stem/progenitor cells towards the secretory lineage and cell positioning along the crypt-villus axis. Furthermore, we showed that AP-1B inhibition also induces hyperproliferation in enteroids. Notably, we unravelled that, complementary to the Wnt/β-catenin-mediated proliferation described in null mice, AP-1B downregulation triggers a tissue-autonomous, mTOR/YAP-dependent, proliferative pathway. Overall, these results enlighten the pleiotropic roles played by AP-1B in the homeostasis of the gut epithelium.© 2026 The Author(s). Biology of the Cell published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Société Française des Microscopies and Société Biologie Cellulaire de France.
Bladder cancer (BCa) is a highly prevalent urological malignancy and one of the most frequently occurring cancers worldwide, necessitating the development of diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers. This study aimed to explore candidate genes that may be involved in the carcinogenesis of BCa.BCa gene expression data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were analyzed. Both differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed on datasets (GSE236932, GSE133624) to identify the key modules and hub genes. We subsequently extracted genes from the top modules positively correlated with tumor traits identified via WGCNA and intersected them with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in each dataset. Finally, the overlapping genes were screened for their therapeutic potential as biomarkers in bladder cancer, and quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) was executed to validate the expression patterns of the most promising candidate genes in clinical tissue samples.Integrative analysis revealed a set of hub genes potentially involved in bladder cancer, including PSMG3, ESRP1, GRHL2, MAL2, CDH1, AP1M2, PAFAH1B3, PRKCZ, MAPK13, and RAB25. Among these, PAFAH1B3 and PSMG3 emerged as notable novel candidates. qRT-PCR validation further underscored the significant overexpression of these genes in BCa samples, with approximately two-fold changes relative to normal tissues.This study suggests that PAFAH1B3 and PSMG3 may serve as valuable biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in bladder cancer. However, further investigations are needed to establish their biological function and clinical relevance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Recognition of infected macrophages by CD4+ T cells is essential to immune protection against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), the causative agent of tuberculosis (TB). However, not all infected macrophage subsets successfully elicit T cell activation. We recently discovered that M2-like macrophages fail to efficiently activate memory CD4+ T cells when infected with Mtb, yet successfully elicit T cell activation when loaded with peptides, γ-irradiated bacteria, or Mtb whole cell lysate. Since the mechanisms underlying CD4+ T cell evasion by infected M2 but not M1-like macrophages remain underexplored, we sought to determine the genes and pathways unique to Mtb infection of M2-like cells, including alveolar macrophages. RNA sequencing of human macrophages infected with virulent Mtb identified enrichment of IL-10 and type I interferon (IFN) signaling genes, including IL10RA and HERC5, respectively, in infected M2-like monocyte-derived and alveolar macrophages. However, genes involved in MHC-II trafficking, such as AP1M2, were higher in infected M1-like macrophages. In complementary experiments using fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry, we observed impaired trafficking of newly synthesized MHC-II to the plasma membrane of Mtb-infected M2-like macrophages despite high total surface MHC-II levels. Neutralization of IL-10 or knockdown of HERC5 restored MHC-II trafficking to the cell surface among infected M2-like macrophages and significantly enhanced activation of memory CD4+ T cells in an MHC-II-dependent manner. These findings identify coordinated IL-10 and type I IFN signaling as key mechanisms that restrict MHC-II trafficking to the plasma membrane in Mtb-infected M2-like macrophages, thereby limiting antigen presentation and CD4+ T cell activation. We propose that host-directed therapies targeting these pathways in infected alveolar macrophages will facilitate T cell recognition for the prevention or treatment of active TB.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42292383 is a review article
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a debilitating disorder characterized by persistent fatigue that is not alleviated by rest and is often accompanied by multiple somatic symptoms. The etiology of CFS remains poorly understood, and conventional Western medicine offers limited effective targeted therapies. In contrast, Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), which utilizes pattern differentiation-particularly the Liver-Spleen Disharmony Pattern (LSDP) and the Qi-Blood Deficiency Pattern (QBDP)-has demonstrated clinical efficacy in managing CFS. However, the molecular mechanisms underpinning TCM pattern classification in CFS remain largely unexplored.A total of 30 participants were enrolled in this study, including 10 CFS patients with LSDP, 10 CFS patients with QBDP, and 10 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC). Serum phosphoproteomic profiling was conducted using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), which incorporated data-dependent acquisition (DDA) for spectral library construction and data-independent acquisition (DIA) for label-free quantification. Differentially phosphorylated sites (DPSs) and proteins (DPPs) were identified with thresholds of absolute fold change (|FC|) ≥ 1.2 and a Benjamini-Hochberg (BH)-corrected false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05. Principal component analysis (PCA) was employed to assess global differences in phosphorylation profiles across groups, and functional enrichment analyses were performed to elucidate the biological functions of differential molecules.PCA revealed distinct clustering of phosphoproteomic profiles among the three groups, with high consistency across biological replicates (PC1 explained 19.3% of the total variance, and PC2 explained 15.9%). A total of 849 non-redundant DPSs and 586 non-redundant DPPs were identified across the three pairwise comparisons. The HC vs. LSDP comparison yielded the highest number of differential molecules (406 DPSs and 351 DPPs), with a balanced distribution of upregulated and downregulated events. In contrast, the HC vs. QBDP comparison was dominated by phosphorylation upregulation (61.2% of DPSs), while the QBDP vs. LSDP comparison showed a higher proportion of downregulated DPSs (56.7%). Functional enrichment analysis indicated that upregulated DPPs in the HC vs. LSDP comparison were primarily involved in MAPK signaling and cytoskeletal remodeling, while downregulated DPPs were enriched in pathways associated with neurodegenerative diseases and nucleocytoplasmic transport. Notably, we identified a candidate differential phosphorylation site, DENND3 S472 (S472@DENND3_HUMAN), with moderate discriminatory power (raw p = 0.042, BH-corrected FDR < 0.05, AUC = 0.72).This exploratory study identified significant differences in serum phosphoproteomic profiles between CFS patients with LSDP and QBDP. The distinct phosphoproteomic signatures observed in LSDP and QBDP provide preliminary molecular evidence supporting TCM pattern differentiation in CFS. These findings enhance the understanding of CFS pathogenesis and lay the groundwork for precision-based TCM diagnosis and individualized therapeutic strategies for CFS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Investigation of in utero, tissue-specific molecular pathways contributing to prenatal programming of childhood-onset asthma is needed to develop effective, targeted prevention strategies. We aimed to examine the relationship between predicted gene expression in placenta and childhood-onset asthma and to compare relationships between childhood- and adult-onset asthma. Asthma genome-wide association study published summary statistics were obtained from the UK Biobank and published placental gene expression quantitative trait loci were obtained from the Rhode Island Child Health Study. We used S-PrediXcan to evaluate and compare associations between placental predicted gene expression and childhood- and adult-onset asthma and to determine whether signals were placenta-specific. Among 8,038 tested placental predicted expression-asthma associations, we identified 56 (0.7%) genes only significantly associated with childhood-onset asthma, 12 (0.1%) genes only significantly associated with adult-onset asthma, and 18 (0.2%) shared genes. Predicted expression of several genes (ACTL9, AMN, C9orf38, C11orf30, CTSE, EFCAB13, EIF4E1B, FN1, GLS2, IL6, IVL, LZIC, MAN2A2, MEGT1, RACGAP1, SMAD6, SPATA5, TMEM25, VTI1B, WDR19) was not significantly associated with childhood- or adult-onset asthma in any non-placental tissue, suggesting that the associations may be placenta-specific. This study identified alterations in predicted expression of placental genes associated with transcriptional pathways critical to the development of asthma. We identified unique and shared pathways, particularly related to immune regulation, associated with childhood- and adult-onset. This expands our understanding of the fetal origins of asthma, highlights the placenta as an informative tissue in understanding asthma pathogenesis, and identifies target genes to prioritize for future functional studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lactation curve parameters (LCP) are essential in the refinement of dairy cattle breeding programs due to their relationship with the shape of lactation curves and their biological interpretations. In this context, the primary objectives of this study were to perform genome-wide association studies and functional enrichment analyses of various LCP from random regression models based on 3 nonlinear functions (Wood [WD], Wilmink [WL], and Ali-Schaeffer [AS]) in American Holstein cattle. We used 2,754,840 and 1,642,653 daily milk yield records of 11,139 first- and 6,735 second-parity cows, respectively, born between 2012 and 2019. A total of 14,464 animals were also genotyped with 60,277 SNPs. The SNP effects, the proportion of the total additive genetic variance explained by them, and their approximate P-values, were estimated for the random regression coefficients based on the GBLUP method. Significant SNP were identified using a modified Bonferroni multiple testing correction that accounts for the number of independent chromosomal segments. Genes and quantitative trait loci located within 100 kb upstream or downstream of the significant SNP were then examined, and functional enrichment analyses were conducted on the candidate genes identified for each LCP. For first-parity cows, 81, 128, and 196 significant SNP were identified for the WD, WL, and AS parameters, respectively, whereas for second-parity cows, 120, 125, and 128 significant SNP were identified for the same parameters. The significant SNP were located on 18 autosomal chromosomes. One genomic region (BTA14: 1,801,116 bp) was common to all the parametric functions (WD, WL, and AS). The genomic markers located on BTA15 and BTA19 were unique to the WL parameters; whereas those located on BTA3 and BTA20 were unique to the AS parameters. There were significant SNP located on BTA14 capturing more than 1% of the total additive genetic variance. Twenty candidate genes (i.e., ARC, ADGRB1, C8orf90, CYP11B1, DENND3, GML, GPR20, JRK, LY6D, LY6E, LY6L, LYNX1, LYPD2, PSCA, PTK2, PTP4A3, SLURP1, SLC45A4, THEM6, and TSNARE1) were common to all the parametric functions. No significant gene ontology terms were found for the WD parameter c (i.e., decreasing slope parameter after the lactation peak yield) for first-parity cows, and for the AS parameters d and f (parameters associated with the increasing slope) for second-parity cows. Previous reports have identified candidate genes within these genomic regions that possess biological functions related to apoptotic and regulation of gene expression, milk production, clinical mastitis, milk lactose, SCS, fat yield, and udder morphology. This study enabled the identification of several candidate genes associated with LCP, enhancing our understanding of the genomic architecture underlying LCP in American Holstein cattle.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
RING box Protein 1 (Rbx1) is a RING-domain protein that serves as the catalytic core of the SKP1-Cullin1-F-box (SCF) ubiquitin ligase complex. It is implicated in the ubiquitination process during plant self-incompatibility, growth, and abiotic stress responses. Two Arabidopsis Rbx1 homologous genes, designated ClRbx1-1 and ClRbx1-2, were identified in the genome of 'Xiangshui' lemon. Both ClRbx1 genes are highly expressed in pollen, furthermore, their expression was generally upregulated under self-pollination compared to cross-pollination conditions. Additionally, under simulated salt stress, the expression of ClRbx1 in leaves increased overall. The result of yeast two-hybrid showed that ClRbx1-1 could interact with several proteins associated with self-incompatibility and stress-responses, including Cullin1-2, S1-RNase, S3-RNase, Ubc12, AP1M2, and Peroxidase25. Yeast three-hybrid assays further demonstrated that ClRbx1-1 interacts with both Cullin1-2 and SKP1-6/SKP1-14 to assemble a canonical SCF complex. Notably, Ubc12 is highly expressed in pollen and its expression level is higher under self-pollination than under cross-pollination. This suggests that ClRbx1-1, cooperating with Ubc12, might function to regulate the self-incompatibility response via the RUB (related to ubiquitin) modification pathway. Overexpression of ClRbx1 in Arabidopsis resulted in dwarfism, and significantly improved salt stress tolerance. Overexpression of ClRbx1 in 'Xiangshui' lemon, achieved via Agrobacterium rhizogenes mediated hairy root transformation, led to a significant increase in salt stress tolerance. In summary, this study collectively elucidates the critical functions of ClRbx1 in self-incompatibility and salt stress response in 'Xiangshui' lemon, laying a solid foundation for further dissection of the molecular mechanisms by which the SCF complex mediates self-incompatibility and abiotic stress in plants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Malaria, caused by Plasmodium parasites, remains a global health crisis, necessitating novel therapeutic strategies targeting host-parasite interactions. During liver-stage infection, parasites exploit host vesicular trafficking machinery, particularly SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) proteins that mediate membrane fusion. Using a CRISPR/Cas9 knockout system in HeLa cells combined with advanced microscopy of Plasmodium berghei-infected HeLa cells, we identified specific endolysosomal SNAREs including Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 7 (VAMP7), Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 8 (VAMP8), Vesicle Transport Through Interaction With T-SNAREs 1B (Vti1B), and Syntaxin 7 (Stx7) to be recruited to the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) with distinct temporal profiles. This demonstrates the parasite's precise manipulation of host endolysosomal trafficking pathways. VAMP7 and Vti1B were localized to the PVM within 30 min post-infection, suggesting potential roles during invasion, while VAMP8 and Stx7 appeared later around 24 h post infection (hpi), coinciding with increased nutrient acquisition. Single gene deletions showed minimal impact, but combinatorial knockouts (KO) revealed critical redundancy. VAMP7-VAMP8 as well as VAMP7-Vti1B double KO significantly reduced parasite infection and growth, with Vti1B playing a dominant role. Triple KO phenotypes mirrored VAMP7-Vti1B disruption, underscoring Vti1B's dominant role. SNARE depletion also impaired the lysosome-PVM association and LAMP1 positive vesicle recruitment. Our findings indicate Plasmodium hijacks a coordinated host SNARE network to fuse lysosomes with the PVM for nutrient uptake. Targeting Vti1B-containing complexes disrupts this pathway without host cell toxicity, offering a promising host-directed antimalarial approach.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a common respiratory disease worldwide, and obesity is a significant factor contributing to its progression. However, there is still a lack of effective clinical interventions specifically targeting this condition. This study aims to investigate the role of MGRN1 in obesity-related ALI. An obesity-related ALI mouse model was induced by a high-fat diet (HFD) and intratracheal instillation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). An in vitro model was constructed using palmitic acid (PA) and LPS to stimulate mouse lung epithelial cells (MLE-12). Lung wet/dry weight ratio and HE staining were used to assess pathological changes in lung tissue. Cell damage was evaluated through CCK-8 and LDH release assays. Mitochondrial function was assessed via JC-1, Mito-Tracker Green, MitoSOX Red staining, and ATP content measurement. Additionally, RT-qPCR, Western blot, ELISA, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry were employed to detect the expression of related genes and proteins.MGRN1 is downregulated in obesity-related ALI, and its overexpression alleviates LPS-induced lung histopathological damage in obese mice, reduces TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, ROS, and LDH levels, and inhibits PA-LPS-induced MLE-12 cell injury. Additionally, overexpression of MGRN1 restores mitochondrial function in PA-LPS-induced MLE-12 cells and suppresses PINK1/Parkin signaling pathway-mediated mitophagy. Further studies found that treatment with the PINK1 activator MTK458 attenuates the protective effect of MGRN1 overexpression on MLE-12 cells exposed to PA-LPS. MGRN1 restores mitochondrial function by inhibiting PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy, thereby suppressing lung epithelial cell injury and ultimately alleviating obesity-related ALI. These findings suggest that MGRN1 may be a promising therapeutic target and that strategies aimed at restoring MGRN1 or pharmacologically restraining PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy may offer a novel intervention for obese patients at risk of ALI, providing a theoretical basis for future clinical drug development.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01038-z.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Collective endothelial migration during vascular development relies on dynamic cell-cell contacts, yet how the junctions between leader and follower cells are organized remains poorly understood. Using Cryo-SIM followed by FIB-SEM, we investigated the nanoscale 3D ultrastructure of asymmetric adherens junctions (AAJs), revealing a wide spectrum of membrane folds at the contact interface between migrating endothelial cells. By performing a junction localization screen, we identified a variety of membrane curvature-sensing BAR domain proteins selectively enriched at AAJs. Among these, BIN1 and SNX9 emerged as novel regulators of front-to-rear polarity in follower cells during endothelial collective migration. The spatiotemporal recruitment of these individual BAR proteins associated with distinct phases of AAJ remodeling. Furthermore, depletion of SNX9 disturbed VE-cadherin dynamics, endothelial cell directionality, and sheet migration in the common cardinal vein of zebrafish. These findings highlight junctional nanoscale membrane curvatures as hubs for the spatiotemporal recruitment of a repertoire of BAR proteins to remodel AAJs and guide collective endothelial migration during vascular development.© 2026 Janssen et al.
Vacuolar protein sorting 4B (VPS4B) is part of the endosomal sorting complex required for the transport (ESCRT) machinery and is essential for autophagosome completion. Vps4b mutation might reduce the ability of dental follicle cells to differentiate during the mineralization process. However, the role of VPS4B in osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation from mesenchymal stem/progenitor cells remains to be explored. In the present study, we observed a substantial presence of VPS4B in bone, as well as an increase in its expression levels during the osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation of mesenchymal progenitor cells. Functional experiments revealed that VPS4B facilitated the differentiation of both osteoblasts and adipocytes. Further mechanistic investigations revealed that VPS4B was involved in autophagy in mesenchymal progenitor cells and the positive influence of VPS4B on osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation was mitigated in the context of autophagy inhibition, indicating that the pro-osteogenic and pro-adipogenic effects of VPS4B are dependent on the autophagy signaling pathway. Our research suggests that sustaining VPS4B expression at an optimal level may be advantageous for the maintenance of bone and fat homeostasis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major complication following nephron-sparing surgery, with limited preventive strategies. Annexin A2 (ANXA2) is upregulated after renal IRI, but its functional role and therapeutic potential remain unclear.Utilizing ANXA2 knockout (KO) and wild-type mice subjected to renal IRI, we assessed injury, fibrosis, and cell death pathways. In vitro studies employed mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs) with ANXA2 or charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) 2A knockdown or overexpression. Molecular mechanisms were investigated via co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and immunofluorescence. The Kidney-Targeting Peptide (KTP)-conjugated, ANXA2-loaded lipid nanoparticle (KTP-LNP@ANXA2) was synthesized and characterized. Its efficacy was evaluated in vitro and in a mouse renal IRI model.ANXA2 was significantly upregulated post-IRI, predominantly in the renal medulla. KO mice exhibited exacerbated medullary injury, increased fibrosis, and enhanced necroptosis, as indicated by elevated phosphorylated MLKL (p‑MLKL) levels and severe apical membrane disruption, whereas no genotype‑dependent differences were detected in the selected markers of apoptosis, pyroptosis, or ferroptosis at 24 h. ANXA2 deficiency amplified the inflammatory response, increasing neutrophil infiltration through the upregulation of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand (CXCL) 1 and CXCL2. Mechanistically, ANXA2 associated with CHMP2A, a component of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III membrane repair complex, following IRI, promoting ESCRT-III assembly at the apical membrane to counteract necroptosis. Knocking down CHMP2A abolished the protective effect of ANXA2. The engineered KTP-LNP@ANXA2 demonstrated excellent stability, biocompatibility, and enhanced uptake by renal TECs. Pre-treatment with KTP-LNP@ANXA2 in mice effectively delivered ANXA2 to the kidneys, attenuated IRI severity, reduced necroptosis and inflammation, and diminished neutrophil recruitment.ANXA2 confers protection against renal IRI by interacting with CHMP2A to facilitate ESCRT-III-mediated inhibition of TEC necroptosis, thereby attenuating subsequent inflammation. Enhancement of renal ANXA2 levels via engineered LNPs represents a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for preventing renal IRI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD) overlap clinically, pathologically and genetically, complicating interpretation of cross-disorder genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals.We analysed 322,963 UK Biobank participants with bidirectional time-varying Cox models, one-year and two-year lag analyses, and competing-risk sensitivity models to quantify AD-PD clinical co-occurrence. We then analysed European-ancestry AD, PD and LBD GWAS summary statistics using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), GCTA-mtCOJO/GSMR, MAGMA, stratified LDSC, brain eQTL/mQTL SMR with HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization for selected methylation probes. Conditional loci were compared with original GWAS loci to separate shared liability from retained disorder-predominant associations.PD was associated with subsequent AD (fully adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.94-2.65; P = 6.40E-25), and AD was associated with subsequent PD (HR 3.14, 95% CI 2.56-3.85; P = 2.10E-28). Lag and competing-risk sensitivity analyses remained concordant. LDSC estimated positive genetic correlations for AD-PD (rg = 0.20; P = 0.0086) and PD-LBD (rg = 0.61; P = 0.0005). Conditioning reduced genome-wide significant loci from 14 to 9 for AD, from 24 to 21 for PD and from 5 to 2 for LBD. Retained loci included AD signals near CR1, BIN1, CLU, SPI1, MS4A, PICALM, ABCA7 and APOE; PD signals near GBA, NUCKS1, TMEM163, STK39, GAK/TMEM175, BST1, SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT and RIT2; and LBD signals near SNCA/MMRN1 and APOE. MAGMA and S-LDSC highlighted amyloid, lipid, immune, synaptic-vesicle and brain-tissue enrichment patterns. Brain QTL analyses prioritized retained eQTL and mQTL signals, and colocalization supported shared PD-GWAS/mQTL signals at HLA-DRB5, ARHGAP27, CRHR1, MAPT and KANSL1.AD and PD show bidirectional clinical co-occurrence, whereas conditional genetic analyses retain a smaller set of disease-predominant loci and regulatory signals across AD, PD and LBD. These findings refine cross-disorder interpretation and nominate loci for independent genetic and functional validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Qiu and Hu.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a primary microvascular complication of diabetes. Its pathogenesis is associated with chronic inflammation and immune responses. While tolerogenic dendritic cells (tolDCs) are critical for suppressing excessive inflammation and maintaining immune homeostasis, their function in DR is not well characterized.To identify biomarkers associated with tolDCs in DR and to explore their mechanisms.Biomarkers were identified from public databases using differential analysis, machine learning (LASSO regression analysis and Random Forest analysis), and expression validation. Their mechanisms were then explored through enrichment analysis and immune infiltration, and ultimately validated by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) on clinical blood samples.A total of 2096 differentially expressed genes (DEGs)1 were identified between DR and control groups. By intersecting with 6267 tolDCs-related genes, 51 key candidates were selected. Machine learning and expression validation further pinpointed two biomarkers: transcription factor EC (TFEC) and chromatin modifying protein 2 A (CHMP2A). Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) showed significant enrichment of TFEC in 994 pathways and CHMP2A in 748, with co-enriched pathways including apoptosis, VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling, and VEGF signaling. Analysis identified eight altered immune cell types; TFEC correlated strongest with activated NK cells (cor = - 0.49, p < 0.001), while CHMP2A correlated with resting mast cells (cor = 0.49, p < 0.001). RT-qPCR confirmed TFEC upregulation and CHMP2A downregulation in DR, validating the bioinformatic results.TFEC and CHMP2A are potential biomarkers involved in DR pathogenesis via tolDCs.© The Author(s) 2026.
Although cGAS-STING immunotherapy holds immense potential, its efficacy is severely compromised by pathway evasion. To overcome this, we engineered a core-shell bilayer nanobomb (M/ZIF/MnO2@DBCO) via a template-assisted approach, integrating MSC1094308 into ZIF-8 cores followed by MnO2 shell deposition and DBCO functionalization. In a simulated tumor microenvironment, ZIF-8 loading accelerated Mn2+ release from MnO2, increasing the cumulative release by nearly 30% within 8 h compared to pristine MnO2. Cellular assays demonstrated rapid bio-orthogonal targeting of azide-modified tumors, achieving lysosomal escape within 6 h postuptake. Subsequently, MnO2-mediated glutathione (GSH) depletion and hydroxyl radical (·OH) generation, combined with Zn2+ induced mitochondrial oxidative stress, produced cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) that triggered immunogenic cell death. Furthermore, Mn2+, Zn2+, and dsDNA released from damaged mitochondria cooperatively activated the cGAS-STING pathway. Concurrently, MSC1094308 inhibited ESCRT-mediated negative regulation, as evidenced by a ∼0.2 decrease in the p-STING/VPS4B-RFP colocalization coefficient, confirming the blockade of cGAS-STING evasion. In vivo studies revealed that the nanoplatform profoundly stimulated antitumor immunity, increasing tumor-infiltrating cytotoxic T lymphocytes approximately 8-fold versus untreated controls after 21 days. This work establishes an integrated strategy harnessing Zn2+/Mn2+ synergy, nanobomb reactivity, and ESCRT inhibition to circumvent cGAS-STING evasion, offering a promising paradigm for cancer immunotherapy.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42426020
Mosquito-borne orthoflavivirus, such as Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), Dengue virus (DENV), and Zika virus (ZIKV), pose a serious global health threat. As obligate intracellular parasites, they often hijack the host ubiquitin system to modify their own proteins, thereby regulating the viral life cycle, host adaptation, transmission, and pathogenesis. Despite its critical roles, the precise molecular mechanisms and functional significance of viral protein ubiquitination in orthoflavivirus infection remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify JEV prM as a novel target for host-specific ubiquitination, which occurs exclusively in vertebrate hosts but not in mosquitoes. Ubiquitin conjugation at the evolutionarily conserved lysine residues (K107/108/116) in multiple mosquito-borne orthoflaviviruses (USUV, MVEV, and WNV) confers differential adaptation between vertebrate hosts and mosquito vectors. Mechanistically, prM ubiquitination serves as a recruitment signal for the ESCRT-I subunit TSG101, an early-acting component of the ESCRT machinery, which in turn serves as an adaptor to recruit downstream ESCRT components (VPS28, CHMP2A, and CHMP4B), thereby driving viral particle budding. These findings elucidate a novel mechanism by which viral protein ubiquitination regulates JEV infection and host adaptation, and provide important insights into the adaptive evolution of orthoflaviviruses across different hosts and vectors.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Synapse loss correlates with cognitive decline in neurodegenerative diseases like late-onset Alzheimer's disease. We developed a semi-automated workflow to quantify synapse loss in primary mouse neurons. The protocol includes culturing neurons on coverslips, using short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-expressing lentivirus, maintaining cultures, and labeling excitatory and inhibitory presynaptic markers by immunofluorescence. Image acquisition and analysis using Fiji/ComDet macros enable region of interest selection, neurite length measurement, puncta detection, and quantification of synapse density, size, and intensity following Bin1 knockdown. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Barata et al.1.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565210
Acquired paclitaxel (PTX) resistance remains a major obstacle in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) treatment. This study investigated TIPE1's role in regulating autophagy and PTX sensitivity and developed ROS-responsive TIPE1 mRNA-loaded nanoparticles (TIPE1m NPs) as a therapeutic strategy. PTX-resistant TNBC cell lines were established, and integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were performed. TIPE1 was downregulated in resistant cells, while higher TNFAIP8L1 expression in public breast cancer cohorts was associated with better survival and improved PTX response. Mechanistically, TIPE1 overexpression was associated with ubiquitination-related reduction in the stability of the small GTPase RAB7A, leading to impaired autophagic flux, increased ROS accumulation, and enhanced PTX-induced apoptosis. Conversely, TIPE1 knockdown stabilized RAB7A, enhanced autophagy, and increased PTX tolerance. ROS-responsive TIPE1m NPs were constructed to restore TIPE1 expression in resistant cells. TIPE1m NPs suppressed autophagy, increased ROS, and enhanced PTX-induced apoptosis in vitro. In PTX-resistant xenografts, combined TIPE1m NPs and PTX treatment suppressed tumor growth without obvious systemic toxicity. These findings identify the TIPE1-RAB7A-autophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target and support TIPE1 mRNA delivery as a strategy to overcome PTX resistance in TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552063 is a review article
Chronic stress is increasingly recognized as a driver of cancer metabolism, highlighting the need to elucidate the mechanism linking chronic stress to metabolic reprogramming. Here, we performed untargeted metabolomics on serum samples from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients and integrated the results with clinical and stress-related assessments, revealing pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) enrichment accompanied by elevated epinephrine levels in patients with stress-associated features. β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activated by chronic stress stabilized MYCBP by competitively displacing VHL, thereby enhancing MYC transcriptional activity and upregulating key PPP enzymes, including G6PD and TKT. Unexpectedly, stress-associated stimulation not only activated ADRB2 signaling but also increased ADRB2 protein abundance. Mechanistically, stress exposure enhanced RNMT-dependent N7-methylguanosine (m7G) cap modification of ADRB2 mRNA, thereby increasing its translational efficiency. Together, these findings define an RNMT-ADRB2-MYCBP-PPP axis that integrates epitranscriptomic regulation with adrenergic signaling to promote metabolic reprogramming and malignant progression in ESCC. The stress-associated RNA modification-metabolism circuitry comprises potential therapeutic targets to overcome stress-associated ESCC progression.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Drug resistance and poor clinical outcomes in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) necessitate robust biomarkers for personalized therapy. Glycolysis reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, but its clinical utility remains incompletely defined.We integrated TCGA and GEO transcriptomic data with Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), and multivariate Cox regression to construct a glycolysis-related prognostic signature. A nomogram combining the risk score with clinicopathological factors was developed. Drug sensitivity was predicted using the pRRophetic algorithm. qRT-PCR and xenograft models using A549 and cisplatin-resistant A549/DDP cells validated the expression of candidate genes.Patients stratified by glycolysis-related risk scores exhibited significantly distinct survival outcomes, and the glycolysis-based signature functioned as an independent prognostic factor for overall survival in LUAD. The nomogram demonstrated robust predictive performance and effectively estimated patient sensitivity to three commonly used conventional chemotherapeutic agents. In vitro and in vivo studies using A549 cells and their cisplatin-resistant derivative A549/DDP revealed aberrant expression of VIPR1, ADRB2, RXFP1, PDGFB, WNT3A, and SPRY1 in the resistant cell line and in corresponding xenograft tumor tissues. These findings suggest that glycolytic activity is closely associated with both drug resistance and clinical prognosis in LUAD.This study identifies a glycolysis-related gene signature with demonstrable utility for prognostic stratification and therapeutic response prediction in LUAD. The proposed integrative model holds promise for enhancing precision treatment decision-making through optimized risk assessment and rational selection of chemotherapeutic regimens.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Liu, Li, Zhang, Geng, Chen, Zhou, Fan, Wang, Zhang and Cao.
A fundamental but unanswered question in neuropsychiatry is whether the psychiatric symptoms of epilepsy are caused by the same or a separate pathophysiology as seizures. To address this question, we investigated a monogenic form of epilepsy (pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy) caused by aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) mutations. ALDH7A1 global knockout mice exhibited both seizure-associated and maladaptive affective behavioral phenotypes. However, seizure phenotypes were caused by ALDH7A1 deletion in hepatocytes whereas maladaptive affective behaviors were caused by ALDH7A1 deletion in astrocytes. Deletion in astrocytes disrupted astrocyte redox homeostasis, impairing regulation of extracellular ion concentrations and reducing neuronal activity in the prelimbic cortex. Sulforaphane, which activates the NRF2 antioxidant pathway, restored prelimbic neuronal activity and rescued maladaptive affective behaviors in ALDH7A1 knockout mice but did not prevent seizures. These studies implicate astrocyte redox homeostasis and prelimbic hypoactivity in maladaptive affective behavioral phenotypes in a congenital form of epilepsy, which are mechanistically and therapeutically dissociable from seizure pathophysiology.
Evaluation of etiology, phenotype, and long-term outcome, and defining the predictors of outcome in children with pyridoxine-responsive seizures.The study included all children with pyridoxine-responsive seizures treated in our hospital from 2006 to 2025. Serial video electroencephalography, brain MRI, metabolic, genetic analyses, and psychological assessment were done in all cases. All patients were divided into two groups: patients with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) associated with pathogenic variants in ALDH7A1, PNPO, and PLPBP (I group) and patients with pyridoxine-responsive epilepsy (PRE) due to other etiologies (II group). The early-onset seizures were initially treated by antiseizure medication (ASM), and if at least two of the ASMs failed to stop the seizures, pyridoxine was given (100 mg/day, iv). Analyzed parameters were age of seizure onset, period from seizure onset to pyridoxine introduction, brain MRI, type of seizures, etiology, ASM, and predictors for outcome. The outcome included seizure control and neurological development. Mann-Whitney test, Fisher's exact test, and Firth penalized logistic regression were used to test for statistical significance.Twenty-one patients were included: 10 in group I and 11 in group II with various etiologies. Median age at seizure onset in both cohorts was 2 (range 1-11) days. Mann-Whitney U test demonstrated no significant difference between the two groups (p = 0.79). The median time from seizure onset to pyridoxine treatment was 12 days in PDE (range 1-61 days) and 10 days (range 1-98) in PRE, and the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.65). Developmental delay was present in 6/10 (60%) PDE patients and 5/11 (45.5%) PRE patients. Seizure freedom was attained in 8/10 (80%) PDE and 8/11 (72.7%) PRE patients. MRI abnormalities were seen in 8/10 (80%) PDE and 7/11 (63.6%) PRE patients. The difference in these parameters between the two groups was significant.Etiologic heterogeneity and phenotype overlapping between PDE and PRE, atypical presentations, and good initial response to pyridoxine regardless of genetic and neuroimaging findings suggest the introduction of pyridoxine in all infants when two ASMs have failed. Despite appropriate pyridoxine treatment, more than half of patients with PDE had developmental delay and resistant seizures, suggesting the complexity of the underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Kravljanac, Vučetić Tadić and Oparnica.
Background: Hexoprenaline, a widely used tocolytic, is a β2 adrenergic receptor agonist that when administered relaxes the smooth muscles in the uterus and cervix. The Gly16Arg polymorphism in the ADRB2 gene is known to be associated with the risk of threatened preterm labor (TPL). Moreover, the Gly16Arg and Gln27Glu polymorphisms that form haplotypes can modulate receptor function, changing the pharmacological response to β2 agonists. Aims: This study aimed to investigate the effects of ADRB2 gene polymorphisms on TPL and the response to tocolytic treatment with hexoprenaline in pregnant Russian women. Materials and Methods: This prospective case-control study on tocolytic therapy included 60 pregnant women with TPL who received tocolytic treatment with hexoprenaline and a control group consisting of 60 pregnant women not at risk of TPL. A polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis was conducted to determine the frequencies of Gly16Arg and Gln27Glu polymorphisms in the ADRB2 gene in both groups. These data were compared with the TPL status and the tocolytic effect of hexoprenaline. Results: It is shown that carrying the ADRB2 16Arg allele is associated with decreased incidence of preterm birth (PTB), while the 16Gly/Gly genotype is related to an increased risk of PTB (OR = 2.444; CI95% = 1.167-5.121). The allele frequencies of the Gly16Arg and Gln27Glu polymorphisms in the ADRB2 gene in healthy pregnant Russian women are consistent with those in the European population. Due to small subgroup sizes, tocolytic outcomes are presented descriptively without a powered statistical analysis. Conclusions: These findings suggest a preliminary association between the ADRB2 16Gly allele and the 16Gly/Gly genotype with an increased risk of PTB in pregnant Russian women. While carriers of the 16Arg allele may have a decreased risk, these pharmacogenetic insights require independent validation in larger cohorts before clinical recommendations can be formulated.
Bone-tendon interface (BTI) injuries pose a major clinical challenge because surgical repair often fails to restore the native enthesis and its structural and mechanical integrity. Although local repair mechanisms have been extensively studied, whether central neuroimmune circuits contribute to BTI healing remains unclear. Here, using a murine rotator cuff injury model, we provide evidence that BTI injury engages a sensory-central-sympathetic regulatory axis that contributes to impaired repair. BTI injury activated sensory afferent signaling and was associated with microglia-mediated neuroinflammation in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), reduced PVN neuronal activity, and increased central adenosine-related signaling. Chemogenetic activation of PVN microglia suppressed PVN neuronal activity, enhanced sympathetic-associated changes, and impaired BTI healing, whereas microglial inhibition produced the opposite effects. Metabolomic, microdialysis, and pharmacological analyses identified extracellular adenosine as a microglia-associated signaling mediator, likely involving A1R-expressing PVN neurons. Downstream, increased sympathetic signaling at the healing interface was associated with elevated β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activity and reduced osteogenic and chondrogenic factor expression. Local ADRB2 blockade improved molecular, structural, and histological indices of BTI repair, supporting ADRB2 as a peripheral effector node of this neuroimmune-sympathetic pathway. Together, these findings suggest that central microglia-adenosine-related signaling contributes to BTI repair impairment through sympathetic ADRB2 activation. Targeting central neuroimmune signaling or local ADRB2 activity may provide potential strategies for improving BTI healing.© 2026. The Author(s).
Slc26a9 is a member of the Slc26a family that is highly expressed in the stomach and is a key regulator for maintaining gastric mucosal homeostasis. Slc26a9 deletion in mice impairs the gastric mucosal barrier. However, the role of Slc26a9 in PHG has never been investigated.Slc26a9 expression was analyzed in human PHG and control gastric tissues. A PVL-induced PHG model was established in Slc26a9fl/fl and parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 knockout mice to evaluate mucosal injury, ER stress, and apoptosis. Adenoviral overexpression in vivo and gene silencing in GES-1 cells were used to explore the underlying mechanisms.In this study, the Human PHG samples showed both significantly reduced Slc26a9 mRNA and protein expression when compared to healthy controls. Parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 gene deletion aggravates gastric mucosal injury, gastric mucosal epithelial apoptosis, mitochondria apoptotic, and ER stress in PHG. Restoration of Slc26a9 expression in the gastric mucosa of mice using an adenovirus overexpressing Slc26a9 reversed the aggravated endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial apoptosis, epithelial apoptosis, and gastric mucosal injury caused by Slc26a9 deficiency. In addition, downregulation of Slc26a9 expression induced apoptosis in GES-1 cells by activating the endoplasmic reticulum stress-mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Mechanistically, Slc26a9 may inhibit endoplasmic reticulum stress by interacting with valosin-containing protein (VCP).Slc26a9 protects the mucosal defense barrier against PHG by attenuating ER stress-mediated mitochondria-dependent apoptotic signaling. Slc26a9 may be a novel therapeutic target for PHG.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of solvents and storage time on the mechanical properties of 3D-printed resin composites for definitive crowns.Three 3D-printed definitive crown resin composites: Permanent Crown (Formlab; PCR), VarseoSmile Crown plus (BEGO; VCP) and Crowntec (Saremco print; CT) and one milled resin composites: Grandio Blocs/ Disc (VOCO; Gr) were tested. A three-point bending test was used to measure flexural strength (FS) and flexural modulus (Ef) using a universal testing machine (Zwick/Roell Z020) (n = 10). Martens hardness (HM) and indentation modulus (EIT) were measured using a Martens hardness instrument (Zwick/Roell Z2.5) (n = 18). Properties were evaluated on polished specimens 24 h after fabrication at room temperature in dry condition and then after 1 and 7 days of storage in either distilled water (DW D1/D7) or 75% ethanol/water (75% E/W D1/D7) at 37 °C. Data were analysed using two-way ANOVA and one-way repeated measure ANOVA (α = 0.05).At dry condition, mechanical properties for PCR, VCP, CT and Gr were; for FS 135.6, 120.3, 132.3 and 231.0 MPa, respectively; for Ef 4318, 3963, 4109 and 13500 MPa, respectively; for HM 218.6, 213.6, 219.7 and 858.5 N/mm2, respectively; and for EIT 6.0, 5.7, 5.8 and 22.7 kN/mm², respectively. Findings revealed a differential response to solvent exposure among the tested materials. For 75% E/W D7, there was a significant reduction (≈ 20%) in the FS of all materials (p < 0.001). Storage time in 75% E/W significantly affected the HM of all tested materials: CT (p = 0.002), VCP (p = 0.026), PCR, and Gr (p < 0.001). At 75% E/W D7, HM for PCR, VCP, CT and Gr was 157.1, 178.4, 183.6 and 699.3 N/mm2, respectively; Ef and EIT had a lower reduction.This study demonstrated that the mechanical properties of both 3D-printed and milled resin composites for definitive crowns are adversely affected by solvent exposure, particularly in 75% ethanol/water. After seven days of immersion in 75% E/W, all tested materials showed a substantial reduction in flexural strength and Martens hardness. However, the changes in flexural modulus and indentation modulus were less pronounced.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Under inflammatory conditions, the ubiquitin-like modifier FAT10 serves as a tag for protein degradation by the 26S proteasome. FAT10 is degraded along with its substrates and this process is independent of the segregase VCP/p97, which, in the regular ubiquitin pathway of degradation, is required if a substrate lacks a disordered initiation region. FAT10 itself is loosely folded and its tendency to aggregate has complicated investigations of its structure, interaction, and function. Recently, hydrogen-deuterium exchange in combination with mass spectrometry has suggested that, in preparation of degradation by the proteasome, the adapter protein NUB1 traps FAT10 in a mostly unfolded state by capturing a β-strand. β-strand capture was subsequently confirmed by magic-angle spinning (MAS) NMR spectroscopy of a stabilized variant of the N-domain of FAT10 in complex with NUB1L, the longer splice variant of NUB1. MAS NMR, in addition, revealed that the N-domain of FAT10 and NUB1L form a fuzzy complex and that the N-terminus of FAT10 is positioned for initiation of degradation by specific non-covalent interaction with NUB1L. Here, we report the investigation of the wild-type N-domain of FAT10 by MAS NMR. Co-sedimentation with NUB1L yields high-quality spectra, which enable sequential assignment of resonances. Based on MAS NMR data, the complexes of the wild-type and stabilized N-domain of FAT10 with NUB1L appear identical. The N-terminal residue of FAT10 again shows up prominently in the spectra, even though it is this time an Ala, not a Gly. Our experiences suggest that co-sedimentation in combination with MAS NMR is generally helpful in the exploration of conditional folds of intrinsically disordered proteins.© 2026. The Author(s).
X-linked centronuclear myopathy (XLCNM) is a rare neuromuscular disorder that poses significant diagnostic and treatment challenges, particularly in neonates. We present a case of a male infant born at 36 weeks of gestation, weighing 2.1 kg, who was admitted 51 min after birth due to severe asphyxia and low birth weight. Following an emergency cesarean section, the infant required resuscitation, including tracheal intubation and medication administration. Initial evaluations indicated severe respiratory distress and low muscle tone, along with various clinical abnormalities. Laboratory tests suggested potential infection and metabolic distress. Despite comprehensive intensive care, including mechanical ventilation, anti-infection regimens, and nutritional support, the infant continued to experience respiratory difficulties without improvement. Genetic testing via whole exome sequencing identified a rare variant in the MTM1 gene, confirming the diagnosis of XLCNM with an X-linked recessive inheritance pattern. Unfortunately, after extensive treatment and family discussions, the infant's condition failed to stabilize, leading to the difficult decision to withdraw therapy, resulting in the patient's passing. This case underscores the urgent need for early recognition of XLCNM and the critical role of genetic counseling for affected families.© 2026 Liao, Jiang, Zhong, Luo, Qiu, Pan, Gan and Zhong.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42519620
Although disrupted mitochondrial dynamics in neurons are closely linked to neurodegenerative diseases, far less is known about how mitochondrial dynamics are regulated in glia or whether glial mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to neurodegeneration. Here, we show that the R-SNARE protein VAMP7 regulates the untethering of mitochondria-lysosome contacts (MLCs) in adult fly glia. Glial-specific knockdown of VAMP7 leads to prolonged MLCs and mitochondrial elongation associated with altered fission/fusion dynamics. These VAMP7-deficient mitochondria exhibit hyperpolarized membrane potential, leading to increased reactive oxygen species production, lipid droplet accumulation, and dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Mechanistically, VAMP7 interacts with the GTPase-activating protein TBC1D15-17 to promote Rab7 GTP hydrolysis. Without VAMP7, TBC1D15-17 remains bound to Rab7 but fails to activate its hydrolysis, resulting in elevated GTP-bound Rab7 and impaired MLCs untethering. Consistently, expression of GTP-locked Rab7Q67L or GTPase-activating protein-dead TBC1D15-17ΔGAP phenocopies the mitochondrial defects, while GDP-bound Rab7T22N or wild-type TBC1D15-17 restores the MLC dynamics. Considering that SNARE proteins mediate membrane fusion, our results demonstrate a role for VAMP7 in glial mitochondrial dynamics via organelle contacts, impacting neuron survival in a non-cell-autonomous manner.
This study examined the understanding of cardinality and conservation in children with and without autism (aged 4-7 years, without intellectual disability), and its relation to counting strategies. A total of 82 children participated in the study, including 41 autistic children (36 boys, 5 girls) and 41 age- and sex-matched non-autistic peers. While both groups demonstrated similar mastery of cardinality, autistic children showed lower performance in conservation tasks. Response times were longer in autistic children during counting tasks. Concerning counting strategies, autistic children relied more on verbal counting with pointing (VCP) and used the rapid recognition strategy (N) less frequently, even for small canonical sets. While both strategies (N and VCP) supported cardinality in both autistic and non-autistic children, only the N strategy appeared closely linked to successful conservation performance. These findings highlight two areas of relative difficulty for some autistic children and point to the potential of targeted interventions to strengthen foundational numerical skills and support later mathematical development.© 2026 The Author(s). Autism Research published by International Society for Autism Research and Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cancer cells exploit DNA repair to overcome damage and errors induced by rapid proliferation and repressed checkpoints. Thus, the loss of one DNA repair protein can make tumors more susceptible to inhibition of other repair pathways. Here, using in silico methodologies and high-content genetic and cell survival screens, we found that the antimalarial drug quinacrine impaired the DNA damage response (DDR) in multiple cancer cell lines. Quinacrine disrupted the interaction of the stress-response protein NDRG1 with the major segregase VCP, which in turn promoted the degradation of the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF8 and other proteins that mediate the recruitment of the critical DDR protein 53BP1 to sites of DNA damage. This impaired recruitment of 53BP1 caused increases in the DNA damage marker γH2AX. High NDRG1 expression in tumors correlated with poor survival in patients, and high expression in various cancer cell lines correlated with quinacrine sensitivity. Colorectal carcinoma cells were particularly vulnerable to pharmacological or genetic inhibition of NDRG1, and high NDRG1 expression and mutations in MLH1 and PARP3 resulted in synthetic lethality. Our findings identify combination genetic markers that might be therapeutically exploited in colon cancer, as well as provide a platform for such discovery in distinct cancer types.
This study focuses on exploring the co-morbid mechanisms by which Bisphenol A (BPA) induces non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and osteoarthritis (OA).This study identified potential BPA targets utilizing the SwissTargetPrediction database. These targets were integrated with genes associated with NAFLD and OA, which were screened via Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis and differential gene expression analysis. To elucidate the underlying biological mechanisms, functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses were conducted. Core genes associated with comorbidity were pinpointed via machine learning. The interactions and cellular localization were further validated by molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and single-cell transcriptomics. Finally, in vitro experiments were employed to verify the effects on chondrocyte function, and hepatic lipid metabolism.Functional enrichment analysis indicates that BPA-induced NAFLD and OA comorbidity pathways are enriched in muscle cell proliferation, DNA metabolism, and inflammation pathways. RHOB has been identified as a core gene, participating in disease progression by regulating signaling pathways such as Hippo and IL-17. Single-cell sequencing revealed that RHOB is primarily expressed in hepatocytes and cholangiocytes in NAFLD, while enriching in HomC and EC cell clusters in OA. In vitro experiments confirmed that BPA exposure suppresses RHOB expression, thereby promoting lipid accumulation in hepatocytes and impairing chondrocyte function. Concurrently, rescue experiments demonstrated that its overexpression significantly reversed these pathological states.BPA exposure drives the co-morbidity of OA and NAFLD by inhibiting RHOB. Consequently, limiting BPA exposure or modulating the RHOB pathway represents a viable approach for intervening in related diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
End user co-design in the personal digital health technology space is underdeveloped. Clinical uptake of personal digital health technologies has been poor, highlighting a need to cocreate solutions with end users.The study aimed to describe an "end user" co-design framework in the development of 5 prototype personal health apps for patients with different rare or complex diseases.A patient-led, user-centered, collaborative personal health app plus wearable plug-in co-design methodology was developed. Five prototype apps were developed for end users with long COVID-19, pancreatitis, primary ciliary dyskinesia, sarcoidosis, and valosin-containing protein disease by a multidisciplinary partnership including patients, app design and development experts, user experience experts, clinicians, and patient-driven organizations. Phase 1 involved a 6-month co-design process with 5 modules involving patient-driven organizations that included the codevelopment of specifications through group workshops and independent exercises that defined the goals, content, features, and user experience of each app. Phase 2 involved app build-out, internal alpha testing, and beta study preparations. Phase 3 involved a usability beta testing study in which end users used the app and associated wearable/smart devices (Oura ring, Lumia ear device, Empatica EmbracePlus, and MIR Spirobank Spirometer) for up to 5 months. Participant feedback was documented continuously and systematically, centering on the following themes: functionality, usability, harms, benefits, self-explorations, and beta testing study details related to retention and adherence.While unique app goals were codeveloped by each disease group, a central goal across groups was to develop a personal health app enabling users to track subjective, self-reported symptoms, objective measures of health, and unique modifiers of symptoms. A total of 239 end user participants participated in the beta testing pilot study. Enrollment and retention rates were high, ranging from 94% to 100% and 92.2% to 100%, respectively. All active participants gave some form of feedback: there were 257 unique participant suggestions of how to specifically modify or improve the study app experience. Participant feedback themes commonly centered around customization to reduce daily burden and improve personal tailoring of the app. Participants' desires surrounding symptom displays were heterogeneous.Personal health app co-design is rooted in a complex digital landscape that requires a significant amount of up-front effort and time. However, the up-front investment of time can result in rich and diverse end user feedback that could save time in the app development trajectory to implementation. This paper provides a co-design framework and the building blocks of 5 prototype personal health apps with publicly available open-source code on GitHub. These prototypes could be leveraged for improving understanding of, communicating symptoms of, and providing n-of-1 suggestions for rare or complex diseases, providing benefit to patient communities and individual patients.©Sarah Margaret Goodday, Emma Karlin, Madeleine Sorensen, Robin Yang, Paul Gordon, Caresse Opoku, Daniel Vuong, Jenee Wilson, Diane McKenzie, Jules Piccotti, Massimiliano Tavanti, Megan Fitzgerald, Yochai Re'em, Hannah Wei, Megan Golden, Daniel Morgan, Michele Manion, Ricardo Mosquera, Tricha Shivas, Elise Hoover, Allison Peck, Nathan Peck, Zollie Yavarow, Heidi Bjornson-Pennell, Andra Stratton, Samali Anova Sahoo, Douglas Arbittier, Elizabeth Arbittier, Renee Goff, Donna Harvin-Graham, Nancy Howard, Camille Knudsen, Mary Oldham, Stephen Friend. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (https://mhealth.jmir.org), 20.07.2026.
Chemokine and chemokine receptors (CKRs) regulate cell growth, tumor immunity, migration, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We evaluated associations of inherited chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent primary melanomas among patients with a previous melanoma. Our population-based cohort included 2458 incident single primary and 1205 multiple primary melanoma (MPM) cases. We examined 215 a priori candidate polymorphisms selected based on prior evidence and predicted functional relevance, along with nine haplotype blocks. Logistic regression estimated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals, adjusting for age at diagnosis, sex, age-by-sex interaction, and study center. Thirty variants across 14 genes were nominally associated with MPM (P < 0.05), with effect sizes ranging from 16 to 80%. Five haplotypes in CXCL12, CCL18, CXCR2, and CCR9 were significantly associated with MPM (Pglobal < 0.03) with stronger effects than individual-effect alleles. Functional annotation identified 160 associated index variants and linkage disequilibrium proxies acting as skin expression quantitative trait loci for CXCR2, XCR1, BCL9L, FYCO1, PNKD, RUFY4, and RP11-378A13.1 (P < 1.06E-05 to 4.3E-34). These variants were classified functionally as candidate causal variants based on convergent regulatory annotation and skin‑specific expression quantitative trait locus evidence, linking chemokine/CKR variants and haplotypes to downstream genes involved in epithelial-mesenchymal-like transition, matrix remodeling, and other tumorigenic processes, thereby implicating immune regulatory mechanisms in melanoma development. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate an association of a priori chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent melanoma risk. Validation and evaluation of associations with tumor characteristics and survival are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Cell survival requires tight coordination between growth-promoting metabolism and cellular quality-control pathways, yet how these processes are integrated remains unclear. Here we identify the conserved glycolytic enzyme PGAM1 as a metabolic-autophagy checkpoint that links glycolysis to autophagy initiation independently of its catalytic activity. Using complementary yeast and mammalian systems we show that PGAM1 functions as a molecular scaffold that recruits phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex I to the phagophore assembly site, thereby licensing autophagosome biogenesis. This autophagy-regulatory function is genetically essential, evolutionarily conserved and functionally separable from glycolysis. It is regulated by Atg1/ULK1-mediated phosphorylation that enhances Atg14 binding under starvation. Functionally, PGAM1 coordinates anabolic growth and stress-induced survival to maintain cellular homeostasis. In cancer, PGAM1 upregulation enhances both glycolytic flux and autophagy capacity. Disruption of either function markedly impairs tumour growth, establishing PGAM1 as a homeostatic checkpoint that is hijacked in cancer to drive both proliferation and stress tolerance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
In the original publication [...].
Variants in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, yet how these variants alter immune cell function remains unclear. Because LRRK2 is activated by lysosomal damage in macrophages, we investigated how the pathogenic G2019S variant affects macrophage responses to lysosomal damage. Here, we show that LRRK2 G2019S has an effect during lysosomal damage through kinase-dependent and kinase-independent mechanisms. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that lysosomal damage induces selective rewiring of LRRK2-dependent Rab GTPase phosphorylation, characterised by increased Rab12 phosphorylation and reduced Rab35 phosphorylation without global kinase hyperactivation. Strikingly, LRRK2 G2019S macrophages showed increased susceptibility to apoptosis following lysosomal damage. This increase in cell death occurred independently of the kinase activity, indicating a distinct kinase-independent role of LRRK2 in regulating cell survival. We generated isogenic induced pluripotent stem cells from patients carrying the LRRK2 G2019S variant and confirmed that LRRK2 G2019S macrophages are more susceptible to cell death in a kinase-independent manner. Together, our findings support a model in which the LRRK2 G2019S variant selectively changes the phosphorylation of Rab GTPases in macrophages and increases cell death after lysosomal damage in macrophages.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by dysregulated inflammation and tissue damage. Autophagy-related gene 14 (ATG14) is a key autophagy regulator, but its role in ALI remains incompletely understood.LPS-induced ALI was investigated in mice and lung epithelial cells. Autophagy, ATG14 acetylation, NF-κB pathway activation, and cytokine production were evaluated by histology, western blotting, immunoprecipitation, ELISA, electron microscopy, mass spectrometry, and molecular docking. ATG14 knockdown/overexpression and SIRT1 overexpression were used to explore mechanisms.LPS induced excessive autophagy, increased ATG14 expression and acetylation in lung tissue, reduced epithelial ATG14 levels through TLR4-dependent proteasomal degradation in vitro, reduced SIRT1 levels, and enhanced NF-κB pathway activity. SIRT1 interacted with ATG14 and suppressed its acetylation. Peptide docking supported the structural feasibility of SIRT1 recognition of ATG14 regions containing K78 and K178, with the K178-containing region showing a more compatible orientation near the SIRT1 catalytic surface. ATG14 inhibition or SIRT1 restoration reduced NF-κB pathway activity, cytokine production, and lung inflammation in vitro and in vivo.The ATG14-SIRT1 axis modulates autophagy-inflammation crosstalk in ALI and may represent a potential therapeutic target.
Disulfidptosis is a recently described cell-death-related process associated with intracellular disulfide stress and may be relevant to tumor progression and immune regulation. However, its prognostic significance and broader biological relevance in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unclear.Transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA and GEO cohorts were systematically integrated to characterize disulfidptosis-related molecular patterns in CRC. A four-gene prognostic signature was developed in a randomly assigned training cohort and evaluated in the corresponding internal test cohort. Public datasets were further used for gene-level expression analysis, and survival associations were assessed in the GSE39582 cohort. Immune infiltration, tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability, and estimated drug-sensitivity analyses were performed to explore the biological correlates and therapeutic-response-related patterns associated with the model. The four model genes were further examined using single-cell RNA-seq data and public immunohistochemical images from the Human Protein Atlas, and were preliminarily assessed in 11 paired CRC tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues by RT-qPCR and western blotting.A four-gene signature consisting of SPINK1, GPRASP1, TIMP1, and KRT6A stratified patients into prognostically distinct risk groups. The high-risk group showed poorer survival, higher tumor mutation burden, higher TIDE scores, and elevated stromal, immune, and ESTIMATE scores, suggesting a more immune-evasive tumor microenvironment. Enrichment analyses indicated that high-risk tumors were associated with extracellular matrix remodeling and PI3K-Akt-related pathways, whereas low-risk tumors were enriched in metabolic processes. Estimated drug-sensitivity analyses indicated agent-specific differences between the two risk groups. The high-risk group showed lower estimated IC50 values for several cytotoxic and targeted agents, including cisplatin, docetaxel, doxorubicin, etoposide, vinorelbine, nilotinib, and gefitinib, whereas the low-risk group showed lower estimated IC50 values for AKT inhibitor VIII, sorafenib, lapatinib, erlotinib, and BIBW2992.This study identified a four-gene prognostic signature associated with disulfidptosis-related molecular heterogeneity in CRC. The signature was associated with survival differences, distinct tumor microenvironmental features, and divergent biological programs across risk groups, while KRT6A showed the most consistent pattern across public-dataset analyses and tissue-level analyses. These findings support the potential relevance of this subtype-guided signature to prognostic stratification in CRC and identify related genes for further biological investigation and independent validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Brucella spp. achieve intracellular parasitism by hijacking host autophagy pathways. Sheep Leydig cells (SLCs) are important intracellular parasitic target cells for Brucella melitensis (B. melitensis). To investigate the molecular regulatory network induced by B. melitensis in SLCs, particularly whether the autophagic pathway response differs from that in other cell types, transcriptome sequencing analysis was performed on SLCs treated with B. melitensis BA0711. According to the criteria of |log2FC| > 0.582 and p < 0.05, a total of 6,036 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 100 differentially expressed miRNAs (DE miRNAs) were identified, both of which were significantly enriched in the autophagy-animal pathway. RT-qPCR confirmed that the expression trends of validated DEGs were consistent with mRNA sequencing results. In the autophagy-animal pathway, ULK1, ATG13, ATG14, PIK3C3, ATG5, ATG101, and ATG16L2 were predicted as the top seven hub DEGs. Overexpression and knockdown experiments of miR-1, together with dual-luciferase reporter assays, demonstrated that miR-1 inhibits the mRNA expression of its downstream target ATG14 by binding to the 3'UTR of ATG14. This study revealed the potential regulatory role of the miR-1-ATG14 axis in this process. These findings provide a novel, cell-specific perspective on the early host-pathogen interactions elicited by B. melitensis within a tissue microenvironment relevant to brucellosis, offering a foundation for future mechanistic studies in more complex systems.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Jiang, Cheng, Niu, Qian, Fu, Chen, Zhang, Chen, Gao, Man, Du, Chen and Wang.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved degradation pathway wherein cytoplasmic components are sequestered within double-membrane autophagosomes for lysosomal delivery. The initiation of autophagy is governed by autophagy-related (ATG) proteins, with the ULK1 kinase complex serving as the most upstream regulator. However, how ULK1 senses and integrates metabolic signals via post-translational modifications remains poorly understood. Here, we discover that ULK1 undergoes lactylation at lysine 46, catalyzed by the mitochondrial aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase AARS2, in response to autophagic stimuli. This modification promotes ULK1 kinase activity, leading to enhanced and selective phosphorylation of its downstream substrate ATG14 at Ser29, thereby activating the class III PtdIns3K complex and facilitating autophagosome biogenesis. Furthermore, we demonstrate that AARS2-mediated ULK1 lactylation drives autophagic flux and promotes tumor metastasis in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), and that a cell-penetrating peptide targeting K46 lactylation suppresses ccRCC progression in vitro and in vivo. Our study identifies lactylation as a novel regulatory mechanism controlling autophagy initiation and suggests that targeting AARS2-mediated ULK1 lactylation could be a potential strategy for treating ccRCC.Abbreviations: AARS2: alanyl-tRNA synthetase 2, mitochondrial; ATG14: autophagy related 14; Baf.A1: bafilomycin A1; ccRCC: clear cell renal cell carcinoma; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CPP: cell-penetrating peptide; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; HIF: hypoxia-inducible factor; K46la: lactylation at lysine 46; Kla: lysine lactylation; KO: knockout; LDHA: lactate dehydrogenase A; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; PtdIns3K: class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PTM: post-translational modification; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCGA-KIRC: The Cancer Genome Atlas-Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; VHL: von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor; WT: wild-type.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), a common contaminant in broiler feed, impairs hepatic function and poses a significant threat to the poultry industry by disrupting cellular autophagy. Ferulic acid (FA) is a naturally occurring phenolic compound with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and autophagy-modulating properties. However, whether FA alleviates AFB1-induced autophagy impairment in broiler liver remains unclear. In this study, an AFB1-induced liver injury model was established. A series of experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of AFB1 and FA on autophagy-related processes. The results showed that AFB1 exposure was associated with reduced expression of autophagy-related markers, including ULK1, ATG14, ATG5, and LC3-II/LC3-I ratio, suggesting alterations in autophagy-related processes associated with autophagosome formation and maturation. FA supplementation partially reversed these changes and alleviated ultrastructural liver damage induced by AFB1. Transcriptomic and western blot analyses further demonstrated that AFB1 exposure increased p53 expression, dysregulated the BRAF/ERK1/ERK2/mTOR signaling pathway, increased p70S6K expression, and decreased 4E-BP1 expression. FA supplementation alleviated these changes. These results showed that FA may alleviate AFB1-induced alterations in autophagy-related biomarkers in broiler liver, accompanied by changes in the BRAF/ERK1/ERK2/mTOR signaling pathway, suppression of p70S6K expression, and restoration of 4E-BP1 expression, which may contribute to its protective effects against AFB1-induced liver toxicity in broilers.
Lysosomes are essential for intracellular degradation and recycling, and changes in their function significantly contribute to tumor growth. Nonetheless, the exact role of lysosome-related genes (LRGs) in the pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is still inadequately comprehended.Differentially expressed LRGs (DE-LRGs) between AML and control groups were identified using AML-related data extracted from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The LRGs-related prognostic genes were identified and the risk model was established using univariate COX regression analysis and machine learning algorithms, based on the data obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Subsequently, we performed comprehensive analyses regarding clinical features, functional pathways, immune microenvironment, and chemotherapeutic drugs sensitivity between the high- and low-risk groups. Reverse transcription Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot were adopted to validate the expression of prognostic genes in human bone marrow-derived cell line HS-27 A and human AML cell line MOLM-13.Through comprehensive analysis, a risk model was developed utilizing ten LRGs (ATP6V0E2, CALCRL, TMEM165, GZMB, HCK, TCIRG1, CD1D, GPRASP1, ABCA1, and NAGA), and this model was further validated using GEO datasets. Significant differences in clinical characteristics, functional pathways, immune microenvironment characteristics, and chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity were observed between the two risk groups In vitro validation experiment illustrated that the expression trends of ATP6V0E2, TMEM165, and ABCA1 were consistent with our bioinformatics analysis.Our study demonstrates that lysosome-associated signature might forecast the prognosis of AML patients and offer guidance for subsequent immunotherapy and chemotherapy strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the preferred vascular access for hemodialysis; however, its patency is limited, particularly in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). This study aimed to obtain exploratory data on whether changes in the venous transcriptome are present at the time of AVF creation in patients with DM and whether these changes are related to the graft prognosis.We conducted prospective transcriptome analyses using venous samples obtained during AVF creation from 22 patients (12 with DM and 10 without DM). RNA sequencing was performed, and clinical outcomes, including primary patency, were tracked for one year.AVF patency was significantly lower in the DM group (median patency: 134 vs. 365 days, p＜0.05). Transcriptome profiling identified 285 differentially expressed genes, including those related to extracellular matrix organization, mitochondrial electron transport, TGF-β signaling, and the unfolded protein response. A network analysis highlighted hub genes, including MRPL27, MRPL23, and MRPL1, as potential biomarkers. A Cox regression analysis identified genes associated with the AVF prognosis, including PER3, SERINC2, COMMD10, TTC4, FKBP2, FN3KRP, KIF24, SNX32, MOB3C, SUV39H1, and TIGD6. Notably, a high COMMD10 expression, a core component of the commander complex, was associated with a shortened patency in patients with DM.Our findings demonstrate that DM is associated with distinct transcriptomic alterations in the access veins at the time of AVF creation. This integrative approach provides novel insights into the molecular basis of DM-related AVF failure and the potential to identify novel therapeutic targets.
HIV-1 release from infected cells requires coordinated action of the viral Gag protein and the host endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) machinery. How innate immunity regulates ESCRT function to limit viral egress remains unclear. Here, we show that MITD1, a cell type-specific interferon-stimulated gene, is a potent inhibitor of ESCRT-dependent HIV-1 budding. MITD1 engages ESCRT-III subunits CHMP1B and CHMP4B, driving their incorporation into aggregates and impairing ESCRT-III assembly during HIV-1 budding. This disrupts the final steps of virion release, causing an accumulation of immature particles at the plasma membrane. MITD1 overexpression reduces HIV-1 release from cell lines, primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and human microglia, while sparing the release of ESCRT-independent viruses. These findings establish MITD1 as an interferon-stimulated restriction factor that limits HIV-1 egress by perturbing ESCRT-III assembly.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chromosome mis-segregation events that remain unresolved during cytokinesis threaten genome stability. Persistent ultrafine DNA bridges engage the Aurora B-dependent abscission checkpoint (termed NoCut), which delays abscission by phosphorylating components of the ESCRT complex. Here we show that NoCut surveillance repurposes human ESCRT-III, the membrane-remodeling complex that seals the reforming nuclear envelope in anaphase. In response to persistent ultrafine DNA bridges, ESCRT-III transfers from the reforming nuclear envelope to the mis-segregated DNA bridge and ESCRT-III complexes protect the DNA from damage, as evidenced by increased DNA damage upon CHMP1B depletion. Complementary in vitro assembly reactions show that the human ESCRT-III proteins CHMP1B and IST1 can copolymerize into double-stranded filaments that encase double-stranded DNA and nucleosomes and prevent nuclease digestion and cGAS recognition, demonstrating that ESCRT-III complexes can directly bind and protect DNA. Lastly, cells expressing a DNA-binding mutant of CHMP1B exhibit cytokinesis failure and binucleation when ultrafine DNA bridges persist, revealing a mechanism of safeguarding genome stability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epidemiological and clinical observations linking schizophrenia (SCZ) to increased dementia risk, together with the occurrence of psychosis in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), suggest that shared genetic liabilities may contribute to their co-occurrence. Leveraging large-scale genome-wide association study summary statistics for SCZ (53,386 cases and 77,258 controls) and ADRD (111,326 cases and 677,663 controls), we systematically investigated their shared genetic architecture and potential biological mechanisms. We identified three significant local genetic correlations (P < 2.0 × 10⁻⁵) and cross-trait polygenic enrichment between SCZ and ADRD, with 39 genomic loci jointly associated at conjunctional false discovery rate (conjFDR) < 0.05. Fifteen high-confidence genes (CNIH4, CD302, PCGF3, TFR2, EPHX2, SNX32, EFEMP2, CTSW, ASPHD1, TAOK2, INO80E, DOC2A, MAPK3, KANSL1, and XPNPEP3) were consistently prioritized across positional, expression quantitative trait locus, and chromatin-interaction mapping. Tissue- and cell-type enrichment analyses highlighted cerebellar tissues and ependymal-cell-related signals, while pathway analyses implicated synaptic signaling, axonal growth, and presynaptic structural organization. At the locus level, colocalization and transcriptome-wide association analyses converged on 16p11.2, prioritizing INO80E, YPEL3, SLX1B, and TMEM219. Developmental trajectory modeling further revealed region- and stage-specific expression divergence of prioritized 16p11.2 genes, with prominent differences spanning childhood and adulthood. Brain-wide association analysis linked the 16p11.2 lead variant rs9932702 to cortical gray-white contrast (β = -0.062, P = 7.5 × 10⁻¹⁵), a neuroimaging phenotype related to gray-white boundary microstructure and myelination. Finally, bidirectional Mendelian randomization supported a modest directional association between genetic liability to SCZ and increased ADRD risk, but not the reverse direction. Collectively, these findings provide convergent genetic, regulatory, transcriptomic, developmental, and imaging evidence for partial shared liability between SCZ and ADRD, highlighting 16p11.2 and biological processes related to neurodevelopment, synaptic and axonal organization, myelination-related microstructure, and later-life brain vulnerability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Classic adamantinoma, osteofibrous dysplasia (OFD), and OFD-like adamantinoma are rare bone tumors arising primarily in the tibiae. Their distinction can be challenging; data on their molecular pathogenesis remain limited. We searched our pathology files in 2004-2024 for available cases and performed targeted next-generation sequencing along with whole-genome single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays and 3-dimensional genomics/Hi-C sequencing in selected cases. Our cohort included 3 classic adamantinomas (2 females and 1 male; age, 14-56 years), 5 OFDs (3 females and 2 males; age, 9-25 years), and 2 OFD-like adamantinomas (1 female and 1 male; age, 30-41 years). Of the 10 tumors, 9 arose from the tibiae; 1 classic adamantinoma originated from the radius. The 3 classic adamantinomas harbored multiple copy number gains involving chromosome 7, 8, 10, 12, and/or 19. Focal deletion of chromosome 17, intergenic rearrangement involving FGFR1, and NRAS p.G12D were each present in 1 classic adamantinoma. Of the 5 OFDs, KMT2A p.C2441F, KMT2D p.S1040P, PHOX2B p.G213D, and RIF1 deletion were each present in 1 case; no additional copy number/single-nucleotide variants were identified. Of the 2 OFD-like adamantinomas, one case with tumor clusters visible only on cytokeratin immunostain harbored no variants, whereas another case with tumor clusters visible on light microscopy and cytokeratin/p40 immunostains showed gains of chromosome 7, 8, 19, and 20. By Hi-C, 1 classic adamantinoma harbored an approximately 9 Mb tandem duplication on chromosome 12q, 1 OFD harbored a rearrangement with breakpoints near MECOM and HOOK3, and the OFD-like adamantinoma with tumor clusters visible only on cytokeratin immunostain harbored no structural variant. In conclusion, classic adamantinomas and OFD might be genetically distinct. Classic adamantinomas harbored multiple alterations, including chromosome/arm-level copy number gains, the detection of which could aid their distinction from OFDs. Using genomics as the benchmark, OFD-like adamantinomas might be better delineated by light microscopy or p40 than by cytokeratin immunohistochemistry. These data expanded our molecular understanding of these rare bone tumors.Copyright © 2026 United States & Canadian Academy of Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
GWAS typically focus on SNPs, often excluding complex genetic variants, such as short tandem repeats. Here, we report the results of GWAS analyses systematically assessing the role of short tandem repeats, both imputed and directly genotyped by whole genome sequencing, on risk for Alzheimer's disease in a large collection of ~330,000 individuals (3287 cases; 47,048 Alzheimer's disease-by-proxy cases, 283,111 controls) from the UK biobank. Using short tandem repeat genotype data, we identify 15 independent loci showing evidence for genome-wide significant association with Alzheimer's disease risk. While most identified loci had already been highlighted by SNP-based GWAS, we detect short tandem repeat-based signals near the genes SNX32 (chr. 11q13) and WSB1 (chr. 17q11). In addition, we delineate several other loci where short tandem repeats (and not SNPs) either represent the lead signal (ABCA7) or make substantial contributions to the SNP-driven associations (HLA-DRB1, MINDY/ADAM10, and APOE). Heritability analyses estimate that short tandem repeats account for at least 3% of the total phenotypic variance of Alzheimer's disease in this dataset. Aligning our top short tandem repeats with DNA methylation and transcriptome profiles from human brain samples suggests that several short tandem repeats may unfold their effects by impacting gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic cancer carries a poor prognosis, with few effective treatment options available. Various rearranged during transfection (RET) proto-oncogene fusions have been found in a small fraction of pancreatic cancers; however, the hook microtubule tethering protein 3 (HOOK3)-RET fusion has not yet been reported in the medical literature. The HOOK3-RET fusion was observed in a case of α-fetoprotein (AFP)-producing pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with widespread hepatic and lymph node metastasis in a 51-year-old South Asian male. The patient's serum carbohydrate antigen 19.9 was mildly elevated: 96.28 U/ml (normal, <37 U/ml), but the serum AFP level was very high (16,410.0 ng/ml; normal, <6.6 ng/ml). The patient did not respond to gemcitabine and cisplatin-based systemic chemotherapy. Next-generation sequencing of the patient's biopsy sample revealed a HOOK3-RET fusion. RET proto-oncogene fusions trigger a cascade of oncogenic signals, which promote the proliferation and survival of cancer cells. Selpercatinib, a selective inhibitor of receptor tyrosine kinase RET, blocks RET kinase activity by binding to its adenosine triphosphate-binding site, thus preventing the kinase from phosphorylating substrates and halting oncogenic signaling. The patient was treated with selpercatinib, which produced a durable response lasting over 15 months in this chemotherapy-refractory patient, highlighting the efficacy of selpercatinib in HOOK3-RET fusion-positive pancreatic cancer.Copyright: © 2026 Sandhu et al.
Common regulatory and coding variants may influence type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk by altering gene regulation or protein function. Identifying these variants and their associations with disease risk may inform disease control strategies. This study prioritized candidate variants by integrating two-group comparative genotyping with in-silico structural and dynamic analyses.Three prioritized variants (two missense, one TF-binding-site) were genotyped in 101 T2D cases and 100 controls from the Azeri population of Iran. Variant calls were validated by Sanger sequencing. Structural modelling, ligand docking, and 100-nanosecond molecular dynamics simulations were performed to assess molecular consequences.The TF-binding-site variant in PPP2R3A (rs184442184) was significantly associated with T2D (allelic OR ≈ 1.71, p = 0.014; TT OR ≈ 2.92, p = 0.020) and is located at a RegulomeDB 2a site overlapping EGR1/SP motifs. SLC39A11 (ZIP11) rs61736066 (A allele) was enriched in cases (allelic OR ≈ 1.87, p = 0.002; AA OR ≈ 3.49, p = 0.005), and the variant model demonstrated increased RMSD/RMSF, helix displacement, and modest destabilization. The TPCN2 missense variant exhibited only subtle in-silico effects and no genetic association.These findings highlight PPP2R3A rs184442184 and SLC39A11 rs61736066 as promising T2D candidate variants, supported by concordant genetic signals and mechanistic in-silico effects. The TPCN2 substitution demonstrated only mild structural changes and no association in this study. Overall, these results provide testable biological hypotheses that require validation through larger replication studies and targeted functional assays.© 2026. Associazione Medici Diabetologi / Association of Diabetologists (AMD), Societa Italiana di Diabetologia / Italian Society of Diabetology (SID).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41597268 is a review article
This study aimed to screen the specific modules and hub genes of hyperlipidemia.Three microarray datasets (GSE3059, GSE1010 and GSE13985) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was used to screen stable gene modules across the three datasets. The MetaDE method was used to screen differentially expressed genes (DEGs) based on GSE1010 and GSE13985 datasets. The Cytoscape software was utilized for protein-protein interaction (PPI) network visualization, and the DAVID was employed to perform Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) signaling pathway analysis on the DEG nodes in the interaction network.Based on the WGCNA algorithm, eleven hyperlipidemia-related modules were screened, and a total of 1,149 DEGs were screened by the metaDE method. 288 overlapping genes were used to establish a PPI network. Finally, a total of four overlapping KEGG pathways were obtained, including Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis (ARPC1A, GAB2, LYN, HCK, RAF1, WAS), chemokine signalling pathway (LYN, PTK2B, HCK, GRK6, GRK3, RAF1, CXCR2, JAK3, FOXO3, WAS), endocytosis (CHMP2A, CHMP1B, RAB5C, VPS45, TGFBR2, GRK6, GRK3, CXCR2) and natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity (TNFRSF10C, PTK2B, ICAM2, RAF1, FCGR3B, SH3BP2). The hub genes such as RAF1, GRK3 and CXCR2, might be potential genetic biomarkers of hyperlipidemia.This study identified the critical pathways and hub genes associated with hyperlipidemia. In particular, these critical pathways may help clarify the pathogenesis of hyperlipidemia, and the hub genes may become new biomarkers and therapeutic target for hyperlipidemia.Copyright © 2025 Zhao, Cao, Gu and Yao.
Completion of autophagy through autophagosome-lysosome fusion represents a critical regulatory checkpoint that is frequently manipulated during viral infection, however, how coronaviruses exploit this terminal step remains incompletely understood. Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), a highly pathogenic alphacoronavirus, has been reported to induce autophagy, but whether and how complete autophagic flux contributes to viral replication is unclear. Here, using a genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screen in Vero cells, we identify the HOPS complex subunits VPS33A and VPS18 as essential host factors for PEDV infection. Genetic ablation of either VPS33A or VPS18 profoundly suppresses viral progeny production and arrests autophagic flux at the autophagosome stage, demonstrating that PEDV replication is associated with HOPS-mediated autolysosome formation. Domain-mapping analyses further reveal that the structural integrity of VPS33A and the α-solenoid plus RING domains of VPS18 are indispensable for both autophagosome-lysosome fusion and efficient viral replication. Mechanistically, we show that PEDV non-structural proteins nsp3 and nsp4 physically interact with VPS33A and VPS18. While either protein alone initiates autophagosome formation, their coordinated action contributes to drive complete autophagy in a HOPS-dependent manner. Collectively, our findings uncover a coronavirus strategy that actively promotes autophagic completion through VPS33A and VPS18, two core subunits of the HOPS complex, to support replication, thereby establishing autolysosome formation as a critical host process exploited by PEDV.
Eukaryotic chromosomes occupy ordered configurations within the nucleus, an organization that must be re-established in daughter cells as the nuclear envelope reforms at the end of mitosis. The conserved enzyme VPS4 and ESCRT-III proteins mediate nuclear envelope reformation, yet their role in post-mitotic centromere positioning remains unclear. Here, we develop a chemical genetics approach to analyze the role of VPS4 in human cells. VPS4 inhibition prevents the clearance of CHMP7 from centromeres, which remain constrained in ring-like configurations established during mitosis. Without VPS4 activity, CHMP7, but not other ESCRT-III proteins, forms nuclear foci, nuclear envelope protein distribution is altered and inner nuclear membrane invaginations appear. Following these defects, DNA damage is observed in the vicinity of centromeres. Depletion of CHMP7, but not CHMP4B, suppresses this damage. We propose that VPS4-mediated turnover of CHMP7 releases centromeres from transient nuclear envelope contacts, ensuring their proper positioning after mitosis and maintaining genome integrity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42486440 is a review article
Despite the high prevalence of pediatric asthma, the molecular basis of its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, in part due to the complex and heterogeneous nature of the disease.In this study, we performed bulk RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 183 children (114 asthma cases, 69 controls) across two independent cohorts as a minimally invasive approach to capture the gene expression changes underlying asthma status and severity.Our analysis identified robust signatures of pediatric asthma, including differential expression of a canonical asthma gene (RAB7B) and two novel genes (RPP38-DT, NCAL1), which encode long non-coding RNAs. Additionally, severity-stratified analyses revealed upregulation of several immune-related genes (CCL8, ACOD1, CXCL9, SLAMF1, EPN2) and downregulation of an uncharacterized transcript (ENSG00000288973) as asthma severity increased. Enrichment and co-expression analysis further implicate impaired type I interferon signaling in asthma disease severity.Our results demonstrate contributions to the pathobiology of asthma among several novel molecular candidate genes, which may support future efforts towards molecular stratification of pediatric asthma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Here, we present a protocol for the recombinant production of DTX3L and USP28, along with in vitro and in vivo procedures for examining their regulatory functions. We describe steps for reconstituting DTX3L-dependent ubiquitination in vitro with purified UBA1, UbE2D1, ubiquitin, and DTX3L and assessing USP28-mediated deubiquitination. We then detail procedures for the in vivo detection of ubiquitin chain linkage-type through co-immunoprecipitation and Western blotting. This adaptable approach enables analysis of regulatory crosstalk between E3 ligases and deubiquitinases within the ubiquitin system. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Mennerich et al.1.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The dynamic synthesis and removal of poly (ADP-ribose) (pADPr) by poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 and poly (ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG), respectively, is essential for the maintenance of genome integrity, particularly during DNA replication. However, the precise role of the pADPr-binding chromatin remodeler chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 1-like (CHD1L) in resolving endogenous DNA damage remains unclear. Here, we identified CHD1L as a critical modulator of Okazaki fragment maturation. We demonstrated that CHD1L loss was synthetic lethal with severe inhibition of PARG. This synthetic lethality stemmed from the toxic accumulation of pADPr specifically in S-phase cells, originating from unprocessed Okazaki fragment intermediates. Rescue experiments confirmed that both the ATPase and pADPr-binding macrodomain of CHD1L were indispensable for preventing this toxic accumulation. Mechanistically, quantitative chromatin proteomics revealed that CHD1L deficiency caused the persistent and aberrant retention of single-strand break (SSB) repair factors and others including the E3 ubiquitin ligases RNF114 and DTX3L/PARP9, challenging the previous models that CHD1L loss would limit chromatin accessibility of DNA repair factors. These findings establish a novel housekeeping function for CHD1L in facilitating the efficient turnover of DNA repair factors at replication-associated SSBs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
ADP-ribosylation is a reversible post-translational modification that regulates diverse cellular processes, including DNA damage repair, transcription, cell proliferation and innate immune responses, and is primarily catalyzed by members of the PARP family. While all 17 human PARPs contain a conserved C-terminal ADP-ribosyltransferase (ART) domain, only catalytically active members transfer ADP-ribose (ADPr) from nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD⁺) onto proteins or nucleic acids, and their N-terminal accessory domains, such as macro domains (MDs), WWE domains or RNA-binding motifs, mediate interactions that diversify PARP functions. Human PARP9 (hPARP9), known also as BAL1, is catalytically inactive due to sequence variations in catalytically important residues in the ART domain, but plays crucial roles in antiviral and antibacterial defense, stress responses and tumor progression through its heterodimeric interaction with the E3 ubiquitin ligase DTX3L. hPARP9 contains two tandem MDs (MD1 and MD2), with MD1 acting as a MacroD-type hydrolase "eraser" of mono-ADP-ribosylation (MARylation), while MD2 functions as an ADPr "reader". Their different role in the ADP-ribosylation pathway highlights the importance of structural and functional characterization for understanding ADPr-mediated cellular signaling. In this study, we report the NMR backbone and side-chain resonance assignments of hPARP9 MD1 in both apo and ADPr bound states. In addition, the secondary structure predictions using TALOS+ server and the Chemical Shift Perturbation (CSP) analysis upon ADPr binding are presented. The latter illustrates the MD substrate's accommodation mode and identifies the residues involved in ADPr binding, thus related to MDs' hydrolytic activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by inflammation of the lungs, leading to impaired gas exchange and respiratory distress. This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying the role of Krüppel-like factor 14 (KLF14) in ALI pathogenesis.Protein and gene expression levels were quantified using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot. Cell viability and pyroptosis were assessed by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) and flow cytometry. Interleukin (IL)-18 and IL-1 β levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), while lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity was evaluated with a commercial assay kit. The interaction between Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3-like (DTX3L) and KLF14 or nucleotide-binding domain like receptor 3 (NLRP3) was analyzed using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and dual-luciferase reporter assay.BEAS-2B cells treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exhibited reduced viability and elevated pyroptosis-related markers. Notably, KLF14 upregulation suppressed NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis in LPS-induced cells. Similarly, DTX3L overexpression attenuated pyroptosis in LPS-treated BEAS-2B cells. Mechanistically, KLF14 enhanced DTX3L transcription, and DTX3L promoted NLRP3 degradation via ubiquitination. Furthermore, KLF14 upregulation inhibited NLRP3-driven pyroptosis by inducing DTX3L expression.Upregulation of KLF14 inhibited NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis through DTX3L activation, thereby improving sepsis-induced acute lung injury.Copyright © 2026 Termedia.
In the original publication [...].
Purpose: Targeted radionuclide therapy with 177Lu-PSMA-617 prolongs radiographical progression-free survival in prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-positive metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), yet 13% of patients develop symptomatic skeletal events. The authors hypothesized that hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) could potentiate 177Lu-PSMA-617 by reprogramming bone marrow (BM) immunity.Methods:Using PSMA-expressing xenografts, they demonstrated that concomitant HBOC administration significantly reduced tumor volume without increasing systemic toxicity. To dissect the underlying mechanism, the authors performed high-resolution single-cell RNA sequencing of murine BM.Results:HBOC treatment markedly expanded mature neutrophils, plasmacytoid dendritic cells, classical monocytes, natural killer T cells, and mature B cells, while concomitantly upregulating DNA damage repair genes such as Parp9, Dtx3l, and Smchd1 within these subsets. Gene set enrichment analysis confirmed significant activation of DNA damage response pathways, implying enhanced cellular radioresistance and improved tolerance to β-particle irradiation.Conclusions: Thus, HBOCs improve 177Lu-PSMA-617 antitumor efficacy indirectly via immune-subset expansion and DNA-repair reinforcement, offering a clinically feasible and safe strategy to optimize combination protocols for patients with mCRPC.
Cholesterol homeostasis depends on lysosomes liberating cholesterol from degraded lipids. We show that SARS-CoV-2 blocks lysosomal cholesterol egress through the viral protein ORF3a. ORF3a binds the HOPS subunit VPS39 via the W193 and Y184 residues. Disrupting this interface restores cholesterol trafficking. Mechanistically, the ORF3a-VPS39 interaction exerts dual effects. First, it traps the retromer complex on endolysosomes, preventing endosome-to-Golgi recycling and mislocalizing the cholesterol transporter NPC2. Retromer deletion reproduced these defects, whereas the ORF3a W193A mutant restored retromer trafficking. Second, ORF3a-VPS39 interaction reduces bis(monoacylglycerol)phosphates (BMPs), lysosomal lipids required for cholesterol egress, by disrupting the transfer of their precursor, phosphatidylglycerols, from mitochondria. Lipidomics revealed increased mitochondrial and decreased lysosomal phosphatidylglycerol metabolites. Disturbing autophagy or mitochondrion-derived vesicles did not alter BMP levels, whereas ORF3a reduced mitochondrion-lysosome membrane contacts. These findings identify dual functions of VPS39-regulating retromer trafficking and BMP biosynthesis-and also reveal how ORF3a blocks lysosomal cholesterol egress.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Ovarian cancer (OVCA) remains the most lethal gynecologic malignancy, with poor prognosis largely due to late-stage diagnosis and therapy resistance. Pyroptosis, a pro-inflammatory form of programmed cell death, has recently emerged as a regulator of tumor progression and immune regulation. This study aimed to systematically profile pyroptosis-related genes and identify robust biomarkers for OVCA. Methods: Microarray data from the GSE54388 dataset were analyzed to characterize pyroptosis-related gene expression. Immune cell infiltration was assessed using xCell, and pathway enrichment was performed via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) identified hub genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Reactome enrichment. Machine learning algorithms (Support Vector Machine, XGBoost, and Generalized Linear Model) were employed for feature selection and biomarker identification. Validation was conducted across independent bulk and scRNA-seq datasets, with GEPIA2 used to compare OVCA and normal samples and KMplot for survival analysis. Results: OVCA samples showed significantly reduced infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, mast cells, monocytes, neutrophils, and immature dendritic cells compared to normal samples. GSEA revealed enrichment of cell cycle-related pathways, implicating pyroptosis-related genes as key regulators of mitotic progression. From 1097 differentially expressed genes, 22 pyroptosis-related DEGs (PYRDEGs) were identified, with nine hub genes (CASP1, CEP55, CHMP4C, HTRA1, IL18, MELK, PKM, PTX3, TNFSF13B) strongly associated with OVCA. Functional enrichment linked these genes to cytokinesis, inflammasome activity, and immune signaling. Machine learning consistently identified CEP55 as the core biomarker, demonstrating high diagnostic accuracy (AUC up to 0.972) and significant upregulation in OVCA samples. Correlation analysis linked CEP55 expression to altered immune cell populations, including positive associations with Th1 and class-switched memory B-cells and negative associations with iDCs, Tregs, and M2 macrophages. CEP55 was highly expressed across bulk and scRNA-seq datasets (cancer epithelial and CD8+ TEMRA cells) and negatively correlated with overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). Conclusions: Pyroptosis-related genes play pivotal roles in OVCA pathogenesis. CEP55 emerges as a promising biomarker for early detection and a potential therapeutic target, bridging cell cycle regulation with immune modulation.
Macroautophagy/autophagy serves as a crucial cellular defense mechanism against invading pathogens. However, viruses have evolved diverse strategies to evade or even exploit autophagy for their own replication. In this study, we reveal that the African swine fever virus (ASFV)-encoded I10L protein suppresses autophagy by blocking autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Mechanistically, I10L directly interacts with the endolysosomal RAB GTPase RAB7, a master regulator of vesicle docking at late endosomes and lysosomes. This interaction competitively prevents RAB7 from binding to VPS39, a core component of the homotypic fusion and vacuole protein sorting (HOPS) complex. Consequently, I10L disrupts the assembly of the STX17-SNAP29-VAMP8 SNARE complex, which is essential for autophagosome-lysosome fusion. ASFV infection thus induces autophagosome accumulation, whereas I10L deletion reverses this effect and attenuates viral replication in primary macrophages. Our findings uncover a novel immune evasion strategy by which ASFV subverts lysosomal degradation through RAB7-HOPS axis manipulation, providing both mechanistic insights into viral pathogenicity and potential therapeutic targets for antiviral development.Abbreviations: ASFV: African swine fever virus; GEF: guanine nucleotide exchange factor; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HOPS: homotypic fusion and vacuole protein sorting; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; PAMs: primary alveolar macrophages; RAB7: RAB7, member RAS oncogene family; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SNAP29: synaptosome associated protein 29; SNARE: soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STX17: syntaxin 17; TM: transmembrane domain; VAMP8: vesicle associated membrane protein 8; VPS39: VPS39 subunit of HOPS complex; VPS41: VPS41 subunit of HOPS complex; YKT6: YKT6 vesicular SNARE protein.
Ovarian cancer stands out as one of the tumors with a high mortality rate in women. Therefore, the search for new therapeutic targets is essential to enhance patient prognosis. There is evidence suggesting that HOOK2, an adaptor protein involved in microtubule transport, may play a role in cancer, particularly ovarian cancer. This study examines the role of HOOK2 in the progression of ovarian tumors. The findings reveal that a decrease in HOOK2 levels leads to diminished growth and cellular migration in ovarian cancer cells, impeding the in vivo formation of tumors. The reduction of HOOK2 is associated with both an increase in endoplasmic reticulum stress and an elevation in cell death, the latter likely caused by the activation of the unfolded protein response. Moreover, the study observes that the decrease in HOOK2 diminishes the properties of cancer stem cells in ovarian cancer, possibly due to the increase in cell death specifically found within these stem cells. Given the profound impact of reduced HOOK2 levels on ovarian cancer cells, this gene emerges as a promising therapeutic strategy for treating ovarian cancer patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) drive cancer progression and metastasis. However, the mechanisms by which tumor cells shape TAM phenotypes in canine cancers remain poorly understood. We investigated correlations between cancer cell gene expression and macrophage polarization to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Tumor-conditioned media from 25 canine cancer cell lines were applied to monocyte-derived macrophages from three canine donors for 24 hours. Following washout, supernatants were analyzed for immunomodulatory cytokines and chemokines. Each cell line's polarization capacity was ranked using modified z-scores, then correlated with RNA-sequencing data through Spearman's correlation and differential expression analysis. Cancer cell lines showed marked heterogeneity in macrophage polarization capacity, largely independent of histologic type. MVB12A, a gene involved in exosome biogenesis, strongly correlated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) stimulation, suggesting exosome-mediated polarization mechanisms. Exosome fractionation experiments confirmed that purified exosomes induced significantly more macrophage VEGF secretion than other conditions, and high-MVB12A cell lines showed greater VEGF enrichment in exosomes. C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) was strongly correlated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) secretion exclusively in histiocytic sarcoma cells, and recombinant CCL3 induced dose-dependent TNF-α secretion from macrophages. High-polarizing cell lines exhibited upregulation of macrophage activation, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and metabolic reprogramming genes, and downregulation of immune surveillance and cell adhesion genes. Gene set enrichment analysis confirmed pathways for immune suppression, EMT, and extracellular matrix remodeling. These findings identify exosome-associated VEGF stimulation as a previously uncharacterized mechanism in canine tumors and highlight CCL3 as a potential histiocytic sarcoma-specific driver of macrophage TNF-α secretion. Further validation in canine clinical cohorts will determine whether these pathways can serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets in veterinary oncology.Copyright: © 2026 Brady et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To classify differentially methylated CpG sites in periodontitis based on methylation shift direction and location relative to CpG islands.We integrated DNA methylation data from 65 gingival samples (31 periodontitis, 34 healthy) from three GEO datasets. Preprocessing included normalization using R pipelines. Differential DNA methylation analysis was performed with the limma package. CpG sites (adjusted p < 0.05) were further evaluated using an exploratory threshold-crossing framework based on group-mean β-values (cutoff = 0.5) identifying Control low → Periodontitis high and Control high → Periodontitis low shifts, annotated with Illumina 450k references. Top 20 CpG-associated genes were selected by absolute logFC. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment was conducted using clusterProfiler.We identified 164,400 differentially methylated CpG sites, including CpGs exhibiting Control low → Periodontitis high and Control high → Periodontitis low shifts, and mapped to gene features. Nearly half of methylation alterations (47.77%) were in OpenSea regions, with additional signals in CpG islands and promoter-proximal regions. GO enrichment analysis revealed that differentially methylated genes in periodontitis were associated with epithelial and organ morphogenesis, including epithelial tube morphogenesis, epithelial cell proliferation, and cell fate commitment. Enriched cellular components were membrane- and vesicle-associated structures, while molecular functions were transmembrane transporter activity, ion channel activity, and DNA-binding transcription factor-related functions. These findings suggest that DNA methylation alterations in periodontitis are linked to epigenetic regulation of epithelial structure and tissue remodeling, with implications for immune-related cellular processes. Among the top 20 genes exhibiting β-threshold-based directionality changes, 13 were significantly enriched in GO terms: 8 in the Control low → Periodontitis high group (DGKA, CHMP6, RUNX2, CDKL1, SLC6A3, CFTR, HLA-C, LRIG1), 5 in the Control high → Periodontitis low group (AP2A2, PARD3, PADI2, FOXK1, RGS1).This study provides an exploratory, direction-aware summary framework of DNA methylation in periodontitis, highlighting functional changes beyond CpG islands and identifying candidate genes for further functional validation.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Experimental Dental Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Whole-exome sequencing (WES) is a valuable tool for identifying causative mutations in adult moyamoya disease (MMD), thereby advancing our understanding of the genetic mechanisms underlying this condition. Here, we conducted the first WES-based association study aimed at identifying genetic modifiers implicated in MMD.This WES study involved 160 patients with MMD and 189 controls from a multicenter hospital-based biobank, and evaluated combined annotation-dependent depletion (CADD) scores. Mutant-allele frequencies were compared in 369,121 individuals derived from the UK Biobank (UKB) WES. Mutant-allele risk scores (MARSs) were created based on WES-identified mutations. Gene-based association analyses and pooled analyses in East-Asian populations were further performed.Fourteen mutations reached the genome-wide significance criterion (p<5×10⁻⁸), among which the p.R4810K mutation in the ring finger protein 213 gene (RNF213) showed the strongest significance (odds ratio=117.4, p=8.54×10⁻²⁴). Notably, two mutations-p.G576S (alpha-glucosidase [GAA]) and p.D54N (charged multivesicular body protein 6 [CHMP6])-exhibited high CADD scores of 32 and 25, respectively, whereas the RNF213 p.R4810K mutation demonstrated a moderate deleteriousness score of 10.63. Fourteen mutations exhibited significant differences in allele frequencies between patients and UKB controlled data (p<1×10⁻⁸). The MARS9 model (incorporating nine missense mutations) showed better predictability for MMD (90.89%). The analysis of gene-based associations revealed four candidate genes: GAA, RNF213, CHMP6, and CARD14 (p=5×10⁻¹⁹ to 4×10⁻⁷). The subsequent pooled analyses validated four mutations in East Asian populations: p.V1195M, p.D1331G, p.S2334N, and p.R4810K (p<3×10⁻⁸).This pioneering study has corroborated the significance of p.R4810K and identified several causative mutations predisposing patients to MMD, which helps to improve the understanding of its polygenetic nature.Copyright © 2026 Korean Neurological Association.
Noncovalent interactions play an important role in the way protein structures and protein-protein interactions are stabilized. Mapping these interactions at a molecular level is crucial as peptide complexes serve as models for protein-protein interfaces. In this work, complementary analyses using trapped ion mobility spectrometry (TIMS), tandem ECD/UVPD MS fragmentation, and molecular dynamics were applied to the study of native peptide-peptide complexes. In particular, three complexes representing peptide-peptide intramolecular interactions of the intrinsically disordered high-mobility group AT-Hook2 (HMGA2) protein were described. AT-hook peptides, when complexed with the C-terminal tail (CTMP), showed a higher gas-phase stability for ATHP1-CTMP, followed by ATHP2-CTMP and ATHP3-CTMP. High sequence coverage was obtained by using ECD and UVPD fragmentation for the single peptides (∼100%) and the peptide-peptide complexes (∼75%). At least three peptide-peptide structures were separated in the mobility domain for the ATHP-CTMP complexes. All three complexes showed high structural diversity and the possibility of being aligned in forward and backward orientations.
This study aimed to identify candidate genes related to birth weight (BW), live weight at 90th day (90-LW), and lactation milk yield (LMY) in Hair (HAI), Honamlı (HNM), and Kabakulak (KBK) goats, providing a genome-wide basis for further selection strategies. The genome-wide efficient mixed model association approach was assessed with 309.342 bi-allelic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across 481 animals to detect significant variants and their corresponding genomic regions. False discovery rate (FDR) correction and suggestive significance threshold were applied to identify SNPs having direct and potential effects on traits of interest, respectively. A total of 138 outlier SNPs (20 in HNM, 47 in HAI, and 71 in KBK) exceeded suggestive significance, of which 12 SNPs were identified to meet Benjamini-Hochberg's FDR criterion, suggesting that the overlapped protein-coding genes directly influence the phenotypic traits of interest. This approach revealed that the ID4 and CXCR4 genes directly affect BW and LMY traits in HNM goats, whereas no significant associations were observed regarding these traits in HAI and KBK goats. Additionally, a total of 8 protein-coding genes were identified to directly influence the 90-LW trait in HAI (MFSD1, CHMP4C, and MAP1B) and KBK (IGSF21, RALY, ZNF507, SLC38A10, and PGBD5) goats. The remaining 126 suggestive SNPs, on the other hand, either overlapped or were located near 103 protein-coding genes, indicating their potential effects on growth and milk yield. Both direct and potential protein-coding genes identified in this study seem promising for designing comprehensive selection strategies to improve growth and milk traits in Anatolian goats.© 2026. The Author(s).
This experiment was aimed to investigate the effects of dietary supplementation with porcine-derived bile acids (BAs) on production performance, immune function, serum metabolome, and liver transcriptome in heat-stressed laying hens. A total of 400 55-week-old Jingfen No.3 laying hens with similar body weight and laying rate were randomly allocated to 5 groups (8 replicates/group, 10 hens/replicate): normal temperature control group (CON, 26 ± 1°C, basal diet), high temperature control group (HS, 35 ± 1°C, basal diet), and three high-temperature BA-supplemented groups (HT, 35 ± 1°C, basal diet + 60, 120, or 240 mg/kg BAs). The CON group was maintained at normal temperature throughout the experiment, while the HS and HT groups were subjected to a cyclic temperature regime of 16 h high temperature/8 h normal temperature for 28 days. Compared with the CON group, the HS group showed significantly decreased laying rate, average egg weight, average daily feed intake, total egg mass, serum immunoglobulin A (IgA), immunoglobulin G (IgG), interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels and spleen index (P < 0.05), along with significantly increased serum corticosterone (CORT), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) contents (P < 0.05). Dietary supplementation with 120 mg/kg BAs significantly improved laying rate and total egg mass (P < 0.05), reduced serum CORT, HSP70, IL-1β and liver index levels (P < 0.05), and increased serum IgA, immunoglobulin M (IgM) levels and spleen index (P < 0.05) compared with the HS group. Serum metabolomics identified 129 differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs), mainly including prostaglandin A₂ (PGA₂), 5,6-dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acid (5,6-DHET), 11,12,15-trihydroxyeicosatrienoic acid (11,12,15-THETA), and arachidonate. Liver transcriptomics revealed 347 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), primarily involving major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I), interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R), transforming growth factor-β receptor (TGF-βR), and multivesicular body protein 12A (MVB12A). Spearman correlation analysis indicated that IgA was significantly positively correlated with 11,12,15-THETA but significantly negatively correlated with arachidonate; IgM was significantly positively correlated with both 11,12,15-THETA and 5,6-DHET. Furthermore, 5,6-DHET was significantly positively correlated with MVB12A and IL-2R, and 11,12,15-THETA was also significantly positively correlated with MVB12A; arachidonate was significantly negatively correlated with MVB12A and TGF-βR. In conclusion, dietary supplementation with 120 mg/kg porcine-derived BAs can improve production performance by enhancing immune function in heat-stressed laying hens.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
BEACH domain-containing proteins (BDCPs) represent a family of large membrane-associated transmembrane cargo adaptors. In the current study, we determined the cryo-EM structure of the full-length typical BDCP NBEAL2, revealing an N-terminal arch-like structure with C-terminal globular domains attached to its convex surface. Using structure-guided deletion mutants and protein chimeras as well as native alternatively spliced isoforms and disease-related point mutants, we show that the N-terminal α-solenoid/concanavalin A-like domain assembly of the typical BDCPs NBEAL1, NBEAL2, LYST, ALFY, LRBA, and NBEA functions as a modular membrane recruitment domain. We report that gray platelet syndrome-associated single aa mutations L388P or E643V within the membrane recruitment domain of NBEAL2 disrupt its membrane targeting in stably transfected cells, highlighting a potential structure-function mechanism by which failed membrane recruitment cause gray platelet syndrome or other BDCPs-related diseases.© 2026 Dahl et al.
Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a life-threatening condition that results from a severe inflammation caused by an exaggerated immune response. HLH may have a genetic cause affecting the proper function of cytotoxic immune cells or it canbe linked to other pathological settings including inborn errors of immunity, malignancies, autoinflammatory and autoimmune syndromes, metabolic diseases, or acquired immunodeficiencies. HLH due to a genetic error remains difficult to diagnose because anormal Natural Killer (NK) or cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) function does not necessarily exclude a familial form of HLH affecting immune cells other than cytotoxic lymphocytes, or because patients with autoimmune or autoinflammatory syndromes can also fulfill the HLH criteria. In consequence, sensitive functional assays and assessment of the expression of proteins involved in lytic-granules exocytosis may be useful approaches for discriminating between familial forms of HLH from those where a genetic cause is not affecting cytotoxic cell function, or from acquired forms of HLH.By different approaches, including functional assays and biochemical studies, we were able to obtain molecular diagnostics for patients, while next-generation sequencing identified the disease-associated gene variants.Here we presented a multi-center experience in approaching and diagnosing patients with familial HLH. Our study included a cohort of 31 patients that fulfill the criteria of HLH. Genetic testing, led to identified variants in PRF1, UNC13D, STX11, STXBP2, RAB27A, LYST, AP3B1 and SH2D1A, confirming most of the initial molecular diagnoses. From allfound variants, 15 were novel and not previously reported in patients with HLH nor found in homozygous condition.Our results highlight the importance of taking into consideration molecular studies to increase the proportion of patients that obtain a molecular diagnosis, especially in countries where high-throughput genetic analyses are difficult to access or time-consuming.Copyright © 2026 Gutiérrez-Guerrero, Lugo-Reyes, López-Rivera, Sánchez-Herrera, Valenzuela-Vázquez, Estevez-Mieres, Nuñez Nuñez, Bayardo-Gutiérrez, Lona-Reyes, Cruz-Osorio, Soto-Chavez, Bedolla-Barajas, Gutierrez-Hernández, Barragan-Arevalo, Hidalgo-Martinez, Gomez-Cardenas, Sierra-Muñoz, Perea Alvarez, Venegas-Montoya, Staines-Boone, Zarate-Hernández, Miranda-Saavedra, Arce-Estrada, Scheffler-Mendoza, Bustamante-Ogando, Llamas-Guillén, Ruiz-Fernández, Reynoso-Arenas, Flores-Munguía, Torres-Lozano, Bonal-Pérez, Mamani-Velásquez, Martínez-Barricarte, Ramírez-Uribe, Pastor, Martinez-Duncker, Gaytan, Yañez, Yamazaki-Nakashimada, Lenoir, Latour, Espinosa and Cruz-Munoz.
Chédiak-Higashi syndrome (CHS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe immunodeficiency, partial albinism, recurrent infections, and progressive neurologic dysfunction. Unless patients undergo successful hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), a majority of them die during childhood because of an accelerated phase of immune dysfunction and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). Herein, we aim to describe the laboratory diagnosis, clinical manifestations, and genetic findings in three patients with CHS. Three patients with partial albinism associated with CHS were included in this study. Immunological screening tests were done. Leukocyte granules in peripheral blood smear (PBS) and hair shafts were examined. Subsequently, genetic analyses were performed by Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) followed by Sanger sequencing for all patients and their parents. Initial immunology screening tests were within normal limits. Light microscopy studies of patients' PBS showed giant granules in the leukocyte cytoplasm. Furthermore, there were evenly distributed melanin granules in the patients' hair shafts. Variant analysis of the LYST gene identified three splicing site defects: one known variant, c.7060-1G>A in intron 24, and two novel variants, c.2363+2T>C in intron 5, and c.10702-3A>G in intron 47. Hair shaft assay and PBS are rapid and suitable tests in early diagnosis and differentiation in CHS patients. WES results revealed 2 novel splice site variants that might contribute to earlier and more accurate diagnosis. This facilitates early enrolment of CHS patients in the HCT protocol-the optimal treatment path-and enables prenatal diagnosis for affected families.
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTCL) is a rare and aggressive lymphoid malignancy highly associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. Patients with stage III or higher disease often have a poor prognosis. This study retrospectively reviewed the treatment courses of 34 patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) ENKTCL who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) at our center between January 2019 and July 2024. The results showed that in this study, the use of PD-1 inhibitors before transplantation, the number of treatment lines, and whether the plasma EBV was negative or not had no significant impact on OS and PFS. Patients achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) prior to allo-HSCT exhibited a more favorable prognosis. Conversely, a history of chronic active EBV infection (CAEBV) before transplantation and EBV reactivation post-transplantation were associated with inferior survival, suggesting poor prognostic outcomes. Genetic susceptibility analysis revealed that patients with advanced ENKTCL frequently harbored hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH)-associated gene variants. LYST gene variants were the most commonly identified HLH-related alterations, and patients developing HLH experienced significantly higher non-relapse mortality (NRM). Furthermore, TP53 gene variants were associated with post-allo-HSCT relapse. In conclusion, Allogeneic HSCT may improve survival in selected high-risk, advanced-stage R/R ENKTCL patients. These single-center, retrospective findings are hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger, multi-center studies with longer follow-up.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Retinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a major cause of vision loss, characterized by retinal edema and progressive retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death. Aquaporin-4 (AQP4), a water channel abundantly expressed in glial cells, plays a pivotal role in edema formation by regulating water homeostasis. Geranylgeranylacetone (GGA), a clinically approved anti-ulcer drug, functions as a potent and non-toxic inducer of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) and has recently been implicated in the regulation of aquaporin trafficking. In parallel, the sorting nexin 27 (SNX27)-retromer complex is a key mediator of endosomal sorting and recycling of membrane proteins back to the plasma membrane, thereby maintaining their functional activity. In this study, we demonstrate that retinal I/R injury triggers altered subcellular localization of AQP4, with enhanced internalization compared with sham retinas. Concomitantly, SNX27-retromer expression was significantly upregulated at both mRNA and protein levels, and biochemical as well as imaging assays confirmed its interaction with AQP4. In a pre-ischemia dosing paradigm (prophylactic), GGA markedly attenuated retinal edema and RGC loss, and promoted the interaction between HSP70 and the SNX27-retromer complex. Importantly, GGA treatment reduced SNX27-retromer expression, thereby limiting AQP4 recycling to the plasma membrane and favoring its lysosome-associated trafficking. These effects were largely reversed by quercetin, a pharmacological inhibitor of HSP70, highlighting an HSP70-dependent mechanism. Together, our findings identify a previously unrecognized role of HSP70 in regulating SNX27-retromer-mediated AQP4 trafficking. By disrupting AQP4 recycling, GGA alleviates early retinal edema following I/R injury, providing mechanistic rationale for future therapeutic development.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Protollin, a nasal adjuvant, was evaluated in a randomized double-blind phase 1 study of 16 early Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients to determine safety and to assess its immunomodulatory effects. In a double-blind dose escalation study, subjects received nasal Protollin at doses of 0.1 mg, 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg, and 1.5 mg or placebo twice over a two-week period. Treatment was well-tolerated with minimal side effects. Transcriptomic and single-cell analyses demonstrated that prior to treatment, AD blood monocytes had downregulation of phagocytosis-related genes and an increased pro-inflammatory signature. These AD monocyte abnormalities were reversed by nasal Protollin beginning at a dose of 1.0 mg. Protollin induced a robust phagocytic gene signature, including upregulation of CD36, ITGAL, LYST, and FCGR1A. A similar phagocytic signature was observed in brain-infiltrating amyloid-clearing monocytes in an APP Tg mouse model treated with nasal Protollin. Protollin treatment decreased the expression of costimulatory molecules on monocytes and decreased CD8 + T cell activation and cytotoxicity. Our results provide the basis for a phase 2 study of nasal Protollin in subjects with AD in which nasal Protollin at a dose of 1.0 mg will be administered weekly over 6 months to modulate peripheral immunity and clear amyloid from the brain. ClinicalTrials.gov registration no NCT07187141.© 2026. The Author(s).
Directional dendritic transport of late endosomes (LEs) retrogradely toward the soma is required for fusion with lysosomes and for degradation in the soma. Both dendritic motility of LEs and somatic degradation require RAB7A. Similarly, interference with dynein function reduces motility of LEs and results in degradative failure. Blocking dynein function also impairs normal dendrite growth, suggesting that motility of LEs and subsequent fusion with lysosomes might be required for dendrite growth. RAB7A and dynein are mechanistically linked via the dynein-interacting RAB7A effector RILP. RILP also binds the LE-lysosome fusion tether HOPS. In non-neuronal cells, downregulation of RILP leads to impaired degradation due to deficiencies in LE transport and fusion defects with lysosomes. In this work, we express a separation-of-function mutant of RAB7A (RAB7A-L8A) incapable of RILP binding. Based on the results in non-neuronal cells, we hypothesized that both endosome motility and degradation in neurons depended on RILP. Our data in cultured rat and mouse hippocampal neurons of both sexes suggest that endogenous RILP is a functional RAB7A-dependent dynein adaptor for LE motility in dendrites. In addition, it promotes endosome carrier formation. As a consequence of LE transport inhibition, degradative cargos are not cleared normally from dendrites in RAB7A-L8A. Surprisingly, lysosomal fusion and somatic degradation do not require RAB7A-RILP interactions. Despite the normal degradation, dendrite arborization is impaired in RAB7A-L8A expressing neurons, demonstrating that dendrite morphology defects are separable from degradation blockade. This indicates that normal dendrite growth/maintenance is dependent on sustained RAB7A/RILP-dependent LE transport.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Little is known about the long-term prognosis of patients with talaromycosis and inborn errors of immunity (IEI).We aimed to evaluate the clinical characteristics and long-term outcomes of talaromycosis in children with IEI on a 13-year cohort study.An observational study was conducted on pediatric patients with talaromycosis at tertiary hospitals in southern China during 2012 to 2024. Data on demographic information, clinical features, immunological characteristics, genetic tests, antifungal treatment, and long-term prognosis were collected for analysis.Among the 329 patients with talaromycosis without HIV, children accounted for 7%. 100% children with talaromycosis were diagnosed as IEI, and a total of 18 children were finally enrolled. All children were identified with IEI, including five novel genetic defects (IL7R, LYST, PLCG2, DOCK8, and KRAS deficiency) and five reported genetic defects (STAT1-GOF, IL2RG, CD40L, STAT3-LOF, CARD9 deficiency). Most children exhibited decreased lymphocytes, NK cells, and immunoglobulin levels. Half of children had been suffered from severe complications, such as sepsis or septic shock, thus had to received advanced life support in ICU. The median antifungal treatment duration was 16 months (IQR: 0.8-72.5 months). Amphotericin B and voriconazole are commonly used for induction therapy. Voriconazole and itraconazole are commonly used for maintenance therapy. Within 2 weeks of induction antifungal treatment, 3 patients died, and another 3 patients died within 24 weeks. At the end of observation, despite one child died of leukemia and one lost to follow-up, 4 achieved long-term relapse-free survival without antifungal treatment, and 6 were stable with maintenance antifungal therapy (One survived for more than 20 years, the longest recorded survival now). Most children benefited from immune boosting therapy, including 2 received HSCT intervention.Talaromycosis serves as an early warning indicator for IEI in HIV-uninfected children. Treatment and long-time management remain a challenge. Besides, long lasting anti-fungal and immune boosting therapy may be necessary, while HSCT intervention could provide potential benefits.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Li, Jiang, Li, Li, Huang, Huang, Hu, Lv, Liu, Zhong, Lin, Liao, Qin, Qin, Shao, Wang, Li, Jiang, Zhang, Wei, Liang, Zheng, Wang, Wu, Pan, Zheng, Li, Tang, Jiang, Liao and Cao.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for the second highest incidence and highest mortality rates globally, wherein immune checkpoint molecules such as PD-L1, highly-expressed in malignant cells bind to PD-1 located in immunocytes, leading to immune escape. We hereby investigate the role of phytomedicine Cepharanthine (CEP) in the regulation of PD-L1 in NSCLC and elucidate the involved mechanism. CEP showed robust cytotoxicity against lung cancer cells, as demonstrated by reduced cell viability and elevated apoptosis. Furthermore, the tumor grafts in mice were significantly suppressed by CEP. Importantly, CEP down-regulated PD-L1 at the mRNA, protein, and membrane levels, thereby arousing the immune microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma. Further exploration presented that CEP induced autophagy, which specifically accelerated the fusion of lysosomes with autophagosomes, ultimately leading to the degradation of PD-L1 in lung cancer cells. Mechanistically, TSPO and RILP were critical molecules through which CEP accelerated autophagic flux, as validated by drug target techniques and genetic perturbation. Finally, the findings supported the clinical translational potential of CEP plus anti-PD-L1 as a novel chemo-immunotherapy regimen. Taken together, CEP accelerates autophagy through direct inhibition of TSPO and activation of RILP, leading to PD-L1 autophagic degradation, which arouses immune microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma. The immune regulation effects mediated by CEP prove to be a novel combination chemo-immunotherapy strategy for lung cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This retrospective study aimed to investigate the clinical characteristics, management, and prognosis of pediatric malignancy-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (M-HLH).This was a retrospective, single-center cohort study, pediatric patients diagnosed with M-HLH diagnosed from January 2003 to December 2024 in our center were enrolled. Clinical characteristics, treatment regimens, overall response rate (ORR), and overall survival (OS) were evaluated. Univariate and multivariate analyses of potential factors were performed to identify prognostic factors.Of the 44 patients, the median age at M-HLH diagnosis was 6.63 years (range: 0.33-15.58). Most patients (79.5%) developed HLH induced by tumors. Lymphoma was the most common malignancy (56.8%), predominantly of the T/NK - cell subtype (36.4%), followed by acute leukemia (27.3%) and Langerhans cell histiocytosis (15.9%). Marked elevations were observed in IL - 2R, IFN - γ, TNF - α, IL - 6, and IL - 10. Pathogenic variants in HLH - associated genes (LYST, UNC13D, and XIAP) were identified in three cases. Patients with the HLH at malignancy diagnosis were significantly older and had lower platelet and albumin levels compared to those with HLH after malignancy chemotherapy(P < 0.05). The ORR at the 4 week HLH diagnosis and at the final follow-up was 63.6% and 68.2%, respectively. The 6-month, 1-year, and 2-year OS rates were 79%, 69%, and 67%, respectively. Elevated serum ferritin (> 5000 ng/mL), age (> 10 years), lactate dehydrogenase (> 500 U/L), and failure to achieve CR were all associated with lower OS (P < 0.05). Achieving CR significantly enhanced OS in malignancy-induced HLH (P < 0.01), but not in chemotherapy-induced HLH. Failure to achieve CR by the final follow-up was an independent risk factor for a poor prognosis.The prognosis of pediatric M - HLH patients is poor. Remission of HLH is critical to the prognosis of M - HLH. Personalized and intensive treatment regimens are necessary for pediatric M - HLH.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Huang, Le and Zhou.
IL-17A inhibitors are therapeutic options in PsA, but response is not universal. Evidence from other inflammatory arthritides suggests differential gene expression may predict the outcomes. This study aimed to identify transcriptomic predictive biomarkers of response in PsA patients commencing secukinumab.Participants were recruited to OUtcomes of Treatment in Psoriatic Arthritis Study Syndicate (OUTPASS), a prospective observational cohort study of patients with PsA initiating advanced therapeutics. Samples for this analysis were chosen based on extreme phenotype response. Whole-blood RNA sequencing was performed longitudinally in 13 secukinumab-treated patients at baseline (pre-treatment) and at 3 months post-treatment, with response evaluated at 3 months using the DAS28 criteria and the Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria. Differential gene expression analysis, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed to identify significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (adjusted P < 0.05, |log2 fold change| ≥ 1), enriched pathways (P < 0.05), and co-expressed gene modules. Immune cell subset proportions were estimated by deconvolution, and hub genes were identified by integrating DEGs and WGCNA, with overlapping genes defined as potential driver genes.IGHV3-64D and IGHV1-46 were differentially expressed at baseline, 3 months, and sustained over time in the responder group (adjusted P < 0.05). Five overlapping genes (GMPR, CDC34, DMTN, UBXN6 and SLC25A39) were identified as potential drivers. Functional analysis indicated a potential contribution of metabolic pathways to the modulation of therapeutic response.We identified two genes as pre-treatment predictive biomarkers of secukinumab response that persisted over time. Integration with WGCNA revealed five additional candidate genes. These genes are implicated in metabolic pathways, which may modulate the secukinumab response. These findings warrant further validation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology.
In PINK1 (PTEN induced kinase 1)/PRKN (Parkin)-mediated mitophagy, the rupture of the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) emerges as a crucial event required for efficient mitochondrial clearance. Mechanistically, OMM rupture exposes inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) mitophagy receptors, facilitating subsequent autophagic removal. Despite the important role of OMM rupture in mitophagy, the underlying mechanism remains elusive and technically difficult to monitor. In a recent study, we developed a novel fluorescent biosensor to directly visualize OMM rupture. This technique enables temporal and spatial characterization of OMM rupture and provides a powerful platform to dissect the underlying mechanism. Using this tool, we revealed that VCP (valosin containing protein) and its recruitment factors are required for OMM rupture, suggesting that VCP-dependent remodeling of the OMM proteome primes the rupture of OMM during mitophagy. Abbreviations: ARIH1, Ariadne RBR E3 ubiquitin protein Ligase 1; AMFR, autocrine motility factor receptor; ANKRD13A, ankyrin repeat domain-containing protein 13 A; FUNDC1, FUN14 domain containing 1; OA, oligomycin and antimycin; CID, chemical-induced dimerization; IMM, nner mitochondrial membrane; LC3, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MUL1, mitochondrial E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1; NIX, BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; OMM, outer mitochondrial membrane; UBXN1, ubiquitin regulatory X domain-containing protein 1; UBXN6, ubiquitin regulatory X domain-containing protein 6; VCP, valosin-containing protein; WIPI2, WD repeat domain phosphoinositide interacting protein 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
This study explores whether DNA methylation (DNAm) mediates the association between lean body mass (LBM) and cognition, as well as whether LBM mediates the association between DNAm and cognition. Based on the data of 59 monozygotic twin pairs, mediation analyses were performed using causal inference test method and mediation analyses. Average causal mediation effect (ACME), average direct effect (ADE), and total effect (TE) were calculated. Among the CpGs associated with LBM, five located within PDGFRB and RP11 genes (ACME: -0.0972-0.0463, |ACME/ADE|: 10.44%-18.30%) negatively mediated the association between LBM and cognition, while one in the PAX2 gene (ACME: 0.3510, |ACME/TE|: 11.84%) positively mediated the association. Besides, the methylation risk score (MRS) of RP11 gene (ACME: -0.0517, |ACME/ADE|: 10.64%) and MRS of all CpGs (ACME: -0.0511, |ACME/ADE|: 10.53%) negatively mediated the association of LBM with cognition. For another, LBM negatively mediated the association between the DNAm level of one CpG within UBXN6 and cognition (ACME: -0.0732, |ACME/TE|: 20.78%), while positively mediated the association between the DNAm level of four CpGs within FOXI2 and cognition (ACME: 0.2812-0.4496, |ACME/TE|: 18.15%-27.29%). It was found the DNAm in PDGFRB, RP11 and PAX2 partially mediates the association between LBM and cognition, and the association between DNAm in UBXN6 and FOXI2 with cognition is also partially mediated by LBM.
Lysosomes are the major cellular organelles responsible for nutrient recycling and degradation of cellular material. Maintenance of lysosomal integrity is essential for cellular homeostasis and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) sensitizes toward cell death. Damaged lysosomes are repaired or degraded via lysophagy, during which glycans, exposed on ruptured lysosomal membranes, are recognized by galectins leading to K48- and K63-linked poly-ubiquitination (poly-Ub) of lysosomal proteins followed by recruitment of the macroautophagic/autophagic machinery and degradation. Linear (M1) poly-Ub, catalyzed by the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC) E3 ligase and removed by OTULIN (OTU deubiquitinase with linear linkage specificity) exerts important functions in immune signaling and cell survival, but the role of M1 poly-Ub in lysosomal homeostasis remains unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that L-leucyl-leucine methyl ester (LLOMe)-damaged lysosomes accumulate M1 poly-Ub in an OTULIN- and K63 Ub-dependent manner. LMP-induced M1 poly-Ub at damaged lysosomes contributes to lysosome degradation, recruits the NFKB (nuclear factor kappa B) modulator IKBKG/NEMO and locally activates the inhibitor of NFKB kinase (IKK) complex to trigger NFKB activation. Inhibition of lysosomal degradation enhances LMP- and OTULIN-regulated cell death, indicating pro-survival functions of M1 poly-Ub during LMP and potentially lysophagy. Finally, we demonstrate that M1 poly-Ub also occurs at damaged lysosomes in primary mouse neurons and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived primary human dopaminergic neurons. Our results reveal novel functions of M1 poly-Ub during lysosomal homeostasis, LMP and degradation of damaged lysosomes, with important implications for NFKB signaling, inflammation and cell death.Abbreviation: ATG: autophagy related; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CHUK/IKKA: component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex; CUL4A-DDB1-WDFY1: cullin 4A-damage specific DNA binding protein 1-WD repeat and FYVE domain containing 1; DGCs: degradative compartments; DIV: days in vitro; DUB: deubiquitinase/deubiquitinating enzyme; ELDR: endo-lysosomal damage response; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; FBXO27: F-box protein 27; GBM: glioblastoma multiforme; IKBKB/IKKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: inhibitor of NFKB kinase; iPSC: induced pluripotent stem cell; KBTBD7: kelch repeat and BTB domain containing 7; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LCD: lysosomal cell death; LGALS: galectin; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LLOMe: L-leucyl-leucine methyl ester; LOP: loperamide; LUBAC: linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex; LRSAM1: leucine rich repeat and sterile alpha motif containing 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB/NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IĸBα: nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor alpha; OPTN: optineurin; ORAS: OTULIN-related autoinflammatory syndrome; OTULIN: OTU deubiquitinase with linear linkage specificity; RING: really interesting new gene; RBR: RING-in-between-RING; PLAA: phospholipase A2 activating protein; RBCK1/HOIL-1: RANBP2-type and C3HC4-type zinc finger containing 1; RNF31/HOIP: ring finger protein 31; SHARPIN: SHANK associated RH domain interactor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SR-SIM: super-resolution-structured illumination microscopy; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TH: tyrosine hydroxylase; TNF/TNFα: tumor necrosis factor; TNFRSF1A/TNFR1-SC: TNF receptor superfamily member 1A signaling complex; TRIM16: tripartite motif containing 16; Ub: ubiquitin; UBE2QL1: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 QL1; UBXN6/UBXD1: UBX domain protein 6; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; WIPI2: WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2; YOD1: YOD1 deubiquitinase.
Ubiquitin regulatory X (UBX) domain-containing protein 6 (UBXN6) is an essential cofactor for the activity of the valosin-containing protein p97, an adenosine triphosphatase associated with diverse cellular activities. Nonetheless, its role in cells of the innate immune system remains largely unexplored. In this study, we report that UBXN6 is upregulated in humans with sepsis and may serve as a pivotal regulator of inflammatory responses via the activation of autophagy. Notably, the upregulation of UBXN6 in sepsis patients was negatively correlated with inflammatory gene profiles but positively correlated with the expression of Forkhead box O3, an autophagy-driving transcription factor. Compared with those of control mice, the macrophages of mice subjected to myeloid cell-specific UBXN6 depletion exhibited exacerbated inflammation, increased mitochondrial oxidative stress, and greater impairment of autophagy and endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation pathways. UBXN6-deficient macrophages also exhibited immunometabolic remodeling, characterized by a shift to aerobic glycolysis and elevated levels of branched-chain amino acids. These metabolic shifts amplify mammalian target of rapamycin pathway signaling, in turn reducing the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor EB and impairing lysosomal biogenesis. Together, these data reveal that UBXN6 serves as an activator of autophagy and regulates inflammation to maintain immune system suppression during human sepsis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Head and neck squamous carcinoma (HNSC) is a prevalent malignant disease, with the majority of patients being diagnosed at an advanced stage. Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) is considered to be a process that promotes tumorigenesis and impacts the tumor microenvironment (TME) in various cancers. The study aims to investigate the predictive value of ERS in HNSC and explore the correlation between ERS-related genes and TME. A series of bioinformatics analyses were carried out based on mRNA and scRNA-seq data from the TCGA and GEO databases. We conducted RT-qPCR and western blot to validate the signature, and performed cell functional experiments to investigate the in vitro biological functions of the gene. We identified 63 ERS-related genes that were associated with outcome and stage in HNSC. A three-gene signature (ATF6, TRIB3, and UBXN6) was developed, which presents predictive value in the prognosis and immunotherapy response of HNSC patients. The high-risk group exhibited a worse prognosis but may benefit from immunotherapy. Furthermore, there was a significant correlation between the signature and immune infiltration. In the high-risk group, fibroblasts were more active in intercellular communication, and more T cells were observed at the end of the sequential phase. The genes in the ERS-related signature were overexpressed in HNSC cells, and the knockdown of TRIB3 significantly inhibited cell proliferation and migration. This study established a novel ERS-related signature that has potential implications for HNSC therapy and the understanding of TME.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 38183492 is a review article
Neurodegenerative tauopathies may progress based on seeding by pathological tau assemblies, whereby an aggregate is released from one cell, gains entry to an adjacent or connected cell, and serves as a specific template for its own replication in the cytoplasm. In vitro seeding reactions typically take days, yet seeding into the complex cytoplasmic milieu can happen within hours. A cellular machinery might regulate this process, but potential players are unknown.We used proximity labeling to identify factors that control seed amplification. We fused split-APEX2 to the C-terminus of tau repeat domain (RD) to reconstitute peroxidase activity upon seeded intracellular tau aggregation. We identified valosin containing protein (VCP/p97) 5h after seeding. Mutations in VCP underlie two neurodegenerative diseases, multisystem proteinopathy and vacuolar tauopathy, but its mechanistic role is unclear. We utilized tau biosensors, a cellular model for tau aggregation, to study the effects of VCP on tau seeding.VCP knockdown reduced tau seeding. However, distinct chemical inhibitors of VCP and the proteasome had opposing effects on aggregation, but only when given <8h of seed exposure. ML-240 increased seeding efficiency ~40x, whereas NMS-873 decreased seeding efficiency by 50%, and MG132 increased seeding ~10x. We screened VCP co-factors in HEK293 biosensor cells by genetic knockout or knockdown. Reduction of ATXN3, NSFL1C, UBE4B, NGLY1, and OTUB1 decreased tau seeding, as did NPLOC4, which also uniquely increased soluble tau levels. Reduction of FAF2 and UBXN6 increased tau seeding.VCP uses distinct cofactors to determine seed replication efficiency, consistent with a dedicated cytoplasmic processing complex that directs seeds towards dissolution vs. amplification.
Overexpression of PTP4A phosphatases are associated with advanced cancers, but their biological functions are far from fully understood due to limited knowledge about their physiological substrates. VCP is implicated in lysophagy via collaboration with specific cofactors in the ELDR complex. However, how the ELDR complex assembly is regulated has not been determined. Moreover, the functional significance of the penultimate and conserved Tyr805 phosphorylation in VCP has not been established. Here, we use an unbiased substrate trapping and mass spectrometry approach and identify VCP/p97 as a bona fide substrate of PTP4A2. Biochemical studies show that PTP4A2 dephosphorylates VCP at Tyr805, enabling the association of VCP with its C-terminal cofactors UBXN6/UBXD1 and PLAA, which are components of the ELDR complex responsible for lysophagy, the autophagic clearance of damaged lysosomes. Functionally, PTP4A2 is required for cellular homeostasis by promoting lysophagy through facilitating ELDR-mediated K48-linked ubiquitin conjugate removal and autophagosome formation on the damaged lysosomes. Deletion of Ptp4a2 in vivo compromises the recovery of glycerol-injection induced acute kidney injury due to impaired lysophagy and sustained lysosomal damage. Taken together, our data establish PTP4A2 as a critical regulator of VCP and uncover an important role for PTP4A2 in maintaining lysosomal homeostasis through dephosphorylation of VCP at Tyr805. Our study suggests that PTP4A2 targeting could be a potential therapeutic approach to treat cancers and other degenerative diseases by modulating lysosomal homeostasis and macroautophagy/autophagy.Abbreviations: AAA+: ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities; AKI: acute kidney injury; CBB: Coomassie Brilliant Blue; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; ELDR: endo-lysosomal damage response; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GST: ‎glutathione S-transferase; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IP: immunoprecipitation; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; LGALS3/Gal3: galectin 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; PLAA: phospholipase A2, activating protein; PTP4A2: protein tyrosine phosphatase 4a2; PUB: NGLY1/PNGase/UBA- or UBX-containing protein; PUL: PLAP, Ufd3, and Lub1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UBXN6/UBXD1: UBX domain protein 6; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; VCPIP1: valosin containing protein interacting protein 1; YOD1: YOD1 deubiquitinase.
The mammalian Atg18 ortholog WIPI2 is a key regulator of LC3 lipidation to promote autophagosome biogenesis during nonselective macroautophagy, while its functions in selective autophagy such as mitophagy remain largely unexplored. In this study, we explored the role of WIPI2 in PINK1-PRKN/parkin-mediated mitophagy. First, we found that WIPI2 is recruited to damaged mitochondria upon mitophagy induction. Second, loss of WIPI2 impedes mitochondrial damaging agents-induced mitophagy. Third, at molecular level, WIPI2 binds to and promotes AAA-ATPase VCP/p97 (valosin containing protein) to damaged mitochondria; and WIPI2 depletion blunts the recruitment of VCP to damaged mitochondria, leading to reduction in degradation of outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) proteins and mitophagy. Finally, WIPI2 is implicated in cell fate decision as cells deficient in WIPI2 are largely resistant to cell death induced by mitochondrial damage. In summary, our study reveals a critical regulatory role of WIPI2 in mitochondrial recruitment of VCP to promote OMM protein degradation and eventual mitophagy.Abbreviations: ATG, autophagy related; CALCOCO2/NDP52, calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP, carbonyl cyanide chlorophenylhydrazone; CYCS, cytochrome c, somatic; HSPD1/HSP60, heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; IMM, inner mitochondrial membrane; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; NPLOC4, NPL4 homolog, ubiquitin recognition factor; OMM, outer mitochondrial membrane; OPTN, optineurin; PtdIns3P, phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PINK1, PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN/Parkin, parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; UBXN6/UBXD1, UBX domain protein 6; UFD1, ubiquitin recognition factor in ER associated degradation 1; VCP/p97, valosin containing protein; WIPI2, WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2.
Cytokinesis requires tightly coordinated membrane trafficking and cytoskeletal remodelling to ensure accurate physical separation of daughter cells. Rab11a, a recycling endosome-associated small GTPase, and KIF13A, a kinesin-3 family microtubule motor protein, have each been implicated in late mitotic events. However, the mechanistic relationship between Rab11a-mediated endosomal trafficking and KIF13A-driven transport during abscission remains insufficiently defined. This study aimed to elucidate the spatial and functional interplay between Rab11a and KIF13A during cytokinesis and to determine the consequences of disrupting this axis on mitotic progression and genomic stability. Rab11a and KIF13A were depleted in HeLa cells using shRNA- and siRNA-mediated knockdown strategies. Subcellular localisation and colocalisation at the intercellular bridge were examined by immunofluorescence microscopy and quantified using Pearson's correlation coefficient. Functional outcomes were assessed through multinucleation, micronuclei formation, telophase accumulation, and LAP2-positive chromatin bridge assays. Mitotic timing from nuclear envelope breakdown to abscission was quantified by live-cell spinning-disk confocal microscopy. Rab11a and KIF13A exhibited pronounced colocalisation at the ICB during cytokinesis. Depletion of either protein reduced its spatial association with the other. It resulted in marked cytokinetic defects, including increased multinucleation, micronuclei formation, telophase delay, and elevated chromatin bridge frequency. Live-cell imaging demonstrated a significant prolongation of the cytokinesis-to-abscission interval, accompanied by an extended overall mitotic M-phase. Mechanistically, loss of Rab11a or KIF13A impaired CHMP4B recruitment to the ICB, reduced PI3P accumulation, and enhanced Aurora B signalling, consistent with activation of the abscission checkpoint. These findings establish the Rab11a-KIF13A axis as a critical regulator of late mitosis, integrating endosomal trafficking with ESCRT-III-dependent abscission. Disruption of this pathway compromises abscission accuracy and promotes genomic instability, highlighting its essential role in maintaining mitotic integrity and its potential relevance in tumorigenesis. Continued exploration of the KIF13A-Rab11 interaction will yield a deeper understanding of mitotic progression and cellular organisation.Copyright © 2026 Gibieža et al.
Background: Growth factor therapy often fails in diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). The reason remains unclear. Standard differential expression analysis may miss functionally critical genes with modest expression changes. Methods: We performed a secondary computational analysis of a longitudinal DFU transcriptomic dataset (Dryad; 17 patients, 117 serial biopsy samples, 12-week follow-up). Co-expression networks were built separately for healed (n = 37) and non-healed (n = 80) samples. Virtual gene knockout (VGK) was used to rank genes by topological impact on network cohesion. Single-cell analysis (GSE165816) assessed the association between endogenous KIF13A expression and keratinocyte migration-related signatures. A conceptual Hill-equation simulation was used to illustrate the transport-signaling threshold relationship. Drug repurposing used DSigDB enrichment. An independent bulk DFU cohort (GSE134431) was used for external validation. Results: KIF13A showed no differential expression (log2FC = 0.173, p = 0.263) yet ranked first by VGK topological impact. In keratinocytes, high KIF13A expression correlated with greater migration scores versus zero-detection cells (p = 0.0058). A clear threshold effect emerged: below the 30th expression percentile, EGF, PDGF, and FGF pathway activation scores remained near baseline. In a structural-equation model, transport activity negatively predicted inflammation (standardized β = -0.92, p < 0.001). HIF1A showed the strongest positive correlation with KIF13A in keratinocytes (Spearman ρ = 0.26, p < 0.001), and FOS showed a negative correlation in the single-cell analysis (ρ = -0.16, p < 0.001) and in the bulk longitudinal cohort (ρ = -0.32, p < 0.001, n = 117). Recurrent AKR1B1-related drug signatures nominated the aldose-reductase pathway, and epalrestat was therefore prioritized as a hypothesis-generating candidate compound rather than a direct top-ranked enrichment hit. External validation confirmed consistent upregulation of KIF13A (Fold-Change = 1.58, adj. p = 0.0075), EPN1, and CLIP1 in DFU tissue. Despite population-level upregulation, a subset of cells fell below the functional signaling threshold. Conclusions: These computational findings suggest that KIF13A-associated vesicle transport impairment may represent a candidate systems-level bottleneck for growth-factor responsiveness in DFUs, a network-level pattern not captured by standard differential-expression analysis. Epalrestat, an AKR1B1 inhibitor prioritized through recurrent AKR1B1-related drug signatures, is presented as a candidate compound for further evaluation. As the present analysis is observational and computational, the findings should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating; experimental perturbation studies and prospective clinical validation are required.
Liver cancer ranks sixth in incidence and third in mortality worldwide, with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounting for 90% of cases. Kinesin family genes (KIFs) have been implicated in HCC progression, but their specific roles remain unclear. Here, using multiple transcriptomic datasets and machine learning, we systematically screened KIF genes in HCC and identified nine key differentially expressed KIFs (KIF3A, KIF3B, KIF5B, KIF11, KIF13A, KIF13B, KIF20A, KIFC3, KLC2) as diagnostic biomarkers. A logistic regression model showed excellent diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.992) in the GSE121248 dataset. Six genes (KIF3A, KIF5B, KIF11, KIF13B, KIF20A, KLC2) were validated in TCGA, several correlating with prognosis. Notably, KIF20A was an independent prognostic factor, validated across cohorts. Single-cell and experimental data revealed high KIF20A expression in HCC cells, promoting proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, KIF20A drives tumor growth and metastasis via Wnt/β-catenin signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) proteins such as N-cadherin, Slug, Snail, and Twist1/2. Wnt pathway activator SKL2001 and inhibitor LGK974 confirmed KIF20A's role in tumor progression. Upstream, the transcription factor FOXK1 was identified as a key positive regulator of KIF20A. FOXK1 is overexpressed in HCC, strongly correlates with KIF20A, and predicts poor prognosis. ChIP-seq and promoter assays verified FOXK1's direct binding to the KIF20A promoter, activating its transcription. In conclusion, KIF20A serves as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker promoting HCC progression via Wnt/β-catenin signaling, regulated by FOXK1, offering new therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite the increasing evidence supporting the association between KIF13A and cancer, pan-cancer analysis is currently limited. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the potential for KIF13A to contribute to oncogenesis in thirty-three different tumors using publicly accessible databases. Our research findings indicate that KIF13A has lower RNA tissue specificity and exhibits lower levels of expression compared to healthy tissue in most of tumor. However, we discovered distinct associations between KIF13A expression and the outcome of diverse tumor types. Genetic variation analysis revealed that cases of UCEC with genetic alterations in KIF13A exhibited a better prognosis compared to cases without genetic alterations in KIF13A. Analysis of differentially methylated genes (DMGs) in pan-cancer studies revealed that the promoter region of KIF13A exhibited significantly different methylation levels between tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues across various cancer types. Furthermore, we observed differences in KIF13A (NP_017396.4) phosphorylation levels between normal tissues and primary tumor tissues at different phosphorylation sites across various tumor cases. Specifically, we noted an increased phosphorylation level of KIF13A at the S1698 site in HNSC and HCC, correlating with the early differentiation of human embryonic stem cells. Analysis of immune infiltration revealed a bidirectional regulatory pattern, suggesting that KIF13A may differentially shape the tumor microenvironment across cancer types, potentially influencing immunotherapy responses and stromal interactions. Gene enrichment analysis related to KIF13A indicates that it is involved pathways related to vesicle transport, pigment synthesis, and ubiquitination modification. The synergistic effects of these pathways may collectively contribute to the role of KIF13A in tumor pathogenesis. In conclusion, this pioneering pan-cancer study offers thorough comprehension of the role of KIF13A in various cancers.
Background: The apoptosis affected the prostate adenocarcinoma (PRAD); we aimed to explore the potential pathogenesis of high-risk patients based on the apoptosis features. Method: The RNA-seq data of patients and apoptosis genes were used for apoptosis score calculation via "GSVA" package; then, the weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) and Lasso algorithm were performed for a RiskScore model. After that, the "maftools" package was applied for the somatic mutation analysis. By combining the Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival curves in order to compare the prognosis of different subgroups of patients, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), EdU staining, and Transwell assays were performed. Protein expression was measured using western blotting. Finally, the activity of PRAD cells in macrophage polarization was detected using coculture and immunofluorescence assays. Results: The PRAD samples had significantly lower apoptosis scores, and the RiskScore supported the risk stratification of patients. In somatic mutation analysis, EPHB1 and KIF13A from the top six mutant genes were overexpressed in 22RV1 and PC-3 tumor cells, and low levels of EPHB1 indicated a better prognosis. Overexpression or knockdown of EPHB1 affected cell viability, proliferation, and invasion. We found that high expression of EPHB1 interacting with GSK3B protein promoted the expression of p-SMAD3 in 22RV1 cells with high levels of antiapoptotic and invasion markers (BCL2, Snail, and N-CAD). Importantly, GSK3B and EPHB1 knockdown inhibited p-SMAD3 activation and promoted proapoptotic features, accompanied by a reduction in macrophage M2 polarization. Conclusion: This study revealed that EPHB1 plays a pivotal role in activating the EPHB1-GSK3B-SMAD3 pathway to facilitate PRAD progression.Copyright © 2025 Bohan Xu et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Reactivity of microglia, the resident cells of the brain, underlies innate immune mechanisms (e.g., injury repair), and disruption of microglial reactivity has been shown to facilitate psychiatric disorder dysfunctions. Although cellular analyses based on cultured microglia have been conducted, the molecular mechanism regulating microglial polarization remains elusive. We established a primary microglia culture that enabled manipulation of the substate of cells. This allowed us to investigate the expression levels of psychiatric disorder-related Kifs messenger RNA (mRNA) in each condition. Kifs encode molecular motor proteins that transport cargo along microtubules, which are thought to dynamically reorganize during a substate change.As a candidate for a crucial Kifs gene that is associated with microglia polarization, we selected psychiatric disorder-related Kifs including Kif17. We found that the relative amounts of Kif3a, Kif17, and Kif13a mRNA were potentiated in alternatively activated microglia, whereas there were no significant changes in activated microglia. Furthermore, the microglia derived from a mouse line which possesses a mutation inducing truncated KIF17 indicated disrupted morphological phenotype of alternatively activated microglia. These results suggest that the potentiation of specific molecular motor expression is required to maintain the function of alternatively activated microglia.© 2025. The Author(s).
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a rare neurodegenerative disease characterized by the accumulation of aggregated tau proteins in astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes. Previous genome-wide association studies for PSP were based on genotype array, therefore, were inadequate for the analysis of rare variants as well as larger mutations, such as small insertions/deletions (indels) and structural variants (SVs).In this study, we performed whole genome sequencing (WGS) and conducted association analysis for single nucleotide variants (SNVs), indels, and SVs, in a cohort of 1,718 cases and 2,944 controls of European ancestry. Of the 1,718 PSP individuals, 1,441 were autopsy-confirmed and 277 were clinically diagnosed.Our analysis of common SNVs and indels confirmed known genetic loci at MAPT, MOBP, STX6, SLCO1A2, DUSP10, and SP1, and further uncovered novel signals in APOE, FCHO1/MAP1S, KIF13A, TRIM24, TNXB, and ELOVL1. Notably, in contrast to Alzheimer's disease (AD), we observed the APOE ε2 allele to be the risk allele in PSP. Analysis of rare SNVs and indels identified significant association in ZNF592 and further gene network analysis identified a module of neuronal genes dysregulated in PSP. Moreover, seven common SVs associated with PSP were observed in the H1/H2 haplotype region (17q21.31) and other loci, including IGH, PCMT1, CYP2A13, and SMCP. In the H1/H2 haplotype region, there is a burden of rare deletions and duplications (P = 6.73 × 10-3) in PSP.Through WGS, we significantly enhanced our understanding of the genetic basis of PSP, providing new targets for exploring disease mechanisms and therapeutic interventions.© 2024. The Author(s).
The application of adjuvant treatment has significantly enhanced the survival of patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) carrying driver gene mutations. However, adjuvant-targeted therapy remains controversial for some NSCLC patients carrying rare gene mutations such as RET, as there is currently a lack of confirmed randomized controlled trials demonstrating efficacy. In this report, we describe the case of a 58-year-old man with stage IIIA NSCLC who underwent complete lobectomy with selective lymph node dissection. Postoperative next-generation sequencing revealed that the patient harbored a rare KIF13A-RET fusion. The patient elected to receive adjuvant treatment with pralsetinib monotherapy and underwent serial circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) monitoring after surgery. During follow-up, despite experiencing dose reduction and irregular medication adherence, the patient still achieved a satisfactory disease-free survival (DFS) of 27 months. Furthermore, ctDNA predicted tumor recurrence 4 months earlier than imaging techniques. The addition of bevacizumab to the original regimen upon recurrence continued to be beneficial. Pralsetinib demonstrated promising efficacy as adjuvant therapy, while ctDNA analysis offered a valuable tool for early detection of tumor recurrence. By leveraging targeted therapies and innovative monitoring techniques, we aim to improve outcomes and quality of life for NSCLC patients in the future.
Background Anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK ) fusion events account for 3 to 7% of genetic alterations in patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This study aimed to explore the landscape of ALK fusion-positive and ALK fusion-negative in a large cohort of NSCLC patients. Methods The formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded specimens of NSCLC patients who underwent next-generation sequencing from 2020 to 2023 in Yinfeng Gene Technology Co., Ltd. Clinical laboratory were included in this study. Results In the current study, a total of 180 (3.20%) patients tested positive for ALK fusions in 5,622 NSCLC samples. Within the ALK -positive cohort, a total of 228 ALK fusions were identified. Furthermore, five novel ALK fusion partners, including DAB1-ALK , KCMF1-ALK , KIF13A-ALK , LOC643770-ALK , and XDH-ALK were identified. In cases with ALK fusion-positive, TP53 alterations were the most prevalent (26.3%), followed by CDKN2A (8.4%), epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR , 5.6%), and ALK (5.6%). By contrast, EGFR alterations were most prevalent (51%) in patients with ALK fusion-negative NSCLC, followed by TP53 (42.7%), KRAS (11.6%), and CDKN2A (11.3%). A total of 10 cases where ALK fusion co-occurred with EGFR mutations were also identified. Notably, the ALK fusion positivity rate was higher in younger patients ( p < 0.0001) and in female patients ( p = 0.0429). Additionally, positive ALK test results were more prevalent in patients with high programmed death-ligand 1 expression, especially when applying a 50% cutoff. Conclusions Collectively, these findings offer valuable genomic insights that could inform the personalized clinical care of patients with NSCLC harboring ALK fusions within the context of precision medicine.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).
Neurons regulate the microtubule-based transport of certain vesicles selectively into axons or dendrites to ensure proper polarization of function. The mechanism of this polarized vesicle transport is still not fully elucidated, though it is known to involve kinesins, which drive anterograde transport on microtubules. Here, we explore how the kinesin-3 family member KIF13A is regulated such that vesicles containing transferrin receptor (TfR) travel only to dendrites. In experiments involving live-cell imaging, knockout of KIF13A, BioID assay, we found that the kinase MARK2 phosphorylates KIF13A at a 14-3-3 binding motif, strengthening interaction of KIF13A with 14-3-3 such that it dissociates from TfR-containing vesicles, which therefore cannot enter axons. Overexpression of KIF13A or knockout of MARK2 leads to axonal transport of TfR-containing vesicles. These results suggest a unique kinesin-based mechanism for polarized transport of vesicles to dendrites.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42378062
Introduction - Dystonia is the third most common movement disorder, which is highly diverse, both clinically and genetically. With the rise of next-generation sequencing, the number of genes associated with dystonia is increasing. Genetic testing is particularly important to predict the effectiveness of widely used therapeutic approaches (e.g., deep brain stimulation/DBS).Case report - The symptoms of a 69-yearold female patient began at the age of 18 years. Her symptoms developed gradually, i.e., cervical abnormal postures and movements first, followed by tongue movement problems, writer's cramp and speech difficulty. At the age of 38, she became severely disabled. During the neurological examination, generalized dystonia as well as occasional choreoathetoid movement elements on the upper limbs were observed. We noticed dysphagia, dysarthria and occasional oro-facial and cervical dyskinesia. Brain magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated minimal cortical atrophy. The whole exome sequencing analysis detected a heterozygous pathogenic nonsense mutation in the VPS16 gene. The patient is currently receiving clonazepam therapy with moderate symptom relief. Trihexyphenidyl treatment has not been attempted because the significant side effects of the previously tried anticholinergic drug. Although DBS was offered, the patient refused this treatment.Conclusion - Dystonia caused by mutation of the VPS16 gene (autosomal dominant) is a recently recognized new form of hereditary dystonia. The disease is characterized by early-onset progressive, generalized dystonia, with the predominant involvement of orofacial, bulbar, cervical and upper limb regions. Currently there is no clear recommendation for treatment, however, beneficial effects of DBS as well as botulinum toxin have been reported.
Purpose:Vacuolar protein sorting associated protein 16 (Vps16) is a key component of the Vps core complex (Vps–C) and acts as a tethering protein in membrane fusion. Nevertheless, its role in myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) remains largely unexplored. Methods:This study established a myocardial I/R model in rats and a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model using H9c2 cells. Both gain-of-function (via adenovirus-mediated Vps16 overexpression) and loss-of-function (via shRNA-mediated Vps16 knockdown) experiments were conducted. Results:This study showed that Vps16-overexpression improved autophagic flux and cardiac function following I/R in vivo and in vitro. However, the protective effect of Vps16 on cardiomyocytes against I/R injury was nullified when treated with autophagy inhibitors such as Bafilomycin A1 (BafA1). Vps16-knockdown worsened H/R-induced impairment of autophagic flux and cell death in H9c2 cardiomyocytes, while these effects could be reversed by rapamycin (Rapa), an autophagy activator. Mechanistically, Vps16 competed with Rubicon for binding to UVRAG in cardiomyocytes via the residues 333–613, subsequently promoting Rab7 activation, which is essential for the late stage of autophagy. Knockdown of Rubicon successfully mitigated the adverse impact of truncated Vps16 (lacking residues 333–613) in cardiomyocytes. Conclusion:These findings indicate that Vps16 exerts a protective effect against myocardial I/R injury, achieved by promoting autolysosome maturation of and reinstating the autophagic flux in cardiomyocytes.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41664894
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41664883
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41502221
DYT-VPS16, an early-onset isolated dystonia caused by variants in the VPS16 gene, has been reported in fewer than 70 patients.We explored the clinical and genotypic spectrum of DYT-VPS16 by investigating early-onset dystonia patients with VPS16 variants discovered in our large Biodatabank and through gene-matching initiatives. Patient samples were analyzed by exome/Sanger and RNA/cDNA sequencing.We identified 16 previously unreported DYT-VPS16 patients (7 male, median age at onset [AAO]: 12 years). Patients with initial leg involvement had an AAO more than 10 years earlier than those with involvement of the arms/craniocervical region. Dystonia progressed in 95%, generalized in 50%, and was accompanied by pyramidal, cerebellar, or psychiatric features in 25% of patients. Two young individuals benefited greatly from timely deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery. Of the 11 identified VPS16 variants, 10 were novel. Utilizing RNA-Seq or cDNA sequencing, we discovered alternatively spliced transcripts, thereby elucidating the effects of splice-site, near-splice-site, and exonic variants.We expand the phenotypic and mutational spectrum of DYT-VPS16, emphasize the utility of RNA-Seq in clarifying VPS16 variant pathogenicity, and advocate for timely DBS as a promising therapeutic option for DYT-VPS16 patients. © 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Dystonia and Parkinson's disease (PD) exhibit clinical and genetic overlap, but the relevance of dystonia gene variants in PD remains unclear.The aim was to assess the frequency of dystonia-linked pathogenic variants in PD.We screened sequencing data from 15,684 individuals (8272 PD, 3200 atypical parkinsonism, and 4212 unaffected) from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) and Accelerating Medicines Partnership-Parkinson's Disease (AMP-PD) for variants in genes linked to isolated dystonia, dystonia-parkinsonism, and myoclonus-dystonia.Pathogenic variants were identified only in PD patients. Forty-five PD individuals (0.54%) carried 26 distinct (likely) pathogenic variants in nine dystonia-linked genes, most frequently in GCH1, followed by VPS16.Though rare, pathogenic variants in dystonia-linked genes are present in clinically and pathologically diagnosed PD. Our results reinforce GCH1 as a PD-relevant gene with clinical implications, whereas variants identified in other genes are rare and of uncertain relation to the PD phenotype. © 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40970427 is a review article
Keratoconus (KC) is a progressive corneal ectatic disorder with genetic heterogeneity, yet the genetic variants underlying familial cases remain poorly characterized. We performed Trio-based whole-exome sequencing (Trio-WES) on 243 individuals from 81 KC families in Northwestern China and analyzed rare deleterious variants under three inheritance models. Following stringent quality control and filtering, we identified 706 rare deleterious candidate variants (576 compound heterozygous, 43 homozygous, and 87 de novo). The affected genes (n = 469) were enriched in pathways related to extracellular matrix (ECM) organization, cytoskeletal remodeling, cell adhesion, and PI3K-Akt signaling. Further assessment integrating family co-segregation, in silico prediction, American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) classification, cornea-related biological relevance, and database evidence identified 14 variants in 8 candidate genes (ATAD3A, COL6A3, FBXW9, VPS11, SELENBP1, DHX35, CDH23, and TTN) across 9 families. All variants were confirmed by Sanger sequencing and segregation analysis, and were additionally supported by cross-species conservation, protein structural localization, and validation in independent transcriptome datasets. These results expand the genetic landscape of familial KC in Northwestern China and provide a set of candidate genes for downstream functional studies and future clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Clownfish exhibit striking color patterns, characterized primarily by the presence of zero to three vertical white bars, along with three main colors: orange, white, and/or black. The common ancestor of clownfish likely possessed three vertical bars, with several instances of gains and losses occurring throughout clownfish evolutionary history over the past 10 million years. However, the evolutionary genomic mechanisms underlying the gain or loss of vertical bars remain unknown. In this study, we tested whether vertical bar transitions across the clownfish phylogeny were associated with changes in non-synonymous to synonymous substitution rates ([Formula: see text] values). Our analyses identified pigmentation-related genes that underwent changes in selective pressure, including gch2, oca2, and vps11, which are linked to melanophores, iridophores, and visual function. Additionally, pmel, a key melanogenesis gene, was found under positive selection, suggesting its role in shaping bar patterning. These results provide new insights into the genomic basis of coloration in clownfish, highlighting how selection and genetic variation influence phenotypic evolution.Significance statement Clownfish are one of the most iconic groups of reef fish. Besides their mutualism with sea anemones, their conspicuous color patterns have fascinated evolutionary biologists and aquarium hobbyists alike. The number of vertical bars are variable between species and are thought to be used in species recognition, although little is known about how differences in their number of bars may have evolved. We have reconstructed the most likely evolution of number of vertical bars across the clownfish phylogeny finding both gain and loss events. We found that certain pigmentation-related genes underwent changes in selective pressures or positive selection alongside the gain or loss of vertical bars, providing evidence for selection driving the evolution of vertical bar patterns.
•VPS11 is associated with hypomyelinated leukodystrophy affecting children.•A single case of adult-onset generalized dystonia was reported.•We provide the first replication by describing a second case of complex dystonia related to biallelic variants in VPS11.© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301334
Perkinsus olseni is a protozoan parasite that causes significant economic losses in molluscan aquaculture due to perkinsosis in clams and oysters. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying its pathogenicity are still poorly understood. In this study, we performed high-resolution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) combined with integrative bioinformatics to generate the first comprehensive profile of the P. olseni extracellular proteome ("secretome"). A total of 619 proteins were identified, with functional annotations revealing a diverse secretome involved in multiple biological roles. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis showed significant representation across metabolic processes, stress response, and immune modulation. Among these, 373 well-characterized proteins were enriched in 16 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, grouped into six functional categories: antigen processing and presentation, pattern recognition receptor signaling, inflammatory pathways, endo-lysosomal and autophagic pathways, protein processing and export, and pathogen-pathogen interactions. Representative proteins linked to these pathways include bromo domain-containing proteins (BiP5), heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), EF-hand domain-containing protein (EFCH1), calcineurin (CaN), β-N-acetylhexosaminidase (HEXB), 14-3-3 protein 7 (TFT7), Rab GTPases (Rab1A, Rab11A), and vacuolar protein sorting-associated proteins (VPS11). Proteins associated with pathogen-pathogen interactions overlapped with bacterial, viral, and plant-pathogen pathways, suggesting cross-kingdom mimicry or facilitation of co-infections. Additionally, Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), U2 small nuclear RNA auxiliary factor 1 like 4 (U2AF1L4), and 14-3-3 protein 7 (TFT7) were implicated in immune modulation and host interaction. These findings may inform future research on parasite-host interactions and provide new insights into the virulence strategies of P. olseni and identify potential molecular targets for controlling perkinsosis in aquaculture systems.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The organelles of the apical complex (rhoptries, micronemes, and dense granules) are critical for erythrocyte invasion by the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Though they have essential roles in the parasite lifecycle, the mechanisms behind their biogenesis are still poorly defined. The Class C Vps proteins Vps11, Vps16, Vps18, and Vps33 constitute the core of the CORVET and HOPS complexes implicated in vesicle tethering and fusion in the eukaryotic endolysosomal system. Work in the model apicomplexan Toxoplasma gondii has revealed that TgVps11 is essential for the generation of the apical complex. P. falciparum possesses all four subunits of the Vps-C complex, and recent work has shown that some of its components were critical for host-cell cytosol trafficking and the biogenesis of the apical complex. We here show that the P. falciparum ortholog of Vps16, a member of the Vps-C complex, is expressed throughout the asexual erythrocytic cycle and that it is potentially associated with the Golgi apparatus and the rhoptries in schizont stage parasites. We then demonstrate by immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry that PfVps16 interacts with all the members of the canonical Vps-C complex along with the Vps3 CORVET component. Interestingly, three uncharacterized Plasmodium-specific proteins are also found as interactors of PfVps16, and structural predictions revealed that two of them possess folds commonly found in proteins present in membrane tethering complexes. These findings suggest that P. falciparum may possess both conserved and parasite-specific features within its endosomal tethering machinery.IMPORTANCEThe malaria parasite relies on special compartments to invade red blood cells. These are key to the parasite's ability to infect, but how these are generated is not well known. In eukaryotic cells, certain protein assemblies, called tethering complexes, help move and fuse small transport vesicles, which is important for building and maintaining organelles. Plasmodium falciparum possesses some of these proteins, and recent studies suggest they play an important role in building its infection machinery and transporting material inside the parasite. We found that the malaria parasite possesses additional components associated with the typical tethering proteins and that these are not found in other eukaryotes. These results suggest that P. falciparum uses both common and unique tools to create the cellular machinery it needs to infect red blood cells. We propose that the Plasmodium-specific components might represent interesting targets for the development of antimalarials with potentially reduced side effects since they are not present in humans.
Genetic leukoencephalopathy (gLE) is a white matter disorder affecting the central nervous system, causing hypomyelination, developmental delays, motor deterioration, and cognitive, visual, and hearing impairments. Its clinical variability makes diagnosis challenging. A novel homozygous missense mutation, p.Cys846Gly in VACUOLAR PROTEIN SORTING 11 (VPS11), has been linked to infantile-onset gLE in humans. A zebrafish vps11 mutant model was developed to replicate gLE-like hypomyelination and sensorimotor deficits. This study investigates the effects of Clemastine, a pro-myelinating drug, on motor function and myelination in zebrafish larvae with mutations in the vps11 gene. We exposed zebrafish larvae to this drug during a critical period of early nervous system development, from 2 to 4 days post-fertilization (dpf), and assessed visuomotor responses at 7 dpf. Although Clemastine significantly increased the number of oligodendrocytes, it failed to improve visuomotor function in vps11 mutants. These findings imply that increasing oligodendrocyte numbers does not necessarily result in improved behavioral responses in vps11 mutants.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) represents a pivotal tick-transmitted flavivirus responsible for severe neurological consequences in Europe and Asia. The emergence of TBEV genetic mutations and vaccine-breakthrough infections, along with the absence of effective vaccines and specific drugs for other tick-borne flaviviruses associated with severe encephalitis or hemorrhagic fever, underscores the urgent need for progress in understanding the pathogenesis and intervention strategies for TBEV and related flaviviruses. Here we elucidate cellular alterations in the proteome, phosphoproteome, and acetylproteome upon TBEV infection. Our findings reveal a substantial impact of TBEV infection on the innate immune response, ribosomal biogenesis, autophagy, and DNA damage response (DDR). Mechanically, the non-structural protein NS5 of TBEV impedes DNA damage repair by interacting with SIRT1 to suppress the deacetylation of KAP1 and Ku70. Additionally, the precursor membrane protein prM induces autophagy via associating with AKT1 while constrains autolysosome formation through binding to VPS11. Inhibitors targeting DDR, as well as specific kinases, exhibit potent antiviral activity, suggesting the dysregulated pathways and kinases as potential targets for antiviral intervention. These results from our study contribute to elucidating the pathogenesis and offers insights for developing effective antiviral drugs against TBEV and other tick-borne flaviviruses.© 2024. The Author(s).
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease. Hepatic lipid deposition is a key factor in the development of NAFLD. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, the most prevalent mRNA modification in eukaryotic cells, plays an important role in regulating hepatic lipid metabolism. However, its potential role in hepatic lipid deposition remains poorly understood. Histological and immunohistochemistry studies were used to investigate lipid deposition in free fatty acids (FFAs)-incubated LO2 cells, high-fat diet-fed mice models and clinical samples. Stable overexpression and knockdown of AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5) was manipulated to investigate the effects of ALKBH5 on m6A methylation and lipid metabolism in hepatocytes. RNA-sequencing transcriptome analysis and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation-quantitative-PCR analysis were used to reveal the potential downstream molecular targets of ALKBH5. ALKBH5 was down-regulated in fatty liver compared to normal liver in both humans and mice. Overexpression of ALKBH5 significantly improved FFA-induced lipid accumulation and promoted autophagosome-lysosome fusion in hepatocytes. Meanwhile, knockdown of ALKBH5 significantly increased the expression of microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain 3B and Sequestosome 1, leading to impaired autophagic flux and further lipid deposition in hepatocytes under FFA incubation. Overexpression of vacuolar protein sorting 11 (VPS11) reversed FFA-induced lipid accumulation in ALKBH5-silenced hepatocytes. Mechanistically, ALKBH5 alleviated hepatic lipid deposition and impaired autophagic flux by removing the m6A modification on VPS11 mRNA to promote its translation. Collectively, our findings revealed an epigenetic mechanism by which ALKBH5 alleviates hepatic lipid deposition by restoring VPS11-dependent autophagic flux, providing a potential target to counteract NAFLD.© 2024 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) or programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) have achieved impressive antitumor clinical outcomes. However, the limited response rates suggest the incomplete understanding of PD-L1 regulation. Here, we demonstrate that vacuole protein sorting 11 and 18 (VPS11/18), two key players in vesicular trafficking, positively regulate PD-L1 and confer resistance to immune checkpoint blockade therapy. VPS11/18 interact with PD-L1 in endosome recycling accompanied by promoting PD-L1 glycosylation and protein stability. VPS18 deficiency enhances antitumor immune response. Pharmacological inhibition by VPS18 inhibitor RDN impaired PD-L1 member trafficking and protein stability. Combination treatment of RDN and anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 synergistically enhances antitumor efficacy in aggressive and drug-resistant tumors. RDN exerted lung-preferred distribution and good bioavailability, suggesting a favorable drug efficacy. Together, our study links VPS18/11-mediated trans-Golgi network recycling of PD-L1 and points to a promising treatment strategy for the enhancement of antitumor immunity.
Cognitive dysfunction caused by diabetes has become a serious global medical issue. Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) exacerbates cognitive dysfunction in patients, although the precise mechanism behind this remains unclear. Here, we conducted an investigation using RNA sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We analyzed the differentially expressed genes in DKD and three types of neurons in the temporal cortex (TC) of diabetic patients with cognitive dysfunction. Through our analysis, we identified a total of 133 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) shared between DKD and TC neurons (62 up-regulated and 71 down-regulated). To identify potential common biomarkers, we employed machine learning algorithms (LASSO and SVM-RFE) and Venn diagram analysis. Ultimately, we identified 8 overlapping marker genes (ZNF564, VPS11, YPEL4, VWA5B1, A2ML1, KRT6A, SEC14L1P1, SH3RF1) as potential biomarkers, which exhibited high sensitivity and specificity in ROC curve analysis. Functional analysis using Gene Ontology (GO) revealed that these genes were primarily enriched in autophagy, ubiquitin/ubiquitin-like protein ligase activity, MAP-kinase scaffold activity, and syntaxin binding. Further enrichment analysis using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) indicates that these biomarkers may play a crucial role in the development of cognitive dysfunction and diabetic nephropathy. Building upon these biomarkers, we developed a diagnostic model with a reliable predictive ability for DKD complicated by cognitive dysfunction. To validate the 8 biomarkers, we conducted RT-PCR analysis in the cortex, hippocampus and kidney of animal models. The results demonstrated the up-regulation of SH3RF1 in the cortex, hippocampus and kidney of mice, which was further confirmed by immunofluorescence and Western blot validation. Notably, SH3RF1 is a scaffold protein involved in cell survival in the JNK signaling pathway. Based on these findings, we support that SH3RF1 may be a common gene expression feature that influences DKD and cognitive dysfunction through the apoptotic pathway.© 2024. The Author(s).
Pyroptosis is an inflammatory form of regulated cell death driven by gasdermin-mediated membrane pore formation. Although gasdermin D (GSDMD) pores are widely regarded as the executioners of pyroptosis, recent studies demonstrate that pore formation is not necessarily lethal because cells can actively repair membrane damage through the Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT) machinery. The molecular mechanism that converts reversible GSDMD pore formation into irreversible membrane rupture and cell death remains unknown. Here, we identify a calcium-calpain-ALIX signaling axis that mechanistically links GSDMD pore formation to catastrophic membrane damage. Using primary macrophages, THP-1 monocytes, and HCT-116 epithelial cells, we show that depletion of the ESCRT adaptor ALG-2-interacting protein X (ALIX) abolishes membrane repair, promotes GSDMD accumulation, and markedly increases susceptibility to pyroptotic death. We further demonstrate that GSDMD pores trigger calcium influx, which induces proteolytic cleavage of ALIX. Preventing calcium influx or chelating intracellular calcium blocks ALIX cleavage, reduces GSDMD accumulation, and markedly improves cell survival. Mechanistically, we identify calpains as the calcium-dependent proteases responsible for ALIX cleavage and establish ALIX as a previously unrecognized calpain substrate. Pharmacologic inhibition or genetic depletion of calpains significantly reduces membrane permeabilization and pyroptotic cell death. Mapping of calpain cleavage sites localizes the major cleavage site within the ALIX V-domain. Importantly, calpain-mediated cleavage disrupts ALIX interaction with the ESCRT-III component CHMP4B, thereby preventing ESCRT assembly and membrane repair. In contrast, calcium depletion or calpain knock down restores CHMP4B recruitment and ESCRT activation Collectively, these findings reveal the first mechanistic pathway linking reversible membrane GSDMD pore formation to irreversible membrane rupture. We propose that GSDMD pore-induced Ca2+ influx activates calpains, disables ALIX-dependent ESCRT repair, and drives the transition from repairable membrane injury to terminal pyroptotic lysis. This pathway represents a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory diseases driven by excessive pyroptosis.
Cytotoxic lymphocytes use perforin to form plasma membrane (PM) pores in tumor cells, thereby enabling granzyme-mediated cell death. However, whether and how tumor metabolism enables PM repair to evade immunity is unclear. In this study, using a functional screen targeting 111 metabolic enzymes, we identified hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase 1 (HMGCS1) as critical for repairing perforin-induced PM damage. HMGCS1 promotes PM repair by initiating de novo cholesterol synthesis, enhancing tumor cell resistance to lymphocyte-mediated killing and impairing the efficacy of NK, CAR-T, and anti-PD-1-based immunotherapies. Beyond its structural role, cholesterol directly binds charged multivesicular body protein 4b (CHMP4B) to enhance its PM localization, facilitating PM repair. Furthermore, oncogenic activation, cytokine, and hypoxia induce c-Jun activation, up-regulating HMGCS1 expression. In lung cancer patients, elevated c-Jun activation, HMGCS1 expression, cholesterol content and PM CHMP4B correlate with reduced anti-PD-1 immunotherapy efficacy. Our findings reveal a tumor immune evasion mechanism wherein HMGCS1 drives cholesterol-dependent PM repair by activating the cholesterol synthesis. Targeting HMGCS1 enhances the effectiveness of immunotherapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is critical for the type I interferon responses to pathogen- or self-derived cytosolic DNA. STING signalling is terminated by ESCRT-driven lysosomal microautophagy. How STING is directly encapsulated by lysosomes has not yet been understood. Here we show that two lysosomal components, a phosphoinositide PI(3,5)P2 and CHMP4B (a subunit of ESCRT-III subcomplex) are essential for STING encapsulation by lysosomes. Liposome sedimentation assay reveals that CHMP4B binds to PI(3,5)P2. The forced recruitment of the catalytic core of Pikfyve (a lipid kinase generating PI(3,5)P2) to early endosomes, recruits a fraction of CHMP4B to early endosomes. CHMP4B mutant, defective in the binding to PI(3,5)P2, cannot restore the microautophagic degradation of STING or the resolution of the STING signalling in cells depleted of Chmp4b. Our results reveal a molecular mechanism that terminates innate immune signalling at the lysosomal membrane.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dendritic cells (DC) dysfunction impedes antitumor immunity, so understanding intrinsic regulators of DC antigen presentation and the resulting activation of antitumor CD8+ T cells could benefit therapy. Here, we use a genome-wide CRISPR screen for antigen presentation-regulating genes in DCs, and identify estrogen receptor α (ERα) as an intrinsic checkpoint inhibiting antigen cross-presentation. ERα genomic deficiency or pharmacological degradation enhances antigen presentation and CD8+ T cell priming in mouse and human DCs. Mechanistically, independently of canonical estrogen signaling, ERα sustains Galectin-3-mediated recruitment of CHMP4b to damaged phagosomes, thereby facilitating ESCRT-III-mediated membrane repair and restricting cytosolic antigen translocation. In vivo, ERα-deficient or ERα-degraded DC vaccines expand tumor-specific CD8+ T cells to suppress tumor growth in mice bearing subcutaneous cancers. In vitro, FDA-approved ERα antagonists enhance human DC-mediated activation of antigen-specific human CD8+ T cells. Our work thus uncovers a non-canonical role of ERα in phagosome integrity as a checkpoint for antigen cross-presentation in DCs, and implicates ERα-targeted DC vaccines as a potential immunotherapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Toxin A and B from Clostridioides difficile are the main pathogenicity factors for clinical symptoms of C. difficile infections. Receptor-mediated endocytosis and endosomal escape are required for targeting substrate proteins of the Rho-GTPase family. We previously reported that Toxin B (TcdB) affects endo-lysosomal transport and autophagic flux of target cells. These effects are independent from pathogenic Rho inhibition. Here, we aimed at further characterization of this event by immunofluorescent characterization of the vesicular structures that are affected. We found large aggregates of damaged endolysosomal structures positive for EEA1, LAMP1, CHMP4B and TcdB, as well as an increase in perinuclear concentration of non-mature autophagosomes (amphisomes) positive for SQSTM, Rab7, and LC3B. We investigated whether Rab7, a regulator of late endosome transport, is causative for decreased lysosome function. Although TcdB induced an increase in active Rab7, as tested by an RILP pull-down assay, inhibition of Rab7 did not prevent TcdB-induced decrease in cathepsin D as a surrogate for lysosome dysfunction. It also indicates that the observed increase in Rab7 positive amphisomes is secondary to lysosomal dysfunction. By applying an autoproteolytic deficient mutant of TcdB we proved that the release of the glucosyltransferase domain is mandatory for triggering all of these effects. This suggests that after membrane perforation the toxin remnants leave an open leak in endolysosomes affecting ion homeostasis. Investigation of all large clostridial glucosyltransferases and other toxins revealed lysosomal dysfunction as a general effect of many but not of all toxins that integrate into the endosome membrane.
Cells actively maintain complex lipidomes that encompass thousands of lipids; however, many of the roles of these lipids remain unexplored. Specific interactions between lipids and membrane proteins are a likely reason for lipidome complexity. Here we report the development of a technique, named lipid-trap mass spectrometry (LTMS), to systematically study lipid-protein interactions directly captured from mammalian cells. LTMS uses immunoprecipitation of GFP-tagged proteins expressed in HeLa cells, followed by lipidomic analysis of lipids bound to the GFP-tagged protein. We applied LTMS to cell division to illustrate the technique. We chose this process because membranes regulate their lipid composition as they undergo major changes during cytokinesis, and many cytokinetic proteins, including RACGAP1 and ESCRT-III components CHMP4B and CHMP2A, are membrane-associated. Using LTMS, we found that RACGAP1 and CHMP4B associate with specific lipid species in dividing compared with non-dividing cells. We expand our understanding of lipid diversity during cell division and present a general approach to explore lipid-protein interactions to further our knowledge of the roles of lipids in mammalian cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Approximately one-third of all human proteins transit through the secretory pathway, where the Golgi apparatus orchestrates protein modification, sorting, and distribution through highly selective vesicle budding and fusion events. Central to these processes are the Complexes Associated with Tethering Containing Helical Rods (CATCHR), multisubunit tethering complexes that coordinate vesicle docking and fusion through interactions with coiled-coil tethers (CCTs), Rab GTPases, SNAREs, and Sec1/Munc18 (SM) proteins and other trafficking factors. To define the molecular organization of Golgi CATCHR complexes, we generated the first comprehensive proximity-interaction map of the COG, GARP, and EARP tethering complexes using functional, near-endogenously expressed TurboID-tagged subunits. Comparative proximity proteomics revealed that each CATCHR complex assembles a distinct trafficking module composed of characteristic CCTs, Rab-associated proteins, SNAREs, and SM proteins, establishing a system-level framework for the spatial organization of Golgi and endosomal membrane trafficking. The COG complex preferentially associated with Golgi CCTs and the STX5-SCFD1 fusion machinery, GARP with CCDC186, and STX16-VPS45 pathway, and EARP with GRIPAP1, the VPS33B-VIPAS39 (CHEVI) complex, and RAB11-dependent recycling machinery. Beyond validating known interactions, our study identifies CCDC186 as a vesicle tether, establishes WWOX as a previously unrecognized regulator of Golgi homeostasis and glycosylation, and provides evidence that Golgi CATCHR complexes function as central organizing hubs that assemble specialized trafficking modules to coordinate vesicle tethering and membrane fusion.
Objective. Vici syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder with multisystem involvement, caused by mutations in the EPG5 gene encoding a protein involved in autophagy. It includes dysgenesis of the corpus callosum, cataracts, hypopigmentation, cardiomyopathy, and immuno-deficiency. Here we report a case of a 9-year-old boy of Roma ethnicity with a milder form of Vici syndrome and a novel variant in the EPG5 gene. Methods. DNA and RNA were extracted from the whole blood. Whole exome sequencing was performed and analysed with an in-house bioinformatics pipeline. A mini-gene assay was performed for EPG5 exon 23 with or without the tested variant. Results. The patient was born prematurely and presented with hypotonia, severe hypotrophy and growth retardation, developmental delay, congenital heart defects, mild brain atrophy, and a thin corpus callosum. Whole exome analysis identified a novel variant c.4205G>A, p.(Arg1402Lys) in the EPG5 gene, suggesting the diagnosis of Vici syndrome. Further examination of symptoms commonly associated with Vici syndrome confirmed hypopigmented skin areas and immunodeficiency. No seizures, cataracts, or cardiomyopathy were observed. As the variant is located at the last base of exon 23, we sequenced the patient's EPG5 mRNA and detected aberrant transcripts in addition to correctly spliced ones. The mini-gene assay confirmed decreased inclusion of the mutated exon compared with the wild-type (40% vs. 72%, respectively). Conclusion. Novel variant EPG5:c.4205G>A, p.(Arg1402Lys) causes aberrant splicing only in a small proportion of transcripts; therefore, the milder presentation of Vici syndrome in our patient is probably due to the residual presence of EPG5 protein.© 2026 Martina Skopkova et al., published by Slovak Academy of Sciences, Biomedical Research Center, Institute of Experimental Endocrinology.
Different inositol phospholipids (PIPs) distribute to distinct subcellular organelles, creating an addressing system that dictates the sites of action of PIP-binding proteins, including components of the Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport (ESCRT). The ESCRT machinery is recruited to remodel many different cellular membranes through combinatorial binding interactions made by the early-acting ESCRT-I and ESCRT-II complexes with PIPs, ubiquitin modifications, and membrane-specific adaptors. Membrane remodeling, constriction, and fission are then mediated by membrane-associated filaments formed by subunits of the late-acting ESCRT-III complexes, together with their associated VPS4 AAA ATPases. Here, we describe two different classes of helical ESCRT-III filaments that can surround and tubulate membranes containing PIP2 lipids. Cryo-EM reconstructions revealed that protofilaments comprising closed IST1 subunits formed 8-stranded nanotubes that encase membrane monolayers. The nanotube coordinates exposed PI(4,5)P2 or PI(3,5)P2 headgroups within a basic pocket formed at the junction of three IST1 subunits, and our structures reveal how the pocket can accommodate either PIP2 isomer with minimal adjustment. In contrast, protofilaments comprising open CHMP1A subunits formed one start helices that encase membrane bilayers and bind exposed PI(4,5)P2 headgroups across a basic surface that spans adjacent subunits of the CHMP1A protofilament. These two different structures extend the known plasticity of ESCRT-III polymers, reveal how PIP2 lipids can promote ESCRT-III filament assembly and membrane remodeling, and define the molecular contacts that underlie specific ESCRT-III/PIP2 interactions.
Extracellular vesicles and EV-enriched extracellular particles are increasingly recognized as potential mediators of intercellular communication. In coral reef ecosystems, dinoflagellate symbionts of the family Symbiodiniaceae play central roles in host metabolism, environmental acclimation, and stress responses; however, the molecular composition of extracellular particles released by cultured Symbiodiniaceae remains poorly understood. In this study, a host-isolated Symbiodiniaceae culture derived from the sea anemone Exaiptasia diaphana was established under host-free laboratory conditions for EV-enriched particle isolation and characterization. Physicochemical analysis of the recovered extracellular particle fraction showed an average diameter of 534.1 ± 63.9 nm, a polydispersity index of 0.733 ± 0.08, and an average zeta potential of - 14.57 ± 1.55 mV, indicating a heterogeneous and negatively charged extracellular particle suspension. Small RNA analysis showed that the EV-associated RNA fraction contained multiple RNA biotypes, with rRNA- and tRNA-derived reads representing the dominant annotated components, whereas miRNA-like sequences accounted for only a minor fraction of the annotated small RNA pool. Comparison against an antisense Exaiptasia diaphana CDS dataset further identified retained EV-associated small RNAs showing sequence complementarity to host coding transcripts, including cytohesin-1 and EPG5. These matches are interpreted as candidate sequence-level observations rather than evidence of functional host regulation. In parallel, miRNA-oriented analysis identified candidate miRNA-like sequences after downstream filtering. Proteomic profiling by LC-MS/MS generated 4,086 accession-level matches. After removal of uninformative entries and consolidation of duplicate protein names, 834 non-redundant named proteins were retained and classified into nine functional groups, including proteins involved in metabolism and energy production, transport and membrane trafficking, photosynthesis and chloroplast function, and signal transduction and regulation. Representative annotations included 14-3-3-related proteins, Rab/ARF family proteins, Hsp70, Hsp90, and oxygen-evolving enhancer protein. These results provide an initial qualitative molecular characterization of EV-associated molecules released by a host-isolated Symbiodiniaceae culture and serve as a baseline for future studies of algal extracellular communication and cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Loss of Y chromosome (LOY) is the most commonly occurring somatic event in elderly males, and is associated with poor outcomes in most cancers. However, LOY is shown to be associated with improved survival in papillary renal cell carcinoma(pRCC). The study was designed to analyze the possible molecular mechanism behind this paradoxical event. For this purpose, the transcriptomics dataset of 214 male pRCC patients were retrieved from the TCGA database and the LOY score was calculated based on the expression of the 14 Y chromosome gene set. The LOY score was used to stratify the samples into two groups called Y_high (normal expression of Y chromosome) and Y_low (loss of Y chromosome) by the custom ssGSEA function. LOY-associated transcriptional reprogramming is further elucidated by analyzing differential gene expression analysis, functional enrichment analysis, and tumor immune microenvironment analysis, revealing the enrichment of structural and developmental pathways alongside the downregulation of immunosuppressive mechanisms in Y_low tumors. Leveraging these LOY-associated transcriptional changes, a three-gene prognostic signature (WASF1, MTHFD2, CHMP1A) was derived through LASSO-penalized Cox regression followed by two-step bootstrap stability and multivariate significance filtering, and validated through bootstrap bias correction, time-dependent ROC analysis, calibration curve analysis, and multivariate Cox regression adjusting for age, pathological stage, and metastasis status. Furthermore, single cell transcriptomics analysis and DNA methylation analysis reveals the mosaic nature of the LOY and localized the prognostic gene expression within myeloid cell populations. We conclude that LOY may have less aggressive tumor profile in pRCC, and may provide clinically relevant biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Anxiety disorders are prevalent and can greatly impact well-being. The biological mechanisms behind anxiety are not fully understood, but growing evidence suggests a role for DNA methylation. Here, we conduct a large-scale methylome-wide association study of lifetime anxiety in 14,443 participants (1817 cases and 12,626 controls) in whole blood, and, through epigenomic deconvolution, 12 different blood cell types. We detect four CpG associations at methylome-wide significance in whole blood, and a range between 15 and 124 associations among the cell types. Top cell type-specific findings include genes potentially involved in stress response such as FAM171A2 and VIPAS39 and genes that have been previously linked to anxiety, such as NCOR1. Whole blood and all cell type-specific findings significantly overlap with findings from two previous methylome-wide association studies of lifetime anxiety and an anxiety GWAS, suggesting results are robust. Pathway analyses broadly implicate anxiety-related impacts on cellular stress response. Analyses of five epigenetic clocks suggest DNA methylation-based phenotypic aging and pace of aging may be accelerated in anxiety. Our results support a cell type-specific relationship between DNA methylation and anxiety and highlight the utility of including cell type-specific analyses in whole blood studies of DNA methylation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The autophagy-tethering factor ectopic P-granule 5 autophagy protein (EPG5) plays a key role in autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Impaired autophagy associated with pathogenic variants in EPG5 causes a rare devastating multisystem disorder known as Vici syndrome, which features neurodevelopmental defects, severe progressive neurodegeneration and immunodeficiency. The pathophysiological mechanisms driving disease presentation and progression are only partially understood. In patient-derived fibroblasts and iPS cells differentiated to cortical neurons, we find that impaired mitophagy leads to mitochondrial bioenergetic dysfunction. Physiological cytosolic Ca2+ transients result in unexpected mitochondrial Ca2+ overload despite a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential. This is attributed to downregulation of MICU1. Ca2+ signals cause mitochondrial depolarisation, mtDNA release and activation of the cGAS-STING pathway, reversed by pharmacological inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) or of the STING pathway. Thus, we identify a pathophysiological cascade driving disease progression associated with EPG5 deficiency, including impaired mitochondrial bioenergetics, mitochondrial Ca2+ overload, vulnerability to mPTP opening and activation of innate immune signalling, signposting multiple potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) rarely metastasizes to other parts of the body. When metastasis occurs, it usually involves regional lymph nodes. BCC lesions located in the head and neck region have been shown to spread to cervical lymph nodes. Here, we present a case of a slow-growing lesion on the scalp that was diagnosed as a case of BCC. Metastasis to the level V cervical lymph nodes was already present at the time of diagnosis. The patient was managed with complete excision of the lesion, along with a neck dissection for level V lymph nodes, and adjuvant chemotherapy with Vismodegib. Molecular pathology results revealed a unique pattern, comprising the fusion of HMGA2-CHMP1A genes and a mutation involving a premature termination codon (PTC) in the CDKN2B gene. The post-operative work-up revealed a hypermetabolic nodule in level IIB lymph which is more likely inflammatory rather than metastatic. However, considering the possibility of metastasis, the patient is being followed up by a multi-disciplinary team (MDT) for evaluation of level IIB cervical lymph nodes. This case highlights the diagnostic and therapeutic challenges that may arise in rare cases of BCC with metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41923461 is a review article
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
Microtubule-based organelle transport is essential for organelle positioning within cells and defines the architecture and function of highly polarized cells, like animal neurons and fungal hyphae. Early endosome transport depends on kinesin-3 motors and on cytoplasmic dynein, which binds to this organelle via Hook adaptor proteins. In filamentous fungi, these proteins can propel the indirect transport of additional organelles that hitchhike on early endosomes, like peroxisomes. However, early endosomes carry different cargoes in different fungi, and the contribution of these systems to the subcellular organization of different polarized cells is unclear. Here, we analyzed the function of the kinesin-3 motor KIN2 and of the HOOK1 adaptor in the model fungus Podospora anserina. We found that hyphal growth and morphogenesis require KIN2 and HOOK1, and that early endosome, peroxisome, vacuole, endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial motility depends on microtubules. We show that KIN2 and HOOK1 are required for mitochondrial localization at the sites of polarized cell growth, and for the polarized arrangement of the endoplasmic reticulum and vacuoles. Both proteins are required for the bidirectional transport of early endosomes and peroxisomes, but they differently affect their distribution. We found that KIN2 associates with some peroxisomes, and observed a low frequency of peroxisome-early endosome co-transport. Finally, we show that the GTPase RAB5B is required for the distribution and motility of early endosomes but not of peroxisomes, suggesting independent transport systems for these organelles in P. anserina. Our findings reveal a major role for KIN2 and HOOK1 in organelle dynamics during polarized cell growth.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis resistance is a major challenge in cancer therapy, contributing to poor prognosis and unsatisfactory treatment outcomes. Thus, identifying key regulators of ferroptosis is essential for developing strategies to overcome this limitation. Mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL) is well established as the executioner of necroptosis, but emerging evidence suggests broader functions beyond necroptosis. A previous study demonstrated that MLKL regulates ferroptosis in an acute kidney injury model. However, its role in ferroptosis regulation in cancer remains largely unexplored.Bioinformatics analyses revealed that MLKL expression positively correlates with glutathione metabolism-related genes in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients and with reduced sensitivity to GPX4 inhibitors across pan-cancer cell lines. Functional studies demonstrated that MLKL depletion sensitizes not only CRC cells but also multiple cancer cell types to ferroptosis induced by GPX4 inhibitors. Mechanistically, MLKL-deficient CRC cells exhibited reduced intracellular glutathione levels and dysregulation of the NRF2/KEAP1/SLC7A11 antioxidant axis. However, KEAP1 knockdown in MLKL-depleted cells partially reduced ferroptosis sensitivity, indicating that additional mechanisms are involved. Proteomic analysis identified CHMP5, a component of the ESCRT-III membrane repair machinery, as a key downstream effector associated with MLKL. MLKL depletion suppressed CHMP5 expression and impaired its translocation to the plasma membrane during ferroptosis induction. Consistent with defective membrane repair, MLKL-knockdown CRC cells exhibited increased HMGB1 release following GPX4 inhibitor treatment, indicating enhanced membrane damage. Notably, CHMP5 overexpression reduced ferroptosis in MLKL-knockdown cells, highlighting that MLKL regulates ferroptosis susceptibility in part through CHMP5-dependent ESCRT-III signaling.This study reveals a previously unrecognized role for MLKL in ferroptosis regulation through coordinating NRF2/KEAP1/SLC7A11-mediated glutathione metabolism and ESCRT-III-dependent membrane repair. These findings identify MLKL as a potential regulator of ferroptosis resistance and warrant further studies to evaluate the therapeutic relevance of MLKL-targeting strategies in colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) viruses, including foot‑and‑mouth disease virus (FMDV), enterovirus 71 (EV71), and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), reprogram host lipid metabolism to facilitate replication. However, the mechanisms governing virus‑induced lipid droplet (LD) degradation remain poorly defined, which limits the development of host‑directed antiviral strategies.We employed virological, biochemical, and imaging approaches to investigate the role of the lysosomal GTPase ARL8B in ssRNA virus infection. Lipid droplet dynamics, lipophagy, and lysosomal exocytosis were assessed using confocal microscopy and biochemical assays. Small‑molecule inhibitors targeting ARL8B were identified through virtual screening and validated in vitro for antiviral activity. The in vivo efficacy of selected inhibitors was evaluated in a murine EV71 infection model, with disease severity and survival as endpoints.ARL8B was identified as a central host factor that promotes replication of multiple ssRNA viruses by coordinating LD degradation with viral egress. Mechanistically, ARL8B drove lysosome‑dependent LD breakdown via selective lipophagy, releasing free fatty acids that fuel membrane remodeling within viral replication complexes. Concurrently, ARL8B facilitated viral exit through a noncanonical lysosomal-exosome pathway, enhancing progeny virus dissemination. Virtual screening yielded small‑molecule ARL8B inhibitors that potently suppressed ssRNA virus replication in vitro. In a murine EV71 infection model, these inhibitors provided robust protection and substantially reduced disease severity.Our findings establish ARL8B as a key host factor coupling lipid catabolism with viral export, and unveil a class of broad‑spectrum antiviral candidates targeting a lipid reprogramming node essential for multiple pathogenic RNA viruses. This study provides a mechanistic framework for developing host‑directed antiviral therapies against ssRNA viruses.© 2026. The Author(s).
The objectives of this study were to develop a real-world-data (RWD) database for patients with epilepsy to provide further real-world-evidence (RWE) for monogenic genetic epilepsies; to assess the usefulness of a diagnostic algorithm in epilepsy; and to examine protein 3D structures using in silico tools to predict variant pathogenicity.We stratified patients into Group 1 (with genetic diagnoses) and Group 2 (with no genetic diagnoses). We performed protein 3D modeling of variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in genes.We included 167 patients in our RWD database. We report the genotypes and phenotypes of 44 distinct monogenic genetic epilepsies from 66 patients. The diagnostic yield of clinical exome sequencing (ES) was 31%. Developmental delay, developmental brain malformation, movement disorder, and infantile-onset epilepsy (seizure onset <2 years of age) were more common (p < 0.05) in Group 1. The diagnostic yield of biochemical investigations was 0%. Compared to wild type protein structures, there were predicted conformational changes to protein structure including changes in α-helices and/or β-sheets and losses in loops in the protein structures expressed by variants of uncertain significance (VUS) for ARHGAP35, BACH2, BAZ2B, DOP1B, EPHA5, FRYL, HMGXB4, MTDH, NHSL2, NLGN2, NRXN2, P2RX4, PRICKLE2, PRRC2A, RALGAPB, RNF157, SREBF2, ZNF532, and ZNF536, all of which are genes of uncertain significance (GUS). We calculated the estimated diagnostic yield of ES to be 48% by using a 3D protein structure prediction tool, and the functional characterization of a LARP7 VUS, as well as previous case series of GUS.We report 19 GUS that accounts 10% of the cohort with GUS. If those GUS would have been proven to cause genetic epilepsies, the diagnostic yield of ES would have been increased 17%. The GUS and VUS in monogenic epilepsy genes will require further functional characterization. International collaborations are needed to increase our understanding of these rare epilepsies.We wanted to create a database for people with epilepsy. We did genetic tests in people with epilepsy to find out if they have a genetic problem. We looked at their information. We added 167 people with epilepsy and diagnosed a genetic problem in 66 people with epilepsy. We applied genetic tools to find out if genetic changes were important. We still need to the do more laboratory tests to see if those genetic changes explain a genetic problem in >100 people that we did not diagnose a genetic problem.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
The endolysosomal system is a dynamic intracellular network essential for cargo degradation, recycling, and spatial compartmentalization. Proper coordination of endosome maturation and positioning is critical for lysosomal function and receptor fate. This study identifies an additional role for the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF13 in controlling endolysosomal dynamics through its interaction with the small GTPase Arl8B. Predictive structural modeling and co-immunoprecipitation revealed that RNF13 binds to Arl8B via residues Glu22 and Phe55 of Arl8B and Leu244 of RNF13. Binding occurs with a modest preference for the GDP-bound Arl8B over GTP-bound state, suggesting that RNF13 may engage an inactive fraction of Arl8B to influence endolysosomal positioning and assembly of Arl8B-dependent trafficking complexes. Disrupting RNF13-Arl8B binding alters Arl8B localization and redistributes lysosomes toward the cell periphery without changing the abundance of endolysosomal markers. Functionally, perturbing this interaction selectively alters epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) trafficking kinetics, consistent with a delayed progression of cargo toward lysosomal degradation rather than a general defect in endocytosis. Although overexpression of the Arl8B effector PLEKHM1 enhances RNF13-Arl8B association, this is better explained by a shared Arl8B binding interface and does not imply direct cooperativity between RNF13 and PLEKHM1. Together, these findings identify RNF13 as a regulator of lysosomal organization and cargo transport, operating through Arl8B binding and ubiquitination that can occur without a proportional change in Arl8B abundance under our assay conditions. This work reveals an additional layer of regulation in endolysosomal trafficking, highlighting RNF13 as a regulatory node influencing cargo progression through degradative pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The small GTP-binding protein Arl8b is established as a regulator of lysosome positioning and fusion, yet its role in lysosome biogenesis remains unclear. Here, we investigate the role of Arl8b in the trafficking of newly synthesized LAMP1 to lysosomes using the Retention Using Selective Hook (RUSH) assay. We find that Arl8b localizes to post-endocytic LAMP1-containing vesicles prior to fusion with acidic lysosomes. Arl8b depletion leads to Rab11a-dependent recycling of LAMP1 to the plasma membrane, impairing its lysosomal delivery. Mechanistically, Arl8b recruits the Rab11a GAP, TBC1D9B, to LAMP1-positive membranes, and TBC1D9B depletion similarly disrupts LAMP1 sorting. Notably, TBC1D9B knockdown also impairs the retrieval of cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor (CI-M6PR) from Rab11a- and Rab14-positive endosomes to the trans-Golgi network, impairing pro-cathepsin trafficking and cargo degradation. These findings reveal that Arl8b-mediated recruitment of Rab GAP TBC1D9B is crucial for inactivation of the Rab11a recycling pathway, leading to efficient sorting of lysosomal cargo to their functional location.© 2026 Chouhan et al.
Osteoclast-mediated bone resorption depends on the secretion of lysosomal hydrolases via the fusion of secretory lysosomes with the ruffled border, yet the molecular mechanisms governing lysosomal trafficking and fusion remain incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that the small GTPase Arl8b regulates the processing of osteoclast-specific lysosomal hydrolase, cathepsin K, and the positioning of secretory lysosomes toward the actin ring. Accordingly, depletion of Arl8b led to defects in lysosome-mediated bone resorption in osteoclasts. We identify RUFY4 as a RANKL-inducible Arl8b effector that promotes lysosome clustering and maturation by linking Arl8b to Rab7 through the adaptor PLEKHM1 and recruiting the multi-subunit tethering factor HOPS complex to drive late endosome-lysosome fusion. Depletion of RUFY4 or HOPS subunits impairs cathepsin K processing and disrupts lysosome positioning, leading to reduced bone resorption activity. These findings suggest that Arl8b and its interaction partners play essential roles in biogenesis and positioning of secretory lysosomes, essential for osteoclast function in bone remodeling.
Lysosomes are highly dynamic organelles that serve antagonistic functions as terminal catabolic stations for the degradation of macromolecules and as central metabolic decision centers for anabolic growth signaling. Lysosome dysfunction is implicated in various human diseases. The physiological roles of lysosomes are linked to the control of lysosome position and dynamics via the activity of the kinesin-activating small GTPase ARL8. How the activity of ARL8 is regulated remains poorly understood. Here, we identify the GTPase-activating Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC) domain protein TBC1D9B as a critical negative regulator of ARL8B function. We demonstrate that TBC1D9B is associated with the lysosomal membrane protein TMEM55B, directly binds to ARL8B-GTP, and stimulates its GTPase activity. Knockout of TBC1D9B or its binding partner TMEM55B causes lysosome dispersion, defective autophagic flux, and impairs the adaptive degradative response of cells to limiting nutrient supply. These lysosomal phenotypes of TBC1D9B loss are occluded by concomitant depletion of ARL8 in cells. Collectively, our data unravel a key role for TBC1D9B in controlling lysosome function by serving as a negative regulator of ARL8 activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with limited treatment options. Charged multivesicular body protein 3 (CHMP3), a core component of ESCRT-III, is involved in membrane remodeling. However, its clinical and biological relevance in PDAC remained unclear. This study evaluated the prognostic association and functional relevance of CHMP3 in PDAC.CHMP3 expression and clinical outcomes were analyzed using TCGA and CPTAC3 datasets. Protein expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry in a retrospective cohort of resected PDAC. Additional prognostic information was evaluated using concordance indices. Functional analyses were performed using siRNA-mediated CHMP3 knockdown in MIAPaCa-2 and PANC-1 cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing data assessed cell type-specific expression.CHMP3 expression was elevated in PDAC and associated with worse overall and disease-free survival in the TCGA and IHC cohorts. In the immunohistochemical cohort, higher CHMP3 expression was associated with poorer outcomes and modestly improved clinicopathologic prediction models. However, CHMP3-high status was substantially imbalanced with nonreceipt of adjuvant chemotherapy, limiting separation of CHMP3-related prognostic effects from treatment-related confounding. In vitro, CHMP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration, and increased gemcitabine sensitivity. Single-cell RNA-seq showed CHMP3 enrichment in tumor epithelial and stromal/CAF populations relative to immune cells.CHMP3 expression is associated with poor outcomes in PDAC and may provide modest additional prognostic information when combined with conventional factors, although residual confounding by adjuvant therapy cannot be excluded. These findings support the biological relevance of CHMP3 and suggest that CHMP3 may represent a prognosis-associated marker requiring external validation.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Mitochondrial transport and distribution are crucial for cellular homeostasis, yet whether and how they are regulated by endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria contact sites remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the ER protein atlastin-2 (ATL2) orchestrates mitochondrial transport and distribution by promoting assembly of the transport machinery at ER-mitochondria contact sites. Mechanistically, ATL2 recruits the adaptor trafficking kinesin-binding protein 1 (TRAK1) to the ER membrane, strengthening the interaction of TRAK1 with the mitochondrial transport adaptor MIRO1 to promote anterograde mitochondrial transport. Loss of ATL2 disrupts this process, leading to perinuclear mitochondrial clustering. We further find that ATL2 stabilizes ER-mitochondria contact sites by interacting with MFN2, providing a platform for mitochondrial transport complex assembly. Moreover, in hypoxia, ATL2 is ubiquitinated at lysine 567 by the E3 ligase SYVN1, leading to its degradation and a resulting defect in mitochondrial distribution. Our findings elucidate a novel ER-mediated mechanism for mitochondrial transport.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cerebellar hypoplasia, impaired intellectual development, congenital microcephaly, dystonia, anemia, and growth retardation (CIMDAG) syndrome is caused by variants in VPS4A. We report a 5-year-old Nepalese boy with classical CIMDAG features, including developmental delay, microcephaly, dystonia, cataracts, dyserythropoietic anemia, and growth retardation. Magnetic resonance imaging showed mild cerebellar atrophy. Trio exome sequencing identified a homozygous VPS4A variant (c.863G>A; p.Arg288Gln), predicted to be deleterious. Structural analyses revealed disruption of a conserved Arginine-288 residue within the ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities domain, leading to loss of stability and increased disorder. The VPS4A-p.Arg288Gln variant showed enhanced aggregation and reduced interaction with LC3B (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta), impairing its localization to lipid droplets. Proband fibroblasts exhibited increased lipid accumulation, elevated free fatty acids, and higher reactive oxygen species levels, indicative of lipotoxic stress. Together, these findings demonstrate that a novel pathogenic VPS4A variant drives structural destabilization and lipotoxicity, providing mechanistic insight into lipid homeostasis perturbations in CIMDAG syndrome.Copyright © 2026 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder linked to specific genetic mutations, including those in the CHMP2B gene, which encodes a component of the ESCRT-III complex involved in endosomal trafficking and autophagy. Here, we report a 62-year-old woman presenting with apathy, hyperorality, and language impairment, harbouring a novel heterozygous c.440 A > G CHMP2B variant of uncertain significance, causing D147G substitution. Neuropsychological evaluation revealed severe apathy, whereas MRI and 18FDG-PET were consistent with an early left prefrontal impairment. The D147G substitution is located in proximity to the D148Y mutation, previously associated with semantic variant primary progressive aphasia, suggesting it may similarly disrupt protein conformation or stability. Our findings raise the possibility that this variant may be relevant in the context of an FTD-like phenotype. This case highlights the importance of investigating missense variants to further elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms of ESCRT-III dysfunction in neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Belgian Neurological Society.
Maintenance of plasma membrane integrity is essential for compartmentalization of the cytosol and for cellular viability. Upon membrane damage, several factors including endosomal sorting complex required for transport-III (ESCRT-III) proteins, annexins, stress granules, lipids, and membrane fusion proteins are mobilized to orchestrate membrane repair. However, whether these factors operate independently or act together is unclear. Here, using human cell lines, we expose temporal differences and interdependencies in the recruitment of ESCRT-III and annexin proteins to sites of plasma membrane damage. We show that annexin proteins are recruited immediately and form a plug at the damage site, restricting membrane permeability. We find that ESCRT-III assembles later and acts to release plug-containing damaged membranes from the cell. Further, frontotemporal dementia (FTD)- and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)-associated mutations in the ESCRT-III protein, CHMP2B, and the annexin protein, ANXA11, compromise plasma membrane repair, suggesting that defects in this process may contribute to these pathologies. These data present an integrated "sealing and healing" model of membrane repair.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lewy bodies (LBs), composed primarily of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn), are the pathological hallmark of Lewy body diseases, including Parkinson's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Despite their diagnostic significance, the mechanisms underlying LB formation and their contribution to neurodegeneration remain poorly understood. Previous studies have reported that structures labelled with ubiquitin phosphorylated at serine 65 (p-UbS65)-a marker of mitophagy-localise both at the periphery of and within LBs. This study aimed to further characterise these structures and clarify their relationship to α-syn pathology in DLB. Immunofluorescence analysis of post-mortem DLB brain tissue revealed intermittent co-localisation of p-UbS65+ puncta with conventional mitochondrial markers. Given previous findings that granulovacuolar degeneration bodies (GVBs)-vesicular structures frequently associated with tau pathology, itself a concomitant feature of DLB-are immunopositive for p-UbS65, we next examined whether peri-LB p-UbS65+ structures are actually GVBs. p-UbS65 puncta co-stained with established GVB markers including charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) and casein kinase 1 delta (CK1D), and, more variably with hyperphosphorylated tau (AT8), across multiple brain regions associated with LB pathology. Notably, GVB abundance within the anterior cingulate gyrus was found to positively correlate with p-α-synS129 burden. In summary, p-UbS65+ GVBs, containing both auto- and endolysosomal material, cluster around LBs in DLB. Frequently immunoreactive for tau, these hybrid waste vesicles provide a tangible mechanistic link between α-syn and tau pathology and may offer new insight into the processes underlying LB formation in DLB.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Endolysosomal dysfunction has been increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. The charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) gene encodes a component of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT-III), which regulates endosomal trafficking, multivesicular body formation, and autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Mutations in CHMP2B are classically associated with autosomal dominant frontotemporal dementia. Here, we report a 59-year-old woman with biomarker-confirmed Alzheimer disease (AD) (A+T+N+) carrying a heterozygous CHMP2B c.90C>T (p.Ala30Ser) variant identified by targeted exome sequencing after negative testing for APP, APOE, PSEN1, and PSEN2. The patient presented with progressive episodic memory impairment and spatial disorientation over 3 years. Brain MRI showed prominent posterior cortical atrophy, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers demonstrated decreased Aβ42 and elevated phosphorylated and total tau levels consistent with AD pathology. Dysfunction of CHMP2B-mediated endolysosomal pathways may impair intracellular protein degradation and influence tau clearance mechanisms. This observation suggests that rare variants in endolysosomal pathway genes may contribute to AD pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is an immune dysregulation syndrome triggered by infection, characterized by host self-damage due to immune imbalances. This study focuses on dynamic changes of mitochondrial symbiotic function in host cells during sepsis and systematically investigates dysregulation of mitochondrial communication modes and the intrinsic link between mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) release and immune dysregulation. We demonstrate that during early-stage LPS treatment, mitochondria actively remodel by extruding flagella-like extensions (termed mitoFLARE). These structures, nanotubes mediating long-distance transport, form through glycosylated TRAK1 binding FHL2 to drive actin network formation, thereby shifting mitochondrial communication from direct fusion to nanotube-mediated transport. This helps maintain dynamic exchange within the inner mitochondrial membrane under LPS treatment. However, as inflammation progresses, deteriorated mitochondrial quality control disrupts the MICOS-SAM complex, abrogates inner-outer membrane anchoring, and suppresses mitoFLARE functions. All these ultimately enhance endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial contacts to promote outer membrane rupture and result in mtDNA release into the cytoplasm to activate cGAS-STING signaling, further triggering immune dysregulation and inflammatory storm, culminating in programmed cell death and organ dysfunction. This study elucidates the pivotal role of dysregulated mitochondrial-host symbiosis in sepsis progression and provides important insights into the underlying mechanisms of sepsis-associated immune imbalances, laying a theoretical foundation for targeted therapy development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (SI-AKI) increases the mortality rate of critically ill patients, but its pathophysiological mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Autophagy has been shown to be involved in the process of SI-AKI. Bioinformatics analysis of the GSE256430 dataset indicates that CHMP2B is upregulated in SI-AKI. However, the impact and specific mechanisms of CHMP2B on SI-AKI are still unknown. In this study, a mouse model induced by cecal ligation and puncture and lipopolysaccharide-simulated HK-2 cells were established to simulate SI-AKI. The results confirmed that CHMP2B was significantly upregulated and autophagy was blocked in both SI-AKI mouse and cell models. Knockdown of CHMP2B alleviated renal function decline and renal tubular tissue damage in SI-AKI mice. In SI-AKI cell models, autophagy activators led to reduced apoptosis and increased viability of renal tubular epithelial cells. Furthermore, the reduction in apoptosis, increase in autophagy, and enhancement in cell viability mediated by CHMP2B knockdown were counteracted by autophagy inhibitors. Therefore, CHMP2B participated in the progression of SI-AKI by inhibiting autophagy in renal tubular epithelial cells. Mechanistically, it was revealed that upregulated transcription factor USF1 promoted CHMP2B expression, thereby inducing autophagy blockade in SI-AKI. In summary, CHMP2B-mediated autophagy blockade exacerbated renal tubular injury, promoting SI-AKI development. These findings provide new insights into understanding the pathological mechanisms of SI-AKI and developing strategies to treat it by modulating autophagy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic cancer is a highly aggressive malignancy with a 5-year relative survival rate of only 13%. Current treatment options have limited efficacy, and mRNA vaccines offer a new direction for its treatment. However, how to accurately identify antigen targets that possess tumor specificity, functional relevance, and immunogenicity remains the key bottleneck restricting the clinical translation of mRNA vaccines for pancreatic cancer. Recent clinical studies have advanced KRAS mutant vaccines and personalized neoantigen mRNA vaccines, yet most rely on single antigens or highly individualized designs, limiting scalability and broader clinical applicability. In this systematic review, we integrated evidence from public databases and experimental studies to identify and evaluate 16 potential pancreatic cancer mRNA vaccine antigens (ADAM9, WNT7A, TMOD3, MET, EFNB2, TPX2, AGPS, OSBPL9, KDM5A, NRAS, SCP-1, GAGE, RAB5A, ANO6, CHMP2B, and PAK2). All candidates were initially selected based on aberrant tumor expression and further prioritized using stratification strategies incorporating antigen-presenting cell infiltration, immune-related cell death pathways such as ferroptosis and pyroptosis, and functional relevance to tumor progression. ADAM9 and PAK2 showed high expression in pancreatic cancer and strong associations with tumor proliferation, invasion, and immune regulation. SCP-1 and GAGE, as cancer-testis antigens, exhibited high tumor specificity and immunogenic potential. In addition, KDM5A and ANO6 may enhance antitumor efficacy through modulation of ferroptosis or pyroptosis. Nevertheless, several candidates remain constrained by normal tissue expression or limited mechanistic evidence. This review provides a stratified framework for antigen prioritization and highlights key challenges in pancreatic cancer mRNA vaccine development, offering guidance for future multi-antigen vaccine design and translational immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Xue, Yu, Zhou, Chen, Chen, Hu, Luo, Chen, Wang and He.
α-Synucleinopathies are clinically and biologically heterogeneous disorders lacking reliable biomarkers to assist with early diagnosis, disease progression, patient stratification, and therapeutic targeting. Genetic variation is known to impact biomarker levels, influencing their utility and interpretation in research and clinical settings. We aimed to identify common genetic modulators of biomarker levels implicated in α-synucleinopathy pathogenesis.63 CSF, plasma, and urine biomarkers were analyzed in 581 individuals from the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI). GWAS was performed to test for associations with common variants, while regressions and area under the curve (AUC) analysis was used to assess predictive power. Analyses were adjusted for age, sex, disease status, and principal components. PD- and DLB-risk loci associations were separately assessed for each GWAS.We confirm strong associations between urine bis(monoacylglycerol)phosphate (BMP) isoforms and the variants LRRK2 p.G2019S and GBA1 p.N370S, while providing support for BMPs use as a LRRK2-PD biomarker. CSF Aβ was significantly associated with an APOE ε4 allele, reinforcing its central role in amyloid regulation. Novel associations were detected between CSF ceramide isoforms the MCF2L2 and GMNN loci, and between CSF tau and the TP63 locus. Multiple PD risk loci, including MAPT, SIPA1L2, MCCC1, and RAB29, were associated with lysosomal lipid biomarkers, highlighting pathway-level convergence.The present study reveals established and novel genetic modulators of potential α-synucleinopathy biomarkers, demonstrating that genetic background significantly shapes biomarker levels. These genetic influences should be accounted for when conducting biomarker-based research, clinical trials, or therapeutic development to ensure accurate interpretation and improve their translational relevance.
Lower educational attainment is associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D), but prospective evidence, external validation, mediator patterns, and genetic triangulation have rarely been integrated.UK Biobank analyses included 501,932 participants at baseline and 474,659 participants without baseline diabetes prospectively. Logistic and Cox models estimated associations of higher educational attainment with prevalent and incident diabetes. T2D pathway analyses evaluated adiposity, health behaviors, and cardiometabolic biomarkers. NHANES 2011-2018 provided weighted cross-sectional validation. Public GWAS summary statistics were used for genetic correlation, Mendelian randomization (MR), tissue enrichment, candidate-gene analyses, shared-locus analyses, and S-PrediXcan transcriptome-wide association analyses (TWAS).In fully adjusted UK Biobank models, higher educational attainment was associated with lower odds of prevalent T2D (OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.72-0.79) and lower risk of incident T2D (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.68-0.72). Detailed qualification categories showed lower prevalent T2D odds for college/university degree versus no qualifications (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.65-0.72). In NHANES, college graduation or above was associated with lower prevalent T2D odds (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.61-0.78; n=20,502). Adiposity, smoking, alcohol use, lipids, blood pressure, and C-reactive protein attenuated the education-T2D association. Genetically predicted educational attainment was inversely associated with BMI and T2D, and BMI/T2D brain TWAS identified 19 shared multi-SNP gene signals, including NPC1, HSD17B12, MAP2K5, DHX36, BHMT, and LEPROT.Higher educational attainment was consistently associated with lower T2D risk across UK Biobank, NHANES, and genetic analyses. The results highlight modifiable metabolic and behavioral pathways relevant to T2D prevention.Copyright © 2026 Geng, Qiu, Zhang, Liu, Wang, Hu, Kuang and Zhang.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). Strategies that directly inhibit the LRRK2 kinase active site have not demonstrated disease-modifying efficacy in recent clinical testing. A naturally occurring protective variant, R1398H, provides an alternative route for understanding how reduced disease risk may be achieved by tuning the regulatory GTPase domain rather than the kinase domain itself. Here, we combine structural, computational, biochemical, and cell-based analyses to define how R1398H alters the Ras of complex proteins (ROC) G domain of LRRK2. Purified ROC carrying R1398H is folded but resolves as a stable homodimer corresponding to the GDP-bound off state previously defined for wild-type ROC. A 2.0 Å A crystal structure shows unambiguous density for H1398 and reveals close superposition with the GDP-bound wild-type ROC dimer. Molecular dynamics modeling predicts that R1398 engages the γ-phosphate of GTP to stabilize switch-region interactions required for activation, whereas histidine at this position weakens γ-phosphate sensing. Consistent with this model, R1398H reduces GTP hydrolysis, selectively weakens GTP-state stabilization while preserving GDP binding, and decreases Rab29-dependent trans-Golgi recruitment of full-length LRRK2. These findings identify R1398 as a γ-phosphate sensor that couples nucleotide chemistry to ROC conformational switching and suggest a genetics-anchored strategy for stabilizing a protective off-state conformation of LRRK2.
The parental imprinted GNAS complex locus encodes the α-subunit of the stimulatory G protein. Pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ib (PHP1B) is characterized by renal resistance to parathormone and is caused by epigenetic anomalies, ie, at least the loss of methylation (LOM) at the A/B differentially methylated region (DMR). LOM or gain of methylation (GOM) may also affect other DMRs and different transcripts expressions within the locus (NESP, exon H, AS1, XLαs, A/B). Most PHP1B are sporadic and result from abnormal methylation of all DMRs in the regulatory region of GNAS. Autosomal dominant PHP1B (AD-PHP1B) is usually caused by a recurrent STX16 gene microdeletion in the maternal allele which leads to isolated LOM at the A/B DMR. In this study, we investigated an AD-PHP1B family without STX16 deletion using whole genome sequencing (WGS). The two affected siblings presented a LOM at the A/B DMR and the half telomeric portion of the XLαs DMR and their healthy mother presented a partial GOM at the AS1 DMR and the half centromeric portion of the XLαs DMR. The WGS analysis revealed a 140-kb paracentric inversion with breakpoints located in the NPEPL1 gene and XLαs DMR. We identified the first inversion involving the regulatory region of GNAS locus leading to a maternally inherited AD-PHP1B. This observation provides additional insight into the methylation regulatory elements in the GNAS locus on both alleles, especially on NESP and exon H transcription-mediated methylation. This study will help design subsequent strategies for further studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pediatric chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) exhibits a high rate of postoperative recurrence, yet effective molecular predictors remain lacking. This study aims to explore recurrence-associated proteins and evaluate their predictive value.Proteomic analysis was performed on nasal mucosa from a discovery cohort, with >1 year of follow-up to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) associated with postoperative recurrence. Candidate proteins were validated in an independent cohort using western blotting, immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR, and serum ELISA.In the discovery cohort, 6 pediatric patients suffering postoperative recurrence were classified as rCRSwNP, and 10 as non-rCRSwNP. Proteomic analysis revealed distinct expression patterns among control, non-rCRSwNP, and rCRSwNP groups. Four candidate proteins (CERS4, PLEKHA6, RAB29, SPRR3) were identified by intersecting the top 50 DEPs. SPRR3 and RAB29 were significantly upregulated in rCRSwNP, primarily localized to the nasal epithelium, as confirmed by western blotting and immunofluorescence. qRT-PCR further validated their increase in the recurrence group. Notably, paired tissue samples showed increased SPRR3 expression at revision surgery compared to baseline, and ELISA revealed higher serum SPRR3 levels in recurrent cases, correlating with recurrence risk. ROC and Kaplan-Meier analyses demonstrated potential predictive value for serum SPRR3.Our study identified a recurrence-associated proteomic signature in pediatric CRSwNP, marked by selective epithelial upregulation of SPRR3. Elevated serum SPRR3 was strongly linked to postoperative recurrence risk, supporting its utility as a predictive biomarker for identifying children at higher risk of relapse.© 2026 The Author(s).
Mitochondrial abnormalities correlate closely with multiple cancers, but the role of genes associated with mitochondrial pathways in ovarian cancer (OC) remains unclear. This study aimed to identify OC prognosis-related mitochondrial pathway-associated genes at single-cell and transcriptome levels. Public datasets (GSE184880, GSE54388, GSE18520, TCGA-OV) were retrieved. Using GSE184880, potential cell subpopulations and their tumor-control differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, then intersected with GSE54388 key module genes to yield candidate genes. Univariate Cox regression and LASSO analyses were performed to screen prognostic genes, based on which a prognostic risk model was constructed and validated. Functional and localization analyses of prognostic genes, regulatory network construction, immune infiltration analysis, drug prediction, and expression verification were conducted. Pseudotime, cell communication and expression analyses were implemented at single-cell level. To account for patient-level variation, mixed-effects models using the MAST method were applied. Targeted GSEA focusing on mitochondrial functional pathways was performed. Clinical correlation, independent prognostic analysis, and computational functional inference were conducted. Eight cell types were observed by cell clustering and annotation, among which endothelial cells, fibroblasts, NK cells, and tissue stem cells were observed as potential cell subpopulations. TK1, VWF, CPXM1, WIPF3, APOLD1, MGST2, and PPA1 were identified as prognostic genes, and risk models constructed based on them had good performance and universality. Mixed-effects model analysis confirmed that 1200 DEGs remained significant after adjusting for patient-level variation, supporting the robustness of single-cell findings. These prognostic genes were found to be robust predictors of patient survival with inconsistent expression patterns in vitro, and may play important roles in the differentiation and development of key cells. Targeted GSEA revealed that mitochondrial respiration (electron transport chain/oxidative phosphorylation) and mitophagy were significantly suppressed in the high-risk group, while mitochondrial fusion/fission and ROS pathways did not reach significance. PPA1 was highly expressed in various cell types in the GSE184880 dataset. In the GSE54388 dataset, CPXM1 and WIPF3 were substantially downregulated in the tumor group. However, other prognostic genes displayed the opposite expression pattern. Single-cell functional inference showed that TK1 and APOLD1 were highly expressed in G2/M phase, while MGST2, PPA1, VWF, CPXM1, and WIPF3 were enriched in G1 phase. VWF showed the strongest positive correlation with the PI3K-AKT pathway. Clinical validation confirmed the independent prognostic value of the signature in advanced-stage OC (FIGO III/IV). Seven mitochondrial pathway-associated prognostic genes were identified in OC, with inconsistent survival and in vitro expression patterns, providing novel references for exploring potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Aberrant DNA methylation can mediate the functional effects of rare genetic variation and contribute to imprinting disorders, repeat expansion diseases, and other pathogenic regulatory mechanisms. Long-read sequencing technologies now enable genome-wide detection of CpG methylation alongside genetic variation from a single assay. However, methods for systematic identification and interpretation of methylation outliers from long-read sequencing data remain limited.We developed METAFORA, a computational workflow for detecting methylation outlier regions from PacBio and Oxford Nanopore long-read sequencing data. METAFORA constructs population-level methylation references, segments the genome into correlated CpG blocks, infers technical and biological sources of variation through hidden factor estimation, models uncertainty due to variable depth sequencing, and computes covariate-adjusted methylation outlier scores for individual samples. We applied METAFORA across large long-read sequencing cohorts and integrated methylation outliers with multi-omic data. METAFORA is implemented as a snakemake workflow available at https://github.com/tjense25/METAFORA .METAFORA identified methylation outlier regions associated with rare structural variants, tandem repeat expansions, and imprinting abnormalities. We found outlier regions were enriched for molecular outliers across transcriptomic and chromatin accessibility datasets, supporting their functional relevance in gene regulation. In a representative case, METAFORA identified an imprinting defect affecting the GNAS locus associated with an STX16 deletion.METAFORA enables scalable detection and interpretation of methylation outliers from long-read sequencing data and provides a framework for integrating epigenetic outliers with genomic and multi-omic analyses. These approaches may improve interpretation of rare regulatory variation and support discovery of clinically relevant epigenetic abnormalities in genomic medicine.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
The immune system has developed specialized mechanisms to recognize intracellular pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I-Related protein 1 (MR1) is a conserved nonclassical antigen presenting molecule that presents ligands derived from microbial riboflavin synthesis to Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells. While endosomal trafficking facilitates MR1 antigen presentation during Mtb infection, the exact mechanisms by which MR1 loading of Mtb-derived ligands occurs are not known. We found that trafficking through sorting endosomes mediates MR1 antigen presentation during Mtb infection. Sorting endosomes utilize trafficking proteins such as Syntaxin (Stx) 6, Stx12, Stx16 and VAMP4. Prior work demonstrates the importance of VAMP4 for MR1 presentation during Mtb infection; we have found that Stx12 and Stx16 are also important. Interference with Stx12 or Stx16 via siRNA-mediated knockdown reduces MR1 antigen presentation of Mtb. Using RFP-tagged constructs, we found Stx16 co-localized more with MR1 vesicles compared to Stx12 in MR1-GFP expressing airway epithelial cells. Stx12 and Stx16 blockade increase MR1 surface stabilization and total expression, indicating that impaired endosomal trafficking hinders MR1 internalization. Together, these findings support a role for sorting endosomes in the selective sampling of the intracellular environment and MR1-mediated recognition of Mtb-infected cells.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
6PPD, a widely used antioxidant in tires, has emerged as an environmental contaminant linked to cardiotoxicity in aquatic organisms, yet the molecular mechanism underlying 6PPD-induced cardiac injury remains unclear. Here, the mechanisms of 6PPD induced cardiotoxicity were investigated utilizing a combination of in vivo zebrafish and in vitro cardiomyocyte models. We found that 6PPD exposure caused cardiac dysfunction, myocardial injury, and pathological remodeling, accompanied by impaired autophagic flux, mitochondrial damage, and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Mechanistically, 6PPD markedly downregulated YKT6, a SNARE protein essential for autophagosome-lysosome fusion, in both heart of zebrafish and H9C2 cells. Molecular dynamics simulations predicted a potential xenobiotic-protein interaction between 6PPD and YKT6 that restricted its conformational flexibility. Moreover, loss of YKT6 disrupted autophagosome maturation and promoted P62 accumulation, whereas YKT6 overexpression restored autophagosome-lysosome fusion, alleviated mitochondrial injury, and rescued 6PPD-induced cardiomyocyte dysfunction. Consistently, overexpressing YKT6 in adult zebrafish hearts through pericardial injection can also reduce the accumulation of P62 and heart damage. Overall, our findings suggest that 6PPD-induced cardiotoxicity involves YKT6 suppression, which is associated with impaired autophagosome-lysosome fusion and mitochondrial dysfunction, contributing to cardiomyocyte apoptosis in zebrafish. Thus, it was possible that restoring YKT6 emerged as a promising strategy to mitigate 6PPD-associated cardiac injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by demyelination within the central nervous system. Emerging evidence suggests that plasma proteins may serve as genetically supported candidate targets, yet their underlying mechanisms in MS remain poorly understood. In this study, we applied proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) to systematically identify plasma proteins that are causally associated with MS risk and to explore their potential biological roles and treatment implications.We performed a comprehensive proteome-wide MR analysis using cis-prioritized protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) as instruments. Plasma protein data came from two large-scale resources: the Icelandic deCODE study (4,907 proteins measured in 35,559 individuals with the SomaScan v4 platform) and the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP, 2,940 proteins measured in 54,219 European-ancestry participants with the Olink platform). MS genomewide association study (GWAS) summary statistics were obtained from the International Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium (IMSGC), UK Biobank, and FinnGen releases R9 and R10. After applying a stringent false discovery rate threshold (FDR < 0.05), we conducted meta-analysis, Bayesian colocalization, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, Gene Ontology (GO), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. We also evaluated potential adverse effects of druggable proteins through a phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) across 2,409 phenotypes in FinnGen R10.In the deCODE dataset, MR identified five plasma proteins causally linked to MS: PARP1, DNAJC27, and TNXB increased risk, whereas CD58 and STAT3 were protective. In the UKB-PPP dataset, ten proteins showed significant associations: CD58, AGER, TNF, and AIF1 as risk factors and CD40, FCRL1, GIMAP7, CD59, EVI5, and TNFRSF14 as protective. Colocalization analysis provided strong support for CD58 across multiple datasets and moderate-to-strong support for PGLYRP1, PARP1, CD40, FCRL1, and EVI5. GO and KEGG analyses indicated that these proteins are enriched in neuroinflammation, immune regulation, and metabolic pathways. The PPI network highlighted TNF, STAT3, CD40, CD58, and PARP1 as central hubs. PheWAS revealed eight significant phenotype associations, pointing to both therapeutic opportunities and possible off-target effects.Our findings underscore the central importance of immune regulation and neuroinflammatory pathways in MS pathogenesis and nominate several genetically supported candidate targets that could guide future precision-medicine approaches. Nevertheless, these associations require rigorous functional validation and clinical trials before they can be translated into new therapies.This proteome-wide MR study identifies genetically supported plasma protein targets for MS, offering fresh mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic directions while emphasizing the need for further research to move from genetic association to clinical benefit.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Background: Gliomas are among the most common and heterogeneous primary brain tumors, exhibiting substantial molecular and transcriptomic diversity that complicates diagnosis, grading, and treatment planning. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI), particularly machine learning (ML), offer powerful opportunities to analyze high-dimensional gene expression data and support precision oncology. Methods: This study proposes an interpretable ML framework to classify brain tumor subtypes-glioblastoma, astrocytoma, and oligodendroglioma-and to predict tumor grades (2, 3, and 4) using microarray-based gene expression data. The analysis was conducted on the REMBRANDT dataset, comprising 464 labeled samples (221 glioblastoma, 148 astrocytoma, 67 oligodendroglioma, and 28 controls) and 314 tumor samples for grade classification. Results: The ML models achieved high performance for disease classification, with accuracies of 99.6% (AUC 99.89%) for glioblastoma, 98.3% (AUC 99.83%) for astrocytoma, and 98.95% (AUC 100%) for oligodendroglioma. Tumor grade predictions also performed strongly, achieving 83.7% accuracy (AUC 88.2%) for grade II vs. III, 91.3% (AUC 94.8%) for grade II vs. IV, and 84.2% (AUC 90.8%) for grade III vs. IV. SHAP analysis identified key genes contributing to the model predictions (e.g., WIF1, STX6, RGS5, and ACTR2), and KEGG enrichment identified the candidate pathways involved in vesicular transport, metabolism, and immune signaling. Conclusion: Overall, our findings demonstrate that interpretable ML models can accurately differentiate glioma subtypes and grades, and SHAP analysis can help identify the strongest predictors of our models. These findings provide additional insights into the heterogeneous genetic and molecular landscape of brain gliomas and are intended to complement, not replace, conventional histopathological diagnosis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a highly malignant cancer with limited treatment options. HCC cells (HCCs) activate hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and transform them into cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), forming a vicious cycle for hepatocarcinogenesis. Therefore, inhibition of the communication between HCCs and HSCs is expected to emerge as a novel strategy for HCC treatment. Artematrolide F (AF), a sesquiterpenoid dimers (SDs) isolated from Artemisia atrovirens, exhibited significantly inhibitory activity on tumor cells in our previous report, but its mechanism remains unknown. This further study demonstrated that AF significantly inhibited the proliferation, colony formation and metastasis of HCCs. Notably, the inhibitory effect was enhanced when HCCs were cocultured with HSCs, suggesting that AF may suppress tumor progression through regulating the crosstalk of HCCs and HSCs. The vesicular transport protein YKT6 was identified as a target of AF through integrating bioinformatics analysis and machine learning model, which were verified by DARTS, CETSA, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and knockdown experiments. Further mechanistic research revealed that AF targeting YKT6 disrupted the crosstalk between HSCs and HCCs, suppressed HSC-driven tumor proliferation by inhibiting extracellular vesicles (EVs) secretion from HCCs, and blocked tumor autophagy by disrupting vesicular transport. These findings demonstrate that AF could serve as a novel therapeutic candidate for HCC treatment through regulating YKT6 to suppress HCCs-HSCs communication, block EV-dependent tumor progression, and inhibit tumor autophagy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) comprises various complicated metabolic disorders. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a major cardiovascular disease worldwide. These two diseases are the principal causes of morbidity and mortality in older adults. Previous studies have suggested a potential link between these two diseases. To date, finding sensitive and effective diagnostic biomarkers of MetS and CAD remains challenging. This research examined the potential shared biomarkers of MetS and CAD using a comprehensive bioinformatics approach.Five microarray datasets about MetS and CAD were used in our analysis. Integrated bioinformatics methods, such as differentially expressed gene (DEG) analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and machine learning (ML) algorithms, were utilized to discern hub genes of MetS and CAD. Meanwhile, single-sample gene enrichment analysis and single-cell analysis were leveraged to analyze immune cell infiltration and the abundance of gene expression in immune cells. Finally, the expression levels of key biomarkers were primarily verified by RT-qPCR.We identified 666 DEGs associated with MetS and 762 DEGs related to CAD, with 22 overlapping genes. Meanwhile, 3 hub genes related to MetS and CAD were screened by WGCNA, which were APOBEC3B, SGSM2, and LRRC32. Two hub genes, ADRB2 and KDM6A, were downregulated in the two diseases. ROC curves confirmed their diagnostic value. Furthermore, single-cell sequencing analysis and RT-qPCR obtained consistent findings.ADRB2 and KDM6A are identified as hub candidate diagnostic biomarkers for MetS and CAD. These genes may offer new targets for MetS and CAD and assist in exploring the molecular mechanisms underlying both diseases.
YKT6 is markedly overexpressed across multiple tumor types and plays a role in driving their progression. However, the correlation between YKT6 and breast cancer remains poorly understood. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the potential prognostic value and biological function of YKT6 gene in breast cancer.Public datasets, clinic sample and tissue microarray (TMA) were used for YKT6 expression and prognostic value analyses. The relevance between YKT6 expression, tumor-immune infiltrates and tumor mutation burden (TMB) was examined using the TCGA database. Cellular functional assays were performed to verify the biological behavior of YKT6 in breast cancer cells. Moreover, transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to explore the underlying mechanism of YKT6.YKT6 was significantly upregulated in breast cancer tissue comparing to normal tissue(P<0.05) and higher YKT6 expression was significantly linked to worse clinical prognosis, advanced tumor stages, and distant metastasis(P<0.05). Additionally, YKT6 expression is correlated with the infiltration of various immune cell and TMB. Knockdown of YKT6 impaired the proliferation, invasion, and migration abilities of breast cancer cells, and increased apoptosis. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that YKT6 primarily influenced breast cancer progression through the cell cycle, as well as biological processes such as autophagy, apoptosis, and ferroptosis. Moreover, knockdown of YKT6 suppressed the activity of mTORC1.YKT6 may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker for breast cancer. The expression level of YKT6 was correlated with tumor-infiltrating immune cells in breast cancer. It may offer potential value for the treatment of breast cancer patients.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Yuan, Liu, Qiu, Zhang and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42088849 is a review article
Genetically mediated increased expression of syntaxin-6, a SNARE protein involved in intracellular protein trafficking, is a proposed risk mechanism for progressive supranuclear palsy and sporadic prion disease. Increased syntaxin-6 protein levels are also causally associated with Alzheimer's disease, suggesting it may have shared roles across multiple neurodegenerative diseases. However, no study has validated its functional role in tauopathies. To validate a role for syntaxin-6 in tauopathy pathogenesis, we knocked out syntaxin-6 in humanised P301S tauopathy mice. Mice underwent longitudinal rotarod testing, gait analysis, frailty and weight assessment, with neuropathological, biochemical and pathological analyses at 3 and 5 months. Stx6+/+;hTauP301S/P301S mice showed motor impairment from 1 month of age, which was partially rescued by syntaxin-6 knockout from months 1 to 4, with additional protection of gait at 5.5 months. Physiologically, syntaxin-6 knockout exerted a protective effect on weight trajectories and measures of frailty. Reduced neurodegeneration in the superficial cortex was observed at 3 months, as well as higher synaptic coverage at 5 months of age, supporting preserved neuropathological measures related to function. We further observed localised increases in tau pathology in the spinal cord and defined brain regions in young Stx6-/-;hTauP301S/P301S mice, despite total tau levels being comparable, in keeping with altered trafficking of pathological tau species with syntaxin-6 knockout. Despite a partial, early phenotypic rescue of functional measures, terminal endpoint comparisons were confounded by a 20% weight loss culling rule, as knockout mice maintained higher absolute weight. Taken together, this study functionally validates a role for syntaxin-6 in tauopathy pathogenesis, with syntaxin-6 knockout resulting in an early protective effect on multiple disease-relevant phenotypes in a humanised tauopathy model.© 2026. The Author(s).
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a heritable disorder where rare variants with low-to-moderate penetrance are thought to dominate genetic risk. To identify such rare variants, we harmonized and analyzed exome data from 22 cohorts, totaling 17,919 individuals with ALS and 200,703 controls across discovery and replication phases. Rare variant analyses identified several new risk genes, with replication confirming association of YKT6 and supporting HTR3C, GBGT1 and KNTC1. We also provide strong, independent validation for genes with limited previous evidence: ARPP21, DNAJC7 and CFAP410. Notably, in ARPP21, we identified a new high-effect variant (p.P747L) and confirmed that p.P563L is an ALS-associated variant leading to an aggressive disease course. Beyond new discoveries, our analyses largely recapitulated the known genetic architecture of ALS, identifying risk variants in over 20% of cases and supporting a cumulative oligogenic risk model. These findings highlight new translational targets and show that rare variant analyses capture substantially more genetic risk than common variant genome-wide association studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
The immune checkpoint receptor T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) can signal via cytoplasmic motifs to regulate T cell function. The signaling molecules that mediate inhibitory TIGIT signaling and its regulation in T cells remain poorly defined. Here, proximity proteomics is employed to define TIGIT-proximal proteins upon CD155 engagement, identifying several that are ligation-specific, including those involved in signaling (Grb2 and SOS1), cytoskeletal regulation (CD2AP and SdcBP), and endocytosis (IST1 and SNX3). Through crosslinking followed by immunoprecipitation, we show that TIGIT and CD2AP directly interact, representing a novel association. A TIGIT mutant (Y225A/Y231A) incapable of inhibitory signaling prevents recruitment of these proteins. Strikingly, T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation is essential for TIGIT to engage with these pathways. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of TIGIT requires both CD155 ligation and TCR activation, resulting in its signaling and internalization. TCR activation-dependent TIGIT signaling establishes a regulatory mechanism that limits checkpoint control to when functionally required.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vectors based on the adeno-associated virus are widely used as delivery methods in gene therapy applications, yet understanding of the mechanisms governing its intracellular trafficking remains incomplete. Traditional models suggest that AAV escapes from endosomes via membrane disruption, but direct evidence for this process is lacking. Here, we show that AAVR, the essential AAV cell entry receptor, functions as a bona fide retromer cargo. Using in vitro reconstitution assays, we demonstrate that AAVR's cytosolic tail is sufficient to engage the retromer-SNX3 complex and drive membrane tubulation, a hallmark of retrograde trafficking. In AAVR-knockout HuH-7 cells, AAV2 particles are internalized, but accumulate in early endosomal compartments, and fail to support transgene expression. Galectin-8 recruitment assays reveal no evidence of endosomal membrane rupture during productive transduction, distinguishing AAV2 from lytic vectors such as lipid nanoparticles. Moreover, VP1u-deficient and PLA2-mutant AAV2 capsids accumulate at the TGN, indicating that VP1u is dispensable for early trafficking but required for post-TGN progression toward productive transduction. These findings argue against the widely held model of direct endosomal escape and provide a mechanistic basis for the previously described essential role of the TGN in productive AAV transduction, positioning AAV entry as a vesicle-guided, receptor-mediated process.IMPORTANCEThe study demonstrates that AAV2 does not escape endosomes via membrane rupture but instead exploits the cellular receptor AAVR as a retromer cargo to traffic through vesicle-mediated retrograde transport to the trans-Golgi network, a critical checkpoint for productive transduction. Building on prior observations that VP1u-deficient particles are still internalized (R. Popa-Wagner, M. Porwal, M. Kann, M. Reuss, et al., J Virol 86:9163-9174, 2012, https://doi.org/10.1128/jvi.00282-12), we show that these particles traffic to the TGN but accumulate at this compartment, indicating that VP1u and its PLA2 activity become essential specifically at a post-TGN step in the transduction pathway.
Abundant evidence indicates extracellular vesicles (EVs) (exosomes and microvesicles) are mediators of intercellular communication. Previous reports from this group further showed that EVs from brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMEC) transferred the tight junction protein (TJ) claudin-5 (CLN-5) to leukocytes in vitro and during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, leading us to hypothesize that such interaction might facilitate transendothelial migration (TEM) by a "zipper mechanism" whereby CLN-5 molecules on leukocyte-bound EVs temporarily replace those at interendothelial junctions. Such a mechanism is likely to be under strict spatiotemporal control. A corollary to this is that EVs are released from BMEC in a polar manner, such that only those released from the apical surface interact with leukocytes, while those from the basolateral surface bind adventitial targets.To assess polar EV release from BMEC and subsequent BMEC EV:leukocyte interactions during TEM using transwell assays, flow cytometry, nanoparticle tracking, super-resolution and live-time imaging were used.It was shown that EV release was highly polarized, as EVs accumulated predominantly in the chamber facing their membrane of origin. Supportive of polarized exosome release, apical and basolateral membrane material appeared segregated into discrete multivesicular body populations. Consistent with a role in TEM, apical-derived BMEC EVs preferentially bound leukocytes in a manner dependent on leukocyte adhesion, with TEM suppressed when EV release was inhibited. Polarized EV release was maintained under physiological flow, wherein CLN-5+ EVs exhibited near exclusive release at the apical surface, possibly reflecting their predisposition toward interacting with circulating immune cells.BMEC EVs are released in a polarized manner and those derived from the apical surface focally interact with adherent leukocytes. That inhibition of EV release further suppressed TEM suggests that BMEC EV:leukocyte binding is functionally coupled to the TEM process.
To characterize the clinical, neurophysiological, neuroimaging, and molecular features of pediatric patients with neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) from a tertiary-care center in Argentina and to expand the genotypic spectrum of NCLs in an underrepresented population.We retrospectively analyzed 19 children with genetically confirmed NCL evaluated between 2000 and 2025. Clinical data, electroencephalographic (EEG), neuroimaging, electroretinographic (ERG), and visual evoked potential (VEP) findings were reviewed. Molecular diagnosis was established using a targeted next-generation sequencing panel, and variants were classified according to ACMG/AMP recommendations.Mean age at disease onset was 3.7 years. CLN7 disease was the most frequent subtype (36.8%), followed by CLN2 disease (31.6%) and CLN5 disease (10.5%). Neurodevelopmental impairment was the most common presenting feature, followed by seizures and visual deterioration. All patients exhibited progressive neurological decline characterized by developmental regression, increasing seizure burden, cognitive deterioration, and motor impairment. CLN2 disease patients showed a relatively homogeneous late-infantile phenotype, whereas CLN7 disease patients displayed marked phenotypic variability, including infantile-, late-infantile-, and juvenile-onset presentations. EEG recordings demonstrated diffuse background slowing and multifocal epileptiform abnormalities, while no patient exhibited a photoparoxysmal response to low-frequency intermittent photic stimulation. Brain MRI commonly revealed cerebral and/or cerebellar atrophy and white matter abnormalities. Twenty distinct variants were identified, including four novel variants. Recurrent pathogenic variants in MFSD8 and TPP1 were observed in multiple unrelated families.This study expands the molecular and phenotypic spectrum of NCLs and provides one of the largest detailed descriptions of pediatric NCLs from Argentina. The predominance of CLN7 disease contrasts with previous regional and international reports, highlighting potential population-specific genetic characteristics and the importance of generating local epidemiological data. Improved access to genetic testing and greater representation of Latin American populations in international registries are essential to facilitate earlier diagnosis, optimize therapeutic opportunities, and improve care for affected patients.Copyright © 2026 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42270888 is a review article
Differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes is accompanied by profound reorganization of intracellular architecture, but how organelle remodeling interfaces with cell fate control is not well understood. Here, we generate a compartment-resolved proteomic map of keratinocyte differentiation and identify extensive remodeling of lysosomes, mitochondria, autophagic vesicles, plasma membrane, and nucleus. Differentiating keratinocytes display coordinated enrichment of lysosomal degradative machinery, vesicular trafficking factors, and mitochondrial metabolic proteins, revealing organelle remodeling as a prominent feature of epidermal differentiation. From the lysosomal proteome, we identify Sorting Nexin 3 (SNX3) as a critical regulator of epidermal homeostasis. SNX3 increasingly localizes to LAMP1-positive vesicles during differentiation, and its loss impairs epidermal differentiation, suppresses Notch signaling, and promotes proliferative gene expression. In vivo , SNX3 -deficient skin grafts fail to maintain normal epidermal architecture and instead develop into squamous cell carcinoma. Mechanistically, SNX3 mediates efficient Notch receptor activation, as SNX3 loss reduces nuclear Notch1 and NICD production, whereas NICD re-expression can rescue the differentiation defect. Our study defines a proteomic framework for organelle remodeling during epidermal differentiation and identifies lysosome-associated SNX3 as a key link between endolysosomal trafficking, Notch signaling, and epidermal tissue homeostasis.
Type 3 iodothyronine deiodinase (DIO3) is a membrane-associated enzyme that inactivates thyroid hormones and promotes high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) progression. Although DIO3 undergoes continuous recycling between the plasma membrane and endosomal compartments, the mechanisms governing its intracellular routing and functional stability remain unknown.We used Human ovarian cancer cells (ES-2, OVCAR3, OVSAHO, KURAMOCHI, NCI/ADR (NAR)), ovarian cancer tumors and normal tissues from patients, immortalized fallopian tube cells (FT109, FT237 and FT282) and HEK293T cells. DIO3 was knocked-down (shRNA) or overexpressed (CRISPR activation system). Flow cytometry (cell counts and apoptosis assay), proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, proximity ligation assay, confocal imaging in the presence of endosomal transport inhibitors, and AlphaFold-based structural modeling were performed.We identify sorting nexins SNX2 and SNX6 as components of the DIO3 trafficking machinery in ovarian cancer. Computer-based structural analysis provide a potential interface for SNXs association, requiring intact linker and catalytic domains of DIO3. Studies in ovarian cancer cells suggest that SNX6 is linked with DIO3 progression through endosomal and Golgi compartments, whereas SNX2 is associated with its recycling to the plasma membrane via RAB11-positive vesicles. Disruption of these pathways destabilizes DIO3-SNXs colocalization and selectively impairs proliferation and survival of DIO3-overexpressing cells.These findings establish intracellular trafficking as a fundamental determinant of DIO3 stability and function and uncover sorting nexin-associated routing as a previously unrecognized dependency and therapeutic vulnerability in ovarian cancer cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common histological type of RCC and is marked by aggressive nature and poor survival. However, therapeutic options remain limited and yield suboptimal outcomes. Macrophages exhibit marked heterogeneity within ccRCC, exerting a substantial impact on the malignant progression of tumors and resistance to therapeutics.This study utilized single-cell sequencing and transcriptomics to identify a subset of macrophages associated with glycolysis and the most interactive tumor subpopulation, in order to explore the link between macrophages and ccRCC risk. Moreover, employing machine learning techniques, we crafted a precise gene signature to predict patient prognosis, with clinical implications.We identified a macrophage subpopulation primarily characterized by glycolytic metabolism and a closely associated tumor cell subpopulation, both significantly correlated with poor prognoses in ccRCC patients. Then, we use hdWGCNA to identify key genes and functional modules of cell subgroups, and use 101 types of machine learning methods to establish a prognosis model of six genes: CENPA, ITM2B, TUBA1B, TNFSF13B, SNX3, and TNNT1 in the RNAseq cohorts of ccRCC patients. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited poorer prognoses, with functional enrichment indicating the presence of modules associated with malignant progression. Additionally, immune infiltration analysis revealed higher levels of immune cell infiltration in this group, suggesting their potential responsiveness to immunotherapeutic interventions.Our study introduces a novel, robust ccRCC prognostic model, providing new insights and potential therapeutic strategies for precision treatment of ccRCC patients.Copyright © 2026 Yang Li et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis or Batten disease comprises a category of autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorders that primarily affect children. Mutations in different genes lead to different forms of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (CLN1-14). At present, there is no established therapy to cure most of the neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses and the treatments are symptomatic. Enzyme replacement therapy, gene therapy, stem cell transplantation, and pharmacological chaperone therapy are being tested in different animal models and human patients. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily, which along with its transcription partner retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRα) regulates the expression of their target genes. This review highlights the potential role of PPARα and RXRα in the regulation of CLN genes. Here, using the MatInspector program of the Genomatix software, we performed promoter analyses of all CLN genes and observed that most of the CLN genes harbor one or more potential binding sites for PPAR and RXR in their promoter region. We further grouped them according to a binding prediction of the transcription factors to indicate high affinity binding of PPAR to CLN2, CLN3, CLN4, CLN5, CLN7, CLN10, CLN11, CLN12, and CLN14. On the other hand, we observed high affinity binding of RXR to CLN1, CLN3, CLN6, CLN7, CLN8, CLN10, and CLN13. Since PPARα and RXRα have been demonstrated to control the transcription of CLN2 gene, our current promoter analysis findings highlight a possible treatment strategy for neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses using agonists of PPARα and RXRα.
Ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 5 (CLN5) disease is a subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL, commonly known as Batten disease) that is caused by mutations in the CLN5 gene. While 70 distinct CLN5 disease-causing mutations have been documented, the pathological effects of these mutations are largely unknown. In this study, we used the model eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum to examine the molecular and cellular effects of five CLN5 disease-causing mutations (p.Cys77Tyr, p.Trp158Ser, p.Tyr209Asp, p.Glu303*, and p.Tyr343*). We used informatics tools to show that the five mutations alter the predicted structure of the protein. We then introduced these mutations into Dictyostelium Cln5 and examined their effects on the localization and secretion of the protein, as well as proteostasis and lysosomal activity. We observed that the mutations alter the cellular distribution of Cln5 and intracellular catabolic mechanisms, including 20S proteasome-mediated protein degradation and lysosomal enzyme-mediated breakdown. The mutations also affect vesicles within the endo-lysosome pathway and the release of Cln5 and other lysosomal enzymes from cells, which impacts extracellular enzyme activity. Finally, while cell proliferation and aggregation are not affected by mutated Cln5, loss of the signal peptide in Cln5 delays aggregation, supporting an extracellular role for the protein. This study, which is the first to comprehensively examine the effects of the p.Cys77Tyr, p.Trp158Ser, p.Tyr209Asp, p.Glu303*, and p.Tyr343* mutations on cellular function, enhances our understanding of the effects of mutations in CLN5 on endo-lysosomal trafficking and lysosomal biology, as well as the pathological mechanisms underlying CLN5 disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
While advances in omics profiling rapidly expand the catalog of genes associated with brain activity in health and disease, functional annotation lags far behind. Here, we establish a high-throughput functional genomics platform that couples the calcium-integrating sensor CaMPARI2 with CRISPRi screening in human iPSC-derived neurons. By converting cumulative neuronal activity into a stable, flow cytometry-readable signal, this approach enables systematic interrogation through pooled screening. Using a focused library of memory-associated genes, we recover known regulators and identify TMEM50A, a previously uncharacterized protein, as an essential regulator of neuronal activity. TMEM50A forms a complex with LEPROTL1 and associates with ESCRT-III machinery on multivesicular bodies (MVBs). TMEM50A loss impairs MVBs function, remodels the neuronal surface proteome, reduces synapse density, and alters behavior in mice. This platform enables systematic discovery of neuronal activity regulators and reveals a critical role for TMEM50A-dependent MVB function in maintaining synaptic integrity and behavior.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The prognosis for colorectal cancer (CRC) is poor, and the disease is marked by high rates of morbidity and death, highlighting the need for reliable biomarkers. RNA methylation modifications play important roles in cancer biology. However, the integrated role of m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G modifications in CRC has not been fully characterized and requires further investigation.Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas colon adenocarcinoma cohort (TCGA-- COAD) were used as the training set, and GSE17536 served as the validation cohort. We further investigated the probable biological processes and prognostic significance of methylation modifications-related genes in CRC using immune infiltration analysis, enrichment analysis, consistent clustering, Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival analysis, TIMER database exploration, and differential expression analysis. To evaluate the association between risk grade and survival prognosis, medication sensitivity, and immune infiltration, we created the Methylation Modifications Risk Model (MMRM) and confirmed its validity using immunohistochemical (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) staining.Using information from 45 methylation modifications-related genes, consensus clustering to identify 3 categories of patients. There were variations across the three groups in terms of immune cell infiltration, survival, and immunological scores. Then, using LASSO (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator) regression analysis, we constructed MMRM that could distinguish between high- and low-risk populations utilizing BCL10, LEPROTL1, DPP7, P4HA1, SLC39A8, and AC008735.2. Using the validation set, KM survival analysis, TIMER database exploration, and IHC and IF staining, its accuracy was further supported. These findings suggest that m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G are associated with the immunological milieu of CRC tumors, and that MMRM is an excellent predictor of CRC patient survival.This study shows that the integrated analysis of multiple RNA methylation modifications provides a more comprehensive view of epitranscriptomic heterogeneity in CRC than single-modification approaches. The association between the MMRM, immune landscape, and immune checkpoint expression suggests the potential mechanistic link between RNA methylation regulation and tumor immune evasion. These findings suggest that multi-modification-based models may improve prognostic accuracy and help identify CRC patients who may benefit from immunotherapy.In this work, we emphasized the correlation between alterations in the CRC immunotumor microenvironment and the m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G subtypes. We developed and validated MMRM, which is useful for predicting treatment sensitivity, immune infiltration, and survival in patients with colorectal cancer. This contributes to the understanding of m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G methylation and may offer potential approaches to the treatment of colorectal cancer.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the interaction of HCC cells and tumor endothelial cells (TECs) via extracellular vesicle (EV) is involved in the progression of HCC.Five sets of matched HCC and adjacent tissues were collected from patients with primary HCC who underwent liver resections. The TECs and normal endothelial cells (NECs) were isolated with magnetic selection of CD31+ cells. Condition medium (CM) and EV derived from NECs and TECs were co-cultured with the human HCC cell lines. miRNA sequencing analysis was performed to characterize the miRNA profiles of EVs. Additionally, the relationships between prognosis and miRNA targeted proteins in HCC tissues were analyzed among 121 HCC patients.Both TECs and NECs exhibited high expression levels of CD31 protein. In tube-forming assays, NECs and TECs formed round tubes characteristic of cultured endothelial cells. Functional assays revealed that TEC-derived CM and EV markedly enhanced migration and invasiveness in HCC cells, whereas NEC-derived CM and EV showed minimal effects. miR-142-3p was significantly upregulated in TECs-derived EVs, which reduced RHOBTB3 expression and promoted HCC migration and invasiveness. miR-20a-5p was significantly downregulated in TECs-derived EVs, which increased ITGB8 expression and promoted HCC migration and invasiveness. Furthermore, low RHOBTB3 and high ITGB8 expression in HCC tissues were significant risk factors for recurrence and survival in HCC patients.TECs-derived EV accelerate HCC progression through intercellular interaction via miRNA, suggesting that TECs can be potential therapeutic target in HCC patients.© 2026 Japan Society of Hepatology.
To investigate the serological and genotypic characteristics of a novel allele of RhD blood group in a neonate.Serological methods were used to identify the ABO and RhD, C, c, E, e blood types of the neonate, and to detect irregular red blood cell antibodies. Third-generation sequencing of RH gene and whole-genome sequencing were performed to analyze the variant RHD gene.The neonate was blood type O, RhD-positive, with a phenotype of CCee. The direct antiglobulin test (DAT) and antibody screening of plasma and eluate were all negative. Third-generation sequencing results suggested the possibility of structural variation at the 3' end of the RHD gene. Whole-genome sequencing revealed that exons 3-6 of TMEM50A underwent inversion and were inserted into exon 10 of RHD, replacing the bases from position 1254+105 to 1254+792 in the coding sequence (CDS). Additionally, the following point mutations were identified in this RHD haplotype: 1136 T>C, 1254+799 G>A, 1254+804 A>G, 1254+806 T>C, 1254+832 C>T, 1254+833 A>G, and 1254+865 A>G.Through whole-genome sequencing, this study identified a novel structural variation where an inverted segment of TMEM50A exons 3-6 was inserted into RHD exon 10.
Accurate typing of the D antigen is critical to provide guidance for blood transfusion and safe management of Rh-incompatible pregnancies. RHD genotyping assays have been widely adopted to improve D variant detection, especially for common RHD alleles with missense variants and RHD-CE-D hybrids. Few structural variants of the RHD gene are known to involve large fragments of non-RH sequences, despite causing phenotype-genotype discrepancies.We had previously detected reduced copy numbers of RHD exon 10 in Chinese Han. Their RHD genes were further analyzed using long-read sequencing of RHD and whole-genome long-read sequencing using PacBio platform. The population frequency and practical relevance were evaluated, such as effects on D antigen expression and accuracy of routine RHD genotyping assays.A novel structural variant of the RHD gene, dubbed RHD-CE-TMEM50A-D, had distinct features: a short deletion of the non-coding region of RHD exon 10 (688 bp del), a large insertion (21.8 kb ins) involving the inversion of non-coding region of RHCE exon 10 (174 bp) and exon 7 to intron 2 of TMEM50A gene (21,648 bp), and several single nucleotide substitutions. The large delins fragment was firstly found in 9 individuals, further representing 4.1% of random D+ donors (40/982), 2.9% of D-C+/E+ individuals who carry the non-functional RHD*01N.04 (6/205), and 3.4% of weak/partial D individuals (7/207) who carry RHD*DFR2 and RHD*DVI.3, but 0% in a different cohort of Asian-type DEL individuals (0/205). The large delins fragment located in non-coding region of RHD exon 10 of four different alleles did not significantly change the D antigen expression but caused inconclusive results in several routine RHD genotyping assays.The novel RHD-CE-TMEM50A-D allele represented approximately 1 in 49 chromosomes among the southern Chinese Han population. The variations of these RHD alleles involve the replacement of some RHD-specific sequences by the corresponding RHCE-specific sequences in the non-coding region of RHD exon 10, commonly used for RHD-specific primers design in genotyping assay. Hence, red cell genotyping assays, if applied to individuals of East Asian heritage, should recognize this relatively common allele to avoid RHD allele dropout.© 2026. The Author(s).
Many transmembrane (TM) signaling receptors undergo essential posttranslational modification in the Golgi prior to their delivery to the plasma membrane (PM). Whether and how the passage and accompanied modification of these proteins across the Golgi is controlled remains unclear. Here, we show that leptin receptor overlapping transcript (LEPROT) and LEPROT-like 1 (LEPROTL1) regulate TM receptor activation by securing their sufficient Golgi retention. LEPROTs localize to cis and medial Golgi in a coat protein complex I (COPI)-dependent manner. LEPROTs interact directly with COPI coats and simultaneously engage a variety of integral membrane proteins with relatively long TM domains at acidic pH. Deletion of LEPROTs in cells causes expedited release of TM receptors transiting through the Golgi. Loss of LEPROTs dysregulates receptor signaling activity, including that of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and transferrin receptor (TFRC), due to defective modification. Collectively, LEPROTs serve as a class of COPI cargo receptors for TM receptors, ensuring adequate preparation, which is vital for subsequent action on the PM.
The D-- phenotype is an extremely rare RhCE variant characterized by the complete absence of RhCE antigens in the Rh blood group system and is associated with a highly complex molecular mechanism. In this study, several D-- individuals with discrepancies between phenotypic and genotypic results were analyzed, and a complex RH gene inversion-recombination variant with a novel breakpoint was identified via multi-platform analyses.Six D-- individuals from the Chinese population were collected. The full-length sequences of the RHD, RHCE, and RHAG genes were amplified, and long-read haplotype sequencing was performed using PacBio technology. Complex structural variations in the RH gene were detected through Bionano Optical Genome Mapping (OGM). Lastly, fusion regions in the RHCE haplotype were amplified and sequenced using PacBio technology and PCR-SBT.PacBio third-generation haplotype sequencing (TGS) suggested the presence of potential structural variants. Subsequently, Bionano optical genome mapping (OGM) identified a complex gene inversion and recombination structural variant, designated RHCE*Ce(1-2)-D(3-10)-TMEM50A-Ce(10-8)-Ce(3-10). Moreover, a novel fusion breakpoint was validated by PacBio haplotype sequencing and PCR sequencing-based typing (PCR-SBT). The structural inversion, which originated within intron 7 of the RHCE gene at chr1: 25377650, was rejoined to intron 2 at chr1: 25404500, forming a novel breakpoint. Finally, all D-- individuals in this study harbored this complex structural variation with an identical breakpoint position.The RH gene inversion and recombination may represent a prevalent molecular basis for the D-- phenotype in the Chinese population. These findings expand our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the Rh blood group system and hold significant implications for transfusion safety in individuals with this rare D-- phenotype.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype with the highest rates of recurrence, metastasis, and patient mortality due to the absence of effective therapies. Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) regulates the expression of thousands of RNAs in TNBC. Here, we demonstrate that transcription of the ISG20 gene, which encodes an RNA exonuclease, is activated by HIF-1 in TNBC cells. ISG20-mediated degradation of RHOBTB3 mRNA increases HIF-1α protein expression and activates NANOG signaling, which increases breast cancer stem cell specification and lung metastasis. ISG20 also degrades STAT1 and IRF1 mRNAs, leading to decreased expression of CXCL10 and impaired recruitment of CD8+ T cells and natural killer cells, thereby promoting breast cancer immune evasion. Silencing ISG20 increases the sensitivity of mouse TNBC cells to anti-PD1 antibody immune checkpoint blockade. Our data suggest that targeting ISG20, in combination with immunotherapy, could be an effective therapeutic strategy for TNBC.© 2025 Yang et al.
A class of retinal dystrophies known as retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is caused by the loss of photoreceptor cells. RP can be genetically transmitted as an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked trait. About one-third of genes implicated in retinal degeneration encode for proteins whose functional dysregulation affects the "connecting cilium" in photoreceptors, altering its structure and function. Here we report on a 33-year-old woman who was referred for clinical genetic testing following a previous diagnosis of degenerative retinopathy, which was not informative. She was enrolled in a research program dedicated to undiagnosed retinal disorders, where a whole genome sequencing approach was employed to understand the underlying genetic basis. The genomic analysis documented the occurrence of compound heterozygosity for two functionally relevant missense variants in BAIAP3, which encodes a protein with a well-documented role in SNARE-mediated trafficking and ciliogenesis. Confocal microscopy analysis showed elongated cilia in patient-derived and BAIAP3-depleted fibroblasts compared to control cells. Real-time PCR analyses showed a consistent significant reduction of GLI1 mRNA levels in patient-derived and BAIAP3-depleted cells, both in basal conditions and after treatment with Smoothened agonist, SAG, indicating Sonic hedgehog signaling dysregulation. Collectively, these data suggest that biallelic loss-of-function variants of BAIAP3 may cause photoreceptor degeneration and underlie isolated RP.
Exosomes as important carriers of intercellular communication have frequently appeared in recent studies related to osteoarthritis (OA), while the specific mechanism of exosome action in osteoarthritis remains unclear. The aim of this study was to identify potential exosome-related biomarkers in osteoarthritis, to explore the role and mechanism of exosome-related genes in articular cartilage.The data on exosome related genes and normal and OA cartilage genes were obtained through online databases. The potential mechanisms of these genes were revealed by multiple gene enrichment analysis algorithms. Machine learning methods were utilized to identify exosome-related differential genes (ERDEGs) with highly correlated OA features (Hub OA-ERDEGs). In addition, we created a nomogram to assess the ability of Hub OA-ERDEGs to diagnose OA. Single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) was used to observe the infiltration characteristics of immune cells in OA and their relationship with Hub OA-ERDEGs.The results of screening Hub OA-ERDEGs using machine learning algorithms show that: TOLLIP, ALB, HP, RHOBTB3, GSTM2, S100A8 and AKR1B1 were significantly up-regulated or down-regulated in OA samples and verified by qRT- PCR for validation. Using the ssGSEA algorithm, we discovered that 8 types of immune cell infiltration and 5 types of immune cell activation.Copyright © 2025 Li, Wei, Wu and Chen.
Inducing ferroptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells represents an important therapeutic strategy, but intrinsic resistance mechanisms often limit efficacy. Therefore, elucidating the mechanisms underlying ferroptosis resistance in HCC cells can facilitate the development of effective therapeutic strategies. Here, we performed genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 library screens to identify TRIM27 as a key determinant of ferroptosis resistance. TRIM27 knockdown markedly potentiated erastin-induced ferroptosis in HCC cells, whereas TRIM27 overexpression suppressed the expression of fatty-acid metabolic enzymes including ACSL4 and reduced oxidized lipid accumulation. Mechanistically, TRIM27 directly binds with ACSL4 and promotes its K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation, thereby attenuating ferroptosis in HCC cells. Furthermore, we developed TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs with robust editing efficiency. These engineered EVs were readily internalized by HCC cells and preferentially accumulated in the liver. Functionally, TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs inhibited HCC cell proliferation by enhancing ACSL4-mediated ferroptosis and significantly improved the anti-tumor efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in HCC. Collectively, our findings suggest that TRIM27 confers ferroptosis resistance via facilitating K48-linked ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of ACSL4. TRIM27-Cas9-loaded EVs restore cellular sensitivity to ferroptosis, inhibit HCC proliferation, and sensitize HCC lesions to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
MALAT1 has been validated to favor the progression of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but its detailed mechanism remains obscure. This study explored the functional roles of ALL cells-derived exosomal MALAT1 in chemoresistance and malignant growth of ALL cells, as well as its underlying mechanisms.The expression of target molecules was evaluated by qRT-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemical staining. CCK-8, EdU staining and flow cytometry were conducted to determine cell proliferation and apoptosis. RIP, RNA-pull down, Co-IP, and MeRIP were used to investigate molecular mechanisms. ALL cells were injected into nude mice to evaluate in vivo tumor formation.MALAT1 and methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) were up-regulated in ALL, which exhibited a positive correlation. METTL14-mediated m6A modification raised MALAT1 stability and expression, and consequently facilitated ALL cell growth and apoptosis inhibition. Furthermore, MALAT1 was packaged into ALL cells-derived exosomes by hnRNPA2B1, and then transferred to NK92-MI cells. Exosomal MALAT1 suppressed tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27)-mediated ubiquitination of High-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in NK92-MI cells, thereby leading to adriamycin resistance and malignant development of ALL cells.ALL cells-derived exosomal MALAT1 was up-regulated by METTL14-mediated m6A modification, and subsequently restrained HMGB1 ubiquitination and degradation in NK92-MI cells, which resulted in adriamycin resistance and malignant growth of ALL cells. Therefore, inhibition of METTL14/MALAT1/HMGB1 axis might be a therapeutic strategy for ALL patients.(1)METTL14 and MALAT1 were positively correlated in ALL samples.(2)METTL14 increased MALAT1 stability and expression in an IGF2BP1-mediated m6A manner.(3)ALL cells transferring exosomal MALAT1 suppressed TRIM27-mediated HMGB1 ubiquitination in NK92-MI cells.(4)HMGB1 silencing in NK92-MI cells enhanced adriamycin sensitivity of ALL cells.(5)MALAT1/HMGB1 axis inhibition delayed in vivo ALL growth via NK cell activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the influence of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 677C > T polymorphism on bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) using whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. The TT genotype was associated with reduced global DNA methylation, thereby altering the molecular landscape of BLCA. Differential methylation analysis identified three molecular subtypes of BLCA. Subtype 2, characterized by the lowest methylation levels, was associated with favorable prognosis, earlier disease stage, and a higher frequency of FGFR3 mutations, along with increased infiltration of plasma cells, memory B cells, and naive CD4+T cells. In contrast, Subtype 3 exhibited increased neutrophil infiltration and upregulation of immune checkpoint molecules, including PD-L1 and CTLA-4. Transcriptomic analysis indicated that low methylation and high expression of TRIM27 in Subtype 2 were associated with improved prognosis, whereas high methylation and low expression of RASSF1 in Subtype 3 were associated with poorer outcomes. Metabolic pathways were enriched in Subtype 2, whereas cell cycle-related genes were overexpressed in Subtype 3. These findings indicate that the MTHFR 677C > T polymorphism modulates DNA methylation and significantly influences the molecular characteristics, immune microenvironment, and prognosis of BLCA. Methylation-based subtyping may provide biomarkers for precise diagnosis and therapeutic stratification in BLCA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sclerotinia sclerotiorum is a formidable soilborne fungus that wreaks havoc on numerous crops globally. While the role of ADP-ribosylation factor-like 1 (Arl1) small GTPases in vesicular trafficking and fungal development is well-documented, their specific impact on S. sclerotiorum remains unclear. Through reverse genetic techniques, we identified and characterized SsArl1, a typical Arl small GTPase conserved across fungi. Deleting SsArl1 hampers the hyphal growth of S. sclerotiorum, but leads to higher oxalic acid buildup and boosts cellulase activity. This speeds up the infection of host plants, yet increases their sensitivity to certain environmental stresses, particularly ionic and cell wall-related stress. Our results reveal that SsArl1 acts as a negative regulator of oxalic acid accumulation and virulence, while playing a positive role in enhancing resistance to environmental stresses in S. sclerotiorum.
This study evaluated the effects of five manganese (Mn) sources on Pacific white shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei). Five Mn sources include Mn sulfate (MnSO4·H2O), Mn dioxide (MnO2), Mn dioxide nanoparticles (MnO2NPs), Mn glycine chelate (Mn-Gly), and Mn chelate of hydroxy analogue of methionine (Mn-MHA). During a 56-d feeding trial, 450 shrimp (1.03 ± 0.02 g) were randomly distributed among five dietary treatments, with each having three replicates. No significant differences in growth performance and feed utilisation were found among different Mn sources (P > 0.05). However, organic Mn sources (Mn-Gly and Mn-MHA) significantly enhanced Mn deposition (P = 0.002) and upregulated a key Mn transporter (zip14, tmem165, and fpn1) in the hepatopancreas when compared with inorganic MnO2 source (P < 0.05). Moreover, dietary organic Mn-MHA significantly enhanced systemic antioxidant capacity (total-antioxidant capacity [T-AOC] and glutathione peroxidase [GSH-Px]) and innate immune response, as evidenced by increased activities of relevant enzymes (acid phosphatase [AKP], acid phosphatase [ACP], and nitric oxide synthase [NOS]) and upregulation of associated genes (gpx, cat, sod, nos, and akp) when compared with MnO2 (P < 0.05). Furthermore, the organic Mn sources significantly downregulated genes related to endoplasmic reticulum stress (perk, atf4, atf6, and eif2α), inflammation (spz-5, il-16, and rab6a), and apoptosis (caspase8, p53, and caspase3), while significantly upregulating the anti-apoptotic gene (bl-1) when compared with MnO2 (P < 0.05). Notably, Mn-MHA supplementation significantly reduced hepatopancreatic lipid content (P = 0.002) by modulating the expression of genes involved in lipid synthesis (fas and acc) and lipolysis (aco and cpt) (P < 0.05). In summary, although growth remained unaffected, organic Mn sources, particularly Mn-Gly and Mn-MHA, demonstrated superior bioavailability by enhancing antioxidant status, immune function, and hepatopancreas health as well as by regulating lipid metabolism.© 2026 The Authors.
X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda (SEDT) is a rare skeletal dysplasia caused by pathogenic variants in TRAPPC2 and typically presents in late childhood or adolescence with short-trunk disproportion and vertebral dysplasia.We describe a family series centered on an adolescent male initially diagnosed with GHD due to reduced height velocity and subnormal GH stimulation results, who received recombinant human GH (rhGH) therapy for three years with negligible improvement. During puberty, he developed progressive short-trunk disproportion and characteristic radiographic features, including platyspondyly and posterior hump-shaped vertebral endplates, suggestive of SEDT. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was nondiagnostic, whereas whole-genome sequencing (WGS) identified a novel intronic TRAPPC2 variant, c.239-20_239-12delinsAATGAA, initially classified as a variant of uncertain significance (VUS). Segregation analysis across the family enabled reclassification of the variant to likely pathogenic, confirming X-linked SEDT. The proband's younger brother exhibited earlier radiologic abnormalities and, notably, a favorable response to rhGH, whereas the younger sister-an asymptomatic heterozygous carrier-showed normal spinal morphology, consistent with expected female carrier phenotypes.This family-based report underscores the generally limited therapeutic effect of rhGH in SEDT while highlighting potential interindividual variability, as evidenced by the younger male sibling's response. It further emphasizes the diagnostic utility of WGS for detecting deep intronic variants missed by WES and the importance of segregation analysis in resolving VUS in rare skeletal dysplasias.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study elucidates the role of TRIM27 in osteogenic differentiation and osteoporosis pathogenesis, focusing on its regulatory mechanism through PPARγ.TRIM27 expression was assessed during osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) via RT-qPCR and western blot. TRIM27 was knocked down (sh-TRIM27) or overexpressed (Lv-TRIM27) to evaluate its impact on alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, mineralization (Alizarin Red S staining), and osteogenic markers (COL1A1, OPN, and OCN). An ovariectomized (OVX) mouse osteoporosis model was established to analyze TRIM27 expression and bone microstructure (H&E staining). Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and cycloheximide chase assays identified TRIM27-PPARγ interactions and degradation dynamics. Rescue experiments combined sh-TRIM27 with PPARγ knockdown (sh-PPARγ) or the agonist rosiglitazone (ROZ).TRIM27 expression increased 2.1-fold during BMSC osteogenic differentiation but decreased in OVX mice (p < 0.01 vs. sham). TRIM27 overexpression enhanced ALP activity, mineralization, and osteogenic markers (p < 0.05), while knockdown exerted opposite effects. TRIM27 directly bound PPARγ and promoted its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. PPARγ knockdown reversed sh-TRIM27-mediated inhibition of osteogenesis. In OVX mice, Lv-TRIM27 reduced bone loss by suppressing PPARγ, whereas ROZ abolished this protective effect.TRIM27, as a key osteogenic promoter, ameliorates osteoporosis by targeting the degradation of PPARγ. Our research reveals the potential of TRIM27 in treating bone metabolism disorders and may become a potential target for the treatment of osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Liya Zhang et al. International Journal of Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Digital PCR (dPCR) enables absolute, precise nucleic acid quantification without the need for standard curves. Still, technical variability across the sample life cycle remains a challenge in complex multi-organ preclinical studies. This study evaluated the necessity of internal reference genes (i.e., housekeeping genes; HKGs) for normalizing reverse transcription (RT)-dPCR data from recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) studies in mice and non-human primates (NHPs). HKGs were ranked using statistical analysis and further evaluated with the BestKeeper and geNorm algorithms. In mice, Eef2, Eif3, and Rpl27 were identified as the most stable HKGs. Normalization to a single HKG (Rpl27) consistently and markedly reduced transgene-expression variability across tissues. In NHPs, ARL1 and SAR1 demonstrated the highest stability. Importantly, multiplexing HKGs allowed to differentiate technical from biological variation, thereby mitigating common assay pitfalls. Collectively, these findings underscore that normalization is essential for reliable inter- and intra-group comparability in RT-dPCR. We strongly recommend multiplexing at least two medium-expression, validated HKGs to derive a robust normalization factor, thereby significantly improving accuracy in complex preclinical settings.© 2026 The Authors.
The nervous system is highly sensitive to alterations in the dosage of genes crucial for neurodevelopment, as exemplified by retinoic acid-induced 1 (RAI1). A 50% change in RAI1 gene copy number, resulting in either reduced or increased protein levels, leads to distinct neurodevelopmental disorders. RAI1 haploinsufficiency causes Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS), whereas RAI1 duplication underlies Potocki-Lupski syndrome. We recently demonstrated that restoring Rai1 levels can improve SMS-related disease phenotypes in mice. However, despite protein stability being a major determinant of protein abundance, there are currently no therapeutic approaches to modulate RAI1 protein stability. Here, we performed a forward CRISPR screen in human cells to identify post-translational regulators of RAI1 steady-state levels and identified tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27) as a destabilizer of RAI1. We show that RAI1 degradation occurs primarily through the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with TRIM27 interacting with RAI1 and enabling TRIM27-dependent lysine(K)48- and K63-linked RAI1 ubiquitination. Finally, in SMS mouse primary neurons, we demonstrate that knocking down TRIM27 partially rescues SMS-associated morphological phenotypes. Our findings provide the first mechanistic insight into RAI1 proteostasis and highlight TRIM27 as a potential therapeutic target for SMS, highlighting the potential of manipulating ubiquitin-mediated proteostasis to restore gene dosage altered by copy number variations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
The WASH complex regulates endosomal trafficking and is linked to several neurodevelopmental diseases, including Prader-Willi syndrome, Schaaf-Yang syndrome, and Hao-Fountain syndrome. Its function is tightly controlled by ubiquitination, maintained by the multi-subunit MUST complex containing both a ubiquitin ligase (MAGEL2/TRIM27) and a deubiquitinase (USP7). However, the mechanism underlying the MUST complex assembly remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigate the assembly of USP7 and MAGEL2 components of the MUST complex using NMR spectroscopy, isothermal titration calorimetry, X-ray crystallography, and cellular assays. We show that the USP7/MAGEL2 interaction is bipartite and multivalent. Two distinct domains of USP7, TRAF and UBL1-2, recognize two unstructured but evolutionarily conserved regions of MAGEL2, one of which contains multiple TRAF-binding sites. Furthermore, we determine the high-resolution crystal structure of the TRAF/MAGEL2 complex and identify Hao-Fountain syndrome-linked mutations in USP7 that disrupt USP7/MAGEL2 complex formation in vitro and in cells. These findings provide mechanistic insight into the pathogenic basis of Hao-Fountain syndrome and related Schaaf-Yang and Prader-Willi syndromes.
Brucella spp. are widespread intracellular animal pathogens that cause brucellosis, a significant zoonosis. Despite the global impact of brucellosis on animal and human health, the host genes that support Brucella infection remain incompletely defined. To address this knowledge gap, we developed a flow cytometry-based infection assay with fluorescent Brucella and performed a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 loss-of-function screen in human macrophage-like cells. Disruption of >150 host genes significantly reduced intracellular B. abortus signal at 3 hours post-infection. In addition to recovering known host factors, the screen revealed previously unappreciated genes linked to endosomal trafficking, cytoskeletal remodeling, and lipid homeostasis. The screen was robust, as validation within these functional categories confirmed that the small GTPase RAB14, the Src-family kinase regulator CSK, and the phospholipid flippase subunit TMEM30A support the B. abortus and B. ovis infection process at a post-entry step. Gene set enrichment analysis further identified positive regulators of mTORC1 signaling as host factors. This result was validated by genetic disruption of LAMTOR2 and AKT1, and pharmacologic inhibition of AKT1. Together, these data indicate that the AKT-Ragulator-mTORC1 axis contributes to establishing a permissive intracellular niche. Finally, to assess whether these host requirements extend beyond Brucella, we examined infection by the unrelated intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium abscessus. CSK, AKT1, and LAMTOR2 were required for efficient M. abscessus infection, whereas RAB14 was dispensable. Together, these results define host genes that impact Brucella infection and distinguish shared versus pathogen-specific host dependencies exploited by intracellular bacteria.
Antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) is a major determinant of disease severity in flavivirus infections, yet the host-associated factors that regulate the transition from antibody-mediated uptake to productive infection remain incompletely defined. Fc gamma receptor IIA (FcγRIIA/CD32A), an activating Fc receptor expressed on myeloid cells, represents a key host determinant linking pre-existing immunity to viral entry pathways. Here, we investigated how FcγRIIA signalling influences intracellular trafficking and ADE efficiency across dengue virus (DENV), Zika virus (ZIKV), and Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV).Using BHK-21 cells expressing either wild-type FcγRIIA (WT) or a cytoplasmic-truncated variant lacking the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM), we show that immune-complex internalization occurs independently of the cytoplasmic domain, but that signalling competence significantly modulates downstream infection efficiency. WT cells generally showed higher ADE efficiency, whereas cytoplasmic-truncated receptors preserved ADE activity but showed virus-dependent reductions in enhancement magnitude.FcγRIIA signalling altered the intracellular routing of virus-antibody complexes. WT receptors promoted rapid trafficking from EEA1-positive early endosomes to Rab7-positive late endosomes, whereas signalling-deficient receptors displayed delayed progression and increased association with IRAP- and Rab14-positive compartments. These trafficking differences correlated with virus-specific patterns of enhancement, with DENV showing the strongest dependence on late endosomal maturation, while ZIKV and JEV utilized more flexible or alternative pathways. Transcriptomic analysis revealed minimal differences between WT and truncated receptors at later time points, indicating that FcγRIIA primarily modulates early post-entry events rather than sustained transcriptional responses.Collectively, these findings identify FcγRIIA signalling as a host-associated determinant that regulates the intracellular fate of virus-antibody complexes and influences ADE efficiency through modulation of endosomal trafficking dynamics. The work provides a mechanistic framework linking host receptor signalling to variability in infection outcomes under conditions of pre-existing immunity, with implications for understanding disease heterogeneity and optimizing vaccine and antibody-based interventions.Copyright © 2026 Rakwi, Muraoka, Haga, Yeo and Moi.
Pulmonary stenosis (PS) is a common form of congenital heart disease (CHD) that impairs cardiopulmonary function and can be life-threatening in severe cases. As a complex polygenic disorder, the genetic basis of PS remains incompletely understood.Rare pathogenic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) were identified from whole-exome sequencing (WES) data of 185 sporadic PS patients and 100 healthy controls using multiple pathogenicity-filtering strategies. Gene-level burden test was performed, with complementary analysis using sequence kernel association test-optimal (SKAT-O). Three machine learning algorithms-least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), random forest (RF), and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost)-were applied to prioritize candidate genes. The overlap between machine learning-based selections and burden test results was systematically evaluated. Final candidate genes were further prioritized through protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and their expression in human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAECs) was assessed by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Comparative analyses showed that different machine learning algorithms exhibited distinct feature selection patterns, with RF demonstrating the highest concordance with burden test results. A total of 17 candidate genes were prioritized (HAND2, SETD2, KDM6B, NCOR2, FLNB, NOTCH3, DNAH5, PLEC, COL5A1, KIF7, CLTCL1, XRN1, ITPR2, SCRIB, PYGB, IQGAP3, and SHC2).These findings indicate that machine learning can complement conventional gene-based analyses of WES data. This study provides a set of candidate genes associated with PS and offers a basis for further investigation of its genetic architecture.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Liu, Yang, Zhao, Xu and Wu.
Organelles have been reported to be closely associated with tumor development and progression, but their role in osteosarcoma (OS) remains largely unexplored. Organelle related genes (ORGs) associated with OS prognosis were identified using Cox regression analysis. A prognostic model was subsequently constructed through multivariate Cox regression analysis and validated using an independent dataset. Patients were stratified into high-risk and low-risk groups based on the median risk score. In addition, immune infiltration analysis, enrichment analysis and drug sensitivity evaluation were performed. Finally, in vitro experiments were conducted to validate the potential roles of ORGs in OS. We identified 3 ORGs (ACSS2, CLTCL1, and PLD3) that were significantly associated with OS prognosis. A novel 3 ORG signature was established, which effectively stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups with distinct survival outcomes. This signature served as an independent prognostic factor. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for the 1-, 4-, and 7-year survival rates were 0.66, 0.74, and 0.83, respectively. These findings were further validated using the independent GSE21257 dataset, where the corresponding ROC curve values for the 1-, 4-, and 7-year survival rates were 0.71, 0.80, and 0.68, respectively. Drug sensitivity analysis revealed differential responses to 4 drugs between the risk groups, with the 3 ORGs (ACSS2, CLTCL1 and PLD3) showing positive correlations with 2 drugs (BI_2536, Dactinomycin). Additionally, functional experiments confirmed the role of ACSS2 in OS cell behavior. This novel ORG signature not only provides a valuable tool for patient stratification but also offers insights into the biological processes driving OS progression and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42281406
Brucella spp. are widespread intracellular animal pathogens that cause brucellosis, a significant zoonosis. Despite the global impact of brucellosis on animal and human health, the host genes that support Brucella infection remain incompletely defined. To address this knowledge gap, we developed a flow cytometry-based infection assay with fluorescent Brucella and performed a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 loss-of-function screen in human macrophage-like cells. Disruption of >150 host genes significantly reduced intracellular B. abortus burden at 3 h post-infection. In addition to recovering known host factors, the screen revealed previously unappreciated genes linked to endosomal trafficking, cytoskeletal remodeling, and lipid homeostasis. The screen was robust, as validation within these functional categories confirmed that the small GTPase RAB14, the Src-family kinase regulator CSK, and the phospholipid flippase subunit TMEM30A support early infection by B. abortus and B. ovis without impairing general phagocytosis. Gene set enrichment analysis further revealed positive regulators of mTORC1 signaling as key host factors; this result was validated through targeted disruption of LAMTOR2 and AKT1, and pharmacologic inhibition of AKT1. Thus, the AKT-Ragulator-mTORC1 signaling axis contributes to the establishment of a permissive intracellular niche during early Brucella infection. Finally, to assess whether these host requirements extend beyond Brucella, we examined infection by the unrelated intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium abscessus. CSK, AKT1, and LAMTOR2 were required for efficient M. abscessus infection, whereas RAB14 was dispensable. Together, these results define host genes that support early Brucella infection and distinguish shared versus pathogen-specific host dependencies exploited by intracellular bacteria.
Japanese Encephalitis Virus (JEV) is a mosquito-borne zoonotic pathogen that triggers severe inflammatory responses upon infection. Previous research has demonstrated that the interaction between Ras-associated GTP-binding protein 4B (Rab4b) and the JEV E protein is essential for the virus's entry into early endosomes. However, the precise mechanism by which Rab4b contributes to JEV-induced inflammatory responses remains inadequately understood. In this study, we developed a Rab4b-knockout U251 cell model and found that Rab4b deficiency markedly inhibited viral replication and concurrently reduced levels of key inflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, and IFN-β. Transcriptomic analysis further indicated that the loss of Rab4b disrupted the Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)-related gene network. Subsequent co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed an interaction between Rab4b and TLR3, and treatment with a TLR3 inhibitor recapitulated the anti-inflammatory phenotype observed in Rab4b-deficient cells, suggesting the involvement of Rab4b in TLR3-related signaling. In conclusion, these findings support an association between Rab4b and a TLR3-related inflammatory signaling axis during JEV infection, although the precise mechanistic relationship requires further investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) utilizes multiple host proteins to infect epithelial cells. Here we identified Rab14, a small GTPase belonging to the Rab family, as a critical host factor in HPV infection. Rab14 knockout (KO) cells exhibited resistance to HPV pseudovirion (PsV) infection. Confocal microscopy revealed that PsV transport to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) was significantly reduced in Rab14 KO cells. Reintroduction of wild-type Rab14 restored infection levels, but neither GDP-bound (S25N) nor GTP-bound (Q70L) mutants did. S25N preferentially localized to the TGN, while Q70L exhibited similar localization in the early endosome and the TGN. PsV showed reduced colocalization with S25N, whereas the opposite was observed for Q70L. These results indicate that Rab14 GTPase cycling controls HPV transport to the TGN.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Letters published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Type 2 inflammatory diseases (T2IDs) often coexist, but their shared genetic basis remains unclear. This study explores common genetic basis between asthma and other T2IDs and identifies pleiotropic loci and mechanisms.Using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics, we assessed genetic correlation between asthma and four T2IDs (allergic conjunctivitis [AC], allergic rhinitis [AR], pollen allergy [PA], atopic dermatitis [AD]) via cross-trait pleiotropy analysis, followed by functional, tissue-specificity, and multi-trait colocalization analyses.Significant genetic correlations were detected in all four trait pairs. Pleiotropy analysis under the composite null hypothesis (PLACO) identified 21 pleiotropic loci, with 2 colocalized (PP.H4 > 0.75). Notable pleiotropic loci were identified, such as 4q24 (MANBA, UBE2D3, and CISD2) and 19q13.2 (SNRPA, RAB4B, MIA-RAB4B, and EGLN). MAGMA revealed 49 candidate pleiotropic genes involved in synaptic structure/function and cellular organization. Tissue enrichment analysis, stratified LD score regression (S-LDSC), and summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis revealed that pleiotropic mechanisms play significant roles in the brain, spleen, whole blood, and EBV-transformed lymphocytes. Hyprcoloc implicated distinct lymphocyte subtypes in shared mechanisms between asthma and AD.We identified shared genetic loci and gene sets between asthma and T2IDs, offering insights into genetic mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
We report a primary perivascular epithelioid cell tumor (PEComa) of the kidney harboring a novel CLTC::TFE3 gene fusion in a 51-year-old woman. The tumor was composed of high-grade epithelioid cells with clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm arranged in nested and alveolar architectures, closely mimicking clear cell renal cell carcinoma, which posed a significant diagnostic pitfall. Immunophenotypically, the tumor lacked multiple epithelial and renal lineage markers but showed diffuse positivity for melanocytic markers and cathepsin K. TFE3 rearrangement was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization and an in-frame CLTC::TFE3 fusion involving exons 1-17 of CLTC and exons 6-10 of TFE3 was identified by subsequent RNA sequencing. The patient developed an aggressive clinical course, with early brain metastasis and multiple recurrences over a five-year period despite multiple radical surgical resections, radiotherapy, and systemic therapy. This tumor represents the first reported primary renal PEComa harboring a CLTC::TFE3 fusion and the second tumor with this fusion reported in the literature. Our findings expand the molecular spectrum of TFE3-rearranged PEComa and underscore the importance of comprehensive immunohistochemical and molecular profiling in accurately diagnosing these rare tumors and distinguishing from their morphologic mimics.
Synthetic dyes released from industrial effluents represent an important environmental challenge due to their persistence and toxicity. In this study, for the first time, a crude extracellular laccase preparation from Bjerkandera adusta TMF1 produced by solid-state fermentation on a wheat/barley bran mixture was immobilized onto glutaraldehyde-activated alginate beads and applied for mediator-free Bromophenol Blue (BPB) decolorization. The produced laccase showed high activity (51.51 IU/mL; 128.77 IU/g dry substrate), while immobilization efficiency reached 98.84% with 88.39% residual activity under optimal immobilization conditions. FTIR and SEM analyses indicated successful enzyme immobilization and structural changes in the alginate matrix. Under optimal conditions (50 mg/L BPB, pH 5, 30 °C), free and immobilized crude extracellular laccase preparation achieved 73.02% and 78.12% decolorization within 1 h, respectively, without the addition of synthetic redox mediators. The immobilized preparation retained decolorization ability during repeated use, maintaining more than 50% decolorization efficiency after the third cycle. HPLC analysis indicated changes in the chromatographic profile of BPB after enzymatic treatment, while phytotoxicity and antimicrobial assays suggested reduced toxicity of the treated samples toward the tested organisms. These results demonstrate that a crude extracellular laccase preparation produced by B. adusta TMF1 can serve as an efficient immobilized biocatalyst for Bromophenol Blue decolorization while supporting the sustainable valorization of agro-industrial residues for low-cost enzyme production.
Radiotherapy, particularly radio-catalytic therapy, demonstrates immense potential in eliciting anti-tumor effects. However, its efficacy is substantially constrained by the low energy conversion efficiency of x-rays, limited reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation pathways, and the hypoxia-induced radio-resistance within the tumor microenvironment. Herein, we developed a spherical Cu/Lu/Tb co-doped CaF2 nanozyme coated with hyaluronic acid (CLTC@HA), which simultaneously exhibits highly efficient energy conversion and multifunctional catalytic activities, enabling a synergistically enhanced radio-catalytic therapy through doping engineering. The collaborative interplay of Cu/Lu/Tb ions enables precise control over the crystal lattice, leading to tailored morphology and modulated bandgap in CLTC@HA, consequently enhancing its radio-sensitization efficacy. CLTC@HA reveals multicatalytic activity through intrinsic peroxidase (POD)-like activity of CaF2 crystal, co-doping enhanced radio-catalytic property, and Cu-mediated redox cycle. Crucially, the introduced Cu+/Cu2+ valence cycle efficiently depletes glutathione and promotes hydroxyl radical production via POD-like activity. Consequently, CLTC@HA provokes a severe redox imbalance, effectively reversing the hypoxic radio-resistance and ultimately achieving superior anti-tumor efficacy. Notably, the optimal treatment group reaches a tumor growth inhibition rate of 99.1%. Furthermore, benefiting from abundant high-Z elements, CLTC@HA exhibits prominent T1-weighted imaging capability. This work presents a promising one-component nanoplatform for advanced radio-catalytic therapy and preclinical imaging.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive large B-cell lymphoma (ALK+ LBCL) is a rare and aggressive lymphoma for which no standard frontline treatment has been established. Presentation in the nasal cavity is particularly uncommon. We report the case of a 39-year-old man who presented with progressive left-sided nasal obstruction, epistaxis, and bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy. Imaging revealed a left sinonasal/nasopharyngeal mass, bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy, diffuse skeletal hypermetabolism, markedly elevated lactate dehydrogenase, and focal bone marrow involvement. Histopathologic examination showed a plasmablastic neoplasm with strong granular cytoplasmic ALK expression. The tumor cells were positive for CD138, MUM1, EMA, and kappa light chain, but negative for CD20, CD19, CD79a, CD3, CD30, CD56, and EBER. Fluorescence in situ hybridization confirmed ALK rearrangement, and RNA sequencing together with RT-PCR identified a CLTC::ALK fusion (CLTC exon 31::ALK exon 20). The patient was diagnosed with Ann Arbor stage IVB ALK+ LBCL. Disease progression after initial CVAD chemotherapy and persistent disease after CVAD-E prompted the addition of alectinib from cycle 3, with complete metabolic response on PET-CT after cycle 4. Consolidation with Hyper-CVAD plus concurrent alectinib was followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (auto-HSCT) and post-transplant alectinib maintenance. The patient remains in complete remission 10 months after diagnosis. This case illustrates the diagnostic value of integrated morphologic and molecular assessment in CD20-negative plasmablastic lymphoid neoplasms and suggests that incorporating ALK inhibition into multimodal therapy may be a reasonable strategy for selected patients with ALK+ LBCL.Copyright © 2026 Yi, Chen and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42425907 is a review article
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) has a poor prognosis because of its high metastatic potential and frequent chemoresistance. Although CLTC is aberrantly expressed and involved in fusion events in several tumors, its role in OSCC remains poorly defined.We integrated transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA and GEO, scRNA-seq data, immune infiltration analysis, ligand-receptor based cell-cell communication analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, molecular docking, and in vitro functional validation to evaluate CLTC expression, prognostic value, and its association with the OSCC immune microenvironment.CLTC was significantly overexpressed in OSCC and several other cancers. High CLTC expression was associated with poorer survival and improved prognostic stratification when combined with tumor mutation burden (TMB). Immune analyses showed that high CLTC expression was associated with reduced CD8 + T-cell infiltration, decreased cytotoxic activity, and increased immune exclusion- and suppression-related signatures. Single-cell analysis showed that CLTC was broadly expressed across OSCC cell populations, with relatively high expression in epithelial, inflammatory epithelial, macrophage, inflammatory macrophage, and endothelial cells. Macrophage-centered communication analysis further revealed prominent MIF-, CXCL-, and SPP1-related signaling interactions between macrophages and tumor, stromal, and immune cell populations. Drug sensitivity prediction and molecular docking suggested potential associations between CLTC expression and responses to several chemotherapeutic agents, although these computational results indicate possible physical interactions rather than confirmed functional drug effects. In vitro experiments confirmed that CLTC was upregulated in OSCC tissues and that CLTC knockdown suppressed SCC25 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.CLTC may serve as a prognostic biomarker in OSCC and may contribute to tumor progression by promoting malignant cellular phenotypes and immunosuppressive remodeling of the tumor microenvironment. Future mechanistic studies are required to determine whether CLTC directly regulates chemotherapy response through clathrin-mediated trafficking, receptor recycling, adhesion signaling, or tumor-immune interactions.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42360056
Oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor survival rates and rising global incidence. Despite research advances, no validated liquid biopsy biomarkers currently exist for OAC. Extracellular vesicles (EV), due to their role in intercellular communication and ability to carry molecular cargo, represent a promising source of diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. This study explores the proteomic profiles of EV-enriched preparations derived from serum and adipose-conditioned media (ACM) of OAC patients and non-cancer controls. EV-enriched preparations were isolated using size exclusion chromatography and analysed via label-free liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Bioinformatic analysis included principal component analysis and pathway analysis. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis using public datasets evaluated the prognostic relevance of candidate EV proteins. Proteomic profiling identified 65 differentially expressed proteins in serum-derived EV-enriched preparations from OAC patients, enriched in angiogenesis and migration pathways. In adipose tissue-derived EV-enriched preparations, 680 proteins were differentially expressed in OAC patients, with 118 altered between people with obesity and people without obesity. Comparative analysis revealed six consistently upregulated proteins in both serum and adipose-derived EV-enriched preparations: MYL6, VCP, HSP90AB1, CLTC, CCT7, and TCP1. Of these, HSP90AB1, CCT7, and TCP1 were significantly associated with poorer overall survival. These results highlight the role of EV-enriched proteins in tumour progression and immune modulation. This study offers novel biomarker candidates for OAC diagnosis and prognosis, especially in the context of obesity. The identification of clinically relevant proteomic signatures supports the potential of EV-based liquid biopsies for non-invasive disease monitoring and personalised therapeutic strategies in OAC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, with a poor prognosis and high mortality rates. Therapeutic resistance, high recurrence, and limited treatment options contribute to its aggressive nature. The TMF1-regulated nuclear protein 1 (TRNP1) is a highly conserved nuclear protein, recently implicated in tumorigenesis. TRNP1 is upregulated in HCC, but its role in tumorigenesis and immunotherapy resistance remains underexplored. This study investigates the mechanistic roles of TRNP1 in HCC progression through the c-Kit/signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathway and its impact on immunotherapy efficacy, particularly in the context of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade.The expression of TRNP1 was analyzed using bioinformatics tools and confirmed through HCC patient tissue samples. Knockdown and overexpression models of TRNP1 were established in HCC cell lines to investigate its effects on cellular behaviors, including proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis. Transcriptomics explored downstream pathways, identifying the c-Kit/STAT3 signaling axis. In vivo experiments assessed the efficacy of combining TRNP1 knockdown with anti-PD-1 therapy in reducing tumor volume.TRNP1 was significantly upregulated in HCC tissues compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissues. High TRNP1 expression correlated with reduced overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS). TRNP1 knockdown inhibited tumor cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion while promoting apoptosis. In contrast, TRNP1 overexpression enhanced these malignant phenotypes. Mechanistically, TRNP1 promoted HCC progression by activating the c-Kit/STAT3 signaling pathway. Notably, TRNP1 knockdown, combined with PD-1 blockade, further reduced tumor volume, enhancing the efficacy of immunotherapy.This study establishes TRNP1 as a tumor-promoting factor in HCC, driving cancer progression via the c-Kit/STAT3 pathway. Moreover, TRNP1 knockdown sensitizes tumors to PD-1 blockade, suggesting a novel therapeutic strategy for improving immunotherapy outcomes in HCC patients. TRNP1 could serve as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target in HCC treatment.© AME Publishing Company.
Recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 (RIC1), historically also known as BRIC 1 (benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis typr 1),is an autosomal recessive disorder presenting with intermittent episodes of cholestatic jaundice and caused by pathogenic variants of adenosine triphosphatase phospholipid transporting 8B1 (ATP8B1). Here, we describe two unusual RIC1-affected siblings, whose clinical courses and findings deviate from the classical RIC1 patients, emphasizing the potential adverse effects associated with recurrent cholestasis. Additionally, we have for the first time presented specific genetic, clinical and pathological evidence demonstrating that two novel compound heterozygous variants of ATP8B1 (c.749 T > C and c.3261 + 5G > A) had a significant effect on the expression of the ATP8B1 encoded protein, thereby contributing to cholestasis attacks.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wei, Liu, Lv, Ding, Guo, Hu and Ning.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42486760
Plasmodium remodels the host liver cell as an obligatory step in malaria infection. Although several host proteins are recruited to the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) after invasion, the mechanisms underlying this acquisition remain unknown. Here, we validated the upregulation and recruitment of the host protein CGA during liver stage Plasmodium berghei infection. We then depleted a panel of host trafficking proteins to investigate their role in CGA recruitment to the P. berghei PVM. This highlighted the significance of protein exocytosis for host protein acquisition and identified vesicle-associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3), a SNARE family protein, as critical for CGA recruitment and parasite growth. A phenotypic study revealed that VAMP3 depletion decreased P. berghei survival after invasion, which correlated with enhanced LC3 recruitment. VAMP3 recruitment to the PVM was observed in the rodent-infective P. berghei and the human-infective Plasmodium falciparum, suggesting host vesicle redirection may be a conserved mechanism during the parasite's liver stage. Expansion microscopy revealed VAMP3 vesicles near and overlapping with the PVM, suggesting fusion events might occur. This proposal was tested using the chemical probe N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), which prevents SNARE recycling. VAMP3 accumulates on the PVM after NEM treatment, consistent with host vesicle fusion to the PVM. Overall, we uncover factors that facilitate Plasmodium's acquisition of host proteins and provide evidence that the PVM undergoes fusion with host SNARE machinery.Plasmodium remodels the host liver cell as an essential step in malaria infection, yet the mechanisms by which host proteins are acquired at the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM) remain unclear. Here, we show that the host protein CGA is upregulated in the Plasmodium berghei liver stage and recruited to the PVM by host exocytosis machinery. Specifically, the SNARE protein vesicle-associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3) is linked to CGA acquisition and is shown to be recruited to the PVM in both rodent- and human-infective malaria. Functional VAMP3 is critical for P. berghei growth and correlates with its survival. Imaging and chemical inhibition studies provide evidence that supports host vesicle fusion with the PVM for the first time. Overall, these findings reveal that host SNARE machinery facilitates Plasmodium acquisition of host proteins.
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42447688
Anastomotic stricture is the most common complication after esophageal surgery, often linked to inflammation. Prior work showed that remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) alleviates strictures by reducing inflammation. This study investigated whether RIC's effectiveness is also associated with angiogenesis and cell proliferation after esophageal resection and anastomosis (R&A). Sixty-five Sprague-Dawley rats underwent cervical esophageal R&A and were divided into three groups: R&A only (n = 20), R&A with one session of RIC (RIC1, n = 20), and R&A with two sessions of RIC (RIC2, n = 20). RIC involved three cycles of 5-minute ischemia/reperfusion on the left hind limb. On postoperative day 7, stricture severity was assessed radiographically. Histological and molecular analyses (immunohistochemistry, Western blotting) evaluated markers for angiogenesis (e.g., cluster of differentiation 31 (CD31), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)) and cell proliferation (e.g., Kiel 67 (Ki67), cyclin-dependent kinase 6, p21). RIC treatment significantly promoted angiogenesis, evidenced by increased vessel density and elevated expression of CD31 and VEGF in both RIC groups. Western blot analysis showed significant activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway in the RIC1 group. Importantly, RIC enhanced cell proliferation, indicated by a significant increase in Ki67 expression. This proliferative effect was confirmed by increased cell cycle regulators (cyclin-dependent kinase 6, cyclin A) and a reduction in inhibitors (p21, p27) in the RIC groups. This study demonstrates that applying RIC after esophageal R&A promotes angiogenesis and increases proliferation through cell cycle activation. These biological modulations contribute to the improvement of anastomotic strictures, suggesting RIC is a key modulator of the stricture formation and recovery process.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite established clinical diagnostic criteria for Parkinson's disease and the neurodegeneration-related atypical parkinsonian syndromes (progressive supranuclear palsy/PSP, corticobasal degeneration syndrome/CBD, multiple system atrophy with parkinsonian or cerebellar predominance/MSA-P/C, and dementia with Lewy bodies/DLB), the differential diagnosis from rare hereditary and acquired disorders presenting with parkinsonism can be challenging.Based on a PubMed search, relevant original studies and review articles were analyzed to identify rare hereditary and acquired disorders associated with parkinsonism. Secondary parkinsonian syndromes resulting from medication or toxin exposure were excluded but are summarized in an overview.Without claiming completeness, the major hereditary and acquired disorders associated with parkinsonism were summarized in tabular form. Selected entities were described in more detail in short profiles focusing on those with therapeutic modifiability, characteristic pattern-like constellations of findings, or notable pathophysiological mechanisms. Paradigmatic cerebral MRI patterns are illustrated.A broad spectrum of rare acquired and genetic entities can manifest with clinically relevant parkinsonian syndromes. Frequently, parkinsonism occurs in combination with other neurological features of variable severity, including extrapyramidal-hyperkinetic symptoms (dystonia/chorea), cerebellar signs (ataxia), pontomesencephalic involvement (oculomotor disturbances, bulbar dysarthria/dysphagia), motor neuron signs (spasticity and/or amyotrophic paresis), cognitive or neuropsychiatric symptoms, and epilepsy.For several disease groups - such as neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA), Wilson's disease, and primary familial brain calcification (PFBC) - distinctive MRI patterns are diagnostically informative.A relevant subset of disorders exhibits at least a partial and sometimes transient presynaptic dopaminergic deficit responsive to dopaminergic medication (e.g., certain NBIA forms, spinocerebellar ataxias/SCA, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis/CTX).Neuropathologically, some of these disorders are associated with secondary synucleinopathies (e.g., MPAN), tauopathies (e.g., IgLON5 syndrome) or TDP-43 (e.g., Perry syndrome/DCTN1).Thieme. All rights reserved.
The Arabidopsis thaliana RIC1, a key member of the ROP (Rho GTPase of Plants)-Interactive CRIB motif-containing protein family, has been characterized as a plant-specific microtubule-associated protein. RIC1 is thought to function as a key downstream effector of the small GTPase Rho-of-Plant 6 (ROP6), orchestrating the formation of well-ordered cortical microtubule arrays and promoting the interdigitated growth pattern of cotyledon or leaf epidermal pavement cells. However, the precise physicochemical properties governing RIC1's function in microtubule organization regulation remain known. Here, we demonstrate that RIC1 is a predicted intrinsically disordered protein that forms biomolecular condensates, which promote the polymerization of microtubule bundles in vitro. In Arabidopsis cotyledon pavement cells, RIC1 forms distinct condensate-like puncta, with a specific subset associating directly with cortical microtubules. RIC1 self-assembles into distinct spherical condensates under in vitro macromolecular crowding conditions. Remarkably, these RIC1 condensates co-condense with tubulin in vitro. We further demonstrate that RIC1 condensates elevate the local tubulin concentration, correlate with enhanced microtubule nucleation, and promote the polymerization of microtubule bundles in vitro. Moreover, the growing microtubule bundles actively reshape these condensates. Thus, RIC1 condensates may provide a specialized microenvironment that enables tubulin sequestration while simultaneously regulating microtubule nucleation and polymerization in vitro. This study provides crucial insights into the biomolecular condensation properties of the microtubule-associated protein RIC1, establishing a groundwork for future investigations into its in vivo functional mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Impairment of axonal transport may contribute to the degeneration of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN), a key event in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Due to the lack of early diagnosis, changes in axonal transport at the preclinical stage can only be studied in PD models. We assessed gene expression (RT-PCR after cell sorting) and protein levels (semiquantitative immunohistochemistry) of axonal transport-related proteins in SN DAergic neurons from mice in subchronic MPTP models of PD (preclinical and clinical stages) and controls. The proteins studied included α-tubulin (Tuba1a), β-tubulin (Tubb3), kinesin (Kif5b, Klc1), dynein (Dynll1, Dync1i1), dynactin (Dctn1), microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 1 (Mark1), and tau (Mapt). In the preclinical stage, Kif5b expression and Kif5B level were increased, possibly to compensatorily preserve anterograde transport. Dynll1 and Tuba1a were upregulated, whereas Dync1i1 and Mapt were downregulated, with no change in tubulin or tau protein levels. In the clinical stage, Klc1, Dync1i1, Dctn1, Mark1, and Mapt expression and Kif5B protein levels decreased. These data indicate that transcriptional alterations in axonal transport proteins precede protein-level changes in DAergic neurons. The upregulation of Kif5B in the preclinical stage suggests that axonal transport proteins may serve as potential early therapeutic targets in PD.
Adeno-associated viruses (AAV) are non-enveloped parvoviruses widely utilized for therapeutic gene delivery. The membrane-associated accessory protein (MAAP), a key viral protein, is critical for cellular egress of both infectious and recombinant AAV particles. However, the structure-function correlates of this process have remained largely elusive. Here, we applied structure-guided evolution to enhance AAV egress and dissect the biology of both natural and synthetic MAAP (synMAAP) variants. Three structurally distinct combinatorial libraries focused on disordered domains within MAAP8 (derived from AAV serotype 8) were subjected to selection through both transfection and infectious cycling. Newly enriched synMAAPs obtained as a function of enhanced AAV secretion from host cells revealed a profound bias toward mutations within the C-terminal domain. The most potent synMAAPs showed increased propensity to form extended alpha-helix structures as predicted by structural modeling, amphipathicity, and hydrophobicity scores. Confocal microscopy demonstrated that, unlike natural MAAP8, synMAAPs are excluded from the nucleus and exhibit strong perinuclear accumulation within the Golgi. Proximity ligation analysis, biochemical analysis, and gene deletion studies further corroborated that synMAAPs appear to more efficiently engage SNARE complex proteins, notably involving VAMP3, to potentiate AAV egress. Together, these findings reveal new insights into structure-function correlates of viral egress from host cells and may help improve recombinant vector production for gene therapy applications.IMPORTANCEViruses must exit infected cells to spread, yet this process is poorly understood for adeno-associated virus. In this study, we examine how adeno-associated virus exits mammalian cells without causing cell death. By engineering and evolving new versions of the viral egress factor, we identify cellular trafficking pathways that are exploited during viral release. These findings improve our understanding of how viruses interact with host cells. Additionally, the engineered egress factors described in this study may be used to improve the efficiency of adeno-associated virus production for gene therapy applications.
Amyloid beta (Aβ) oligomers are thought to play an important role during development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previously, we determined the Aβ oligomer concentrations in various AD mouse models and in human brain tissues of former AD patients. Here, we investigate which proteins are part of these Aβ oligomers, apart from Aβ itself. Because several oligomer-associated proteins have been implicated in mechanisms leading to AD pathology, identification of the Aβ oligomer proteome may provide insights into the formation of Aβ oligomers in vivo and may reveal novel targets for disease-modifying therapeutic approaches. Here, we separated different native Aβ assemblies in brain homogenates of transgenic (tg) AD mice and human AD post mortem samples by density gradient centrifugation, then isolated Aβ-containing assemblies by co-immunoprecipitation. Mass spectrometry of immunoprecipitated proteins with label-free quantification (LFQ) showed significant changes between the proteomes of Aβ oligomers from tg AD mice and wildtype (wt) mice, confirming some proteins that have been expected to bind Aβ species, like ApoE and Clusterin, but also indicating novel, so far unknown, protein content of Aβ oligomers, such as the RabGAP Tbc1d10b. Some of the hereby identified proteins, like, for example, Clusterin, were also found to be enriched in Aβ oligomers from human AD brain tissue derived homogenates as compared to brain tissue from non-demented controls (NC). Others, such as Netrin-1, were specifically enriched in Aβ oligomers in AD compared to NC samples, but not in mouse samples.
T-cell receptor (TCR) loci undergo complex V(D)J rearrangements during T-cell maturation. However, errors in this process can cause TCR promoters and enhancers to aberrantly fuse with oncogenes, leading to their overexpression and the development of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Unexpectedly, in a retrospective study of 97 pediatric B-ALL cases, all diagnosed according to WHO criteria at a single institution, we identified a subgroup of B-ALL harboring TCR fusion. These fusions involved diverse partner genes, including LINC01656, TBC1D10B, TCL1A/TCL1B, CDKN2A, CEBPB/G, and AHI1. Patients with TCR fusions showed a gene expression profile enriched in hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) signatures and frequently carried other adverse genomic markers, such as CDKN2A/B alterations and RAS pathway activation. Clinically, TCR-rearranged B-ALL patients were associated with increased risk (P = 0.005) and had higher minimal residual disease (MRD) at day 19 (P = 0.034), and may benefit from MRD-based risk-directed therapy. Our study highlights frequent TCR fusions in B-ALL, suggesting a stem cell-derived leukemia with potential differentiation into both B-cell and T-cell lineages.© 2025. The Author(s).
In certain kinds of cells, clathrin-independently endocytosed cargo proteins are recycled back to the plasma membrane via specialized tubular-shaped endosomes, so-called tubular endosomes. Several regulators, including Rab small GTPases, have previously been reported to control tubular endosome structures, and one of the regulators, Rab22A, controls cargo sorting and tubule elongation. Since Rab activity is generally controlled by a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) and a GTPase-activating protein (GAP), these upstream regulators would also be involved in tubular endosome formation. However, although we have previously reported that Vps9d1 is a Rab22A-GEF that controls tubular endosome formation, there have been no reports of Rab-GAPs that are required for tubular endosome formation. Here, we demonstrated by comprehensive screening of TBC/Rab-GAPs that four Rab-GAPs, TBC1D10B, TBC1D18, TBC1D22B and EVI5, are involved in tubular endosome formation in HeLa cells in a GAP-activity-dependent manner. Knockdown or overexpression of each of these Rab-GAPs resulted in the same phenotype, that is, reduced tubular endosome structures. Since one of these four Rab-GAPs, TBC1D10B, was able to reduce the amount of active Rab22A and the size of Rab22A-positive early endosomes, it is the most probable candidate for a Rab22A-GAP. Our findings suggest that a proper GTPase cycle is important for the control of tubular endosome formation.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Phagocytosis is an important immune response that protects the host from pathogen invasion. Rit1 GTPase is known to be involved in diverse cellular processes. However, its role in FcγR-mediated phagocytosis remains unclear. Our live-cell imaging analysis revealed that Rit1 was localized to the membranes of F-actin-rich phagocytic cups in RAW264 macrophages. Rit1 knockout and expression of the GDP-locked Rit1 mutant suppressed phagosome formation. We also found that TBC1D10B, a GAP for the Rab family GTPases, colocalizes with Rit1 in the membranes of phagocytic cups. Expression and knockout studies have shown that TBC1D10B decreases phagosome formation in both Rab-GAP activity-dependent and -independent manners. Notably, the expression of the GDP-locked Rit1 mutant or Rit1 knockout inhibited the dissociation of TBC1D10B from phagocytic cups. In addition, the expression of the GTP-locked Rit1 mutant promoted the dissociation of TBC1D10B in phagocytic cups and restored the rate of phagosome formation in TBC1D10B-expressing cells. These data suggest that Rit1-TBC1D10B signaling regulates FcγR-mediated phagosome formation in macrophages.© 2024 Egami et al.
This study aimed to explore the expression, function, and mechanisms of TBC1D10B in colon cancer, as well as its potential applications in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease.The expression levels of TBC1D10B in colon cancer were assessed by analyzing the TCGA and CCLE databases. Immunohistochemistry analysis was conducted using tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissues from 68 colon cancer patients. Lentiviral infection techniques were employed to silence and overexpress TBC1D10B in colon cancer cells. The effects on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were evaluated using CCK-8, EDU, wound healing, and Transwell invasion assays. Additionally, GSEA enrichment analysis was used to explore the association of TBC1D10B with biological pathways related to colon cancer. TBC1D10B was significantly upregulated in colon cancer and closely associated with patient prognosis. Silencing of TBC1D10B notably inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion of colon cancer cells and promoted apoptosis. Conversely, overexpression of TBC1D10B enhanced these cellular functions. GSEA analysis revealed that TBC1D10B is enriched in the AKT/PI3K/mTOR signaling pathway and highly correlated with PAK4. The high expression of TBC1D10B in colon cancer is associated with poor prognosis. It influences cancer progression by regulating the proliferation, migration, and invasion capabilities of colon cancer cells, potentially acting through the AKT/PI3K/mTOR signaling pathway. These findings provide new targets and therapeutic strategies for the treatment of colon cancer.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The TBC1 domain family member 10B (EPI64B/TBC1D10B), a member of the RabGAP EPI64 subfamily, contains a TBC domain that confers GTPase-activating protein activity. Even though overexpression of TBC1D10B has been reported to promote tumor invasion and metastasis in gastric adenocarcinoma, the prognostic value of TBC1D10B and its correlation with DNA methylation and immune infiltration in hepatocellular carcinoma are still not known. Transcriptional expression profiles of TBC1D10B between hepatocellular carcinoma tissues and normal tissues were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus. The Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium and the Human Protein Atlas were used to assess the TBC1D10B protein expression. The biological functions of TBC1D10B were evaluated by the Metascape database and by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to distinguish hepatocellular carcinoma from adjacent normal tissues. The effect of TBC1D10B on survival was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. DNA methylation in the TBC1D10B gene was assessed using the online MEXPRESS and MethSurv tools. The association between TBC1D10B mRNA expression and immune cell infiltration was investigated by the TIMER2 web server, tumor immune estimation resource and single-sample GSEA. This study found that TBC1D10B is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and that increased TBC1D10B mRNA expression is associated with female sex, lower Body Mass Index, high level of alpha fetal protein, and worse clinical stages. The mRNA and protein levels of TBC1D10B were verified in cells. Functional annotation indicated enrichment with negative regulation of the cell cycle, extracellular matrix, and corresponding pathways in the high-TBC1D10B phenotype. The ROC curve analysis showed that, with a cutoff level of 2.912, the accuracy, sensitive, and specificity in differentiate TBC1D10B hepatocellular carcinoma from adjacent controls were 0.931, 0.920, and 0.802, respectively. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that hepatocellular carcinoma patients with high TBC1D10B had a worse prognosis than those with low TBC1D10B, especially in patients with a weight below 70 kg, height above 170 cm, and histological G2 and G3. We also found that the methylation of TBC1D10B was associated with the prognosis in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Moreover, correlation analysis indicated that TBC1D10B mRNA expression was positively correlated with infiltration levels of most immune cells, but negatively correlated with Th17 and cytotoxic cells infiltration. Our study indicates that increased TBC1D10B expression in hepatocellular carcinoma may play a role in tumorigenesis by regulating the cell cycle and extracellular matrix. TBC1D10B may be a novel prognostic and predictive marker and immune therapeutic target in hepatocellular carcinoma patients.© 2023. The Author(s).
A cell-free DNA (cfDNA) assay would be a promising approach to early cancer diagnosis, especially for patients with dense tissues. Consistent cfDNA signatures have been observed for many carcinogens. Recently, investigations of cfDNA as a reliable early detection bioassay have presented a powerful opportunity for detecting dense tissue screening complications early. We performed a prospective study to evaluate the potential of characterizing cfDNA as a central element in the early detection of dense tissue breast cancer (BC). Plasma samples were collected from 32 consenting subjects with dense tissue and positive mammograms, 20 with positive biopsies and 12 with negative biopsies. After screening and before biopsy, cfDNA was extracted, and whole-genome next-generation sequencing (NGS) was performed on all samples. Copy number alteration (CNA) and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)/insertion/deletion (Indel) analyses were performed to characterize cfDNA. In the positive-positive subjects (cases), a total of 5 CNAs overlapped with 5 previously reported BC-related oncogenes (KSR2, MAP2K4, MSI2, CANT1 and MSI2). In addition, 1 SNP was detected in KMT2C, a BC oncogene, and 9 others were detected in or near 10 genes (SERAC1, DAGLB, MACF1, NVL, FBXW4, FANK1, KCTD4, CAVIN1; ATP6V0A1 and ZBTB20-AS1) previously associated with non-BC cancers. For the positive-negative subjects (screening), 3 CNAs were detected in BC genes (ACVR2A, CUL3 and PIK3R1), and 5 SNPs were identified in 6 non-BC cancer genes (SNIP1, TBC1D10B, PANK1, PRKCA and RUNX2; SUPT3H). This study presents evidence of the potential of using cfDNA somatic variants as dense tissue BC biomarkers from a noninvasive liquid bioassay for early cancer detection.© 2022. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 35550160 is a review article
Declining proteostasis with aging contributes to increased susceptibility to neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Emerging studies implicate impairment of the endosome-lysosome pathway as a significant factor in the pathogenesis of these diseases. Previously, we demonstrated that BAG3 regulates phosphorylated tau clearance. However, we did not fully define how BAG3 regulates endogenous tau proteostasis, especially in the early stages of disease progression.Mass spectrometric analyses were performed to identify neuronal BAG3 interactors. Multiple biochemical assays were used to investigate the BAG3-HSP70-TBC1D10B (EPI64B)-RAB35-HRS regulatory networks. Live-cell imaging was used to study the dynamics of the endosomal pathway. Immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting were performed in human AD brains and in P301S tau transgenic mice with BAG3 overexpressed.The primary group of neuronal BAG3 interactors identified are involved in the endocytic pathway. Among them were key regulators of small GTPases, such as the RAB35 GTPase-activating protein TBC1D10B. We demonstrated that a BAG3-HSP70-TBC1D10B complex attenuates the ability of TBC1D10B to inactivate RAB35. Thus, BAG3 interacts with TBC1D10B to support the activation of RAB35 and recruitment of HRS, initiating endosomal sorting complex required for transport-mediated endosomal tau clearance. Furthermore, TBC1D10B shows significantly less colocalization with BAG3 in AD brains than in age-matched controls. Overexpression of BAG3 in P301S tau transgenic mice increased the colocalization of phosphorylated tau with the endosomal sorting complex required for transport III protein CHMP2B and reduced the levels of the mutant human tau.We identified a novel BAG3-TBC1D10B-RAB35 regulatory axis that modulates endosomal sorting complex required for transport-dependent protein degradation machinery and tau clearance. Dysregulation of BAG3 could contribute to the pathogenesis of AD.Copyright © 2021 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
TBC1D10 subfamily has three members TBC1D10A-C, with the physiological and pathological functions such as melanosome transport, exosome secretion, and T-cell activation. However, the gene expression patterns and functions of this subfamily during embryonic development remain mysterious. In this study, we took advantage of zebrafish model to elucidate the spatial and temporal expression patterns of TBC1D10 subfamily genes including tbc1d10aa, tbc1d10ab, tbc1d10b, and tbc1d10c. Whole-mount in situ hybridization results showed robust tbc1d10aa expression and faint tbc1d10b expression as maternal transcripts except tbc1d10ab and tbc1d10c. In addition to pectoral fins, otic vesicles, and pharyngeal arch tissues, varying degrees of expression of all four subfamily members were observed in brain tissues and eyes (retinal inner nuclear layer). Besides, tbc1d10ab exhibited unique and enriched expression in the developing liver. Despite genetic conservativeness, all four members of zebrafish TBC1D10 subfamily shared several similarities and exhibited some distinctions in the expression patterns, indicating that they might have different and exclusive functions to be further explored.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Novel ultrasound technology and software processing allow offline evaluation of tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and mitral annular plane systolic excursion measurements. We wished to compare both novel 4D matrix (eM6C) and conventional (RAB6-D) transducers with variable settings (electronic spatiotemporal image correlation, spatiotemporal image correlation and four-dimensional real time) to determine if there was a significant difference in absolute value, quality and repeatability of the resultant reconstructed image and M-mode trace.A blinded prospective cross-sectional study of normal fetuses from 23 to 38 weeks' gestation were recruited. After routine sonography, four-dimensional volumes were stored and analysed using GE 4DView™ software. Statistical analysis explored variability, correlations and repeatability of the measurements with chi-square analysis, intraclass correlations and the Bland-Altman comparison plots. A scoring system was devised for image quality.Eighteen participants generated 282 data volumes. Absolute values demonstrated some inconsistencies for both tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and mitral annular plane systolic excursion measurements with variations between transducers: the highest for the RAB6-D/spatiotemporal image correlation setting and the lowest for the four-dimensional real-time settings. The RAB6-D/spatiotemporal image correlation setting was the most repeatable combination (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.85). Poorest image quality (M-mode trace, four-chamber view, annuli) came from the RAB6-D/four-dimensional real-time combination with the eM6C/electronic spatiotemporal image correlation and RAB6-D/spatiotemporal image correlation settings being nearly identical.We show that transducer and setting combinations influence absolute tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion/mitral annular plane systolic excursion measurements, so need to be articulated in future research. The transducer setting (electronic spatiotemporal image correlation/spatiotemporal image correlation/four-dimensional real time) was a more significant factor than the type of transducer (conventional vs matrix). Subjective image evaluation does not correlate well with repeatability of image acquisition. Further studies are needed to compare measurements using four-dimensional post-processing tools against conventional real-time measurements.© The Author(s) 2024.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41443816 is a review article
Xenophagy, a type of selective autophagy, is a bactericidal membrane trafficking that targets cytosolic bacterial pathogens, but the membrane homeostatic system to cope with bacterial infection in xenophagy is not known. Here, we show that the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) machinery is needed to maintain homeostasis of xenophagolysosomes damaged by a bacterial toxin, which is regulated through the TOM1L2-Rab41 pathway that recruits AAA-ATPase VPS4. We screened Rab GTPases and identified Rab41 as critical for maintaining the acidification of xenophagolysosomes. Confocal microscopy revealed that ESCRT components were recruited to the entire xenophagolysosome, and this recruitment was inhibited by intrabody expression against bacterial cytolysin, indicating that ESCRT targets xenophagolysosomes in response to a bacterial toxin. Rab41 translocates to damaged autophagic membranes via adaptor protein TOM1L2 and recruits VPS4 to complete ESCRT-mediated membrane repair in a unique GTPase-independent manner. Finally, we demonstrate that the TOM1L2-Rab41 pathway-mediated ESCRT is critical for the efficient clearance of bacteria through xenophagy.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
Subgingival microbiome dysbiosis promotes the development of periodontitis, an irreversible chronic inflammatory disease associated with metabolic diseases. However, studies regarding the effects of a hyperglycemic microenvironment on host-microbiome interactions and host inflammatory response during periodontitis are still scarce. Here, we investigated the impacts of a hyperglycemic microenvironment on the inflammatory response and transcriptome of a gingival coculture model stimulated with dysbiotic subgingival microbiomes. HGF-1 cells overlaid with U937 macrophage-like cells were stimulated with subgingival microbiomes collected from four healthy donors and four patients with periodontitis. Pro-inflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases were measured while the coculture RNA was submitted to a microarray analysis. Subgingival microbiomes were submitted to 16s rRNA gene sequencing. Data were analyzed using an advanced multi-omics bioinformatic data integration model. Our results show that the genes krt76, krt27, pnma5, mansc4, rab41, thoc6, tm6sf2, and znf506 as well as the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, GM-CSF, FGF2, IL-10, the metalloproteinases MMP3 and MMP8, and bacteria from the ASV 105, ASV 211, ASV 299, Prevotella, Campylobacter and Fretibacterium genera are key intercorrelated variables contributing to periodontitis-induced inflammatory response in a hyperglycemic microenvironment. In conclusion, our multi-omics integration analysis unveiled the complex interrelationships involved in the regulation of periodontal inflammation in response to a hyperglycemic microenvironment.
Accumulating evidence indicates that circular RNAs have major roles in the progression of human cancers. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism and effects of circFAM126A in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remain unclear.Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to detect expression levels of circFAM126A in OSCC tumor tissues and cell lines; the effects of circFAM126A small hairpin RNA (shRNA) on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of OSCC cells were detected by MTT, colony formation, and transwell assays; xenograft mouse models were used to determine the effects of circFAM126A shRNA on the growth of OSCC tumors in vivo; the expression of miR-186 and RAB41 in OSCC tissues and cells was examined by qRT-PCR; the targeting relationship between circFAM126A and miR-186 was verified by dual-luciferase reporter and RNA pull-down assays; and the relationship between miR-186 and RAB41 was explored.The expression of circFAM126A was significantly upregulated in OSCC tissues and cells. The transcription factor SP1 transcriptionally activated circFAM126A. However, knockdown of circFAM126A markedly suppressed the proliferation, migration, and invasion of OSCC cells in vitro and inhibited tumor growth and distant metastasis in vivo. Moreover, circFAM126A increased the expression of RAB41 and promoted its mRNA stability via binding to miR-186 and RNA-binding protein FUS. Overexpression of RAB41 antagonized the effects of circFAM126A knockdown and induced an aggressive phenotype of OSCC cells.SP1 transcriptionally activated circFAM126A modulated the growth, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of OSCC cells via targeting the miR-186/FUS/RAB41 axis, suggesting that circFAM126A is a potential biomarker for the treatment of OSCC.Copyright © 2022 Wang, Ouyang, Zhao, Zhang, Cheng, Fan, Cai and Liao.
The molecular mechanisms regulating the phospholipid (PL) metabolism in the nucleus remain to be elucidated. Here, we describe the role of Dop1a in controlling PL abundance in nuclear membranes (NMs) under the control of mTOR signaling. A shortage of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) triggers the rapid localization of Dop1a to the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs), where Dop1a suppresses PL synthesis by binding to AGPAT2 (1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2), which is also localized at the NPCs. Loss of Dop1a results in elevated PL production, which leads to the formation of nuclear lipid droplets (nLDs). The titration of PL abundance is coordinated with proper cell cycle entry by Dop1a that restricts nuclear accumulation of CDK2. Thus, Dop1a safeguards cell division via surveilling the PL supply. Dop1a is highly expressed in neurons and is essential for neurobehavioral development in mice. DOP1A mutations have been identified in patients with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). Thus, the proper function of Dop1a is crucial for the proper development of the nervous system.© 2026 The Author(s).
Microexon splicing is a vertebrate-conserved process through which small, often in-frame, exons are differentially included during brain development and across neuron types. Although the protein sequences encoded by these exons are highly conserved and can mediate interactions, the neurobiological functions of only a small number have been characterized. To establish a more generalized understanding of their roles in brain development, we used CRISPR/Cas9 to remove 45 microexons in zebrafish and assessed larval brain activity, morphology, and behavior. Most mutants had minimal or no phenotypes at this developmental stage. Among previously studied microexons, we uncovered baseline and stimulus-driven phenotypes for two microexons (meA and meB) in ptprd and reduced activity in the telencephalon in the tenm3 B0 isoform. Although mild neural phenotypes were discovered for several microexons that have not been previously characterized, including in ppp6r3, sptan1, dop1a, rapgef2, dctn4, vti1a, and meaf6. This study establishes a general approach for investigating conserved alternative splicing events and prioritizes microexons for downstream analysis.© 2024, Calhoun et al.
The vacuole formation (VF) rat is an autosomal recessive myelin mutant characterized by generalized tremor, hypomyelination, and periaxonal VF of the central nervous system. We previously identified a nonsense mutation in the DOP1 leucine zipper-like protein A (Dop1a, also known as Dopey1) gene located on rat chromosome 8. In this study, we investigated the kinetics of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and oligodendrocytes by assessing the expression patterns of transcription factors that are involved in oligodendrocyte development. The number of small, round oligodendrocytes lacking distinct cellular processes, immunolabeled with anti-adenomatous polyposis coli (APC, clone CC1) antibody, was increased in the spinal cords of the VF rats, suggesting a disrupted maturation of oligodendrocytes. In addition, the terminal differentiation and maturation of OPCs into myelinating mature oligodendrocytes may be impaired and compensatory myelination largely could fail in the VF rat. Our findings also demonstrated that the DOP1A protein is expressed in OPCs as well as mature oligodendrocytes. Finally, the intracellular trafficking of myelin basic protein (Mbp) mRNAs may be disrupted in oligodendrocytes of the VF rats. Our data suggested that DOP1A dysfunction causes impaired differentiation and maturation of oligodendrocyte-lineage cells, resulting in hypomyelination and an impaired compensatory myelination.
The clinicopathological risk factors in the prognosis of stage IV gastric cancer have been comprehensively studied. However, the influencing factors of stage IV gastric cancer prognosis at genomic and transcriptional levels have not been well defined.The mutational and transcriptional data, along with demographic, clinicopathological and prognostic information of 44 stage IV gastric cancer patients were downloaded from the TCGA database. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify the significant risk factors and a Nomogram model was established to predict the patient prognosis.TTN, TP53, FLG, LRP1B, SYNE1 and ARID1A were among the top mutated genes without hot-spot mutations. The mutational status of AHNAK2, ASCC3, DNAH3, DOP1A, MYLK, SIPA1L1, SORBS2, SYNE1 and ANF462 significantly stratified the patient prognosis. The transcription of several genes, such as AQP10, HOXC8/9/10, COL10A1/COL11A1, WNT7B, KRT17 and KLK6 was significantly up-regulated or down-regulated. Enrichment analysis on mutations and transcription revealed cell skeleton and membrane function, extracellular matrix function, HPV infection, and several cancer-related pathways as the main aberrancies. Univariate analyses revealed a series of significant factors stratifying patient prognosis, mainly including cancer location, several mutated genes and many up- or down-regulated genes. However, subsequent multivariate analysis revealed SYNE1 mutation, DNAH3 mutation, COMMD3 transcription level, and cancer location as the independent risk factors. A Nomogram model has been established with these significant risk factors to predict the patient prognosis. Further validation is needed to ensure the effectiveness of the model in real clinical practice.Cancer location, along with the mutational status of SYNE1 and DNAH3 and the transcriptional level of COMMD3 were independent risk factors of stage IV gastric cancer. A Nomogram model was established with these factors for prognosis prediction.Copyright © 2024 Pan-Arab Association of Gastroenterology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hereditary neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) are prevalent in poorly prognostic pediatric diseases, but the pathogenesis of NDDs is still unclear. Irregular myelination could be one of the possible causes of NDDs.Here, whole exome sequencing was carried out for a consanguineous Pakistani family with NDDs to identify disease-associated variants. The co-segregation of candidate variants in the family was validated using Sanger sequencing. The potential impact of the gene on NDDs has been supported by conservation analysis, protein prediction, and expression analysis. A novel homozygous variant DOP1A(NM_001385863.1):c.2561A>G was identified. It was concluded that the missense variant might affect the protein-protein binding sites of the critical MEC interaction region of DOP1A, and DOP1A-MON2 may cause stability deficits in Golgi-endosome protein traffic. Proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin-associate glycoprotein (MAG) could be targets of the DOP1A-MON2 Golgi-endosome traffic complex, especially during the fetal stage and the early developmental stages. This further supports the perspective that disorganized myelinogenesis due to congenital DOP1A deficiency might cause neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs).Our case study revealed the potential pathway of myelinogenesis-relevant NDDs and identified DOP1A as a potential NDDs-relevant gene in humans.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Tariq, Roy, Shen, Khan, Altaf Malik, He, Baig, Fang and Zhang.
The aim of the present study was an in-depth genomic analysis to understand the genomic mechanisms of the 3 claw disorders dermatitis digitalis (DD), interdigital hyperplasia (HYP), and sole ulcer (SU). In this regard, we estimated genetic parameters based on genomic relationship matrices, performed genome-wide association studies, annotated potential candidate genes, and inferred genetic associations with breeding goal traits considering the most important chromosomal segments. As a further novelty of this study, we inferred possible SNP × heat stress interactions for claw disorders. The study consisted of 17,264 first-lactation Holstein Friesian cows kept in 50 large-scale contract herds. The disease prevalence was 15.96, 2.36, and 8.20% for DD, HYP, and SU, respectively. The remaining breeding goal traits consisted of type traits of the feet and leg composite, female fertility, health traits, and 305-d production traits. The final genotype data set included 44,474 SNPs from the 17,264 genotyped cows. Heritabilities for DD, HYP, and SU were estimated in linear and threshold models considering the genomic relationship matrix (G matrix). Genetic correlations with breeding goal traits based on G were estimated in a series of bivariate linear models, which were verified via SNP effect correlations for specific chromosome segments (i.e., segments harboring potential candidate genes for DD, HYP, and SU). Genome-wide association studies were performed for all traits in a case-control design by applying a single SNP linear mixed model. Furthermore, for DD, HYP, and SU, we modeled SNP × heat stress interactions in genome-wide association studies. Single nucleotide polymorphism-based heritabilities were 0.04 and 0.08 for DD, 0.03 and 0.10 for SU, and 0.03 and 0.23 for HYP from linear and threshold models, respectively. The genetic correlations between DD, HYP, and SU with conformation traits from the feet and leg composite were positive throughout, indicating the value of indirect selection on conformation traits to improve claw health. Genetic correlations between DD, SU, and HYP with other breeding goal traits indicated impaired female fertility, impaired udder health status, and productivity decline of diseased cows. Genetic correlations among DD, SU, and HYP were moderate to large, indicating that different claw disorders have similar genetic mechanisms. Nevertheless, we identified disease-specific potential candidate genes, and genetic associations based on the surrounding SNPs partly differed from the genetic correlations. Especially for candidate genes contributing to 2 traits simultaneously, correlations based on SNP effects from the respective chromosome segment were close to 1 or to -1. In this regard, we annotated the candidate genes KRT33A and KRT33B for HYP and DD, KIF27 for HYP and calving to first insemination, and MAN1A1 for SU and the production traits. For SNP × heat stress interactions, we identified significant SNPs on BTA 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 13, 22, 25, and 28, and we annotated the potential candidate genes FSIP2, CLCN1, ADGRV1, DOP1A, THBD, and RHOBTB1. Results indicate gene-specific mechanisms of the claw disorders only in specific environments.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. and Fass Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The neonicotinoid insecticide acetamiprid is widely applied for pest control in agriculture production, and its exposure often results in adverse effects on a non-target insect, Bombyx mori. However, only few studies have investigated the effects of exposure to sublethal doses of neonicotinoid insecticides on gut microbiota and susceptibility to pathogenic bacteria. In this study, we aimed to explore the possible mechanisms underlying the acetamiprid-induced compositional changes in gut microbiota of silkworm and reduced host resistance against detrimental microbes. This study indicated that sublethal dose of acetamiprid activated the dual oxidase-reactive oxygen species (Duox-ROS) system and induced ROS accumulation, leading to dysregulation of intestinal immune signaling pathways. The evenness and structure of bacterial community were altered. Moreover, after 96 h of exposure to sublethal dose of acetamiprid, several bacteria, such as Pseudomonas sp (Biotype A, DOP-1a, XW34) and Staphylococcus sp (RCB1054, RCB314, X302), invaded the silkworm hemolymph. The survival rate and bodyweight of the acetamiprid treated silkworm larvae inoculated with Enterobacter cloacae (E. cloacae) were signiﬁcantly lower than the acetamiprid treatment group, suggesting that acetamiprid reduced silkworm resistance against pathogens. These findings indicated that acetamiprid disturbed gut microbial homeostasis of Bombyx mori, resulting in changes in gut microbial community and susceptibility to detrimental microbes.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ionizing radiation is a confirmed independent environmental factor for thyroid cancer. Environmental and occupational exposure are exposed to low-dose ionizing radiation (LDR), which underscores the persistent need to decipher the mechanisms of LDR induced thyroid carcinogenesis. In addition to the canonical driver mutations or chromosomal rearrangements, there remains a gap in understanding the key drivers of LDR-induced thyroid cancer that needs to be clarified. VPS53, a core subunit of the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex, mediates retrograde vesicular trafficking, but its role in LDR-induced thyroid tumorigenesis is uncharacterized. Here, we found that LDR induces an increase in VPS53 copy number in clones of thyroid follicular epithelial cell malignant transformation, leading to elevated expression levels, and high VPS53 expression is associated with poor prognosis in thyroid cancer patients. Functionally, VPS53 promotes the proliferation and clonal formation of thyroid cancer cells; meanwhile, xenograft tumor experiments in nude mice demonstrated that high expression of VPS53 facilitates tumor growth. Mechanistically, VPS53 directly interacts with EGFR, redirecting it from the lysosomal degradation pathway to the plasma membrane recycling pathway, thereby maintaining the sustained activation of the carcinogenesis signaling pathway. Moreover, VPS53 alters the direction of DNA double-strand break repair, favoring non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) over homologous recombination (HR), which exacerbates genomic instability. These mechanisms collectively promote the thyroid carcinogenesis. Collectively, we have confirmed a novel mechanism by which the VPS53-EGFR axis drives thyroid carcinogenesis induced by LDR, and provided new insights into thyroid tumor biology.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ruminant meat is an important component of human diets, valued for its unique flavor and nutritional density. Lipids play a dominant role in shaping meat flavor, yet their genetic and biochemical basis remains unexplored. Here, from the analysis of 434 sheep longissimus thoracis samples, the current study presents the first comprehensive lipid map of sheep meat, including 947 lipids. A substantial proportion of these lipids exhibit moderate-to-high heritability, with 51.6% surpassing a heritability of 0.2 and 15.8% exceeding 0.45. Metabolome-based genome-wide association analysis identifies 467 significant loci affecting 233 lipids, including 110 loci exhibiting pleiotropy. Notably, the levels of monogalactosyldiacylglycerols containing oleic (C18:1) and linoleic (C18:2) acids are specifically regulated by the expression of MBOAT1 and PAQR8 genes, respectively, while 13 triglycerides and one diglyceride are co-regulated by SH2D4A. The levels of phosphatidylethanolamine PE(20:4_20:0) are regulated by VPS53. Further examination of volatile compounds demonstrates that variations in these genetically controlled lipids significantly impact flavourant levels in cooked meat. Given the conservation of lipid profiles and genomes among ruminants, this study offers novel insights into the genetic architecture underlying meat lipid metabolism and provides a valuable resource for the targeted genetic improvement of ruminant meat flavor.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Mature B-cell acute lymphocytic leukaemia (B-ALL) is distinguished from B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) by the arbitrariness of the 25% cut-off, and given that the percentage of bone marrow (BM) blasts can vary according to site of aspirate, we refrained from differentiating mature B-ALL from B-NHL with BM infiltration. A total of 156 patients from the Chinese Children Cancer Group with BM blasts of more than 5% and consistent with immunophenotypic features of mature B cells were included in this study. The 2-year progression-free survival, 2-year event-free survival and 2-year overall survival were 76.6 ± 3.6%, 69.7 ± 3.7% and 80.1 ± 3.3% respectively. Central nervous system (CNS) involvement, serum ferritin levels higher than four times normal and rituximab no more than two doses were associated with lower PFS. Male, bulky disease and head/neck region involvement were associated with higher rate of CNS invasion. We performed an integrative transcriptomic characterization of 36 cases. Structure variant included IG::MYC, IGH::CACS11, MEF2D::BCL9, IGH::VPS53 and ACIN1::NUTM1. SNV analysis uncovered driver variations affecting 10 recurrently mutated genes including ID3, TP53, MYC, ARID1A, SMARCA4, DDX3X, CCND3, RHOA, SMARCB1, FOXO1 and GNA13. Mature B-ALL/B-NHL with BM involvement was a heterogeneous group of malignancies in both clinical features and genetic alternations. Genetics analysis was helpful for making accurate diagnoses and guiding appropriate therapeutic strategies.© 2025 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pathogenic variants in VPS53 are associated with pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 2E (PCH2E), characterized by microcephaly, severe neurodevelopmental impairment and epilepsy. We present a case of a female neonate with VPS53 pathogenic variants exhibiting the classic phenotypic features along with liver disease and deafness, which had not been described in previously reported cases. Similarly, while liver abnormalities have been reported in patients with mutations in other genes coding for proteins of the GARP or EARP complex, of which VPS53 is a subunit, liver disease has not been described in PCH2E until now. This case suggests that liver involvement may be an under-recognized feature of PCH2E and, more broadly, in GARP or EARP dysfunction, warranting further investigation.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
While genome-wide association studies and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis have made significant progress in identifying noncoding variants associated with prostate cancer risk and bulk tissue transcriptome changes, the regulatory effect of these genetic elements on gene expression remains largely unknown. Recent developments in single-cell sequencing have made it possible to perform ATAC-seq and RNA-seq profiling simultaneously to capture functional associations between chromatin accessibility and gene expression. In this study, we tested our hypothesis that this multiome single-cell approach allows for mapping regulatory elements and their target genes at prostate cancer risk loci. We applied a 10X Multiome ATAC + Gene Expression platform to encapsulate Tn5 transposase-tagged nuclei from multiple prostate cell lines for a total of 65,501 high quality single cells from RWPE1, RWPE2, PrEC, BPH1, DU145, PC3, 22Rv1 and LNCaP cell lines. To address data sparsity commonly seen in the single-cell sequencing, we performed targeted sequencing to enrich sequencing data at prostate cancer risk loci involving 2,730 candidate germline variants and 273 associated genes. Although not increasing the number of captured cells, the targeted multiome data did improve eQTL gene expression abundance by about 20% and chromatin accessibility abundance by about 5%. Based on this multiomic profiling, we further associated RNA expression alterations with chromatin accessibility of germline variants at single cell levels. Cross validation analysis showed high overlaps between the multiome associations and the bulk eQTL findings from GTEx prostate cohort. We found that about 20% of GTEx eQTLs were covered within the significant multiome associations (p-value ≤ 0.05, gene abundance percentage ≥ 5%), and roughly 10% of the multiome associations could be identified by significant GTEx eQTLs. We also analyzed accessible regions with available heterozygous SNP reads and observed more frequent association in genomic regions with allelically accessible variants (p = 0.0055). Among these findings were previously reported regulatory variants including rs60464856-RUVBL1 (multiome p-value = 0.0099 in BPH1) and rs7247241-SPINT2 (multiome p-value = 0.0002- 0.0004 in 22Rv1). We also functionally validated a new regulatory SNP and its target gene rs2474694-VPS53 (multiome p-value = 0.00956 in BPH1 and 0.00625 in DU145) by reporter assay and SILAC proteomics sequencing. Taken together, our data demonstrated the feasibility of the multiome single-cell approach for identifying regulatory SNPs and their regulated genes.
Homozygous VPS50 variants have been previously described in two unrelated patients with a neurodevelopmental disorder with microcephaly, seizures and neonatal cholestasis. VPS50 encodes a subunit that is unique to the heterotetrameric endosome-associated recycling protein (EARP) complex. The other subunits of the EARP complex, such as VPS51, VPS52 and VPS53, are also shared by the Golgi-associated retrograde protein complex. We report on an 18-month-old female patient with biallelic VPS50 variants. She carried a paternally inherited heterozygous nonsense c.13A>T; p.(Lys5*) variant. By long-read genome sequencing, we characterised a structural variant with a 4.3 Mb inversion flanked by deletions at both breakpoints on the maternal allele. The ~428 kb deletion at the telomeric inversion breakpoint encompasses the entire VPS50 gene. We demonstrated a deficiency of VPS50 in patient-derived fibroblasts, confirming the loss-of-function nature of both VPS50 variants. VPS53 and VPS52 protein levels were significantly reduced and absent, respectively, in fibroblasts of the patient. These data show that VPS50 and/or EARP deficiency and the associated functional defects underlie the phenotype in patients with VPS50 pathogenic variants. The VPS50-related core phenotype comprises severe developmental delay, postnatal microcephaly, hypoplastic corpus callosum, neonatal low gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase cholestasis and failure to thrive. The disease is potentially fatal in early childhood.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
In wild animal populations, there is a differentiation between populations due to natural selection. The direction and pressure of natural selection in the wild sheep are different in the various geographic areas. Linkage disequilibrium studies showed that regions of the genome in whole wild sheep are under natural selection and that natural selection can affect immune or reproductive or metabolic traits. The study aimed to identify genomic regions under natural selection in wild sheep. For this purpose, the genetic information of 24 European wild sheep and 24 Sardinian wild sheep was used. The genotypes were determined using Illumina 50 K SNPChip arrays based on Oar_4.0 version of the sheep genome. After quality control steps, finally, 31,560 SNP markers were analyzed. The value of LD was calculated by calculating the r2 statistic between all pairs of locations through PLINK software. To identify signs of selection based on linkage disequilibrium methods, an extended haplotype homozygosity test of XP-EHH crossing population and iHS intrapopulation was used. The results of iHS studies showed that in European and Sardinian wild sheep, the highest iHS coefficient under natural selection was observed on 3 and 2 chromosome numbers, respectively. Also, the results of XP-EHH studies showed that the largest XP-EHH coefficients under natural selection in European wild sheep compared to Sardinian and vice versa in Sardinian wild sheep compared to European wild sheep were observed on 3 and 16 chromosome numbers, respectively. In addition, the results of gene cycle studies showed that COPB1, SEC24D, ZDHHC17, BBS4, RFX3, SLC26A8, CAMK2D, GRIA1, GRM1, GRID2, PPP2R1A, CPEB4, PLEKHA5 and KIF13A, VPS39, VPS53, DTNBP1, DYNC1I1, FAM91A genes are under natural selection in Sardinian and European wild sheeps, respectively. The direction and selection pressure of natural selection in the two breeds of wild sheep is different due to different geographic conditions.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2024. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The advances in gene editing bring unprecedented opportunities in high throughput functional genomics to animal research. Here we describe a genome wide CRISPR knockout library, btCRISPRko.v1, targeting all protein coding genes in the cattle genome. Using it, we conducted genome wide screens during Bovine Herpes Virus type 1 (BoHV-1) replication and compiled a list of pro-viral and anti-viral candidates. These candidates might influence multiple aspects of BoHV-1 biology such as viral entry, genome replication and transcription, viral protein trafficking and virion maturation in the cytoplasm. Some of the most intriguing examples are VPS51, VPS52 and VPS53 that code for subunits of two membrane tethering complexes, the endosome-associated recycling protein (EARP) complex and the Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex. These complexes mediate endosomal recycling and retrograde trafficking to the trans Golgi Network (TGN). Simultaneous loss of both complexes in MDBKs resulted in greatly reduced production of infectious BoHV-1 virions. We also found that viruses released by these deficient cells severely lack VP8, the most abundant tegument protein of BoHV-1 that are crucial for its virulence. In combination with previous reports, our data suggest vital roles GARP and EARP play during viral protein packaging and capsid re-envelopment in the cytoplasm. It also contributes to evidence that both the TGN and the recycling endosomes are recruited in this process, mediated by these complexes. The btCRISPRko.v1 library generated here has been controlled for quality and shown to be effective in host gene discovery. We hope it will facilitate efforts in the study of other pathogens and various aspects of cell biology in cattle.Copyright: © 2023 Tan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) exhibits high fatality rates, and effective treatments are lacking. The expression of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) regulatory protein ALKBH5 is associated with lung cancer. To identify new therapeutic targets for LUAD, we screened target genes of ALKBH5 and analyzed their potential mechanisms of action.LUAD samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were used to analyze the expression of ALKBH5 and screen for genes with correlated expression. Intersection of the genes upregulated in cells with ALKBH5 silencing with the genes significantly associated with ALKBH5 were defined as ALKBH5 target genes. STRING was used to evaluate interactions between the target genes, and the relationship between ALKBH5 target gene expression and LUAD patient prognosis was analyzed using the R package Survminer. Target genes were evaluated by functional enrichment analyses.ALKBH5 was highly expressed in LUAD tissues and was significantly associated with a poor prognosis. Fifteen ALKBH5 target genes were identified, primarily enriched in protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum, transcriptional coregulator activity, and cell activation involved in the immune response. Upregulation of ZNF777, TCOF1, CPLX2, and ABL1 was associated with a poor prognosis, whereas upregulation of ZER1, VPS53, and RRBP1 was associated with a good prognosis.This study provides potential therapeutic targets for LUAD and a basis for further studies on the mechanism underlying the effects of ALKBH5.2023 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide association studies have identified 270 loci conferring risk for prostate cancer (PCa), yet the underlying biology and clinical impact remain to be investigated. Here we observe an enrichment of transcription factor genes including HNF1B within PCa risk-associated regions. While focused on the 17q12/HNF1B locus, we find a strong eQTL for HNF1B and multiple potential causal variants involved in the regulation of HNF1B expression in PCa. An unbiased genome-wide co-expression analysis reveals PCa-specific somatic TMPRSS2-ERG fusion as a transcriptional mediator of this locus and the HNF1B eQTL signal is ERG fusion status dependent. We investigate the role of HNF1B and find its involvement in several pathways related to cell cycle progression and PCa severity. Furthermore, HNF1B interacts with TMPRSS2-ERG to co-occupy large proportion of genomic regions with a remarkable enrichment of additional PCa risk alleles. We finally show that HNF1B co-opts ERG fusion to mediate mechanistic and biological effects of the PCa risk-associated locus 17p13.3/VPS53/FAM57A/GEMIN4. Taken together, we report an extensive germline-somatic interaction between TMPRSS2-ERG fusion and genetic variations underpinning PCa risk association and progression.© 2022. The Author(s).
We theoretically demonstrated the possibility of reducing nitric oxide (NO) to ammonia via the Mars-van-Krevelen (MvK) reaction mechanism on MoN2. Simultaneously, a hydrogen passivation strategy was proposed to improve the catalytic performance of the nitric oxide reduction reaction (NORR) on MoN2. The results show that the catalytic performance at the 100% hydrogen passivation concentration is approximately 2.5 times as large as that of untreated MoN2. Our research may provide a feasible approach for further improving the performance of electrocatalysts for NORR based on the MvK reaction mechanism.With the help of DMol3, the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional was utilized to calculate the exchange-correlation energy. The DFT semi-core pseudopotentials (DSPP) and double numerical plus polarization (DNP) numerical basis set were adopted to treat core electrons and atomic orbitals, respectively. The Hirshfeld population analysis was performed to describe the charge transfer. The electron density difference (EDD) and its local integral curve were utilized to analyze the changes in the electronic structure of the H passivation system. Meanwhile, ab initio molecule dynamics (AIMD) simulations were performed with the NVT ensemble to evaluate the structural stability on a short time scale.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Rapidly sorting patients with large vessel occlusion (LVO) ischemic stroke is crucial to ensure efficient transfers to stroke units. Peripheral monocyte subsets (classical Mon1, intermediate Mon2, non-classical Mon3) could be interesting candidate biomarkers in this setting: their profiles in the first hours after stroke symptom onset are unknown.To characterize monocyte subsets in patients admitted to emergency units for acute stroke suspicion.BOOST ("Biomarkers-algOrithm-for-strOke-diagnoSis-and-Treatment-resistance-prediction," NCT04726839) is a prospective multicenter cohort. Adult patients with symptoms suggesting acute stroke within the last 24 hours were included. Blood was collected upon admission before brain imaging. Flow cytometry (FCM) was performed on fresh blood with gating based on CD45/CD14/CD16/CD91 as well as on activation markers (CD62L/CD11b/CD86/HLA-DR/CCR2/ICAM-1/CX3CR1/TF).Of the 298 consecutive patients tested, mean age 64.0 ± 18.7 years, 64 (21.5%) had LVO stroke versus 234 (78.5%) other diagnosis (non-LVO ischemic stroke, cerebral venous thrombosis, intracranial hemorrhage, transient ischemic attack, and stroke mimics). The median time from symptom onset to sampling was 2.3 hours. We found a significantly lower proportion of Mon3 (geometric mean: -47%, p = 0.0093) and a higher proportion of Mon1 (+1.6%, p = 0.0296), suggesting earlier Mon1 mobilization and patrolling Mon3 consumption in LVO patients versus those without. Using linear-mixed-effect model, significant differences in ICAM-1 and HLA-DR expression on monocyte subsets were evidenced between LVO and other patients.This is the first study to evidence monocyte subset differences in LVO versus non-LVO patients at the time of admission, indicating an acute systemic response in LVO. Whether Mon assessment would add value for LVO diagnosis remains to be determined.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an established production host for therapeutic proteins; many of those are small proteins such as insulin or glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogs. Contrastingly, proteins of higher molecular weight, foremost antibodies, did not reach the market due, among other factors, to limiting productivity. Here we addressed the loss of product to protein degradation through a combination of genetic engineering of the host and medium optimization. We screened target genes that either directly or indirectly can lead to proteolytic degradation. We identified four deletions that are beneficial for expression: PEP1 and VPS30, which both can channel proteins to the vacuole for degradation; MON2, which can lead to the re-uptake of secreted proteins; and ALG3, which can affect the permeability of the cell wall. In parallel, we developed a small-scale fed-batch cultivation system for 24-well deep well plate cultivations and using an amino acid-rich medium. To stabilize secreted proteins, we screened chemical chaperones and osmolytes. We fortified the medium with arginine, 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PBA), and Tween-20. Using the engineered yeast strain, which features VPS30, PEP1, and ALG3 deletions, and the small-scale fed-batch system, we obtained 2.5 µg/mL of a secreted chimeric fusion of a nanobody to the crystallizable fragment (Fc) of a human immunoglobulin. Instrumental to the increase in the final titer were the reduced losses. This was achieved by a combination of complementary measures: improving diffusion through the cell wall, achieved through genetic engineering, and reducing losses to proteolytic degradation through medium optimization and genetic engineering. Moreover, we showed that the engineered strain and cultivation set-up are suitable for the production of different antibodies. KEY POINTS: • Chemical chaperones and amino acid-rich medium increased secreted protein titers. • Medium and host engineering are instrumental for improving productivity. • Small-scale cultivation system enables production levels suitable for characterization.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Leaf morphology traits determine photosynthetic efficiency, high-density planting tolerance, and grain yield in maize (Zea mays L.). Understanding the genetic basis of these traits is of great practical significance for optimizing plant architecture and enhancing photosynthetic capacity to improve grain yield. RESULTS: In this study, six maternal and paternal testcrossing (TC/M and TC/P) populations were developed from recombinant inbred line (RIL) populations using three inbred lines—Y46 (tropical), Ye107 (temperate), and MON2 (subtropical)—in pairwise crosses. The inbreds represented the most representative lines from the three major heterotic groups: Suwan, Reid, and Non-Reid. Each RIL population was backcrossed to maternal and paternal parents, to generate TC/M and TC/P populations, respectively. All individuals from these testcross populations (TCM/Ps) were genotyped using genotyping-by-sequencing technology. Phenotyping for mid-parent heterosis of leaf morphology traits—leaf length (LL), leaf width (LW), and leaf angle (LA)—in these populations were evaluated over two years and across two field locations in China. The inclusive composite interval mapping (ICIM) approach was used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and candidate genes associated with heterosis for leaf morphological traits. The results showed that more QTLs for LL were identified in the Suwan × Non-Reid and Reid × Non-Reid heterotic groups than in Suwan × Reid heterotic groups. However, the largest QTL effects—with a phenotypic variance explained (PVE) of 23.31% for LL—were observed in the Reid × Non-Reid heterotic group. For LW and LA, more QTLs were detected in the Reid × Non-Reid and Suwan × Reid heterotic groups than in the Suwan x Non-Reid heterotic groups. The largest QTL effects were observed in the Reid × Non-Reid heterotic group, with a PVE of 32.32% for LW and 23.13% for LA. In total, seven stable QTLs and 14 candidate genes were identified. Through gene expression analysis, six candidate pleiotropic genes—the ones expressed in maize leaves—were identified, among which Zm00001d022618 and Zm00001d008625 play crucial roles in regulating heterosis formation of leaf morphological traits. CONCLUSION: These findings provide insights into the complexity of heterosis determination in leaf morphological traits and may support precision breeding to optimize plant architecture and harness heterosis in maize.
Prior studies on non-canonical Wnt signaling have established Dishevelled Associated Activator of Morphogenesis 1 (Daam1) as a crucial link in cell movements by cytoskeletal rearrangement. Overexpression or depletion of Daam1 blocks gastrulation in Xenopus embryos and results in phenotype characteristic of spina bifida. A yeast two-hybrid screen has been performed to further identify factors required downstream of Daam1. Among many, DENN (Differentially Expressed in Normal versus Neoplastic cells) domain-containing protein 5 (Dennd5A) is identified as a binding partner of Daam1. In zebrafish, dennd5a and dennd5b are human orthologues of DENND5A and DENND5B. Until now, no data on zebrafish dennd5b's expression or function is available. This current study elucidates the expression and function of the dennd5b during the early embryonic development of zebrafish. dennd5b shows 68.18% sequence similarity with human DENND5B and 68.56% with zebrafish dennd5a. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed maternal deposition of dennd5b at 0 h post-fertilization (hpf), continued expression through gastrulation, somite formation, and persistence into the larval stage. Spatial analysis demonstrated ubiquitous expression during cleavage and gastrulation, followed by restriction to the brain and neural tube during early somite stages, with brain-specific expression maintained through late embryogenesis and larval stage. Functional studies of dennd5b revealed compressed head and tail deformity. Both loss-of-function and gain-of-function perturbations disrupted convergence and extension movements, affecting rhombomere patterning, neural plate morphology, somite organization, notochord structure, and prechordal plate formation. Together, these findings establish dennd5b as essential for zebrafish embryogenesis, particularly in neural development, highlighting a conserved role downstream of Daam1 in non-canonical Wnt-mediated morphogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Monocyte subsets differentially influence pathophysiology of heart failure and atrial fibrillation (AF) through inflammation, fibrosis, and angiogenesis. Spironolactone has antifibrotic properties. This study investigated the effect spironolactone on monocyte subsets and monocyte effects for peak oxygen consumption (peakVO2), diastolic function and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in the IMPRESS-AF randomised controlled trial population (2-year treatment with spironolactone 25 mg vs placebo).CD14++CD16-CCR2+(Mon1), CD14++CD16+CCR2+(Mon2) and CD14+CD16++CCR2-(Mon3) monocyte subsets were analysed by flow cytometry and compared between spironolactone and placebo groups at 12 months and 24 months after randomisation. PeakVO2, diastolic function (echocardiographic E/'e) and BNP were measured at baseline and 24 months. Linear regression was used to assess the effects of monocytes on the outcomes (Python 3.10 modules).Monocyte data were available in 225 (90%) IMPRESS-AF patients (age 72[67-77], 78% male). At 12-month the spironolactone group had fewer Mon3 (50[36-74] vs 60[44-90] cells/microL, p=0.02), and lower CD14 expression on Mon1 (1.37[1.17-1.59] vs 1.48[1.24-1.70], p=0.04); no difference remained by 24 months (p>0.05). A high 12-month Mon1 count independently predicted lower E/e' at 24 months (p=0.02).Spironolactone temporarily reduced proinflammatory monocyte markers (Mon3 count and CD14 expression on Mon1). Mon1 may have a positive effect on diastolic dysfunction in AF.© 2024. The Author(s).
Recently, a new monocyte subset known as Mon4, characterized by distinct gene expressions, has been identified but remains poorly characterized. In this study, our objective was to comprehensively characterise Mon4 in healthy individuals and explore its correlation with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Our study enrolled 20 healthy individuals and 245 STEMI patients who underwent primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We analysed monocyte subsets using flow cytometry and collected bone marrow samples from 11 healthy individuals. Cardiac function assessments were performed in STEMI patients through echocardiography within 3 days post-PCI. Mon4 displayed significant differences compared to Mon1, Mon2, and Mon3 in various parameters among healthy individuals, underscoring its distinct profile. In STEMI patients, above-median Mon4 counts were associated with a increased risk of MACE (hazard ratio [HR] 3.11, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.55-6.24, p = 0.01) and heart failure (HR 3.25, 95% CI 1.14-9.24, p = 0.03) after adjusting for other predictive factors. This study highlights the unique characteristics of Mon4 and its clinical significance. The distinctive gene signature of Mon4, coupled with its association with MACE and heart failure, suggests its potential utility as a biomarker for risk assessment in MI patients. Further investigations are warranted to explore the therapeutic potential of targeting Mon4 in reducing cardiovascular complications following MACE.© 2025. The Author(s).
Although molecular tests developed for a growing list of oncogenic alterations have significantly aided in the classification of head and neck carcinomas, tumours in which prototypical histologic and immunophenotypic features are lacking or only partially developed continue to pose diagnostic challenges. Searching for known diagnostic and therapeutic targets by clinical next-generation sequencing (NGS) assays can often lead to new discoveries.We present our institutional experience in applying targeted RNA NGS in 36 head and neck carcinomas that were morphologically difficult to classify between 2016 and 2023. The patients ranged in age from 5 to 83 years (median, 64), with the majority of tumors occurring in the major salivary glands and the sinonasal tract. Overall, seven (19%) cases showed unusual gene rearrangements, including five novel alterations: MON2::STAT6 in a hard palate adenocarcinoma with mucinous features, POC5::RAF1 in apocrine intraductal carcinoma of the lacrimal gland, EWSR1::CDADC1 fusion in a basaloid carcinoma of the submandibular gland, NFATC2::NUTM2B in myoepithelial carcinoma, and NSD3::NCOA2 fusion in a peculiar high-grade carcinoma with a peritheliomatous growth pattern, and focal myogenic differentiation. Potential therapeutic actionability was identified in three cases (RAF1 and FGFR2 fusions).These findings broaden the current spectrum of gene rearrangements in head and neck carcinomas and support the utility of clinical NGS in identifying unusual, actionable alterations in diagnostically challenging cases.© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Existing genetic studies of neuroticism have been largely limited to common variants. Here we performed a large-scale exome analysis of white British individuals from UK Biobank, revealing the role of coding variants in neuroticism. For rare variants, collapsing analysis uncovered 14 neuroticism-associated genes. Among these, 12 (PTPRE, BCL10, TRIM32, ANKRD12, ADGRB2, MON2, HIF1A, ITGB2, STK39, CAPNS2, OGFOD1 and KDM4B) were novel, and the remaining (MADD and TRPC4AP) showed convergent evidence with common variants. Heritability of rare coding variants was estimated to be up to 7.3% for neuroticism. For common variants, we identified 78 significant associations, implicating 6 unreported genes. We subsequently replicated these variants using meta-analysis across other four ancestries from UK Biobank and summary data from 23andMe sample. Furthermore, these variants had widespread impacts on neuropsychiatric disorders, cognitive abilities and brain structure. Our findings deepen the understanding of neuroticism's genetic architecture and provide potential targets for future mechanistic research.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Degenerative cervical myelopathy (DCM) is a progressive spinal condition that can lead to severe neurological dysfunction. Despite its degenerative pathophysiology, family history has shown to be a largely important factor in incidence and progression, suggesting that inherent genetic predisposition may play a role in pathophysiology.To determine the tissue-specific, functional genetic basis of hereditary predisposition to cervical myelopathy.Retrospective case-control study using patient genetics and matched EHR from the Mount Sinai BioMe Biobank.In a large, diverse, urban biobank of 32,031 individuals, with 558 individuals with cervical myopathy, we applied transcriptomic imputation to identify genetically regulated gene expression signatures associated with DCM. We performed drug-repurposing analysis using the CMAP database to identify candidate therapeutic interventions to reverse the cervical myelopathy-associated gene signature.We identified 16 genes significantly associated with DCM across 5 different tissues, suggesting tissue-specific manifestations of inherited genetic risk (upregulated: HES6, PI16, TMEM183A, BDH2, LINC00937, CLEC4D, USP43, SPATA1; downregulated: TTC12, CDK5, PAFAH1B2, RCSD1, KLHL29, PTPRG, RP11-620J15.3, C1RL). Drug repurposing identified 22 compounds with the potential to reverse the DCM-associated signature, suggesting points of therapeutic intervention.The inherited genetic risk for cervical myelopathy is functionally associated with genes involved in tissue-specific nociceptive and proliferative processes. These signatures may be reversed by candidate therapeutics with nociceptive, calcium channel modulating, and antiproliferative effects.Understanding the genetic basis of DCM provides critical insights into the hereditary factors contributing to the disease, allowing for more personalized and targeted therapeutic approaches. The identification of candidate drugs through transcriptomic imputation and drug repurposing analysis offers potential new treatments that could significantly improve patient outcomes and quality of life by addressing the underlying genetic mechanisms of DCM.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kadsura longipedunculata Finet et Gagnep. belongs to the Kadsura Kaempf.exJuss. Vaccinium of the family Magnoliaceae. It mainly distributes in regions such as Guangxi, Sichuan, Fujian and Yunnan of China. Commonly used as traditional Chinese medicine for anti-inflammation and analgesia, it has a long history in folk medicine. In recent years, research on the active components and pharmacological activities of K. longipedunculata Finet et Gagnep. has received extensive attention. Many studies have reported that lignans are the characteristic active components, among which the gomisin group of compounds has been frequently reported, including Gomisin A, G, N, and M2. Our previous research found that another such compound, Gomisin R, could significantly inhibit the secretion of inflammatory factors in LPS-induced RAW264.7 mononuclear macrophages and reduce the expression of NF-κB p65 protein. However, the anti-inflammatory signaling pathways and target sites of Gomisin R remain unclear.To explore the anti-inflammatory signaling pathways and target sites of Gomisin R, clarify its anti-inflammatory molecular mechanism, provide experimental references for pharmacological research and clinical application, and help discover new drug treatment targets and develop new drugs.The experimental subjects were classified into three groups: control group, LPS model group, and Gomisin R group. An in vitro inflammation model was established by inducing RAW264.7 cells with LPS. The anti-inflammatory related signaling pathways and target proteins of Gomisin R were screened by data independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics sequencing. The target proteins were verified by Western blot, and the binding activity of Gomisin R with the target proteins was predicted by molecular docking technology.Compared with the LPS model group, 163 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified from the cellular components in the Gomisin R group. 90 proteins among which were upregulated and 73 proteins were downregulated. Four enrichment pathways were screened: NF-κB signaling pathway, AMPK signaling pathway, mTOR signaling pathway, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. The classical inflammatory pathway was the NF-κB signaling pathway. Verification showed that Gomisin R mainly downregulated 4 proteins in the NF-κB signaling pathway: CCL4, PARP1, TNFRSF11A, and ERC1, thereby exerting anti-inflammatory effects and showing good binding activities with these 4 proteins.This study identified CCL4, PARP1, TNFRSF11A, and ERC1-related proteins, which may be potential molecular targets for the anti-inflammatory effect of Gomisin R. Since these four proteins are all enriched in the NF-κB signaling pathway, it is speculated that the anti-inflammatory mechanism of Gomisin R might involve regulation of the NF-κB signaling pathway to down-regulate the protein levels of CCL4, PARP1, TNFRSF11A, and ERC1, thereby to inhibit the inflammatory response. This study provides a reference for further developing Gomisin R into a small molecule natural anti-inflammatory drug.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Pleural mesothelioma (PM) is characterised by often rapid therapeutic failure and chemotherapy resistance. While terminal resistance is well studied, the initial transition into a drug-tolerant phenotype remains poorly understood. Methods: We established patient-derived organoids (PDOs) from malignant pleural effusions to model this transition. Cisplatin-tolerant lines were generated via repeated incremental exposure to cisplatin and compared to time-matched treatment-naive controls using RNA sequencing and Seahorse XFe96 metabolic flux analysis. Results: Integrated profiling suggested that the route to tolerance may be influenced by the underlying mutational profile. In this cohort, all BAP1-retained models (including those with KRAS mutations or MTAP loss) adopted an elevated basal metabolic hybrid phenotype, significantly upregulating baseline oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis to fuel survival mechanisms. Conversely, BAP1-deficient models entered a hypometabolic state of dormancy, characterised by baseline bioenergetic suppression and reduced Ki-67 proliferation. Transcriptomic analysis identified a vesicular transport signature (SYNGR3, VPS52, PROM2) in plastic models, suggesting altered membrane trafficking as a potential survival strategy. Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate that mesothelioma therapeutic escape is not a uniform process. Identifying these patient-specific metabolic and transcriptomic trajectories via 3D PDOs provides a hypothesis-generating framework to explore potential avenues for future personalised therapy.
Emerging evidence suggests that GRIP and coiled-coil domain-containing two enriched small extracellular vesicles (sEV-GCC2) may serve as diagnostic biomarkers of early-stage lung adenocarcinomas. However, the roles of these molecules remain unclear. This study evaluated the diagnostic and prognostic potential of sEV-GCC2 for detecting early-stage lung adenocarcinoma and its tumourigenic role in vitro and in vivo. This retrospective multicentre study analyzed 470 plasma samples (320 lung adenocarcinoma patients, 150 controls; mean follow-up: 34.7 ± 24.0 months) across five institutions. Size-exclusion chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to measure sEV-GCC2 levels, whereas immunohistochemistry was used to confirm GCC2 expression in tumour tissues. Functional studies were performed using the PC9 and H1650 lung adenocarcinoma cell lines in vitro and the corresponding PC9-based preclinical models in vivo to evaluate the tumour-related effects of sEV-GCC2. Patients exhibited significantly elevated sEV-GCC2 levels compared to controls (area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve [AUC]: 0.904, P < 0.001), with similar results in stage TisN0-T1miN0 disease (AUC: 0.781, P < 0.001). sEV-GCC2 levels were associated with the pathological TNM stage and tumour location. Higher sEV-GCC2 levels were correlated with poorer recurrence-free survival (RFS), overall survival and recurrence rates, even in patients with stage 0-IA1 disease. Functional studies have revealed that sEV-GCC2, but not GCC2-deficient sEVs, promote cancer cell proliferation, tumour growth and lymph node metastasis in vitro and in vivo. These findings highlight the diagnostic and prognostic potential of sEV-GCC2 and its tumourigenic role in early-stage lung adenocarcinoma. This study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04529915).© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
INTRODUCTION: While intratumor heterogeneity (ITH) is recognized as a fundamental driver of treatment resistance and disease progression in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), existing prognostic models often fail to quantify ITH as a biomarker robustly. METHODS: This study obtained a training set from the METABRIC, while validation sets were sourced from the GEO database. ITH scores were calculated using the DEPTH2 algorithm, a computational method to infer heterogeneity from bulk transcriptomic data. Patients were stratified into distinct high-ITH and low-ITH groups based on these scores. Ten machine learning algorithms were integrated to generate 101 modeling approaches in the training set. The StepCox[backward] + GBM model, incorporating seven ITH-related signature (IRS) genes (IRF8, MAGEA4, IL18R1, IL7R, TBC1D10C, TEX261, and CD6), was selected as the optimal prognostic model. Then, we validated the cellular distribution and intercellular communication networks of core genes by single-cell sequencing data. Finally, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed on matched TNBC tumor and adjacent normal tissues to experimentally validate the differential expression of the IRS genes. RESULTS: The IRS model demonstrated robust prediction of patient overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in three independent cohorts. Patients in the high IRS score group showed worse prognosis, elevated Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE) scores, lower Microsatellite Instability (MSI) scores, reduced expression of immune checkpoints, lower immune cell infiltration. And high IRS score was associated with poorer immunotherapy response in the GSE194040, GSE173839, GSE124821, and IMvigor210. The high and low-IRS score groups also exhibited differences in related functions and pathways. The high-risk group was significantly enriched in metabolic pathways, particularly N-Glycan biosynthesis and O-Glycan biosynthesis. Conversely, the low-risk group was predominantly associated with robust immune-related pathways, including adaptive immune response and immune response-regulating cell surface receptor signaling pathways. The IRS core genes were specifically distributed in CD8 + T cells and macrophages, and the interaction networks between CD8 + T cells and macrophages in the GALECTIN and CD45 signaling pathways were elucidated. Drug sensitivity analysis showed that the high-risk group was more sensitive to chemotherapeutic agents, especially to poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP)inhibitors. qRT-PCR validation confirmed the differential expression of seven critical genes between TNBC and adjacent normal tissues. CONCLUSION: Our study established an IRS model integrating machine learning and single-cell RNA sequencing. This model improves the accuracy of prognosis prediction for TNBC patients and effectively distinguishes risk subgroups with different immune microenvironment characteristics and treatment responses, providing preliminary data for precision medicine for TNBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Childhood obesity is a growing global health crisis associated with an increased risk of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases in adulthood. While accumulating evidence implicates immune dysregulation in obesity pathogenesis, the specific transcriptional alterations of immune cells, particularly NK cells and T cells in the context of childhood obesity, and their potential as non-invasive diagnostic biomarkers, remain largely unexplored. Here, we investigated the transcriptional alterations of NK cells and T cells in childhood obesity and evaluated their potential as non-invasive diagnostic biomarkers. To this end, we integrated bulk RNA-seq datasets (GSE205668 and GSE87493), adipose single-cell RNA-seq data (GSE159960), and blood qPCR validation to identify NK- and T-cell-related diagnostic biomarkers for childhood obesity. Differential expression analysis and WGCNA were applied to the bulk datasets to derive obesity-associated candidates, and single-cell RNA-seq was used to define immune-cell composition, infer NK-cell pseudotemporal dynamics, and quantify cell-cell communication. Genes shared between the bulk and single-cell analyses were prioritized using an ensemble machine-learning workflow comprising 110 model configurations and five feature-selection methods. TBC1D10C expression was validated by qPCR in an independent cohort of 29 children. Transcriptome-based analyses indicated reduced relative representation of NK cells and T cells in childhood obesity, with altered transcriptional programs and inferred impairment of NK-CD4 + T-cell communication. A 13-gene NK- and T-cell-based diagnostic signature was derived, and TBC1D10C was consistently prioritized by all feature-selection methods. The signature showed good discrimination between childhood obesity and controls across datasets (AUC 0.753-0.808), and comparable performance was observed for TBC1D10C alone. Enrichment analyses associated higher TBC1D10C expression with immune pathways, including Th1/Th2 differentiation, IL-17 signaling, and NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. qPCR confirmed significant upregulation of TBC1D10C in peripheral blood from children with obesity. Across independent cohorts and platforms, TBC1D10C was identified as a reproducible NK- and T-cell-associated biomarker for childhood obesity, and immune dysregulation relevant to obesity pathophysiology may be reflected by its expression. Therefore, we propose TBC1D10C as a promising diagnostic biomarker and highlight its potential role in the immunopathology of childhood obesity.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The prevalence of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is rapidly increasing in India, yet molecular markers that reflect early disease susceptibility remain limited. Epigenetic modifications such as DNA methylation may reflect early metabolic vulnerability preceding overt dysglycemia. In this study, we examined genome-wide DNA methylation patterns in a pilot subset nested within a prospective Indian cohort using Nanopore sequencing and assessed their associations with previously identified metabolite predictors from the same cohort.Genome-wide DNA methylation profiling was performed on buffy-coat DNA from 12 participants who were normoglycemic at baseline and later classified into normoglycemia, prediabetes, or T2DM based on their glycemic status at 6-year follow-up. At baseline, gene-level aggregation of CpG methylation revealed directionally consistent hypermethylation of seven genes (ABCG1, ADARB2, BCL2, DLC1, EGFLAM, SYK, ZNF516) in individuals who later developed T2DM, while those progressing to prediabetes exhibited six hypermethylated (ABCG1, FLT3, LCP1, MBP, NCOA2, TCF7L2) and five hypomethylated genes (ZFHX3, PAX6, PTPRN2, ERC1, HIPK1). ABCG1 showed consistent hypermethylation across both groups. Longitudinal within-individual comparisons identified additional gene-associated methylation changes, including ANK1, IQSEC1, and RUNX1, and shared alterations in CACNA1C, KANSL1, PTPRN2, and TTC34, while six genes showed stage-dependent directional shifts in methylation (ASB3, EFR3A, PCSK5, KLHL14, PDE4C, UNC5C). Correlation analyses at baseline suggested associations between ABCG1 and EGFLAM methylation, fasting glucose, phosphatidylethanolamine [PE (20:3_18:0)] and insulin sensitivity indices.This pilot longitudinal study suggests that gene-associated DNA methylation changes in blood may be detectable prior to the onset of dysglycemia. These findings are exploratory and hypothesis-generating, highlighting candidate genes and epigenetic-metabolic associations for targeted validation in larger, independent cohorts using alternative analytical approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal tumours account for one in twenty paediatric cancers, with Wilms tumour (WT) the most common in young children and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) predominating in adolescents and young adults. Diagnostic work-up has traditionally focused on clinical features, radiology, and histology, with a limited role for molecular analysis. However, it is estimated that up to one-third of children with WT have underlying cancer predisposition, which could necessitate prolonged treatment and intensive follow-up.Here we describe five children and young adults treated at a single regional centre in England who had paired tumour and germline whole genome sequencing (WGS) as part of their routine diagnostic work-up.One child diagnosed radiologically with a WT underwent pre-operative chemotherapy with good clinical and imaging response. Histological examination of the resection raised concerns over RCC; however, WGS was able to confirm that this was a WT with pathognomonic somatic WT changes. A young adult with upfront nephrectomy had a difficult-to-classify tumour; WGS revealed a novel ERC1-CCNY fusion as a likely novel driver event. Two further children, who did not meet clinical criteria for cancer predisposition testing, had predisposition syndromes identified via agnostic WGS. Finally, a child with piebaldism had a WT-associated REST deletion identified early through critical clinical thinking and expedited microarray.We highlight that molecular analysis, particularly agnostic WGS, has a key routine role in the care of children with renal tumours. It is likely that outcomes for these young people have been improved through more accurate diagnosis and early detection of cancer predisposition.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial inflammation and joint destruction. Abnormal T-cell ubiquitination has been implicated in RA pathogenesis, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear.Transcriptomic data from RA blood and synovial tissue were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Ubiquitination-related module genes were obtained using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and their overlap with DEGs yielded blood-synovial ubiquitination-related genes (BS-UGs). Single-cell datasets were used to extract T-cell marker genes, and intersection analysis identified T-cell-specific ubiquitination genes (BS-TUGs). Machine learning algorithms (SVM-RFE and Boruta) screened key BS-TUGs. Immune infiltration, transcription factor (TF) regulation, and master regulators were explored. Finally, two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to assess causal relationships between key genes and RA.A total of 521 BS-UGs and 21 candidate BS-TUGs were identified, from which six key genes (DOCK10, DGKA, NOP58, JAK3, GCC2, ANO9) were selected. These genes exhibited significant immune-cell correlations and were regulated by multiple TFs. MR analysis demonstrated a positive causal association between NOP58 (OR = 1.074, p = 0.001) and RA, and a negative association between GCC2 (OR = 0.928, p < 0.001) and RA, without heterogeneity or pleiotropy.Integrative dual-omics and MR analyses identified key ubiquitination-related T-cell genes driving RA pathogenesis. NOP58 and GCC2 represent potential causal biomarkers and therapeutic targets, offering novel insights into immune regulation and precision intervention in RA.Copyright © 2026 He, Zhao and Meng.
The Idylla GeneFusion Assay detects gene fusions with fusion-specific and expression imbalance methods. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic utility of detecting fusions with expression imbalance alone in non-small-cell lung cancer. Results of ALK, ROS1, and RET fusion detection with expression imbalance were compared with results of orthogonal testing. Of 1982 cases reviewed from October 2022 through August 2024, 63 (3.2%) had fusions detected with the expression imbalance method alone, including 47 ALK, 10 ROS1, and 7 RET fusions. One case had ALK and RET fusions. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) confirmation for 51 cases revealed 8 positive (15.7%), 3 equivocal (5.9%), and 40 negative (78.4%) results. Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) immunohistochemistry performed for 22 ALK-detected cases revealed 3 positive (13.6%) and 19 negative (86.4%) results that were concordant with ALK FISH results. The positive predictive value of expression imbalance detection alone varied by gene (12.5% for ALK, 16.7% for ROS1, and 33.3% for RET). RNA next-generation sequencing results for seven select cases (three ALK, two ROS1, and two RET) showed six novel fusions (eg, STRN::ALK, SQSTM1::ROS1, and ERC1::RET) and had 100% concordance with FISH results. One case showed an NOL10::ALK out-of-frame fusion with negative ALK immunohistochemistry and equivocal ALK FISH results. Because the expression imbalance method can detect novel fusions, its implementation with confirmation testing is recommended.Copyright © 2026 Association for Molecular Pathology and American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pathogen and pest effectors play a crucial role in manipulating plant biological processes, facilitating infection and infestation. While pathogens and pests secrete repertoires of effectors into host plants, most effector function studies focus on characterizing individual proteins. Our previous work identified a genetically linked and co-regulated gene pair in the aphid pest Myzus persicae encoding effectors Mp1 and Mp58. Here, we explored the functional link between these two effectors. We revealed that effectors Mp1 and Mp58 interact in planta and in vitro and form an oligomeric complex. The putative orthologues of the Mp1-Mp58 pair in the aphid species Rhopalosiphum padi, Rp1 and Rp58, also interact, but members of the pair cannot interact across aphid species, suggesting that effector pairs have co-evolved within each aphid species but diversified across species. Both Mp1 and Mp58 associate with the host Vacuolar Protein Sorting associated Protein 52 (VPS52) to form an Mp1-Mp58-VPS52 complex, which localizes at vesicle-like structures. Our findings point to effector complex formation in plant-insect interactions and highlight a further layer of complexity in the molecular dialogue between insects and their host plants. Our work highlights the importance of considering the context in which effectors may function within a larger effector repertoire.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Experimental Biology.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major cause of heart failure, but the organelle-level mechanisms linking cardiomyocyte stress to maladaptive remodeling remain incompletely defined. Transmembrane protein 87a (TMEM87a) is a Golgi-associated transmembrane protein implicated in organelle homeostasis and ion conductance. Here, we investigated whether TMEM87a regulates cardiomyocyte integrity and DCM pathogenesis. In a doxorubicin-induced mouse model of DCM, cardiac TMEM87a expression was increased, suggesting engagement of this pathway during myocardial stress. Cardiomyocyte-specific Tmem87a knockout mice developed spontaneous DCM-like disease, including impaired systolic function, ventricular dilation, elevated plasma brain natriuretic peptide, myocardial fibrosis, and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Quantitative proteomics of knockout hearts identified ferroptosis as the most significantly enriched pathway. Consistent with disrupted iron and redox homeostasis, Tmem87a-null hearts showed increased iron-handling proteins, myocardial iron deposition, elevated hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde levels, reduced GPX4, and increased PTGS2. Pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis with ferrostatin-1 improved cardiac function and attenuated pathological remodeling in Tmem87a knockout mice. These findings identify TMEM87a as a previously unrecognized regulator of cardiomyocyte homeostasis and implicate ferroptosis as an important downstream effector of cardiac injury caused by Tmem87a knockout.© 2026 The New York Academy of Sciences.
The armadillo repeat protein ARMH3 regulates the activity and localization of the Golgi resident lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 4 kinase IIIβ (PI4KB) and the Golgi-specific brefeldin A-resistance guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GBF1) that activates Arf1. ARMH3 localizes to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) via the GTPase Arl5. We used hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and AI-enabled modeling to define the interfaces of ARMH3 with its binding partners Arl5, PI4KB, and GBF1. The ARMH3-Arl5 interface was determined to consist of regions near the N and C termini of ARMH3, with Arl5 binding causing allosteric conformational changes in ARMH3 located at a shared PI4KB/GBF1 interface. ARMH3 binds to PI4KB and GBF1 at this shared competitive interface, with GBF1 binding to ARMH3 through a disordered loop we have named the ARMH3-binding region (ABR). Both GBF1 and PI4KB can form ternary complexes with ARMH3-Arl5. The ARMH3 interfaces in PI4KB and GBF1 contain phosphosites, with the phosphomimetic mutation of GBF1 blocking complex formation. These findings provide new insights into the role of ARMH3 as a master coordinator of GTPase and phosphoinositide signaling at the Golgi/TGN.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite advances in treatment, metastatic high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) remains largely incurable, and the molecular machinery enabling tumor cells to survive detachment and disseminate intraperitoneally remains poorly understood. HGSC metastasis requires tumor cells to evade anoikis during detachment from the fallopian tube epithelium. Through integrative analysis of hyaluronic acid (HA) metabolism-associated genes in transcriptomic datasets, calcineurin homologous protein 1 (CHP1) was identified as a novel mediator of HGSC metastasis. Mechanistically, CHP1 ablation disrupted spheroid morphogenesis in 3D models, inducing aberrant multi-spheroid formation and reduced structural integrity, with impaired cell extrusion from mosaic spheroids. Bioinformatic and experimental validation revealed that CHP1 interacted with the mechanosensitive channel transmembrane protein 87A (TMEM87A), forming a putative mechanosensing complex that may regulate metastasis via the YAP-GPC6-WNT5A/Hedgehog signaling axis; knockout of either gene downregulated WNT5A/GPC6 and inhibited WNT5A/Hedgehog pathways. In vivo, CHP1 or TMEM87A knockout significantly suppressed orthotopic tumor growth and metastasis in NSG mice, indicating a role in overall tumor progression beyond metastasis alone. Drug repurposing identified sodium gluconate (a TMEM87A modulator) as a therapeutic candidate: low-dose treatment (1 mg/kg, weekly) significantly reduced tumor burden by disrupting CHP1-TMEM87A binding and inhibiting downstream Hedgehog/PTCH1 signaling, as the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), microscale thermophoresis (MST), surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and co-immunoprecipitation. Clinically, high CHP1/TMEM87A expression exhibited stage-dependent prognostic significance (favorable in early-stage, unfavorable in late-stage HGSC), as assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis of publicly available datasets. These findings suggest that the CHP1-TMEM87A complex may serve as a mechanosensitive regulator of HGSC metastasis and propose gluconate-based targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are pivotal signals that trigger the transition from seed dormancy to germination, yet the molecular link between ROS and transcriptional regulation has remained unclear. Here, we uncover a redox-dependent mechanism focusing on the transcription factor G-box binding factor 1 (GBF1) and its chaperone GBF1-interacting protein 1 (GIP1). We show that GBF1 undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) to form condensates that enhance target DNA binding and repress the transcription of the germination-promoting gene Cathepsin B-like protease 3 (CathB3). Both the prion-like domain and the bZIP dimerization domain are indispensable for GBF1 condensation and DNA binding. GIP1 colocalizes with GBF1 and functions as a molecular chaperone that fine-tunes condensate size and liquidity, thereby enhancing GBF1's DNA-binding and repressive capacity. Oxidation of GIP1 by ROS burst during germination abolishes its chaperone activity, leading to aberrant, less dynamic GBF1 condensates and consequent derepression of CathB3, which promotes germination. This work identifies a ROS-sensitive chaperone-condensate axis as a key molecular gatekeeper of seed germination, revealing how redox signals are translated into developmental decisions through the material properties of transcriptional condensates.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cell-matrix adhesion regulates membrane trafficking, Golgi organization, and function. Altered Golgi organization in cancer cells may influence trafficking and cargo processing. A simple screen revealed distinct, adhesion-dependent differences in Golgi organization across breast (MDAMB231 versus MCF7) and lung (A549 versus CaLu1) cancer cell lines. To identify regulators driving these differences, we performed an in silico analysis of differentially expressed genes in the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia dataset, integrating Golgi-associated functions from interaction networks and literature. This analysis highlighted AXL as a putative Golgi regulator. AXL is prominently localized to the Golgi and is displaced upon inhibition with R428, which disrupts Golgi organization. AXL knockdown also does the same. AXL-mediated regulation of the Golgi is adhesion dependent. Mechanistically, AXL controls Arf1 activation through an AMPK-GBF1 pathway. Targeting of AMPK activation thus significantly reverses R428-mediated Golgi disorganization. Loss of adhesion promotes AMPK and reduces Arf1 activity, displacing AXL and Arf1 from the Golgi, driving its disorganization. This impacts Golgi-associated functions, tubulin acetylation in MDAMB231 cells, and cell-surface glycosylation in A549 cells. Together, our findings identify an adhesion-AXL-AMPK-GBF1-Arf1 pathway governing Golgi organization and function in cancer cells.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Most membrane-bound organelles have been linked to the initiation and execution of ferroptosis. However, the role of the Golgi apparatus and its resident proteins in ferroptosis remain elusive. Here we show that ferroptosis inducer triggers rapid oxidation of Golgi membrane lipids in the early phase of ferroptosis, resulting in disruption of Golgi pH. The Golgi-localized transmembrane protein TMEM87A is identified to mediate ferroptosis resistance through buffering Golgi pH. Depletion of TMEM87A leads to Golgi overacidification, which impairs FSP1-mediated reduction of coenzyme Q. In vivo, TMEM87A ablation suppresses the progression of multiple murine tumors including melanoma, colorectal cancer and liver cancer. TMEM87A ablation also enhances antitumor T cell responses and potentiates PD1 blockade therapy. Clinically, tumoral TMEM87A expression negatively correlates with immunotherapy response and treatment outcome. Our study reveals that TMEM87A functions as a suppressor of tumoral ferroptosis by maintaining Golgi pH homeostasis and targeting TMEM87A is potent to augment cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite the identification of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) genes and neuropathological alterations, AD displays complex genetic heterogeneity and molecular pathogenesis that warrant further investigation. GBF1 (Golgi brefeldin A resistant guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1) regulates protein trafficking, and genetic variants of GBF1 are associated with axonal neuropathy, intelligence, and cognitive function.We sought to identify GBF1 neuropathological and molecular alterations using human post mortem brains, 5XFAD mouse brains, and FAD cells, as well as two family-based datasets (total sample size of 2522) to explore candidate GBF1 variants associated with AD.GBF1 revealed neuropathological alterations in association with amyloid plaques. Genetic analysis identified GBF1 suggestive variants associated with AD. Downregulation of GBF1 retarded amyloid beta (Aβ) protein precursor maturation and reduced levels of Aβ proteins.Collectively, GBF1 reveals neuropathological alterations in AD, and may lead to AD by a pathogenic mechanism altering Aβ levels and amyloid deposition in the brain.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Influenza viruses and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) are respiratory pathogens that continue to challenge global health due to their efficient transmission and ability to circumvent virus-specific treatments. Targeting host factors that are essential for viral replication may enable the development of broad-spectrum antivirals with reduced resistance potential. Here, we used small interfering RNA (siRNA) to screen 91 host factors previously implicated in influenza virus replication and identified seven that were also required for SARS-CoV-2 replication. Of these, Golgi-specific brefeldin A-resistance factor 1 (GBF1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor involved in coat protein complex I (COPI) vesicle trafficking, was also involved in human coronavirus 229E replication. We found that GBF1 relocated to sites of viral replication in SARS-CoV-2-infected cells. Using a computational design pipeline, we generated antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) targeting GBF1. The lead candidate, GBF1-ASO#1502, potently inhibited influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 in vitro, with nanomolar half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) values and favorable selectivity indices. GBF1-targeting ASOs thus represent a promising host-directed antiviral approach for controlling respiratory RNA viruses.© 2026 The Authors.
This study aimed to assess the association between regional cortical changes measured via baseline magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and the incidence of delirium.Observational associations were assessed using a prospective cohort from the UK Biobank and an independent clinical cohort. The population-based study included participants aged 60 years or older who had undergone structural brain MRI since 2014. Regional cortical volume, mean thickness, and surface area were extracted based on the Desikan-Killiany cortical atlas. Delirium was defined using ICD-10 diagnostic codes. Additionally, preoperative brain MRI images from participants in another cohort were collected and automatically segmented using deep learning algorithms to obtain cortical measurements. Logistic analysis was performed to investigate the associations between cerebral cortical structure and delirium risk. Lastly, genome-wide association study data derived from the ENIGMA Consortium and FinnGen Biobank were utilized to conduct conditional/conjunctional false discovery rate (cond/conjFDR) analyses to identify shared genetic loci associated with cortical structures and delirium.This observational analysis included 31,890 participants from the UK Biobank and 152 participants from an independent cohort. In the UK Biobank cohort, decreased cortical thickness in the 17 regions was associated with a significantly increased risk of delirium. Similarly, a preoperative reduction in cortical volume in 7 regions was associated with an increased risk of delirium in the independent cohort. Besides, 100 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified as significantly associated with cortical structures when conditioned on delirium. Finally, colocalization analysis demonstrated that these pleiotropic risk loci modulated the expression of NT5C2, RGP1, CCDC25, TPM2, EEF1AKMT2, IQANK1 and LHPP in blood and brain tissues.Regional cortical atrophy is associated with an increased risk of delirium in the elderly. Brain MRI examinations may be beneficial for preoperative delirium risk assessment in elderly individuals undergoing elective surgery.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41596760 is a review article
Visual dysfunction is increasingly recognized as an important feature of Alzheimer's disease, and substantial retinal changes have been documented across multiple studies. Yet the molecular changes underlying retinal neurodegeneration and which retinal protein signatures best track cerebral pathology remain incompletely defined. Here, we performed comprehensive mass spectrometry-based proteomics on paired retinal and hippocampal tissue from the same postmortem donors (8 AD, 8 non-demented controls) to identify disease-associated molecular signatures and assess their overlap between these tissues. Using a sequential dual-extraction protocol, we identified 372 differentially abundant retinal proteins in AD, including established APP-processing regulators (SORL1, BACE1) and synaptic proteins. Retinal proteomes clearly separated AD from controls in principal component analysis, indicating robust AD-related molecular differences in the retina. Notably, 87% of proteins were detected in both retina and hippocampus, with 64 differentially abundant proteins shared between tissues, some of which showed strong cross-tissue correlation. Several retinal proteins also correlated with neuropathological disease stage. Functional enrichment analysis revealed convergent alterations in synaptic organization, cytoskeletal dynamics, mitochondrial function, cell adhesion, and APP metabolism in both tissues. Cell-type mapping using single-cell retinal reference data indicated that most proteomic changes were broadly distributed across cell types, though some proteins showed enrichment in specific populations, such as SORL1 in microglia and EYS in photoreceptors. The molecular changes identified here offer a potential basis for the retinal alterations previously documented through in vivo imaging and histological studies. Their similarities with brain pathology further support the retina as a promising window for assessing cerebral disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
To explore how vacuolar protein sorting 35 (VPS35) regulates astrocytic inflammation, impairs retinal endothelial function and drives early diabetic retinopathy (DR) neurovascular lesions in diabetic mouse model.A streptozotocin (STZ)-induced C57BL/6J diabetic mouse model was established. Retinal tissues were collected from 0 to 12wk after successful induction of diabetes. Protein expression levels of VPS35, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and vascular endothelium-associated proteins were assessed by Western blotting (WB). The interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation. Vascular leakage and astrocyte activation were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography and retinal flat-mount immunofluorescence staining. Primary astrocytes were cultured in vitro and subjected to high-glucose stimulation or VPS35 knockdown. Cell activation, expression of glutamate transport-associated proteins, and inflammatory cytokine expression were examined. Supernatant fluid from the primary astrocytes was applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to assess cell migration, proliferation, and tube formation capacity. The expression of proteins related to the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was also evaluated.In diabetic mice, retinal VPS35 protein expression exhibited a progressive decline beginning at 4wk post-diabetes onset, whereas GFAP protein expression increased significantly. By 8wk, marked astrocyte activation was observed, accompanied by retinal microvascular leakage and a reduction in vascular area. In vivo and in vitro experiments further confirmed that under high-glucose conditions, retinal VPS35 and EAAT2 protein levels were markedly decreased, while GFAP and LRRK2 protein levels were significantly elevated. Co-immunoprecipitation verified the physical interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 in astrocytes. Finally, in vitro experiments demonstrated that both high-glucose stimulation and VPS35 knockdown led to astrocyte activation, upregulation of inflammatory cytokine expression, downregulation of EAAT2 and AMPA receptor subunit GLUA2, and upregulation of LRRK2. Treatment of HUVECs with supernatant fluid from these astrocytes enhanced cell migration but significantly inhibited cell proliferation and tube formation. WB analysis revealed markedly increased levels of NF-κB and phosphorylated NF-κB in the treated HUVECs.During early DR in mice model, decreased retinal VPS35 protein expression induces astrocyte-mediated inflammatory responses and glutamate transport dysfunction. Through the interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2, paracrine inflammatory cytokines subsequently activate the NF-κB signaling pathway in vascular endothelial cells, leading to endothelial dysfunction and further driving DR-associated neurovascular injury. This study provides novel insights into the pathogenesis of DR and highlights the potential of VPS35 as a target for early intervention in DR.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Microglial dysfunction and aberrant lipid metabolism are emerging as key contributors to Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. However, the specific role and regulation of lipid droplets (LDs) within microglia remain poorly defined. In this study, we employed MPTP- and LPS-induced PD mouse models and an in vitro system utilizing astrocyte-conditioned medium to model disease-relevant lipid stress and found enhanced LD accumulation in microglia. VPS35 expression was decreased in microglia, correlating with elevated microglial LD levels in PD mouse models. We then performed genetic manipulations (knockdown and overexpression) of VPS35, including the PD-associated D620N mutant, in primary microglia and assessed LD accumulation, phagocytic function, inflammatory responses, and integrated stress pathways. We showed that VPS35 knockdown exacerbated the accumulation of LDs in microglia. Conversely, VPS35 overexpression ameliorated LD formation, improved phagocytic function, and reduced inflammatory and integrated stress responses in microglia. The PD-related VPS35[D620N] mutation abolished these protective effects. We further found that VPS35 interacts with Rab7 to maintain lysosomal function, and the D620N mutation disrupts this interaction, leading to defective LD clearance. Our findings reveal VPS35 dysfunction as a key pathogenic mechanism in PD, where the D620N mutation disrupts microglial lipid handling to promote disease progression, thereby nominating VPS35 restoration as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In yeast and humans, the conserved DENN-domain (Differentially Expressed in Normal and Neoplastic tissue) protein Avl9 is thought to play roles in membrane traffic and secretion, but its precise function remains poorly defined. Since DENN-containing proteins are associated with Rab GTPase function, we sought to understand Avl9 function in the context of Rab regulation. Here, we show that Avl9 localizes to peripheral punctae that are consistent with secretory vesicles. Moreover, we demonstrate genetic interactions and co-localization between Avl9 and numerous Rabs in the secretory and endosomal pathways, suggesting a potential function at the interface of secretion and recycling. Consistent with this role, avl9▵ results in defective recycling of the endosomal cargo Snc1 but does not alter plasma membrane delivery of an endocytosis-defective Snc1EN- mutant, suggesting that Avl9 is not solely involved in secretory traffic from the trans-Golgi network to the plasma membrane. The avl9▵ recycling defect is exacerbated by additional loss of RCY1 or SNX4, but not VPS35. Each of these three genes contributes to a distinct endosomal recycling pathway, indicating that Avl9 acts in conjunction with multiple recycling pathways.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Intellectual Disability-Obesity-Brain Malformations-Facial Dysmorphism Syndrome (IDOB-FMD) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability, microcephaly, and brain abnormalities such as a thin corpus callosum, cerebellar hypoplasia, and cerebral white matter hypoplasia, often observed on MRI scans. Additional features include obesity and craniofacial dysmorphism. IDOB-FMD is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, attributed to Trafficking Protein Particle Complex Subunit 9 (TRAPPC9) deficiency, with a prevalence of less than 1 in 1,000,000. This syndrome shares clinical similarities with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS).In our study, we conducted a clinical evaluation of two Tunisian siblings suspected of having Prader-Willi-like syndrome (PWLS) based on their clinical presentation. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was employed to identify genetic variants associated with the phenotype. Variant interpretation and segregation analysis were performed to ascertain the pathogenicity of the identified variants. WES revealed a homozygous mutation in the TRAPPC9 gene in both siblings. The variant was predicted to be pathogenic and segregated with the phenotype within the family. Clinical examination was consistent with PWLS, including intellectual disability, microcephaly, and dysmorphism.Our findings emphasize the importance of genetic testing in patients presenting with PWLS features, highlighting a TRAPPC9 mutation that expands the known mutational spectrum. This study, the second investigation of PWLS in Tunisia, reports a pathogenic variant in the TRAPPC9 gene underlying the observed phenotype in this family, offering valuable insights into clinical management and genetic counseling. Our identification of this variant not only reveals genetic heterogeneity but also prompts further research to elucidate the genotype-phenotype correlations and molecular mechanisms underlying TRAPPC9-related disorders.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) shows substantial clinical heterogeneity often caused by genetic variants contributing to both familial and early-onset forms. However, the genetic landscape of AD in the diverse Indian population remains further characterised. To identify probable pathogenic variants associated with AD, representing individuals from Eastern India and to assess their potential structural effects using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Whole-exome sequencing was performed in 29 radiologically confirmed AD patients. Variants identified were screened using standard in silico prediction tools and categorised according to their involvement in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-related and non-APP pathways. Molecular dynamics simulations of filtered variants in PSEN1, SORL1, and ABCA7 genes were conducted using GROMACS 2024 to assess conformational stability, flexibility (RMSD, RMSF), compactness (Rg), and solvent accessibility (SASA). Thirty-six variants across 18 genes were identified, including five pathogenic variants and 31 variants of uncertain significance. Frequently affected genes included ABCA7 (8 variants), SORL1 (3 variants), PSEN1 (two novel variants), and APP (London mutation, Val717Ile). Most patients (83.3%) had a positive family history, with a mean age at onset of 54.17 ± 11.74 years, presenting with typical AD, posterior cortical atrophy, or frontal variants. MD simulations revealed increased rigidity, altered electrostatic interactions, and disrupted ATP-binding dynamics in mutant proteins compared with wild type. This study identifies novel and known AD-associated variants in an Indian cohort and demonstrates their potential structural impact. Integrating genetic and structural analyses provides valuable insights into AD pathogenesis in underrepresented populations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) frequently triggers acute lung injury (ALI) via sympathetic overactivation. We aimed to investigate the neuroinflammatory mechanisms driving this brain-lung crosstalk and evaluate targeted neuromodulatory interventions via the mechanosensor PIEZO2.We utilized an ICH mouse model and norepinephrine (NE)-stimulated MLE12 cells. Pathological mechanisms were explored using transcriptomics, calcium imaging, and Vps35 knockdown. Therapeutic efficacies were assessed via central sympathetic blockade (stellate ganglion block, SGB) and peripheral PIEZO2 inhibition (D-GsMTx4).NE release exacerbated neurogenic ALI post-ICH. Mechanistically, NE upregulated VPS35, which simultaneously promoted PIEZO2 membrane trafficking and impaired ATP2A2-dependent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium clearance. This induced massive intracellular calcium influx, triggering widespread ER stress and NLRP3/GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis in alveolar epithelial cells. Vps35 knockdown attenuated these effects in vitro. Crucially, targeted interventions with SGB or D-GsMTx4 successfully blocked this lethal central-peripheral cascade, alleviating pulmonary pyroptosis and improving in vivo outcomes.Sympathetic overactivation drives neurogenic ALI post-ICH via the VPS35/PIEZO2-ER stress-pyroptosis axis. Dual-node neuromodulation (SGB or PIEZO2 inhibition) offers a promising therapeutic strategy for secondary multiorgan complications following acute brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Synaptic dysfunction is increasingly recognized as an early feature of Parkinson's disease (PD); however, synaptic mechanisms contributing to early dopamine release defects and neurodegeneration remains poorly understood. Here we identify a presynaptic endosomal-dependent mechanism supporting dopamine release and axonal integrity. Loss of the PD-associated lipid enzyme Synaptojanin1 impairs dopamine release due to endosomal retention of the dopamine D2 autoreceptor and dopamine transporter (DAT). Conditional deletion of Synaptojanin1 in mouse dopamine neurons results in endosomal swelling within striatal DAT clusters and PD-like locomotor deficits. Mechanistically, Synaptojanin1 remodels endosomal phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate to facilitate the recruitment of the PD-associated retromer component VPS35. Notably, overexpressing VPS35 rescues presynaptic sorting defects in Synaptojanin1-deficient dopamine neurons despite lipid impairments. Furthermore, Synaptojanin1 and VPS35 exhibit correlated expression and dopamine-induced co-clustering in axons, supporting their broader roles in regulating synaptic surface proteins. Our work demonstrates a lipid-dependent endosomal mechanism that may contribute to motor deficits in early PD.
Background: Autosomal recessive intellectual developmental disorder-13 (MRT13; OMIM #613192) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by pathogenic variants in TRAPPC9. Most reported variants are single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), small insertions/deletions, or copy number variants (CNVs), whereas complex structural variants (SVs) remain poorly characterized. Objectives: This study sought to review the clinical and molecular spectrum of TRAPPC9-related disorder, harmonize reported variants, explore genotype-phenotype correlations, and expand the mutational spectrum by reporting a novel patient with a cryptic SV. Methods: We report a novel patient whose diagnostic workup included array-CGH, whole-exome sequencing, karyotyping, and optical genome mapping. Additionally, a systematic literature search was primarily conducted in PubMed/MEDLINE from 2009 to January 2026, with Embase, Web of Science, Google Scholar, Orphanet, OMIM, and ClinVar used as supplementary sources. Patients carrying pathogenic/likely pathogenic TRAPPC9 variants were included. Clinical and molecular data were extracted and descriptively summarized. Genotype-phenotype correlations were explored. Reported variants were re-annotated using MANE Select reference transcripts. Results: The reported patient showed biallelic TRAPPC9 disruption due to two independently inherited structural variants: a maternal ~35 kb intragenic deletion involving exons 10-12, identified by 400K array-CGH, and a paternal balanced translocation t(4;8) disrupting TRAPPC9 within intron 8, characterized by trio-OGM and paired-end whole-genome sequencing (PE-WGS). Thirty-one studies reporting 75 previously published patients were included in the literature review; together with the novel patient described here, the final cohort comprised 76 patients. Intellectual disability was present in 100% of cases, followed by brain MRI abnormalities (95.9%), microcephaly (82.3%), motor delay (71.4%), dysmorphic features (69.8%), obesity (52.8%), behavioral abnormalities/autism spectrum disorder (49.2%/43.8%), and epilepsy (15.9%). Most patients (84.2%) harbored homozygous variants. Thirty-two distinct sequence variants were identified, predominantly loss-of-function. CNVs were identified in 13.2% of patients. No genotype-phenotype correlations were identified. Conclusions: The systematic review provides an updated and harmonized overview of the clinical and molecular spectrum of TRAPPC9-related disorder, supporting the presence of a recognizable phenotype and confirming the predominance of loss-of-function variants. Our case further highlights the contribution of cryptic structural variants to the mutational spectrum of TRAPPC9 and the diagnostic value of advanced genomic approaches.
Molecular glue degraders represent a powerful modality for targeting proteins that are refractory to traditional inhibition. However, rational design principles for molecular glue degraders remain poorly defined. Previously, we reported a chemistry-centric strategy to identify covalent degradative handles that, when appended to established ligands, convert non-degradative inhibitors into molecular glue degraders by engaging permissive E3 ligases. This effort identified a fumarate-based electrophilic handle that covalently modified the E3 ligase RNF126, enabling degradation of multiple protein targets when transplanted across diverse ligands. Despite its conceptual impact, the high intrinsic reactivity and cytotoxicity of the fumarate handle limited its translational utility. Here, we report the development of an optimized and metabolically stabilized RNF126-targeting covalent handle incorporating a trans-cyclobutane linker that exhibits reduced glutathione reactivity and diminished cytotoxicity while retaining robust degradative activity. When appended to the BET bromodomain inhibitor JQ1, this optimized handle yielded a potent and selective BRD4 degrader whose activity was dependent on RNF126. Importantly, transplantation of this handle onto a previously non-inhibitory ligand targeting the androgen receptor (AR) and its truncation variant, AR-V7, enabled selective degradation of both AR and AR-V7 in androgen-independent prostate cancer cells, thereby robustly inhibiting AR transcriptional activity beyond the established AR antagonist enzalutamide. Collectively, these findings demonstrate an optimized RNF126-based covalent handle for the rational development of molecular glue degraders against transcriptional regulators, including undruggable variants such as AR-V7.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer mortality, necessitating the identification of novel oncogenic drivers. We report the discovery of MP104, a 104-amino acid microprotein encoded by the long non-coding RNA ZEB1-AS1, which is endogenously expressed and upregulated in CRC with strong association to poor prognosis. Functional assays revealed that MP104 promotes CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and metastasis. Mechanistically, MP104 interacts with UBE2O to facilitate AMPKα2 ubiquitination and degradation, thereby activating mTOR signaling. This activation enhances EIF4B phosphorylation and stability, while MP104 further inhibits RNF40-mediated EIF4B ubiquitination, collectively sustaining translational upregulation. Thus, MP104 drives CRC progression primarily through reprogramming protein translation via the UBE2O-AMPKα2-mTOR-EIF4B axis, establishing it as a key regulator of oncogenic translational control and a promising biomarker and therapeutic target in CRC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Bifunctional soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) represents an attractive therapeutic target for inflammation-associated disorders. Targeted protein degradation (TPD) offers new opportunities for targeting and blocking the enzymatic function of sEH, thereby ameliorating inflammation-related diseases. Herein, a diversity-oriented synthesis of 24 proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) and 5 hydrophobic tag-targeted degraders (HyTTDs) was successfully facilitated by a Ugi-4CR reaction. Notably, the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF126 and hydrophobic tag (HyT) ligands are delicately embedded in the degraders and exhibit moderate to good degradative activities toward sEH. After comprehensive biological screening, the PROTAC molecule 1d was found to have the highest degradation potency (DC50 = 2.9 nM) and exhibited satisfactory degradative pharmacokinetic properties within 6 h, which further proved to significantly attenuate LPS-induced in vivo acute inflammation, highlighting its therapeutic utility.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42439634 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377778 is a review article
Calcium overloading is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) via the activation of calcineurin signaling. Dysregulation of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 O (UBE2O), an E2-E3 hybrid enzyme, is involved in AD pathogenesis. However, the effect of calcium overloading-mediated calcineurin activation on UBE2O regulation and the role of UBE2O in calcium overloading-induced apoptosis remain elusive. In this study, we aimed to explore the effect of calcium overloading on UBE2O expression and underlying mechanisms, as well as its role in apoptosis. We found that calcium overloading increases the expression of UBE2O in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells, while calcineurin inhibitor alleviates this effect. Moreover, three functional binding sites of MEF2A, a downstream target of calcineurin, are identified within the promoter region of the UBE2O gene. MEF2A facilitates UBE2O promoter activity, as well as its expression at both mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, increased UBE2O expression attenuates calcium overloading-induced neuronal apoptosis, while reduced UBE2O expression exacerbates calcium overloading-induced neuronal apoptosis. Moreover, neuron-specific overexpression of UBE2O reduced neuronal apoptosis in 5 × FAD mice. This study demonstrated that calcium overloading-induced UBE2O upregulation is mediated by calcineurin-MEF2A signaling pathway, which acts as a protective response to alleviate neuronal apoptosis. It indicates that UBE2O is a potential therapeutic target for neuronal protection in AD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) serves as a central metabolic hub that integrates nutrient signals and orchestrates cellular metabolism to regulate many fundamental cell processes. While mTORC1 activation is known to occur both on lysosomal membranes and at the Golgi apparatus in response to environmental cues, the molecular mechanisms governing its Golgi-associated activation remain poorly understood. In this study, we identified YIF1A as a novel Golgi-localized regulator of growth factor-mediated mTORC1 signaling. Mechanistically, YIF1A interacted with the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF126 to facilitate K48-linked polyubiquitination of G3BP1/2, thereby promoting mTORC1 activation. Genetic depletion of either YIF1A or RNF126 stabilized G3BP1/2 proteins and significantly impaired mTORC1 activity. Notably, YIF1A knockdown conferred resistance to etoposide- and doxorubicin-induced cellular senescence. The evolutionary conservation of this pathway was demonstrated by extended or shortened lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans lacking or overexpressing yif-1, the invertebrate ortholog of YIF1A. Our findings not only elucidate a previously unrecognized Golgi-specific regulatory axis for mTORC1 activation but also suggest YIF1A as a potential therapeutic target for modulating aging-related pathologies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Resistance to radioimmunotherapy is one of the primary causes of treatment failure in lung cancer patients; however, the underlying mechanisms remain inadequately understood. In this study, we found that the E2/E3 hybrid ubiquitin enzyme UBE2O interacted with CDKL1, facilitating its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation at the K21 residue and thereby negatively regulating the stability of the CDKL1 protein in lung cancer. Silencing UBE2O stabilized CDKL1 to inhibit YBX1-mediated PD-L1 transcription, which consequently promoted the infiltration and activation of CD8+ T cells, thereby enhancing the antitumor immune response in lung cancer. Furthermore, targeting UBE2O in combination with radiotherapy and anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy resulted in stronger antitumor efficacy in lung cancer models. Notably, the UBE2O crosslinking inhibitor arsenic trioxide (ATO) reduced PD-L1 expression and enhanced the efficacy of radioimmunotherapy in preclinical lung cancer models while exhibiting acceptable short-term tolerability. Our findings indicate that targeting the UBE2O/CDKL1 axis may represent a highly promising strategy for increasing lung cancer sensitization to radioimmunotherapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Fetal growth restriction (FGR) remains a major contributor to neonatal morbidity and mortality worldwide, with limited effective diagnostic and therapeutic options. To better understand its molecular mechanism, we performed integrated multi-omics analyses of placental tissues from FGR pregnancies and normal controls, identifying Ring Finger Protein 126 (RNF126), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, as a key regulator of FGR and a potential biomarker distinguishing FGR from small-for-gestational-age (SGA) fetuses. Placenta-specific RNF126 conditional knockout (cKO) mice demonstrated a causal role of elevated placental RNF126 in FGR development in vivo. Functional studies revealed that RNF126 induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and apoptosis in trophoblasts. Mechanistically, RNF126 promoted a ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation of the MYH9/MYH10 complex, thereby exacerbating ER stress and impairing trophoblast function, with lysine 833 (K833) of MYH9 identified as a critical ubiquitination site. Collectively, these findings elucidate an RNF126-mediated pathogenic mechanism in FGR and highlight RNF126 as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) is a critical mediator of inflammatory signaling. However, the development of MyD88 inhibitors has been limited, and there are no reports on MyD88 degraders. Based on our previously identified MyD88 inhibitor c17 and employing a template-assisted modification strategy, we designed and synthesized 40 novel derivatives, and identified the optimal compound d21, which could inhibit nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) pathway activation by facilitating the interaction between ring finger protein 126 (RNF126) (an E3 ubiquitin ligase) and MyD88, thereby promoting ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of MyD88. The subacute toxicity test indicated that d21 had good safety profile. Furthermore, it demonstrated significant anti-inflammatory effects in both cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced acute lung injury (ALI) models, effectively ameliorating ALI symptoms. These findings suggest that d21 holds considerable promise as a MyD88-targeting molecular glue degrader for the treatment of ALI.
Genetic susceptibility to prostate cancer (PCa) varies across populations, yet East Asian men remain underrepresented in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). This study aimed to identify genetic variants associated with PCa in a Taiwanese cohort and to explore their potential biological relevance using integrative annotation approaches.We analyzed 961 PCa patients and 3792 age-matched controls from the Taiwan Biobank. Genotyping and imputation were performed using the Taiwan Biobank 2.0 array and the 1000 Genomes East Asian reference panel. Association testing was conducted using logistic regression adjusted for age and population structure. Gene-based analysis using Multi-marker Analysis of GenoMic Annotation (MAGMA), functional annotation using HaploReg, and prostate tissue cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) and splicing QTL (sQTL) evaluation using the Genotype-Tissue Expression project (GTEx) were performed to explore functional relevance.We identified 371 genome-wide significant variants and 47 independent risk loci, including established regions (8q24.21, ZNF365, NCOR2, and PRKCB) as well as loci not previously reported in major GWAS (CCDC36, RAB6B, TTLL3, and PARD3B). MAGMA analysis identified 80 PCa-associated genes, and pathway analysis highlighted sphingolipid metabolism and leukocyte transendothelial migration. Integrative annotation indicated that several variants are located in regulatory elements and are associated with prostate-specific eQTL and sQTL effects. Additional analyses showed that several variants were associated with clinical indicators of disease aggressiveness, and age-stratified sensitivity analyses demonstrated consistent associations across age groups. Sensitivity analyses using alternative modeling approaches yielded comparable results.This study identifies both established and putatively novel genetic loci associated with PCa in a Taiwanese cohort and provides functional insights through integrative annotation. These findings contribute to understanding the genetic architecture of PCa in East Asian populations and highlight candidate loci that require independent validation in future studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The adeno-associated virus receptor (AAVR; also known as KIAA0319L) is the proteinaceous receptor required for the transduction of multi-serotype adeno-associated viruses (AAVs). While the extracellular polycystic kidney disease (PKD) domains of AAVR directly bind AAV capsids, the function of its C-terminal cytosolic domain (AAVR-C) in governing AAV internalization and intracellular trafficking remains undefined. Using targeted pulldown of AAVR-interacting host proteins with a glutathione S-Transferase (GST)-fused AAVR-C recombinant protein (GST-AAVR-C) as a bait, we identified that TBC1 domain family member 23 (TBC1D23), a specialized intracellular trafficking adaptor and bridging factor, binds AAVR via the AAVR-C and mediates AAV's endosome-to- trans -Golgi network (TGN) transport. Biolayer interferometry (BLI) demonstrates nanomolar-affinity binding between AAVR-C and the C-terminal scaffold domain of TBC1D23 (TBC1D23-C). CRISPR-mediated knockout of TBC1D23 severely impairs rAAV transduction across multiple human cell types, including polarized human airway epithelium (HAE). Loss of TBC1D23 disrupts convergence of internalized AAV capsids at the TGN, leading to diminished nuclear import of AAV vectors. Mutational analyses of AAVR-C reveal that its acidic residue cluster is required for TBC1D23 binding and AAV retrograde transport from the endosome to the TGN. Together, these findings define TBC1D23 as a receptor-proximal trafficking module that couples AAV-AAVR engagement to vesicle transport, revealing a missing core regulatory step in AAV retrograde transport that is essential for productive rAAV transduction.Recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAVs) are widely used gene delivery vectors, yet the intracellular trafficking steps that enable productive transduction remain incompletely defined. We identify TBC1D23 as a critical host adaptor that directly binds the cytosolic tail of the AAV receptor (AAVR) and mediates retrograde transport of AAV vectors from endosomes to the trans -Golgi network (TGN). Disruption of the AAVR acidic residue cluster abolishes TBC1D23 binding, blocks TGN trafficking, impairs nuclear import, and severely reduces transduction across multiple serotypes and in polarized human airway epithelium. These findings reveal a receptor-proximal trafficking checkpoint essential for rAAV gene delivery and define a host-vector interface with potential for rational vector engineering and therapeutic modulation.
TBC (Tre2/Bub2/Cdc16) domain-containing proteins constitute the widespread family of GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). They interact with the Rab superfamily of small GTPases, stimulate GTP hydrolysis, and regulate vesicle trafficking. TBC1D17, involved in Shiga toxin trafficking, autophagy and glucose metabolism regulation, constitutes an example of GAP interacting with Rabs. Here we present the first crystal structures of the murine and human TBC domains of TBC1D17 proteins determined at 2.20 and 3.34 Å resolution, respectively. The TBC domain in both structures represents a heart-like shape. Our analyses revealed dimerization of the TBC domain through a fragment located near residues participating in GTP hydrolysis, a result we observed also in structures of closely related homologs. Furthermore, we tested Rab5a interactions with various fragments of TBC1D17. Interestingly, this protein contains an annotated, yet uncharacterized, Rab-binding domain (RBD) and our studies revealed strong interactions of Rab5a with TBC1D17 fragments containing RBD, while interactions with the TBC domain alone are much weaker. These results provide the first direct evidence for the critical role of the TBC1D17 RBD in interactions with Rab5a.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41979712 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is among the most devastating malignancies worldwide, characterized by late diagnosis, rapid progression, and dismal survival rates. The discovery of reliable biomarkers for early detection and disease monitoring remains an urgent clinical need. Owing to its proximity to tumor cells and protein-rich composition, pancreatic juice represents a compelling reservoir for biomarker discovery.We performed comprehensive proteomic profiling of pancreatic juice using mass spectrometry to uncover PDAC-associated biomarkers. The expression and prognostic relevance of candidate proteins were validated in patient-derived tumor tissues, sera, and tissue microarrays (TMAs). Functional roles were interrogated through RNA interference-mediated knockdown in PDAC cell lines and an orthotopic PANC-1 xenograft model.Our analyses revealed TBC1D23 as a previously unrecognized oncogenic driver in PDAC. TBC1D23 was markedly upregulated in pancreatic juice, tumor specimens, and patient sera, with elevated expression correlating strongly with lymphatic metastasis and inferior overall survival. Functionally, silencing TBC1D23 curtailed PDAC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, and significantly attenuated tumor growth and peritoneal dissemination in vivo. Transcriptomic and biochemical analyses demonstrated that TBC1D23 depletion led to profound downregulation of VEGF-C, diminishing its secretion, and consequently impairing tumor-driven lymphangiogenesis. This effect was rescued by VEGF-C supplementation and abolished by the VEGFR3 inhibitor MAZ51, underscoring VEGF-C as a principal downstream effector. Mechanistically, TBC1D23 orchestrated EGFR trafficking, enhancing receptor recycling and membrane localization while suppressing lysosomal degradation, thereby sustaining EGFR/ERK signaling and driving VEGF-C upregulation.These findings uncover TBC1D23 as a novel regulator of EGFR dynamics and a pivotal mediator of PDAC lymphatic metastasis. By delineating the TBC1D23/EGFR/VEGF-C signaling axis, this study not only identifies a promising biomarker for PDAC detection and prognosis but also highlights an actionable therapeutic target for intercepting metastatic progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is an aggressive hepatobiliary malignancy characterized by a complex pathogenesis and poor prognosis. Telomere dysfunction and cellular senescence are involved in the pathogenesis of various types of cancers. However, the prognostic significance of telomere- and aging-related genes in ICC remains unclear. This study aimed to identify such genes with prognostic significance, and construct a prognostic risk model for ICC.We screened prognostic genes associated with telomere-aging in patients using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. We then integrated 10 base machine learning algorithms, and generated 101 model configurations via parameter optimization and algorithm combination strategies, to construct and validate a prognostic risk model. The clinical prognostic value was analyzed using a nomogram. Immune infiltration, drug sensitivity, immune responses, and subgroups were analyzed based on telomere-aging-related prognostic genes. We also validated core gene expression in cell lines and tissue samples using the quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and enrolled 76 patients with ICC to identify the prognostic value of key genes.We constructed a prognostic model using the telomere-aging-related prognostic genes BET1L, RAD50, ANXA1, and AURKA. Survival analysis revealed a significant difference in overall survival between high- and low-risk groups. The expression of these genes was significantly increased in ICC cell lines and tissues. High BET1L expression was significantly associated with lymph node metastasis, tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage, tumor differentiation, and a poor prognosis for patients with ICC. Knocking down BET1L significantly reduced the proliferative ability of HUCCT1 cells.We established a risk model comprising the telomere-aging-related prognostic genes BET1L, RAD50, ANXA1, and AURKA to predict the prognosis of patients with ICC. Elevated BET1L expression indicated a poor prognosis for patients with ICC, and low BET1L expression inhibited HUCCT1 cell proliferation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The innate immune cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway plays a central role in antitumor immune responses. Cytosolic DNA recognition by cGAS leads to cGAMP production, activating STING and downstream effectors TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and Interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3). This signaling induces the production of type I interferons (IFN-I) and chemokines, facilitating CD8⁺ T cell activation and recruitment to enhance antitumor immunity. The cGAS-STING pathway is critically regulated by vesicular trafficking, which governs its spatially resolved activation across multiple subcellular compartments, thereby facilitating precise control of innate immune signaling. TBC1 domain family member 23 (TBC1D23), a member of the Tre2-Bub2-Cdc16 (TBC) family, is a key regulator of intracellular vesicle transport and is required for trafficking TBK1 from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network. Although Tbc1d23 deletion impairs STING-induced IFN-I production, its physiological role in antitumor immunity remains unclear. Here, we report that high TBC1D23 expression correlates with enhanced immune infiltration and favorable prognosis in melanoma. Conversely, TBC1D23 deficiency severely impairs the STING-dependent expression of key IFN-inducible chemokines, suppresses immunostimulatory macrophage maturation, and diminishes the infiltration, activation, and cytotoxic function of tumor-antigen-specific CD8⁺ T cells. Consequently, loss of TBC1D23 accelerates melanoma progression. Our findings establish TBC1D23 as an essential regulator of STING signaling and a critical mediator of antitumor immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alternative splicing (AS) is a ubiquitous post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism, that has greatly expanded the transcriptomic and proteomic diversity in vertebrates. While gene regulation of hematopoiesis has been extensively researched in vertebrates, the functions of species- and cell lineage-specific splice variants in vertebrates are largely unknown. Here, we curate transcriptomic data on fetal hematopoietic organ development in six vertebrates and hematopoietic cell differentiation in humans and mice. To identify functional exon-skipping events among thousands of cassette exons in protein-coding genes for a specific differentiation lineage and species, we develop a machine-learning model interrogating 19 features including dynamic expression, protein structure, and evolutionary conservation, and integrate them into a single prediction score, named Functional AS Score (FAScore). Using FAScore, we identify four previously-uncharacterized functional AS events in which deletion of the AS exon leads to defects in erythropoiesis and myelopoiesis. Furthermore, we demonstrate that deletion of exon 15 of TBC1D23 reduces erythropoiesis in mice and zebrafish through elevated binding capacity to RANBP2/RANGAP1 leading to increased SUMOylation level of HDAC1. Collectively, our study presents a valuable tool to identify functional exon skipping (ES) events during hematopoietic lineage commitment, and establishes a research paradigm that can be broadly applied to other biological processes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a prevalent neurocognitive disorder in elderly patients following surgery and anesthesia. However, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood, and treatment options are limited. This study applied a multi-omics strategy, combining cognitive-behavioral assessments with proteomic and metabolomic profiling, to uncover the molecular basis of POCD in an aged mouse model. Behavioral assessments, including the Morris Water Maze (MWM), Open Field Test (OFT), and Novel Object Recognition (NOR), revealed significant cognitive deficits in POCD mice. Proteomic analysis identified 103 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), with 34 upregulated and 69 downregulated, alongside significant correlations among 16 proteins. Enrichment analysis indicated disturbances in mitochondrial energy metabolism and epigenetic regulation, linked to neurodegenerative pathways. Metabolomic profiling detected 99 metabolites, with 66 upregulated and 33 downregulated, confirming their differential expression between groups. Correlation analysis between DEPs and metabolites led to the identification of nine key proteins (PSB9, COA7, PFD2, CUTA, LEG1, LEG9, BET1L, CHIL3, KV5AG) as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for POCD. These findings emphasize the complex relationship between cognitive dysfunction, molecular alterations, and metabolic disruptions in POCD, suggesting a multifactorial pathogenesis that warrants further investigation to develop targeted interventions.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Migraine is a common chronic condition with a clear need for innovative treatment approaches. Protein quantity trait loci (pQTLs), which specifically regulate protein expression levels, are the closest and most stable QTLs to the phenotypes under study. In this context, we employ plasma proteomes data to conduct Mendelian randomization and colocalization analysis to identify potential drug targets for migraine. Plasma proteome data were sourced from the Decode, UKB-PPP, and Interval databases. We selected cis-SNPs associated with plasma protein levels at a genome-wide significance level (p < 5 × 10-8) as instrumental variables for Mendelian randomization analysis. Using the IEU OpenGWAS database (NCase = 13,971, NControl = 470,627) as an outcome, we initially explored the causal relationship with migraine through summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR). We conducted a multi-tiered screening, including two-sample MR, HEIDI test, and Bayesian colocalization to confirm potential targets related to migraine. Additionally, we included GWAS data from the UK Biobank (NCase = 13,597, NControl = 449,336) for further robustness validation. Our initial SMR analysis identified 11 plasma proteins with potential causal links to migraine. Further investigation through two-sample Mendelian randomization using inverse variance weighted analysis (IVW) and sensitivity analysis yielded 8 significant proteins. These included 6 double-positive proteins (CALCB, COLEC11, SEMA6C, SERPING1, TBC1D17, UBE2L6) and 2 single-positive proteins (HYOU1, SERPINA1), all meeting criteria in the HEIDI test (PHEIDI > 0.05) and colocalization analysis (PP.H4 > 0.7). External validation using an alternate migraine GWAS dataset (non-cancer illness code, self-reported: migraine ukb-b-16868) confirmed the findings for 5 proteins. Both HEIDI test and Bayesian colocalization suggested robust positive results for CALCB and TBC1D17. Specifically, CALCB is associated with an increased risk of migraine, whereas TBC1D17 is associated with a reduced risk. Our research provides strong evidence for two proteins and suggestive evidence for three additional proteins as potential targets for migraine treatment. Notably, CALCB is already under development as a therapeutic target for migraines, lending credibility to the promising drug development prospects for TBC1D17. Future studies are needed to confirm the causal role of TBC1D17 and explore the underlying mechanisms in migraine.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Accurate diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is critical yet challenging. The role of autoantibodies in PJI remains largely unexplored. In this study, we employed phage display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) to profile PJI-associated autoantibodies and assess their diagnostic utility in PJI.We collected plasma samples from a cohort of 45 patients, including 25 with PJI, 9 with aseptic loosening, and 11 post-primary arthroplasty without complications. Initially, PhIP-Seq screening was performed on 10 samples (five PJI and five post-primary arthroplasty) to identify significantly differentially expressed autoantibodies. Subsequently, the immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels of these specific autoantibodies were quantified in the plasma of all participants via ELISA, and statistical analysis was performed to evaluate their diagnostic performance in PJI.PhIP-Seq identified IFT80 and VPS54 as PJI-associated autoantigens. ELISA confirmed significantly elevated levels of corresponding IgG antibodies in PJI patients compared to those with aseptic loosening or post-primary arthroplasty (p < 0.01). Both autoantibodies demonstrated preliminary diagnostic performance: IFT80 achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.797 (sensitivity = 56.0%, specificity = 95.0%), while VPS54 yielded an AUC of 0.776 (sensitivity = 72.0%, specificity = 75.0%). A combined diagnostic model integrating both biomarkers further enhanced the diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.810, sensitivity = 68.0%, specificity = 80.0%).This study establishes IFT80 and VPS54 as novel autoantibodies in PJI. Their corresponding autoantibodies exhibit robust diagnostic potential, offering support for the development of serological assays to improve PJI diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Ma and Xu.
Vacuolar Protein Sorting 29 (VPS29) is a highly conserved subunit of the retromer complex, which mediates retrograde transport from endosomes to the Golgi apparatus and plays a critical role in membrane trafficking, protein recycling, and organelle biogenesis. In Plasmodium falciparum, the retromer has been implicated in the formation of apical organelles essential for parasite invasion and replication. In this study, we investigated naturally acquired antibody responses to P. falciparum VPS29 (PfVPS29) and the genetic diversity of the vps29 gene in isolates from three malaria-endemic areas of the Brazilian Amazon. Naturally acquired responses to PfVPS29 were evaluated by ELISA in 533 individuals, and genetic diversity was assessed in 62 P. falciparum isolates. Only 17% of participants displayed IgG reactivity, whereas 73.5% showed IgM responses, indicating limited IgG acquisition but a predominant IgM profile associated with recent or ongoing exposure. IgG subclass analysis revealed a predominance of cytophilic IgG1 and IgG3 among responders. IgM responses were significantly boosted during P. falciparum infection. Sequence analysis revealed no polymorphisms among Brazilian isolates, and comparison with global datasets confirmed the high conservation of the PfVPS29 coding sequence. Together, these findings show that PfVPS29 is a highly conserved intracellular protein that elicits an atypical humoral response dominated by IgM, with limited class switching to IgG, like other conserved or repetitive malaria antigens. These results highlight PfVPS29 as an example of a conserved intracellular antigen that induces non-classical humoral responses in naturally exposed populations.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder with no disease-modifying treatments. Plasma proteomic signatures offer a promising avenue for uncovering disease mechanisms and developing targeted interventions.We conducted protein-wide Mendelian randomization meta-analysis to explore causal relationships between plasma proteins and FTD and four subtypes, utilizing comprehensive datasets of protein quantitative trait loci.We identified four plasma proteins significantly associated with FTD, namely RGS7 and ASAP2 (increased risk), as well as TMCC3 and VPS29 (decreased risk). Subtype-specific analyses revealed distinct protein signatures, including S100A13 and TREM1 in behavioral variant FTD, ING4 and TEX29 in FTD overlapping with motor neuron disease, SPINT2 in progressive non-fluent aphasia, and UGDH in semantic dementia.This study implicates specific plasma proteins in FTD pathogenesis, with subtype-dependent effects. The identified proteins represent potential biomarkers for stratification and therapeutic targets.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Brucella is an intracellular Gram-negative bacterium that primarily infects the host reproductive and immune systems, inducing autophagy and facilitating pathogen replication. TBC (Tre2-Bub2-Cdc16) domain-containing proteins are important in membrane trafficking, cell polarity, and signal transduction as regulators of Rab small GTPases. Previously, we demonstrated that B. melitensis M5-90 modulates the expression of miR-146b-5p, which targets TBC1D14, in RAW264.7 cells. In this study, CRISPR-Cas9 was used to generate TBC1D14-knockout (KO) Sheep Leydig cells (SLCs), and B. melitensis BA0711 treatment experiment was conducted at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 100. After confirming that SLCs retain autophagic activity, Western blot, autophagy flux assays, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and RT-qPCR were performed to identify the function of TBC1D14. We found that autolysosome fluorescence was significantly enhanced in NC-SLCs compared with TBC1D14-KO-SLCs following BA0711 treatment at 8 and 12 hpi. Notably, autophagy flux in NC-SLCs remained consistently higher than that in KO-SLCs from 8 hpi onwards. Consistently, Western blot revealed a decreased LC3-II/LC3-I ratio, and TEM confirmed a reduced number of autolysosomes in KO-SLCs at 12 hpi. These results indicate that TBC1D14 positively regulates autophagy in SLCs by BA0711 stimulation. Although transcriptomic and proteomic analyses indicated activation of autophagy- and phagocytosis-related pathways during BA0711 exposure, this response was significantly attenuated in TBC1D14-KO cells. Furthermore, TBC1D14 knockout led to downregulation of phagosome-related proteins and altered chemotaxis pathways, whereas re-expression of TBC1D14 in KO cells upregulated RAB28. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that TBC1D14 positively regulates autophagy and provides insights into the response of SLCs treated by B. melitensis BA0711. Furthermore, it suggests that RAB28 may serve as a downstream effector of TBC1D14.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Adaptation is one of the key processes of animal domestication, environmental pressures will leave footprints in the genome. Geese are widely distributed across multiple geographical conditions with distinct adaptations. However, few reports have focused on the environmental adaptability of geese. Moreover, the key environmental drivers that trigger local adaptation and its genetic mechanisms are still unknown. To this end, 35 agro-climatic variables of 257 geese from 14 Chinese breeds were obtained, the key environmental drivers and its genetic mechanism were elucidated by combining the genome data.Five key environmental drivers, elevation, water scarcity (BIO14), two variables as proxies of food availability (Grass and Landuse), and one variable as proxy of disease resistance (Forest) were identified after dissecting 35 agro-climatic variables by using ecological niche modeling (ENM). Integrating five key environmental drivers with single-nucleotide polymorphism variations, we conduct genome-wide selection signature analyses and genome-environment analysis. This analysis identified 1984 key genes likely integral to the environmental adaptation and mainly enriched in MAPK signaling pathways and metabolic pathways. Allele frequency distribution and selective sweep analysis revealed that some genes play crucial roles in environmental adaptation, including SATB1, NTRK2 and CTIF involved in adapting to the high-altitude hypoxic environments; ARMH3 and BDH2 participated in adapting to water deficiency; COL5L1, ULK4 and PI4KA associated with disease resistance, and other genes involved in metabolic adaptations including IQSEC1, TBC1D14, GRK5, FGGY and LRP1B, etc. Notably, we noticed that feather colour differentiation in geese might be driven by human agricultural practices, with LRP1B involved in this process.Overall, our study elucidated the five key environmental drivers and their genetic mechanisms. The candidate genes related to environmental adaptability offer new insights into genetic resource development and breeding strategies of Chinese indigenous geese.© 2026. The Author(s).
The retromer is a highly conserved complex that mediates the trafficking of cargo proteins to the plasma membrane or the trans-Golgi network. In pathogenic microorganisms, retromer-dependent transport contributes to the delivery of virulence factors and promotes infection. The retromer consists of a sorting nexin dimer (SNX) and a cargo-selection complex (CSC), formed by Vps26, Vps35, and Vps29. In Entamoeba histolytica, the parasite that causes human amoebiasis, the retromer functions as a Rab7A GTPase effector and participates in phagocytosis and cytotoxicity. Although we previously characterized the roles of EhVps26 and EhVps35, the function of EhVps29 remained unclear. In this study, we analyzed the subcellular localization and functional role of EhVps29 in adhesion, phagocytosis, and cytopathic effect. EhVps29 localized to the plasma membrane, cytosol, vesicles, tubules, Golgi-like structures, MVBs and, for the first time, the nucleus. Immunofluorescence and Western blot assays demonstrated that EhVps29 modulates the localization of EhVps26, EhADH adhesin, and EhCP112 cysteine protease. Ehvps29 gene silencing and overexpression confirmed its involvement in virulence-associated processes. Immunoprecipitation and confocal microscopy results showed the interaction among EhVps29 and the ESCRT machinery members EhVps36 and EhADH. Our results indicate that EhVps29 is involved in parasite virulence and protein trafficking through recycling or degradation pathways.
Atg18, Atg21 and Hsv2 are homologous proteins that fulfill macroautophagic/autophagic and non-autophagic functions. We now found that Atg21 interacts with Pep8/Vps26, Vps29 and Vps35, the components of the cargo selective complex of the retromer. We identified Atg21 residues required for retromer binding and focused on two of them. The first, T106, is part of an STS-motif, which also mediates Atg18-binding to the retromer, while in Hsv2 this motif is not conserved. As a second retromer binding residue, we identified D28 of Atg21. Interestingly, the corresponding D45 of Hsv2 also confers retromer binding, but the analogous E34 of Atg18 does not. Together, Atg18 uses binding residue 1, while Atg21 uses 1 and 2 and Hsv2 only 2. During autophagy, Atg21 organizes the Atg8-lipidation machinery by interacting with Atg16 via the bottom side of its β-propeller. Partial overlap between the Atg16 binding residues and the retromer binding residues indicates mutually exclusive interaction. Indeed, lack of Atg16 enhances Atg21 binding to the retromer. The Atg21-retromer shows vacuole fission activity, which requires both retromer binding residues and the membrane-bending activity of its loop 6 C/D. Additionally, overexpression of Atg21 led to mislocalization of the Prc1/carboxypeptidase Y cargo receptor Pep1/Vps10 from the Golgi to Vps17-positive endosomes and to Prc1 secretion. We detected a cross-talk among the different retromer complexes. In the absence of the canonical retromer component Vps5, more Atg21-retromer complexes were formed. Furthermore, the vacuole hyper-fragmentation of vps17Δ cells cooperatively required Atg18 and Atg21. Along this line, we found that Atg21 interacts with Atg18 and Hsv2.Abbreviation: Atg: autophagy related, CSC: cargo specific complex (of the retromer), PAS: phagophore assembly site, Prc1/CPY/carboxypeptidase Y: proteinase C, PROPPIN: beta-propeller that binds phosphoinositides.
Mutations in several genes are known to cause familial forms of Parkinson's disease (PD), including mutations in the vacuolar protein sorting 35 ortholog (VPS35) gene linked to late-onset, autosomal dominant PD. VPS35 encodes a core subunit of the retromer complex which functions in endosomal sorting and recycling. It remains unclear how the pathogenic D620N mutation in VPS35 disrupts retromer function to induce neurodegeneration in PD. Using cell- and rodent-based models expressing D620N VPS35, we performed interactome proteomics to identify alterations underlying the pathogenic effects of D620N VPS35 in PD. Using overexpression of VPS35 variants in HEK-293T cells, we conducted tandem affinity purification (TAP) or co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) with protein chemical crosslinking to determine the native and non-native protein interactomes of wild-type (WT) and D620N VPS35, respectively. Notably, we can confirm the reduced interaction of D620N VPS35 with components of the WASH complex. Additionally, using a viral-mediated gene transfer model of human D620N VPS35 overexpression in adult rat brain, we identify the first brain-specific protein interactome of VPS35. These overexpression models reveal remarkably similar interaction profiles of WT and D620N VPS35, suggesting that the D620N mutation has a subtle effect on the overall VPS35 protein interactome. We also conducted proteomic analysis of brain tissue from a D620N VPS35 knockin (KI) mouse model that expresses VPS35 at endogenous levels. Using co-IP from hemi-brain or striatal extracts of WT and D620N VPS35 KI mice, we reveal a high degree of similarity between the brain interactomes of WT and D620N VPS35, further suggesting a subtle effect of the D620N mutation on VPS35 protein interactions. Notably, in both hemi-brain and striatum, we find a selective decrease in the interaction of two known interactors, TBC1D5 and VPS29, with D620N VPS35. We also performed global proteomic analysis of striatal tissue from D620N VPS35 KI mice and reveal a high degree of similarity between WT and D620N, further suggesting a subtle effect of this mutation. Together, our study provides a comprehensive evaluation of the VPS35 protein interactome and reveals a selective effect of the PD-linked D620N mutation in mammalian cells and brain. Our study provides key insight into the mechanisms of retromer dysfunction in VPS35-linked PD.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangements are rare but highly actionable drivers in non-small cell lung cancer; however, uncommon fusion variants lack standard management. We report the clinical outcome of a novel HEAT repeat protein 5B (HEATR5B)-ALK fusion treated with ensartinib. A 52-year-old Chinese woman with stage IVA lung adenocarcinoma and left adrenal metastasis underwent tumor biopsy. Targeted DNA-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) identified HEATR5B(END..EX7)-ALK(IVS19..END) fusion; ALK protein expression was confirmed by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Ensartinib 225 mg orally once daily was initiated. Serial CT scans were evaluated according to RECIST 1.1; progression-free survival (PFS) and adverse events were recorded. The patient achieved a confirmed partial response at first restaging and maintained treatment for greater than 24 months without radiologic progression. No grade greater than or equal to 3 adverse events were observed; preexisting weight loss ceased. PFS is ongoing at the last follow-up (24+ months). The HEATR5B-ALK fusion is targetable by ensartinib, producing durable disease control and excellent tolerability. Comprehensive NGS and ALK IHC are essential for detecting rare actionable ALK variants.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Rare and deleterious variants in the leptin-melanocortin pathway can underlie severe childhood obesity, but data from East Asian populations remain limited.We conducted a single-center prospective observational cohort study of 188 Taiwanese children (4-18 years) with nonsyndromic obesity recruited between Jan 2017 and Dec 2024 for targeted sequencing of 12 leptin-melanocortin genes and compared them with two cohorts from the Taiwan Biobank: 527 normal‑weight adults presumed to have normal weight in childhood and 213 obese adults. We compared carrier proportions and mean variant counts and applied the Optimal Sequence Kernel Association Test (SKAT-O) across groups at the pathway and gene levels for three variant sets: all exonic variants, rare variants, and potentially influential variants (PIVs, defined as rare protein-truncating variants or missense variants with high deleteriousness scores). We also analyzed questionnaire-derived eating behavior scores using SKAT-O within the childhood obesity cohort.Children with obesity carried a higher PIV burden than both normal-weight adults (41.0% vs. 24.1%; p < 0.0001) and obese adults (41.0% vs. 25.8%; p = 0.001); mean PIV counts were also higher. Pathway-level SKAT-O supported enrichment driven by rare variants and PIVs. Gene-level enrichment for LEPR and MAGEL2, and variant-level enrichment for two missense variants, MAGEL2 p.Gly285Arg and LEPR p.Asn128Lys, were observed in the childhood obesity group. Analyses of eating‑behavior scores showed nominal signals for exonic variants in MAGEL2 and PIVs in SIM1, but neither met the Bonferroni‑corrected threshold.Rare, putatively deleterious leptin-melanocortin variants, particularly in LEPR and MAGEL2, are enriched in Taiwanese children with nonsyndromic obesity, underscoring the value of pathway-focused genetic evaluation in pediatric obesity.Copyright © 2026 Asia Oceania Association for the Study of Obesity. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The neurodevelopmental disorder Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by loss of paternally-derived gene expression from the imprinted interval on chromosome 15q11-q13. Recently, it has been suggested that the abnormal feeding-related behaviours characteristic of PWS may, in part, be developmentally programmed in utero via abnormal placental function. Here we report that several PWS-genes are expressed in mouse placenta with three PWS-transcripts Magel2, Necdin and the lncRNA Sngh14, co-localising to the Kdr-positive fetal endothelial cells of the labyrinth zone central to nutrient transport. In a novel PWS deletion mouse model (Large+/-) we find markedly reduced expression of PWS genes in the placenta and an associated ∼25% reduction in Kdr-positive fetal endothelial cells. Although this did not directly translate into a significant reduction in fetal growth late in gestation, these data suggest that placental function and nutrient transfer from mother to fetus could be compromised in PWS contributing to later post-natal phenotypes.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) and Schaaf-Yang syndrome (SYS) share overlapping phenotypic features, but potential cardiac involvement in both conditions remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated cardiac function in Magel2 knockout (KO) mice, a model relevant to PWS and SYS, to assess the impact of Magel2 deficiency on the heart. Echocardiographic analysis of 20-week-old Magel2-KO mice revealed concentric remodeling of the left ventricle together with reduced left ventricular end-diastolic volume and stroke volume, as well as a modest but significant reduction in ejection fraction. Electrophysiological studies identified sex-dependent alterations, particularly in males, characterized by shortened action potential duration and increased atrial potassium currents. Surface electrocardiography recordings showed no overt arrhythmias and visual inspection confirmed sinus rhythm during the monitoring period; however, the observed cellular alterations indicate increased arrhythmogenic susceptibility. In addition, aged Magel2-KO mice developed adult-onset obesity and exhibited elevated HbA1c levels consistent with impaired glycemic control. Given the minimal expression of Magel2 in cardiac tissue, these findings suggest that systemic and metabolic alterations may contribute to the observed cardiac phenotype. Together, these results demonstrate structural cardiac remodeling and electrophysiological changes consistent with increased arrhythmogenic susceptibility in Magel2-deficient mice, suggesting clinically relevant cardiac involvement in SYS and PWS. Our findings support consideration of structured cardiovascular monitoring to mitigate potential secondary cardiac complications in affected individuals.© 2026 The Author(s).
The human cortex acquires its advanced cognitive capacity through tightly regulated developmental programs, disruption of which underlies neurodevelopmental disorders such as Schaaf-Yang syndrome (SYS) and Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). While SYS results from pathogenic variants in the imprinted gene MAGEL2, PWS arises from chromosomal deletions, imprinting defects or uniparental disomy encompassing the MAGEL2 locus. However, the contribution of MAGEL2 to disease pathogenesis and human corticogenesis is not fully understood. Here, we performed integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and ubiquitinomic profiling of cortical neurons derived from CRISPR/Cas9-engineered isogenic human pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) modeling SYS and PWS. Beyond PWS-specific signatures including dysregulated ribosomal processes, we identified MAGEL2-dependent defects shared across both disorders. These include reduced progenitor proliferation, accelerated neuronal maturation, impaired migration and adhesion, as well as abnormal synaptic development, collectively linking PWS and SYS at the level of cortical development. Notably, these phenotypes partially overlap with those observed in other neurodevelopmental disorders, suggesting that MAGEL2 governs core pathways broadly vulnerable in disease. Together, our findings establish MAGEL2 as a key regulator of human cortical development, provide a unifying mechanistic framework for SYS and PWS, accessible via a web-based platform.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) patients display developmental delays, endocrine dysfunction, excessive eating, central obesity, and various behavioral abnormalities. Effective and sustained treatments are limited, highlighting the need for new therapeutic strategies. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) have revolutionized obesity treatment while their efficacy in PWS population remains inconsistent and data in PWS animal models are lacking. Here, we assessed the efficacy of a newly developed AAV platform to deliver a GLP-1RA exendin-4 via an engineered hybrid capsid Rec2. Intraperitoneal administration of Rec2-exendin-4 at the dose of 2 × 1010 viral genome per mouse normalized metabolic dysfunction in the Magel2-null mouse model of PWS. Systemic Rec2-exendin-4 treatment reversed genotype-driven excessive adiposity, impaired glycemic control, hyperleptinemia, and adipose gene expression signatures. Moreover, intraperitoneal injection of Rec2-exendin-4 (4 × 1010 viral genome/mouse) exerted high levels of efficacy in diet-induced obesity model-decreasing food intake; preventing excessive weight gain and obesity; improving glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity; and reversing fatty liver. Metabolic improvements were maintained at least 5 months. These data demonstrate the therapeutic potential of a systemic AAV-mediated exendin-4 gene therapy for PWS-related metabolic abnormalities in Magel2-null model and dietary obesity.© 2026 The Author(s).
According to OMIM and Orphanet databases, Schaaf-Yang syndrome (SYS) (OMIM: 615547, ORPHA: 398069) is a rare genetic disorder that shares certain clinical features with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), including hypotonia, developmental delay, and early-onset obesity. However, SYS often exhibits a more complex and variable phenotype. Missense variants in MAGEL2 have been reported only rarely, and their phenotypic spectrum appears milder and more variable than that of truncating mutations. Data on early-onset obesity as a dominant feature in such patients are limited. In this case report, we describe a child with mild phenotype (SYS) carrying the novel missense variant MAGEL2(NM_019066.5):c.1265C>T (p.Pro422Leu) presenting with severe early-onset obesity and a comparatively neurodevelopmental phenotype. We present a case of a boy with neonatal hypotonia, diagnosed with (SYS) at age 9 years, with follow-up to age 11 years. The boy was born at 34+3 weeks of gestation with hypotonia, feeding difficulties, and a persistent ductus arteriosus that required surgical ligation in early infancy. In the following years, he developed severe early-onset obesity, already evident by age 2 despite multidisciplinary care. Genetic testing performed at age 9 years identified a novel missense variant (NM_019066.5)c.1265C>T in the MAGEL2 gene, which was not inherited from his mother, thereby confirming the diagnosis of (SYS). At the time of the most recent evaluation, at age 11 years, he remained under long-term follow-up. Clinical management over this period included endocrine therapy, cardiac surgery, physical rehabilitation, and dietary interventions, and despite the complexity of his condition, long-term stabilization of his BMI percentile was achieved with consistent non-pharmacological interventions. This case highlights the importance of early multidisciplinary investigation and intervention in SYS, particularly when obesity is the dominant feature. Effective long-term weight stabilization is possible through structured lifestyle management.© 2026 Pastucha et al.
Schaaf-Yang syndrome (SYS) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder with overlapping features with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). We report two Japanese siblings with SYS harboring a rare MAGEL2 variant (NM_019066.5:c.1621C>T, p.(Q541*)). Both patients had GH deficiency and received GH therapy. The older sibling presented with neonatal hypotonia, joint contractures, and severe autism, while the younger sibling showed milder features but developed obesity and behavioral problems. GH therapy led to only modest improvement in their growth. The limited effect may have been related to the late initiation of treatment, marked non-adherence to therapy, and GH doses. This report highlights the phenotypic variability of SYS and demonstrates difficulties and potential issues of GH treatment as well as clinical response to GH treatment in this rare disorder.2026©The Japanese Society for Pediatric Endocrinology.
Schaaf-Yang syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome are imprinting disorders that result from the disruption of paternally expressed genes within the 15q11-q13 region. Both conditions present with overlapping clinical features including developmental delay, hypotonia and endocrine abnormalities. Schaaf-Yang syndrome specifically results from heterozygous variants in the paternally expressed MAGEL2 gene. Because these variants are often de novo, determining that the variant is on the paternal allele is essential for a definitive diagnosis. Traditional methods, such as methylation-specific PCR, are labour-intensive, while it is challenging to phase variants separated by distances greater than the fragment length (~600 bp) using short-read sequencing. In this study, we used long-read Oxford Nanopore sequencing to perform trio-assisted phasing of a de novo MAGEL2, p.(Gln638Ter) variant identified in two unrelated probands referred for congenital hyperinsulinism genetic testing. Long reads spanning both the variant and informative parental heterozygous variants confirmed that the variant was on the paternal allele and was therefore pathogenic and causative of Schaaf-Yang syndrome and associated with hyperinsulinism in both individuals. Our findings demonstrate the clinical utility of long-read sequencing for enabling trio-assisted variant phasing in imprinting disorders, particularly when phenotypes are incomplete or overlapping. Our findings further highlight congenital hyperinsulinism as a rare but important feature associated with Schaaf-Yang syndrome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Mental illnesses associated with high-risk copy number variations (CNVs) are characterized by incomplete penetrance and variable severity, with their underlying mechanisms remaining inadequately understood. We hypothesized that such phenotypic variability is evident from the neonatal stage and is, at least in part, attributable to individual differences in the expression levels of CNV-encoded genes in the brain. We conducted an analysis of the quantitative and functional structure of neonatal social communication, assessed post-pubertal social interaction, and evaluated the brain expression levels of genes within the same cohort of a mouse model of paternal human 15q11-13 duplication, a high-risk factor variably associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Subsequently, computational methods were utilized to identify predictive variables for the variability of post-pubertal social interaction. Mice harboring the 15q11-13 duplication exhibited distinctive call sequences characterized by diverse connections, which lacked the incentive value necessary for effective social communication with mother mice. The neonatal call sequences and the expression levels of Magel2, along with, to a lesser extent, Herc2 and Ndn, in the prefrontal cortex of the 15q11-13 duplication model were predictive of post-pubertal social interaction. Our findings demonstrate that variability in post-pubertal social interaction-a dimensional characteristic of neurodevelopmental disorders-can be predicted by the variability of neonatal social communication and is influenced by the expression levels of specific CNV-encoded genes in the prefrontal cortex. This computational approach has the potential to predict the developmental trajectories of various dimensions of mental illness among CNV carriers in humans and to identify CNV-encoded driver genes in preclinical models, thereby providing potential mechanistic bases for the development of gene-based therapeutic strategies.
Plumage coloration in birds is a complex genetic trait involving both direct pigmentation genes and their modifiers. The Columbian pattern, characterized by black feathers restricted to the neck, wing tips, and tail, remains poorly understood at the genetic level. This study aimed to conduct a genome-wide association study of the Columbian pattern across 29 chicken breeds of diverse origins. Blood samples were collected from breeds with (n = 11) and without (n = 18) the Columbian pattern. Genotyping was performed using the Illumina Chicken 60K SNP chip, and GWAS was conducted using EMMAX with Bonferroni correction. A total of 10 significant and nine suggestive SNPs on chromosomes GGA1, 2, 5, 7, 10, and 11 were identified. Eight significant SNPs mapped to a ~0.7 Mb region on GGA11 containing MC1R and multiple functionally diverse genes involved in melanocyte adhesion (CDH1), signaling (WWP2, NFAT5), transcription (ZFHX3, TCF25), protein degradation (PSMD7, ATXN1L), and vesicular trafficking (AP1G1). On GGA2, a significant SNP within a lncRNA gene was located in a QTL for yellow plumage, with positional candidates (ROCK1, GREB1L, CABLES1, TMEM241, ANKRD29) suggesting links to pheomelanin deposition. A suggestive locus near DLK1 on GGA5 was also identified. This study refines the genetic architecture of the Columbian pattern, implicating a core region on GGA11 modulating melanocyte function and a distinct locus on GGA2 involved in pheomelanin synthesis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42237205 is a review article
Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a critical regulator of cell proliferation, differentiation, and inflammatory balance. However, its downstream proteomic effects in periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) remain poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the proteomic alterations induced by PTEN inhibition and identify potential molecular pathways underlying periodontal regeneration.PDLSCs were treated with 5 μM VO-OHpic for 24 hours, followed by proteomic profiling using mass spectrometric analysis. The resulting proteomic data were analysed using Heatmapper, Metascape, and WebGestalt (WEB-based Gene Set Analysis Toolkit) databases, as well as Cytoscape, to evaluate protein expression patterns and protein-protein interaction networks.Proteomic analysis identified 7,525 proteins across all samples, with 3,497 proteins commonly expressed between groups. In the VO-OHpic-treated cells, proteins related to cytoskeletal dynamics (ACTR2, FNDC3A), vesicular transport (GGA1, RAB9A), and signal transduction (TRAF3IP3, GJB3) were upregulated. Enrichment analysis identified potential biological pathways related to membrane trafficking, secretion, and regulation of MAPK and Wnt signalling. Conversely, proteins linked to transcriptional and metabolic regulation (GLIS3, PHGDH, NADSYN1) and membrane trafficking (SNX1, REEP1) were downregulated. Cytokine signalling and interferon pathways were explored as the potential pathways involved in these downregulated proteins.In conclusion, PTEN inhibition by VO-OHpic was associated with proteomic changes in PDLSCs linked to regenerative phenotype, including the modulation of MAPK and Wnt signalling pathways alongside alterations in immune and metabolic pathways. These findings suggest that PTEN may function as a modulator balancing inflammatory regulation and differentiation processes, providing mechanistic insight into its potential role in periodontal tissue regeneration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diurnal birds of prey (Falconiformes and Accipitriformes) often display karyotypes that diverge markedly from the putative ancestral avian condition (2n = 80), with reduced diploid numbers and fewer microchromosome pairs driven by extensive chromosomal rearrangements. The harpy eagle (Harpia harpyja) was the first raptor analyzed by chromosome painting, revealing a karyotype (2n = 58) shaped by both microchromosome fusions and macrochromosome fissions followed by secondary fusions. However, these earlier analyses were limited in probe coverage. Here, we present a comprehensive chromosomal map of H. harpyja using multidirectional chromosome painting combined with chromosome-level genome assembly data. We integrated cross-species probes from Gallus gallus and Leucopternis albicollis with high-resolution genomic data to refine syntenic relationships and identify fission-fusion hotspots. G. gallus probes confirmed most previously described and genomically inferred associations but revealed novel features, including a new GGA1/GGA3 association and an increased number of GGA1-derived segments (five to six). Genomic data did not support previously suggested fusions involving GGA20-HHA1 or GGA12-Z. Dual-probe FISH further uncovered lineage-specific rearrangements, indicating rapid chromosomal evolution within Accipitriformes. This integrative approach clarifies harpy eagle genome organization and highlights dynamic evolutionary restructuring in raptor chromosomes.
The present study aimed to explore runs of homozygosity (ROH), Heterozygosity Enriched Regions (HER) using the sliding window approach in both PLINK and detectRUNS, as well as the consecutive SNP approach in detectRUNS and their association with important economic traits. Genomic inbreeding coefficient based on ROH and heterosis coefficient based on HER were also estimated among crossbred (n = 81) by using GGP_HDv3_C genotyping assay. Total ROH varied from around 600 in the sliding window approach and almost double in the Consecutive SNP approach of detectRUNS. Similarly, the HER are 756 in the sliding window and 771 in the Consecutive SNP method. The mean inbreeding coefficient range varied in different approaches, i.e., 0.016-0.022 is observed based on ROH (Froh), and the heterosis coefficient based on HER (Frohet) is 0.0019. Top ROH and HER regions contain important genes related to dairy (EHHADH, CACNA1C, MICALL1, EIF3L, GTPBP1, SYNGR1, ATF4, GRAP2, FAM83F, ACO2), immunity (LIPH, TMEM41A, PEX26, CDC42EPI, CXXC5, PSD2, PURA, CYSTM1, RNF14), growth and carcass (MAGEF1, TGS1, LYN, CHCHD7, FAM110B, SDCBP, SH3BP1, GGA1, TRIOBP, PICK1, MAFF, TOMM22, MGAT3, TNRC6B, ADSL, EP300, SMDT1, MATR3) traits. These findings may provide valuable insights into the understanding of genome-wide homozygosity and heterozygosity patterns and genetic architecture of the Pakistani crossbred cattle.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The m5C RNA modifications have been implicated in the pathogenesis of urothelial carcinoma and hold potential as prognostic biomarkers for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) patients. In this study, we developed an MIBC-risk model by integrating m5C modification-related genes and differentially expressed genes using Nanopore sequencing and a machine learning approach. Compared to our previous research, we observed that m5C modifications are more functional, with the most enriched regions being the 3'UTR and exons. Our analysis revealed differential m5C methylation sites in several well-characterized cancer-related genes, including BMI1, PTEN, MALAT1, FADD, STAT5A, BIRC6, FOXO3, CCNG1, PAK2, UBE2L3, SMARCB1, and TUG1. Functional enrichment analysis demonstrated significant involvement of these genes in key oncogenic pathways, particularly DNA damage response, double-strand break repair, p53 signaling, MAPK cascade, NF-κB signaling, and cell proliferation/migration pathways. Unlike models based on single factors, the combination of m5C modification-related genes and differentially expressed genes resulted in a more effective classification model. This approach yielded an optimized 11-gene prognostic signature comprising GGA1, NUMBL, ECHDC2, NLRC5, EIF2D, GJA1, XPC, DAZAP2, C6orf120, WDR45, and CES1, which demonstrated superior predictive performance in TCGA MIBC patients. These findings establish m5C RNA modification patterns as promising molecular signatures for MIBC prognosis and potential therapeutic targets.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Maintaining robust plant vigor is essential for sustaining crop productivity, yet the precise roles and molecular underpinnings of G protein γ subunits in this process remain elusive. This study reveals that GGC1 is under selection during tomato domestication, and its mutants exhibit enhanced plant vigor, characterized by superior growth, increased yield, and improved fruit quality. In contrast, triple mutants gga1/ggb1/ggb2 display severely compromised vigor resembling slgb1 mutants lacking the Gβ subunit. Protein assays reveal that GGC1 suppresses the interaction between the three Gγ subunits (GGA1, GGB1, and GGB2) and SlGB1. Further, GGC1 inhibits calcium-dependent protein kinase 28 (CPK28)-mediated phosphorylation of aquaporin plasma membrane intrinsic protein 1;2 (PIP1;2) at the T172 site. Downstream of GGC1, both CPK28 and PIP1;2 positively regulate plant vigor by enhancing photosynthesis. These findings illuminate the functional divergence among G proteins in controlling crop vigor, offering potential strategies to engineer high-yield germplasm with enhanced CO2 assimilation and photosynthetic efficiency.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A constitutively active mutant of the receptor protein tyrosine kinase KIT is a major cause of gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs). Recently, we discovered that, during biosynthetic transport, the KIT mutant (KITmut) is retained in the Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN), where it activates downstream molecules. This retention is dependent on the phospholipase Cγ2-protein kinase D2-PI4 kinase IIIβ (PLCγ2-PKD2-PI4KIIIβ) pathway, which KITmut activates at the Golgi/TGN. The activated cascade aberrantly recruits GGA1 and the γ-adaptin subunit of AP1, resulting in KITmut retention in the Golgi/TGN. However, the precise mechanisms, including the mediators and effectors of the pathway, remain unclear. In humans, the phosphatidic acid-generating enzymes, phospholipase D1 (PLD1) and PLD2 are known downstream proteins of PKD. In the presence of the PLD inhibitor CAY10594, KITmut is released from the Golgi/TGN and subsequently degraded in lysosomes, leading to signal inactivation. Knockdown experiments indicated that PLD2 plays a role in KITmut retention. KITmut activates PLD2 through PKD2, but not PI4KIIIβ, for Golgi/TGN retention. PLD activity is required for the association of γ-adaptin with GGA1. Therefore, the KIT-PLCγ2-PKD2 pathway separately activates PLD2 and PI4KIIIβ to recruit γ-adaptin and GGA1. Collectively, these results suggest that KITmut retention is dependent on the activation of the PLCγ2-PKD2-PLD2 cascade in GIST cells.© 2025. The Author(s).
Runs of homozygosity (ROHs) are continuous homozygous segments of genomes that can be used to infer the historical development of the population. ROH studies allow us to analyze the genetic structure of a population and identify signs of selection. The present study searched for ROH regions in the Faverolle chicken breed. DNA samples from modern individuals and museum Faverolle specimens were obtained and sent for whole-genome sequencing (WGS) with 30× coverage. The results were aligned to the reference genome and subjected to additional filtering. ROH segments were then analyzed using PLINK 1.9. As a result, 10 regions on GGA1, 2, 3, 4, and 13 were identified. A total of 19 genes associated with fat deposition and lipid metabolism (GBE1, CACNA2D1, STON1, PPP1R21, RPL21L1, ATP6V0E1, CREBRF, NKX2-2, COMMD1), fertility (LHCGR, GTF2A1L, SAMD5), muscle development and body weight (VGLL3, CACNA2D1, FOXN2, ERGIC1, RPL26L1), the shape and relative size of the skeleton (FAT4), and autophagy and apoptosis (BNIP1) were found. Developmental protein genes (PAX1, NKX2-2, NKX2-4, NKX2-5) formed a separate cluster. Probably, selection for the preservation of high flavor characteristics contributed to the consolidation of these ROH regions. The present research enhances our knowledge on the Faverolle breed's genome and pinpoints their ROH segments that are also specific «selection traces».
Semen cryopreservation is a crucial technology in the artificial insemination of livestock and poultry. It not only contributes to the conservation of germplasm resources but also facilitates the cross-regional exchange of high-quality breeding stock. In this study, 165 Duroc boars were selected for genome-wide genotyping, and the sperm freezing/thawing motility ratio (sperm recovery rate) was used as phenotypic data for genome-wide association analysis (GWAS). Considerable individual variations in sperm recovery rates (SRRs) were detected, and the sperm structure after cyropreservation was significantly better in highly freeze-tolerant individuals compared to non-freeze-tolerant ones. The heritability of the SRR was calculated and found to be 0.199 ± 0.158, representing low heritability. Through GWAS, eight single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) loci and four candidate genes (SLC10A6, MYRF, GGA1, and UTRN) were identified as being significantly associated with sperm freezing tolerance. Moreover, the dominant genotypes of four SNPs were finally determined to be valuable for identifying individuals with high sperm freezing tolerance. This study reveals the heritability of the sperm recovery rate and identifies molecular markers associated with sperm freezing tolerance in Duroc boars, which is of great significance for accelerating boar genetic improvement and enhancing the economic efficiency of pig breeding industry.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481344
TRAPPC2L is a core subunit of the Transport Protein Particle (TRAPP) complex, which is involved in vesicle transport and autophagy. Mutations in Trappc2l gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders, characterised by severe neurodevelopmental delays and varying degrees of muscle abnormalities. In this study, we found that the knockout of Trappc2l did not cause developmental abnormalities in both male and female mice. However, the male mice were completely infertile. Histological examination revealed that germ cell syncytial structures with multiple nuclear were formed in Trappc2l knockout mice from embryonic day 17.5 (E17.5) and the number and size of these structures gradually were increased at later developmental stages. The germ cells were completely lost at 2 weeks after birth. Further study found that germ cell syncytial structures were most likely formed by abnormal cell division but not cell fusion. We also found that meiosis-associated genes Stra8 and Sycp3 were expressed in Trappc2l-deficient germ cells during the embryonic stage. Our study demonstrated that Trappc2l is essential for germ cell development in male mice which is probably involved in keeping the mitotic quiescent state of male germ cells during the embryonic stage.© 2025 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The biological characteristics and metastasis mechanism of prostate cancer are complex, involving the important role of many proteins in cell transcriptional regulation. This study focused on the role of the proteomic hub proteins CDKN2B, TRAPPC2L, WFS1 and ARPP19 in the biochemical recurrence and metastasis progression of prostate cancer. Cross-platform transcriptome integration and differential expression analysis were used to evaluate transcriptome characteristics in a prostate cancer cohort. Functional enrichment analysis was performed by gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway annotation, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to investigate cancer progression subtypes. It was found that prostate cancer progression showed significant transcriptome heterogeneity, and low-expression genes dominated. We reveal the important role of epithelial-immune interactions and inflammatory signaling in transcriptional remodeling in prostate cancer. The co-expression network topology analysis showed that the immune-metabolic center module plays a central role in cancer progression. CDKN2B was identified as a key transcriptional determinant in prostate cancer typing, while TRAPPC2L and WFS1 acted as core transcriptional regulators, driving metastatic heterogeneity. ARPP19 and LOC650152 also show important transcriptional driving effects in advanced prostate cancer.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
KBG syndrome (MIM #148050) is a rare genetic disease, showing an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It was first described by Herrmann et al. in 1975 in three affected families, whose initial letters gave origin to the acronym. A peculiar facies including triangular face, synophrys, macrodontia of the upper central incisors, as well as short stature, skeletal defects and neurodevelopmental disorders (developmental delay, intellectual disability, epilepsy) are the main features of the syndrome. Mutations of the ankirin repeat domain 11 gene (ANKRD11), which harbors at chromosome 16q24.3, have been associated to the syndrome. The encoded protein inhibits ligand-dependent activation of transcription. Due to the growing number of detected ANKRD11 variants associated to phenotypes with various degree of severity, the precise definition of the clinical and genomic profiles of patients is important, also in the perspective of a better understanding of the molecular bases of the disease, genotype-phenotype correlation, and management of affected subjects.We report on three unrelated patients, observed in as many different Italian (Sicily, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia-Giulia regions) Pediatric Neurology and Medical Genetics outpatient services, showing variously present typical dysmorphic features (e.g., triangular face, macrodontia of upper incisors, brachydactyly), growth retardation and impaired neurodevelopmental profiles (i.e. developmental delay, EEG abnormalities/epilepsy) compatible with KBG syndrome diagnosis. In Patient 1, next generation sequencing analysis of a panel of genes involved in developmental delay and autism spectrum disorders detected two mutations, a pathogenic heterozygous frameshift variant of the ANKRD11 gene (already described in the literature), and a heterozygous missense one in EHMT1 (previously reported as well, and associated with Kleefstra syndrome); in Patient 2, array comparative genomic hybridization (a-CGH) analysis identified a 634 Kb 16q24.3-24.3 deletion involving several genes (CDT1, APRT, GALNS, TRAPPC2L, ACSF3, CDH15), besides ANKRD11, some of which are related with developmental disorders. Finally in Patient 3, Sanger sequencing of the ANKRD11 gene, performed due to the specific diagnostic suspicion raised for precocious teething observed at age 3 months, evidenced an intragenic deletion allowing thus an early diagnosis of disease.We underline similarities and differences among our patients, and their specific genetic and clinical features, in addition to the variable diagnostic tests used for the diagnosis, reached at different developmental age, i.e. infancy, childhood and adolescence. Pediatricians must be aware of KBG syndrome and should be able, as well, to raise the diagnostic suspicion, especially in the presence of peculiar dysmorphic features, short stature, developmental delay, intellectual disability and epilepsy. Prompt diagnosis may allow to better address any associated emerging neuropsychological and behavioral issues improving the quality of life of the patient and the whole family.© 2025. The Author(s).
Variants in membrane trafficking proteins are known to cause rare disorders with severe symptoms. The highly conserved transport protein particle (TRAPP) complexes are key membrane trafficking regulators that are also involved in autophagy. Pathogenic genetic variants in specific TRAPP subunits are linked to neurological disorders, muscular dystrophies, and skeletal dysplasias. Characterizing these variants and their phenotypes is important for understanding the general and specialized roles of TRAPP subunits as well as for patient diagnosis. Patient-derived cells are not always available, which poses a limitation for the study of these diseases. Therefore, other systems, like the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, can be used to dissect the mechanisms at the intracellular level underlying these disorders. The development of CRISPR/Cas9 technology in yeast has enabled a scar-less editing method that creates an efficient humanized yeast model. In this study, core yeast subunits were humanized by replacing them with their human orthologs, and TRAPPC1, TRAPPC2, TRAPPC2L, TRAPPC6A, and TRAPPC6B were found to successfully replace their yeast counterparts. This system was used for studying the first reported individual with an autosomal recessive disorder caused by biallelic TRAPPC1 variants, a girl with a severe neurodevelopmental disorder and myopathy. We show that the maternal variant (TRAPPC1 p.(Val121Alafs*3)) is non-functional while the paternal variant (TRAPPC1 p.(His22_Lys24del)) is conditional-lethal and affects secretion and non-selective autophagy in yeast. This parallels defects seen in fibroblasts derived from this individual which also showed membrane trafficking defects and altered Golgi morphology, all of which were rescued in the human system by wild-type TRAPPC1. This study suggests that humanized yeast can be an efficient means to study TRAPP subunit variants in the absence of human cells and can assign significance to variants of unknown significance (VUS). This study lays the foundation for characterizing further TRAPP variants through this system, rapidly contributing to disease diagnosis.
The TRAPP (TRAfficking Protein Particle) complexes are evolutionarily conserved tethering factors involved in the intracellular transport of vesicles for secretion and autophagy processes. Pathogenic variants in 8 genes (of 14) encoding TRAPP proteins are involved in ultra-rare human diseases, called TRAPPopathies. Seven of them are autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorders with overlapping phenotypes. Since 2018, two homozygous missense variants in TRAPPC2L have been reported in five individuals from three unrelated families with early-onset and progressive encephalopathy, with episodic rhabdomyolysis. We now describe the first pathogenic protein-truncating variant in the TRAPPC2L gene found at a homozygous state in two affected siblings. This report provides key genetic evidence invaluable to establishing the gene-disease relationship for this gene and important insights into the TRAPPC2L phenotype. Regression, seizures and postnatal microcephaly initially described are not constant features. Acute episodes of infection do not contribute to the neurological course. HyperCKaemia is part of the clinical picture. Thus, TRAPPC2L syndrome is mainly characterised by a severe neurodevelopmental disorder and a variable degree of muscle involvement, suggesting that it belongs to the clinical entity of rare congenital muscular dystrophies.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs, i.e., abuse, neglect, household dysfunction) represent a potential risk factor for a wide range of long-lasting diseases and shorter life expectancy. We recently described a 1-week residential group program, based on mindfulness training, artistic expression and EMDR group therapy, that significantly reduced PTSD-related symptoms and increased attention/awareness-related outcomes in adolescent girls with multiple ACEs in a randomized controlled study. Since epigenetic mechanisms (i.e., DNA methylation) have been associated with the long-lasting effects of ACEs, the present report extends these prior findings by exploring genome-wide DNA methylation changes following the program. Saliva samples from all participants (n = 44) were collected and genomic DNA was extracted prior (T1) and following (T2) the intervention. Genome-wide DNA methylation analysis using the MethylationEPIC beadchip array (Illumina) revealed 49 differentially methylated loci (DML; p value < 0.001; methylation change > 10%) that were annotated to genes with roles in biological processes linked to early childhood adversity (i.e., neural, immune, and endocrine pathways, cancer and cardiovascular disease). DNA sequences flanking these DML showed significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites involved in inflammation, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and brain development. Methylation changes in SIRT5 and TRAPPC2L genes showed associations with changes in trauma-related psychological measures. Results presented here suggest that this multimodal group program for adolescents with multiple victimization modulates the DNA methylome at sites of potential relevance for health and behavioral disorders associated with ACEs.© 2022. The Author(s).
The highly evolutionarily conserved transport protein particle (TRAPP) complexes (TRAPP II and III) perform fundamental roles in subcellular trafficking pathways. Here we identified biallelic variants in TRAPPC10, a component of the TRAPP II complex, in individuals with a severe microcephalic neurodevelopmental disorder. Molecular studies revealed a weakened interaction between mutant TRAPPC10 and its putative adaptor protein TRAPPC2L. Studies of patient lymphoblastoid cells revealed an absence of TRAPPC10 alongside a concomitant absence of TRAPPC9, another key TRAPP II complex component associated with a clinically overlapping neurodevelopmental disorder. The TRAPPC9/10 reduction phenotype was recapitulated in TRAPPC10-/- knockout cells, which also displayed a membrane trafficking defect. Notably, both the reduction in TRAPPC9 levels and the trafficking defect in these cells could be rescued by wild type but not mutant TRAPPC10 gene constructs. Moreover, studies of Trappc10-/- knockout mice revealed neuroanatomical brain defects and microcephaly, paralleling findings seen in the human condition as well as in a Trappc9-/- mouse model. Together these studies confirm autosomal recessive TRAPPC10 variants as a cause of human disease and define TRAPP-mediated pathomolecular outcomes of importance to TRAPPC9 and TRAPPC10 mediated neurodevelopmental disorders in humans and mice.
The TRAPP complexes are nucleotide exchange factors that play essential roles in membrane traffic and autophagy. TRAPPII activates Rab11, and TRAPPIII activates Rab1, with the two complexes sharing a core of small subunits that affect nucleotide exchange but being distinguished by specific large subunits that are essential for activity in vivo. Crystal structures of core subunits have revealed the mechanism of Rab activation, but how the core and the large subunits assemble to form the complexes is unknown. We report a cryo-EM structure of the entire Drosophila TRAPPIII complex. The TRAPPIII-specific subunits TRAPPC8 and TRAPPC11 hold the catalytic core like a pair of tongs, with TRAPPC12 and TRAPPC13 positioned at the joint between them. TRAPPC2 and TRAPPC2L link the core to the two large arms, with the interfaces containing residues affected by disease-causing mutations. The TRAPPC8 arm is positioned such that it would contact Rab1 that is bound to the core, indicating how the arm could determine the specificity of the complex. A lower resolution structure of TRAPPII shows a similar architecture and suggests that the TRAPP complexes evolved from a single ur-TRAPP.© 2021 The Authors. Published under the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license.
Next-generation sequencing has facilitated the diagnosis of neurodevelopmental disorders with variable and non-specific clinical findings. Recently, a homozygous missense p.(Asp37Tyr) variant in TRAPPC2L, a core subunit of TRAPP complexes which function as tethering factors during membrane trafficking, was reported in two unrelated individuals with neurodevelopmental delay, post-infectious encephalopathy-associated developmental arrest, tetraplegia and accompanying rhabdomyolysis.We performed whole genome sequencing on members of an Ashkenazi Jewish pedigree to identify the underlying genetic aetiology of global developmental delay/intellectual disability in three affected siblings. To assess the effect of the identified TRAPPC2L variant, we performed biochemical and cell biological functional studies on the TRAPPC2L protein.A rare homozygous predicted deleterious missense variant, p.(Ala2Gly), in TRAPPC2L was identified in the affected siblings and it segregated with the neurodevelopmental phenotype within the family. Using a yeast two-hybrid assay and in vitro binding, we demonstrate that the p.(Ala2Gly) variant, but not the p.(Asp37Tyr) variant, disrupted the interaction between TRAPPC2L and another core TRAPP protein, TRAPPC6a. Size exclusion chromatography suggested that this variant affects the assembly of TRAPP complexes. Employing two different membrane trafficking assays using fibroblasts from one of the affected siblings, we found a delay in traffic into and out of the Golgi. Similar to the p.(Asp37Tyr) variant, the p.(Ala2Gly) variant resulted in an increase in the levels of active RAB11.Our data fill in a gap in the knowledge of TRAPP architecture with TRAPPC2L interacting with TRAPPC6a, positioning it as a putative adaptor for other TRAPP subunits. Collectively, our findings support the pathogenicity of the TRAPPC2L p.(Ala2Gly) variant.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Breast cancer is a very common disease affecting females on a global scale. It is responsible for approximately 10% of breast cancer-related fatalities. In 2022, approximately 2,308,897 new cases were reported globally. Recent studies focused on breast tumors have successfully recognized somatic mutations. This study aimed to identify previously unidentified somatic mutations in breast cancer patients belonging to Pakistan.The breast tumor sample was obtained from Jinnah Hospital, Lahore. The DNA was extracted, and whole-exome sequencing was conducted on six samples.Gene mutations found include 58.69% synonymous SNV, 28.37% nonsynonymous SNV, 3.89% Frameshift deletion, 6.68% Nonframeshift deletion, 2.09% stopgain, and 0.28% stop loss. Among 39 genes analyzed, the prevalence of gene mutations varied, with HYDIN (100%), ENTHD1 (33.33%), ADRA1B (66.67%), GATA3 (50%), CDH1 (16.67%), RB1 (50%), MAP3K1 (100%), EGFR (50%), TRPM6 (33.33%), KHDRBS1 (33.33%), RBM25 (66.67%), SF3B3 (50%), TEK (16.67%), PGK2 (33.33%), CBFB (33.33%), ARID1A (66.67%), KMT2C (100%), HECTD1 (100%), LAMA3 (66.67%), FLG2 (83.33%), UGT2B4 (16.67%), STK33 (66.67%), ACP4 (50%), DNAH8 (100%), TNN (66.67%), IGSF3 (100%), TRIM67 (83.33%), DNMBP (100%), CORO7 (16.67%), CDC27 (33.33%), ZNF544 (50%), MST1 (16.67%), DENND2A (33.33%), NCKAP5 (50%), PCDHB10 (50%), FBXW7 (50%), EIF4G3 (66.67%), IL12RB2 (50%), and PDE4B (50%).Breast cancer is a fatal disease. The high frequency of synonymous mutations was observed. The HYDIN, MAP3K1, KMT2C, HECTD1, DNAH8, IGSF3, DNMBP genes were 100% mutated then other genes.This study unveils new somatic alterations in different genes among early-onset Pakistani breast cancer patients, offering valuable insights for drug design targeting breast carcinoma.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Overcoming hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a challenging problem because HBV deceives the host immune system. We have found that DENN domain-containing 2A (DENND2A) was essential for HBV maintenance, although its role remains unclear. In this study, we elucidate its function by screening a novel DENND2A-binding peptide, DENP4-3S. DENP4-3S exhibits homology to SAM and SH3 domain-containing protein 1 (SASH1), a scaffold protein involved in Toll-like receptor signaling that promotes proinflammatory cytokine production. We confirmed that DENND2A interacts with SASH1 specifically. Overexpression and knockdown experiments showed that overexpression of DENND2A suppressed the transcriptional activity of NF-κB, and the knockdown of DENND2A promoted it and the production of cytokines and interferons. Here, we constructed a fusion protein (10M-DEN3SN) consisting of an anti-asialoglycoprotein receptor antibody and DENP4-3S to deliver the peptide to hepatocytes specifically. 10M-DEN3SN inhibited the interaction between DENND2A and SASH1, and rescued SASH1 trapped by DENND2A, leading to the upregulation of NF-κB and its downstream signaling. In addition, 10M-DEN3SN suppressed HBV proliferation in PXB chimeric mice. These results with the DENND2A-binding peptide delivered into hepatocytes suggested the involvement of DENND2A, SASH, and NF-κB signaling pathway in the HBV infection and onset of hepatitis. In conclusion, this study indicates that HBV utilizes DENND2A and SASH1 to evade the immune system.IMPORTANCEHepatitis B virus (HBV) is a serious liver infection with no established cure, causing an abnormal host immune response. Here, we identified a novel peptide that interacts with DENN domain-containing 2A (DENND2A), a host factor essential for HBV maintenance. The resulting peptide showed sequence homology, revealing an interaction between DENND2A and the immune system regulator SASH1. This study suggests that DENND2A contributes to HBV infection by suppressing the cellular immune system by inhibiting SASH1. The DENND2A-binding peptide, incorporated into our hepatocyte-specific peptide delivery system, inhibited the DENND2A-SASH1 interaction and promoted the production of cytokines and interferons in cultured hepatocytes. As a consequence, the peptide suppressed HBV proliferation in humanized mice. We report new insights into the role of DENND2A and SASH1 in HBV maintenance and highlight the importance of the immune system.
RNA editing is an essential post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism. However, few studies have investigated the functional RNA edits in the economic traits of livestock on a genome-wide scale. Pigs are one of the most important livestock species and their fat is the principal organ involved in the regulation of adipose deposition. Here, we used three full-sibling pairs, with each pair comprising a pig with higher backfat (BF) thickness and lower backfat thickness, to identify RNA editing events based on whole-genome and transcriptome sequencing data. A total of 60,903 non-redundant RNA editing sites with 59,472 (97.7%) A-to-G edits were detected using a revised bioinformatics pipeline. A specific sequence context with G preference was found one base downstream of the edited site, and the editing level was associated with the distribution of nucleotides across nearly sites. Moreover, the A-to-G editing sites mostly occurred in the pig-special short interspersed nuclear elements, Pre0_SS. Comparing the difference between pigs with higher BF and lower BF, we found 211 differentially edited sites (DESites). Functional enrichment analyses revealed a significant enrichment of genes containing DESites in terms of adipose deposition. The DESites located in the six adipose-related genes (SKP1, GSK3B, COL5A3, MDM4, NT5C2, and DENND2A) were selected as candidate RNA editing sites associated with adipose deposition, and thus require further evaluation. This study mined the potentially functional RNA editing sites in pig adipose tissue and indicated that RNA editing may play an important role in adipose deposition, which provides a new insight into the post-transcriptionally mediated regulation mechanism of fat development.© 2022 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) play pivotal roles in neuronal cell functions by exchanging GDP to GTP nucleotide and activation of GTPases. We aimed to determine the genotype and phenotype spectrum of GEF mutations by collecting data from a large Iranian cohort with intellectual disability (ID) and/or developmental delay (DD).We collected data from nine families with 20 patients extracted from Iranian cohort of 640 families with ID and/or DD. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to identify the causing variants in recruited families. We also compared our clinical and molecular findings with previously reported patients carrying mutations in these GEF genes in the literature published until mid-2021.We identified disease-causing variants in eight GEF genes including ALS2, IQSEC2, MADD, RAB3GAP1, RAB3GAP2, TRIO, ITSN1, and DENND2A. The major clinical manifestations in 203 previously reported cases along with our 20 patients with disease causing variants in eight GEF genes were as follow; speech disorder (85.2%), ID (81.6%), DD (81.1%), inability to walk (71.3%), facial dysmorphisms features (52.4%), abnormalities in skull morphology (55.6%), hypotonia and muscle weakness (47%), and brain MRI abnormalities (43.4%).Our study provides new insights into the genotype and phenotype spectrum of mutations in GEF genes.© 2022 The Authors. Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Human hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains a serious health problem worldwide. However, the mechanism for the maintenance of HBV in a latent state within host cells remains unclear. Here, using single-cell RNA sequencing analysis, we identified four genes linked to the maintenance of HBV in a liver cell line expressing HBV RNA at a low frequency. These genes included DOCK11 and DENND2A, which encode small GTPase regulators. In primary human hepatocytes infected with HBV, knockdown of these two genes decreased the amount of both HBV DNA and covalently closed circular DNA to below the limit of detection. Our findings reveal a role for DOCK11 and DENND2A in the maintenance of HBV.
Retromer drives endosomal cargo retrieval in combination with sorting nexin (SNX) adaptors, but how adaptor-cargo combinations specify coat architecture remains unclear. We identify sorting nexin 12 (SNX12) as the retromer adaptor required for human papillomavirus 16 (HPV16) infection and show that the viral L2 capsid protein tail directly engages SNX12-retromer complexes to trigger membrane tubulation. The crystal structure reveals a conserved cargo-recognition mode, whereas cryo-electron tomography of reconstituted assemblies shows retromer arches organized into two lattice configurations stabilized by membrane-proximal interfaces. These lattices assemble as multi-start helices and accommodate curvature through hinge-like motions between arches. These findings establish cargo and adaptor identity as co-determinants of retromer coat architecture, revealing retromer as a programmable system capable of generating route-specific transport carriers.
Quantifying cell surface receptors, distinct from the total cellular receptor pool, which includes both intracellular and membrane-bound compartments, is imperative in cell biology and pharmacology. Cell surface receptors are pivotal for initiating signaling cascades in response to extracellular stimuli, making their accurate quantification critical for understanding initial cellular responses and signal transduction mechanisms.Whole-cell Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assays (ELISA) are commonly used to assess receptor expression in both permeabilized and non-permeabilized cells. Using angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-R) and sorting nexin 12 (SNX12) as models for cell surface and intracellular proteins, respectively, we evaluated the impact of paraformaldehyde (PFA) fixation on protein quantification.We found that a fixation step with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA), widely employed across biological protocols, significantly permeabilizes cellular membranes. This results in the unintended detection of intracellular proteins in non-permeabilized cells, thereby leading to inaccurate measurements of plasma membrane receptor expression. Reducing the PFA concentration to 1% substantially improved the accuracy of cell surface receptor quantification by limiting membrane permeabilization while maintaining total receptor content. This adjustment was particularly important when assessing the surface expression of certain GPCR mutants that are retained intracellularly. However, the effect was protein-dependent, as 1% PFA caused inadequate protein immobilization and partial loss of some cytosolic proteins.These findings underscore the necessity for tailored fixation protocols, depending on the protein of interest, in order to preserve cell surface integrity and ensure reliable quantification of proteins in diverse biological studies.Copyright © 2026 Bernard, Wahart, Pataluch, Galés and Pons.
In order to investigate the basic genetic structure of plumage colour in Jingyuan chicken and to explore the genetic markers for plumage colour development, the present study was carried out to investigate the candidate key SNPs and candidate genes regulating black, linen and white plumage and plumage traits of Jingyuan chicken by using selection signal analysis and genome-wide association analysis. Selection signal analyses showed that including 30, 40 and 18 overlapping genes were associated with black, linen and white plumage colours in Jingyuan chicken. Meanwhile, integrative genomic analyses identified BCAT1, LMO3, and PIK3C2G as primary candidates for black plumage, and IL1RAPL1 for white plumage, with all genes showing convergent support across multiple complementary approaches. Further screening through Fst and θπ values identified 10 key candidate genes significantly associated with plumage colour traits, including ARFGEF2, VPS37A, SNX12, KIT, MET, ROS1, CSF1R, NGF, CDC42, and TEK. These results provide a fundamental theoretical basis for the genetic structure and formation of Jingyuan chicken plumage.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Omicron has emerged as the most successful variant of SARS-CoV-2. In addition to mutations in Spike that mediate humoral immune escape, the Omicron-specific Envelope (E) T9I mutation has been associated with increased transmission fitness. However, the underlying mechanism remained unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the E T9I mutation confers resistance to autophagy. Rare Omicron patient isolates encoding the ancestral E T9 remain sensitive to autophagy. Conversely, introducing the E T9I mutation in recombinant 2020 SARS-CoV-2 renders it resistant to autophagy. Our data indicate that the E T9I mutation protects virions against lysosomal degradation. At the molecular level, the T9I mutation increases the localization of E at autophagic vesicles and promotes interaction with autophagy-associated proteins SNX12, STX12, TMEM87B, and ABCG2. Our results show that the E T9I mutation renders incoming virions resistant to autophagy, suggesting that evasion of this antiviral mechanism contributes to the efficient spread of Omicron.© 2025 The Author(s).
Clinical and experimental studies have demonstrated that type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) affects the brain structure and function, in particular the hippocampus, leading to cognitive impairments. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits induced by T2DM are not fully understood. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effects of T2DM on behavior, the proteome profile in the hippocampus, and the potential molecular pathways involved in the development of cognitive dysfunction in T2DM mice. We found that the diabetic mice exhibited cognitive impairment in the novel object location recognition test and the novel object recognition test. The proteomic analysis revealed that various molecular pathways were involved in this context. These included the upregulation of proteins in the protein synthesis and folding pathway (EIF5A, RSP24, and PPIB), endocytosis and cellular trafficking (VPS24, SNX12, and ARP2/3), cannabinoid receptor interacting (CRIP1), ubiquitination (SKP1), and oxidative stress response (NUDT3). Downregulated proteins were related to mitochondria function (ANT1), neuronal development (ELP1), protein glycosylation (RPN2), and endocytosis (VPS4). Our study shows that T2DM mice exhibit neurocognitive impairment, which is linked to the dysregulation of hippocampal proteins involved in various molecular pathways. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of T2DM-related cognitive impairment and may identify molecular targets for drug development to treat T2DM-associated cognitive impairment conditions.© The Author(s) 2024.
The plasma membrane (PM)-localized Na+/H+ antiporter Salt Overly Sensitive1 (SOS1) is essential for plant salt tolerance through facilitating Na+ efflux; however, how SOS1 localization and protein accumulation is regulated in plants remains elusive. Here, we report that Sorting Nexin 1 (SNX1) is required for plant salt-stress tolerance through affecting endosomal trafficking of SOS1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Disruption of SNX1 caused salt hypersensitivity with increased Na+ accumulation and decreased Na+ efflux in Arabidopsis when challenged with high salinity stress. SNX1 co-localized and interacted with SOS1 in endosomes, promoting its PM localization and protein stability in plants under saline conditions. SOS1 overexpression promoted salt tolerance in the wild-type, whereas such effect was greatly compromised in the snx1-2 mutant. Pharmaceutical results showed that SOS1 recycling from the cytosol to the PM was largely blocked while its vacuolar degradation was accelerated in the snx1-2 mutant. Furthermore, salt-induced SOS1 phosphorylation enhanced its interaction and co-localization with SNX1, which is required for SOS1 PM localization in plants. Our study elucidates that SNX1 facilitates SOS1 PM localization and protein accumulation through endosomal trafficking, thereby enhancing salt tolerance in plants.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cumulative research findings support the idea that endocytic trafficking is crucial in regulating receptor signaling and associated diseases. Specifically, strong evidence points to the involvement of sorting nexins (SNXs), particularly SNX1 and SNX2, in the signaling and trafficking of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) MET in colorectal cancer (CRC). Activation of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) receptor MET is a key driver of CRC progression. In the present study, we utilized human HCT116 CRC cells with SNX1 and SNX2 genes knocked out to demonstrate that their absence leads to a delay in MET entering early endosomes. This delay results in increased phosphorylation of both MET and AKT upon HGF stimulation, while ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2) phosphorylation remains unaffected. Despite these changes, HGF-induced cell proliferation, scattering, and migration remain similar between the parental and the SNX1/2 knockout cells. However, in the absence of SNX1 and SNX2, these cells exhibit increased resistance to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. This research underscores the intricate relationship between intracellular trafficking, receptor signaling, and cellular responses and demonstrates for the first time that the modulation of MET trafficking by SNX1 and SNX2 is critical for receptor signaling that may exacerbate the disease.© 2024 The Author(s).
The recent re-emergence of the monkeypox (mpox) epidemic in nonendemic regions has raised concerns regarding a potential global outbreak. The mpox virus (MPV) is a smallpox-like virus belonging to the genus Orthopoxvirus (family: Poxviridae). Although studies suggest that MPV infection suppresses the Toll-like receptor-3- and tumor necrosis factor-α-related signaling pathways, whether MPV regulates other immune-related pathways remains unclear.In this study, two distinct temporal patterns were used for establishing an MPV-infected human immortal epithelial cancer cell line (HeLa). These two durations 2 and 12 h of incubation were selected to identify the coregulated genes and pathways affected by MPV infection.The use of the Gene Ontology framework, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome database, and MetaCore software yielded valuable insights. Specifically, various pathways were found to be enriched in HeLa cells infected with MPV for 2 and 12 h. These pathways included Notch, CD40, CD95, hypoxia-inducible factor-1-α, interleukin (IL)- 1, IL-6, phosphoinositide 3-kinase, nuclear factor-κB, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and oxidative stress-induced signalling pathways. Clusters and pathways of metabolism and viral replication cycles were significantly associated with the 2-hour infection group. This association was identified based on the regulation of genes such as HSPG2, RHPN2, MYL1, ASPHD2, CA9, VIPR1, SNX12, MGC2752, SLC25A1, PEX19, and AREG. Furthermore, clusters and pathways related to immunity and cell movement were found to be associated with the 12-hour infection group. This association was identified based on the regulation of genes such as C1orf21, C19orf48, HRK, IL8, GULP1, SCAND2, ATP5C1, FEZ1, SGSH, TACC2, CYP4X1, MMP1, CPB1, P2RY13, WDR27, PRPF4, and ENDOD1.This study can improve our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology and post-infection sequelae of mpox. Our findings provide valuable insights into the various modes of MPV infection.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Mammalian retromer complex contributes to multiple early endosome-associated trafficking pathways whose origins are dependent on which sorting nexin (SNX) they are complexed with. In an attempt to dissect out the contribution of individual retromer-SNX complexes, we examined the trafficking of EGFR in detail within a series of KO cell line models. We demonstrated that the depletion of retromer subunit Vps35 leads to decreased EGFR protein levels in resting cells with enhanced association of EGFR with lysosomal compartments. Compared to control cells, the addition of EGF to Vps35 KO cells resulted in a reduced rate of EGFR degradation; AKT activation and cell prolferation rates were elevated, while ERK activation remained relatively unchanged. These observations are consistent with a prolonged temporal association of EGFR within early endosomes due to the inefficiency of early endosome-associated protein trafficking pathways or organelle maturation due to retromer absence. We did not fully delineate the discrete contributions from retromer-associated SNXs to the phenotypes observed from retromer Vps35 depletion. While each of the knock-outs of SNX1/2, SNX3, or SNX27 promotes the enhanced association of EGFR with early endosomal compartments, only the decreased EGF-mediated EGFR degradation was observed in SNX1/2 dKO cells, while the enhanced AKT activation was only increased in SNX3 KO or SNX27 KO cells. Despite this, each of the knock-outs showed increased EGF-stimulated cell proliferation rates.
Reproductive failure remains a significant challenge to the beef industry. The omics technologies have provided opportunities to improve reproductive efficiency. We used a multistaged analysis from blood profiles to integrate metabolome (plasma) and transcriptome (peripheral white blood cells) in beef heifers. We used untargeted metabolomics and RNA-Seq paired data from six AI-pregnant (AI-P) and six nonpregnant (NP) Angus-Simmental crossbred heifers at artificial insemination (AI). Based on network co-expression analysis, we identified 17 and 37 hub genes in the AI-P and NP groups, respectively. Further, we identified TGM2, TMEM51, TAC3, NDRG4, and PDGFB as more connected in the NP heifers' network. The NP gene network showed a connectivity gain due to the rewiring of major regulators. The metabolomic analysis identified 18 and 15 hub metabolites in the AI-P and NP networks. Tryptophan and allantoic acid exhibited a connectivity gain in the NP and AI-P networks, respectively. The gene-metabolite integration identified tocopherol-a as positively correlated with ENSBTAG00000009943 in the AI-P group. Conversely, tocopherol-a was negatively correlated in the NP group with EXOSC2, TRNAUIAP, and SNX12. In the NP group, α-ketoglutarate-SMG8 and putrescine-HSD17B13 were positively correlated, whereas a-ketoglutarate-ALAS2 and tryptophan-MTMR1 were negatively correlated. These multiple interactions identified novel targets and pathways underlying fertility in bovines.
PI(3,5)P2 is an endosomal lipid whose depletion is associated with a variety of pathologies such as neurodegenerative diseases. However, studying this lipid in physiological and disease models has been difficult due to the scarcity of the lipid and the lack of live-cell imaging tools. That is until recently, when a novel PI(3,5)P2 biosensor, SnxA, was characterized. Despite the exciting promise of this new sensor, it was still unclear whether SnxA reported on PI(3,5)P2 levels without bias and how its sensitivity compared to other PI(3,5)P2 biosensors. In this work, we addressed these gaps by using a recruitable PIKfyve construct to demonstrate that ectopically generated PI(3,5)P2 at mitochondria was sufficient to recruit SnxA. Further, we co-expressed putative PI(3,5)P2 biosensors to definitively show that SnxA is more sensitive to PI(3,5)P2. We also validated previous results by showing that SnxA depends on PI(3,5)P2 for membrane binding, SnxA responds to PI(3,5)P2 production at endosomes, and that PI(3,5)P2 levels decline quickly when its production is inhibited. Thus, we conclude that SnxA is a robust and sensitive PI(3,5)P2 biosensor that facilitates real-time analysis of this key lipid.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-adaptive lipid kinase axis that supports adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, exacerbates ER stress, and activates a compensatory sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-lipid kinase axis that drives adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, leading to ER stress accumulation and activation of a compensatory, sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42455373 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is dependent on autophagy for growth. Chloroquine/Hydroxychloroquine (CQ/HCQ), the sole FDA-approved autophagy inhibitors, have shown limited clinical efficacy as cancer therapies. To identify approaches to improve PDAC response to CQ, we performed a CQ-anchored, CRISPR-Cas9 mediated loss-of-function screen. We identified that the loss of genes encoding proteins upstream in the autophagy pathway enhanced CQ-mediated growth suppression. This indicated that simultaneous targeting of two distinct nodes of the same pathway, vertical inhibition, may be a more effective strategy than single node inhibition. We demonstrated that genetic loss or pharmacological inhibition of VPS34, a protein necessary for autophagosome nucleation, sensitized PDAC cells to inhibitors of the terminal stage of the autophagy pathway, including CQ and an inhibitor of PIKfyve. We extended this concept to the initiation complex and demonstrated that ULK1/2 inhibition synergized with CQ and PIKfyve inhibition to impair PDAC cell growth and increase apoptosis. Anticipating mechanisms of resistance to vertical autophagy inhibition, we performed reverse-phase protein array profiling and identified that vertical inhibition of the autophagy pathway resulted in enhanced activation of the PI3K-AKT-mTORC1 signaling pathway. Increased mTORC1 signaling resulted in heightened sensitivity to bi-steric mTORC1 inhibition in both cell line and organoid models of PDAC. This study identifies novel anti-autophagy inhibitor combinations that may improve the clinical efficacy of autophagy inhibition for PDAC treatment.Vertical inhibition of the autophagy pathway reduces pancreatic cancer cell growth, increases apoptosis, and enhances sensitivity to mTORC1 inhibition; thereby representing a novel therapeutic strategy for autophagy-driven pancreatic cancer.
Amoeboid cell migration is key to efficient T cell immunity. Spatial polarization of organelles within cells, including endo-lysosomes, is a prerequisite of migration. However, how ultrastructural polarization is linked to the signaling requirements governing T cell migration remains unknown. Here we show that signaling molecules generated by endo-lysosome-localized kinases regulate velocity of amoeboid migration. Specifically, imaging of T cells identifies accumulation of endo-lysosomes decorated with the lipid kinases VPS34-PIKfyve at the uropod of polarized cells. Activity of VPS34 and PIKfyve regulates speed, but not directedness, of migrating T cells. Mechanistically, PI(3,5)P2 generated by the sequential action of VPS34 and PIKfyve, mediates Ca2+ efflux from lysosomes via the mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), thus controlling activity of myosin IIA and hence the generation of propulsive force through retrograde actin flow. The VPS34-PIKfyve kinases also regulate velocity of myeloid cells, as well as of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum - establishing the axis as an evolutionarily conserved speed control system of amoeboid cell migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Teleost sorting nexin 8 (SNX8) negatively regulates antiviral innate immunity, but its precise mechanism remains unclear. Here, using IP and LC-MS/MS analyses, we identified grass carp THOC7 (CiTHOC7) as a candidate protein that interacts with SNX8. THOC7 was significantly up-regulated in all tested tissues following GCRV infection. Moreover, THOC7 suppressed virus-induced IFN 1 signaling, aggravated GCRV-induced developmental abnormalities of zebrafish embryos, and reduced their survival rates. Further investigations demonstrated that SNX8 interacted with THOC7, facilitated its phosphorylation, and promoted the association between THOC7 and TBK1, thereby suppressing TBK1 phosphorylation. Either THOC7 alone or SNX8 collaborated with THOC7 significantly suppressed GCRV-induced irf3, irf7, and ifn 1 gene transcription, IFN 1 promoter and ISRE activation, as well as IRF7 expression and IFN 1 production. Additionally, they attenuated phosphorylation of TBK1 and IRF3, while affecting IRF7 expression but not its phosphorylation. Collectively, these findings indicated that SNX8 cooperates with THOC7 to negatively regulate the IFN 1 response through the TBK1-IRF3 signaling axis, providing novel insights into the regulatory mechanism of antiviral innate immunity in grass carp.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ovarian cancer treatment has long been challenged by clinical obstacles including platinum resistance recurrence and incomplete eradication of micrometastatic lesions. This study presents a platinum(II)-based compound AP-604 through the "Targeted Drug Conjugate (TDC)" strategy to overcome the limitations inherent in conventional chemotherapy. Research indicated that AP-604 preserved potent PIKfyve targeting capability (IC50 = 15.4 ± 1.3 nM) while also exhibiting pronounced cytotoxicity against A2780 (IC50 = 2.2 ± 0.4 μM). Mechanistic investigations revealed a multi-mode antitumor action involving concurrent activation of the BCL-2/caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway and S phase specific cell cycle arrest, complemented by enhanced platinum accumulation that exacerbated DNA damage. In vivo tests showed that AP-604 at a high dose achieved stronger tumor suppression than Cisplatin, Apilimod, and their combination without inducing significant histopathological damage. These findings proved that AP-604 has potential as a promising drug candidate with enhanced efficacy and favorable safety profiles in treatment of ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lysosomes clear unwanted cellular material delivered by constant membrane fusion. Membrane fission is thus required to balance lysosome size, number, and composition. PIKfyve is a lipid kinase that converts phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate [PtdIns(3)P] to phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(3,5)P2] and promotes lysosome fission since lysosomes coalesce into larger, but fewer, organelles in its absence. Here, we reveal a role for PIKfyve in regulating ER dynamics. We show the ER is less reticulated and motile in cells inhibited for PIKfyve. Partly, this arises because lysosomes cluster perinuclearly and are less motile, which appears to arrest ER hitchhiking, a process in which lysosomes pull and form ER tubules. Secondly, the ER morphology is distorted because of hyper-tethering of protrudin, an ER transmembrane protein, to lysosomes via excess PtdIns(3)P and protrudin's FYVE domain. Our findings reveal that PIKfyve balances phosphoinositides at ER-lysosome contact sites to govern ER properties and have significant implications for our understanding of PIKfyve function and of diseases linked to its dysfunction.© 2026 Jenkins et al.
The population of Serbia faces a significant burden from cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). This study aimed to computationally investigate genetic factors that contribute to the prevalence of these diseases by examining the possible involvement of common variants on lipid metabolism.We examined how a variant prevalent in the Serbian population, chr7:g.56019730G>A in the PSPH gene, affects the phosphoserine phosphatase (PSP) protein interaction network, particularly involved in lipid metabolism. The Informational Spectrum Method (ISM), method for the analysis of protein sequence based on amplitude changes, was applied to single out the top 10 affected interactors. Their further functional annotation identified the pathways in which they jointly participate with PSP. An additional strategy encompassed the investigation of variant combinations in all analyzed genes and potential relevance of prevalent variant combinations on lipid metabolism.The PSP interactions affected by the R49W variant, such as SHMT1/2, were primarily in pathways associated with serine, glycine, and sphingolipid metabolism, highly relevant for CVD etiology. Further, we identified frequent variant combinations within the LRCH1, CEP126, PIK3CG, and PIKFYVE genes in the Serbian cohort.This study underscores the importance of investigating genetic variant combinations in complex diseases, and provides a hypothesis generating foundation for future research into the relationship between these genes and cardiovascular diseases.
Mitochondria activate immunity, but the role in cancer is unknown. Here, we report that transgenic expression of Parkin, a regulator of mitochondrial fitness, induces inflammation and interferon (IFN) gene signatures, suppresses prostate cancer formation and generates CD8+ and CD20+ intraprostatic immune aggregates. These had hallmarks of mature tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), expressing markers of B cell maturation (CXCL13, CCL21), germinal center formation (BCL6, GL7), mature dendritic cells (MHC-II/CD208) and high endothelial venules (LYVE-1). Parkin TLS showed high Ig gene expression, recruitment of CXCR5+ follicular T helper cells and expansion of CD69+/KLRG1+ effector T cells. Conditioned medium from Parkin-positive cells expanded memory B and plasma cells, increased IgG1 production, and sustained B and T cell migration. Finally, conditional expression of Parkin induced TLS formation, upregulated Ig chains and inhibited prostate cancer growth, in vivo, whereas Parkin reconstitution in IFNAR1, CD8 or CD20 knockout mice had no effect. Therefore, mitochondrial immunity orchestrates antitumor responses, and TLS formation contributes to tumor suppression.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the leading causes of death from a single infectious agent worldwide, yet the host pathways that regulate antigen presentation and lung inflammation during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection are incompletely defined. Sorting nexin 5 (SNX5) is a protein implicated in endosomal trafficking, antigen processing, and antiviral host defense, but its contribution to antibacterial immunity is unknown. Here, we show that SNX5-deficient mice exhibit increased mortality following low-dose aerosol Mtb infection despite unchanged pulmonary bacterial burden compared with wild-type mice. Snx5-/- mice developed exacerbated lung inflammation without major alterations in immune cell recruitment. In macrophages, Snx5 did not affect phagocytosis, vacuolar maturation, intracellular bacterial control, or global transcriptional responses to Mtb but was required for efficient major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigen presentation. Snx5 deficiency was associated with reduced endolysosomal proteolysis and impaired MHC class II antigen presentation in vitro, resulting in reduced activation of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells without altering surface MHC class II abundance or costimulatory molecule expression. Together, these findings identify SNX5 as a regulator of MHC class II antigen presentation that influences inflammatory outcomes during pulmonary Mtb infection.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) develops as a result of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mitROS) and apoptosis caused by increased Ca2+ influx via the overstimulation of transient receptor potential melastatin 2 (TRPM2). Psalmotoxin-1 (PSTX) has acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) inhibitor and antioxidant actions in several cells. PSTX has been shown to modulate hypoxia-induced oxidative cytotoxicity and cell death in mouse eye cells by inhibiting ASIC-mediated Ca2+ influx; however, this mechanism does not apply to AMD. In this study, we investigated how PSTX inhibits TRPM2 to protect human retinal pigment epithelium - 19 (ARPE-19) cells against mitROS damage and apoptosis caused by sodium iodate (SoI).Control (CONT), 20 nM PSTX for 24 h, 10 mM SoI for 24 h, SoI + PSTX, and SoI + TRPM2 antagonist (25 µM N-(p-amylcinnamoyl) anthranilic acid, ACA) groups were induced in the ARPE-19 cells.The ADP-ribose-induced TRPM2 current density, Fe2+, and H2O2-induced cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations were elevated by the SoI treatment. Additionally, its treatment increased the markers of apoptosis, caspases (caspase-3, -8, and - 9), oxidative stress, and mitochondrial membrane dysfunction while lowering glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and cell viability number. GSH, GSH-Px, and cell viability were enhanced, whereas oxidative stress and cell death indicators were decreased via TRPM2 inhibition by the treatments of PSTX and ACA.The results of the preliminary study indicated that PSTX incubation blocked TRPM2-mediated Ca2+ signaling, reducing AMD-induced mitochondrial oxidant injury and cell death. PSTX, a new TRPM2 antagonist, may be utilized to treat oxidative stress and aberrant Ca2+ influx induced by AMD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) directs immune cell homing to secondary lymphoid organs and has been implicated in cancer metastasis through its ligands CCL19 and CCL21. Human CCR7 pre-mRNA undergoes alternative splicing to generate five transcripts that encode three protein isoforms with distinct N-termini, termed CCR7A, CCR7B, and CCR7C, but their comparative properties and cross-regulation are not well defined. Here, we cloned these three isoforms and systematically characterized their expression, localization, signaling, and mutual interactions in mammalian cells under both strong (CMV) and weaker (ubiquitin C, UbiC) promoter control to reduce overexpression-related artifacts. Variant-specific RT-PCR revealed that transcripts encoding CCR7A (V1) and CCR7B (V2) predominate in diverse human cell lines, whereas CCR7C-encoding variants (V3-V5) are weakly expressed. EGFP imaging and HiBiT-based assays showed efficient plasma-membrane targeting of CCR7A, partial membrane localization and prominent perinuclear accumulation of CCR7C, and largely cytosolic retention of CCR7B. Under UbiC-driven expression, CCR7A mediated robust CCL19- and CCL21-induced Gi/o and Gq-like activation, intracellular Ca² ⁺ mobilization, ERK phosphorylation, GRK3-dependent Gβ1 recruitment, and β-arrestin1 binding, whereas CCR7C displayed weaker and mainly CCL19-biased signaling. CCR7B did not respond to either chemokine in any signaling readout and thus behaved as a non-signaling isoform. NanoBiT-based assays and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that all three isoforms form homo- and heterodimers, with particularly strong association between CCR7A and CCR7B. Co-expression of CCR7B reduced CCR7A surface expression and markedly attenuated chemokine-induced Ca² ⁺ responses, mini-Gi interaction, and β-arrestin1 recruitment, while confocal microscopy revealed redistribution of CCR7A-EGFP from the plasma membrane to intracellular compartments. Moreover, MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, which express CCR7A and CCR7B transcripts, did not migrate toward CCL19 or CCL21 despite preserved motility toward low-serum medium. These findings identify CCR7A as the dominant functional isoform, CCR7C as a weak CCL19-biased receptor with inefficient membrane targeting, and CCR7B as a non-signaling dominant-negative isoform that dampens CCR7A-mediated responses, suggesting that CCR7 splicing fine-tunes chemokine responsiveness in immune and cancer cells.Copyright: © 2026 Cho et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Across cancer, one of the most frequent examples of histologic transformation is the evolution of follicular lymphoma (FL) to an aggressive large cell lymphoma. Despite recent progress, understanding of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of transformation remains incomplete. Here, we dissect the interplay of tumor and microenvironment cell populations across transformation through a multimodal investigation of 95 FL and transformed FL (tFL) samples, including single-cell and bulk RNA-sequencing alongside spatial transcriptomics and proteomics, and validate findings across independent FL-tFL pairs. Upon transformation, fibroblasts and GPNMB+ macrophages increase while lymph-node organizing follicular dendritic and CCL21+ fibroblastic reticular cells were lost, resulting in an altered spatial distribution of cytokines that impacts T cell infiltration and macrophage differentiation and function. Secreted stromal and macrophage signals were further evident by non-invasive plasma proteomics. Taken together, our data reveal expansion of macrophages and fibroblasts as key features of transformation with potential diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
Beta cell dysfunction is a critical factor contributing to decreases in insulin secretion. A growing body of evidence suggests the involvement of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in beta cell dysfunction, which leads to the development of diabetes. On the other hand, oxidative stress also plays a role in the development of diabetes with beta cell dysfunction. Transient receptor potential melastatin 2 (TRPM2) is a Ca2+-permeable channel activated by oxidative stress and is highly expressed in beta cells. Some studies have claimed that Ca2+ influxes via TRPM2 in response to oxidative stress are involved in beta cell dysfunction accompanied by cell death. Although ER stress and oxidative stress form a mutually reinforcing cycle, the relationship in diabetes development between ER stress and the oxidative stress-sensitive TRP channel, TRPM2, has yet to be investigated. Therefore, we herein examined this relationship using Akita mice. Akita mice develop diabetes by ER stress-induced beta cell dysfunction accompanied by cell death. We found that increases in blood glucose in Akita mice were attenuated by the disruption of Trpm2. Additionally, in a glucose tolerance test, abnormal blood glucose increases with glucose loading in Akita mice were attenuated by the disruption of Trpm2. The results of this study using Akita mice suggest that the oxidative stress-sensitive channel, TRPM2, contributes to diabetes progression associated with ER stress.
Exclusive Liquid Repellency Isolation (ELRi) is a novel, chip-free platform designed for efficient microscale immune cell isolation. Leveraging the inherent exclusive liquid repellency (ELR) properties of polypropylene tubes with an oil overlay, ELRi ensures that small sample volumes, as low as 8 μL, have no contact with container walls, preventing cell loss. Here we describe ELRi and demonstrate magnetic bead-based isolation of diverse immune cells, including T cells, and monocytes, from whole blood. The platform's utility is highlighted in its application to pediatric asthma research, where sample volume is highly restricted. It has been reported that the T cell homing receptor CCR7 is downregulated in cells from asthmatic patients, but a direct functional link to impaired cell migration remains unconfirmed (1, 2). Using ELRi-isolated cells, we provide the first functional evidence that T cells from asthmatic children exhibit significantly impaired chemotaxis toward the CCR7 ligand, CCL21. By simplifying RBC depletion and enabling such functional assays alongside RNA sequencing from the same tiny sample, ELRi overcomes the limitations of large-volume flow cytometry or cell-specific sorting methods. Easily integrated into lab workflows and scalable for various needs, ELRi facilitates more frequent, minimally invasive, and functionally informative immune profiling of restricted volume samples.
Interferon-induced antiviral proteins act on the first line of defence against viruses, including influenza A virus (IAV). Among those, the short isoform of Nuclear Receptor Coactivator 7 (NCOA7-AS) has been shown to inhibit IAV entry and more especially the fusion between endosomal and viral membranes. Ectopic expression of NCOA7-AS leads to the increased acidification of the endolysosomal pathway, putatively through NCOA7-AS interaction with the vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase). However, the precise mechanism of action of NCOA7-AS is not fully understood. Here, we identified the cellular partners of NCOA7-AS by mass spectrometry, including the V-ATPase subunits known to interact with NCOA7-AS. A point mutation disrupting the interaction with the V-ATPase led to loss of antiviral activity against IAV, demonstrating that V-ATPase engagement is required for the antiviral phenotype. Moreover, sorting nexin (SNX) 1/2/5/6 were identified as novel partners of NCOA7-AS. These proteins are involved in retrograde transport of cellular cargoes from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network. We revealed that SNX5/6 interacted directly with NCOA7-AS and were essential for NCOA7-AS antiviral activity against IAV. Interestingly, crystal structures of NCOA7-AS/SNX5 complexes showed that the SNX5-interaction motif in NCOA7-AS was similar to those found in known cargoes of SNX5/6. In addition, we could pinpoint several critical residues that were important for binding and antiviral activity. Collectively, our study identifies novel essential partners for NCOA7-AS antiviral activity and the structural basis for their interaction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Magnesium-containing intramedullary nails (Mg-IMN) have been shown to promote fracture healing across various types of fractures, including osteoporotic and atypical femoral fractures. However, their role in the challenging chronic inflammatory type 2 diabetes (T2D) fracture healing remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of Mg-IMN on fracture healing in a T2D mouse model and explored the involvement of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in this process. Our results demonstrated that Mg-IMN promotes fracture healing in Leprdb/db T2D mice. At 5 days post-fracture, flow cytometry showed an increased number of Tregs in the fracture callus. Notably, depletion of Tregs via injection of PC61 neutralizing antibody abolished the promotive effect of Mg-IMN, indicating the critical role of Tregs in this process. Bulk RNA sequencing of the bone callus at 5 days post-fracture revealed significant enrichment of pathways related to chemokine signaling and CCR chemokine receptor interactions, suggesting a mechanism of Treg recruitment. Transwell migration assays in vitro preliminarily indicated the chemotactic effect of CCL19 and CCL21 in recruiting Tregs. Furthermore, Mg2+ treatment enhanced the mRNA expression levels of amphiregulin (Areg) and granulin (Grn) in Tregs, as indicated by qRT-PCR analysis. These findings may pave the way for new applications of Mg-IMN in fracture repair and provide unique insights into osteoimmunology during the complex process of T2D fracture healing.© 2026 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Gallbladder cancer (GBC), the most common malignancy of the biliary tract, exhibits a high propensity for lymphatic system invasion. However, the mechanisms underlying lymphatic metastasis in GBC remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that C-C motif chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21) is significantly upregulated in GBC and positively correlates with lymphatic vessel density and lymph node metastasis. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments confirm that CCL21/CCR7 axis promotes lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis in GBC. Mechanistically, CCL21/CCR7 modulates Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-D (VEGF-D) mRNA N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) modification in an AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5)-dependent manner, thereby regulating VEGF-D protein expression. Site-directed mutagenesis experiments reveal that m6A modification sites in the coding sequence (CDS) region of VEGF-D mRNA are critical for VEGF-D protein regulation. Collectively, our findings highlight that CCL21/CCR7 regulates VEGF-D expression via m6A modification, driving lymphatic metastasis in GBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family exhibits distinct yet overlapping specificities toward seven fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) isoforms, forming highly complex signaling networks through broad binding and activation profiles. FGF2 plays important physiological roles and has considerable therapeutic potential; however, its pleiotropic and non-selective activation of FGFRs can lead to adverse effects. Therefore, molecular engineering of FGF ligands with controlled receptor isoform specificity is required. Here, we engineered FGF2 variants with altered FGFR isoform specificity using mRNA display-based deep mutational scanning (DMS), thereby enabling systematic evaluation of residues within the FGFR-binding interface that contribute to FGFR isoform specificity despite limited structural information. We demonstrate for the first time that FGFs with altered FGFR isoform specificity can be generated. Notably, FGFR isoform specificity proved malleable and could be reprogrammed by single-amino acid substitutions. These findings reveal that receptor selectivity in FGF2 is tunable and provide a framework for rationally designing FGF ligands with tailored FGFR isoform specificity, advancing the understanding and control of complex FGF/FGFR signaling networks.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
To elucidate the synergistic mechanism of "Two flowers therapy" - a Behçet's disease (BD) treatment regimen used in China for more than 30 years, namely Total Glucosides of Paeony (TGP)-colchicine - and its efficacy, safety in BD with mucocutaneous involvement.A retrospective clinical cohort study integrated with computational biology was performed. Five bioactive components were chosen, among which four were from TGP and one was colchicine; 31 overlapping BD-related targets were identified via multi-omics, finally 6 core genes confirmed. 355 BD patients were divided into combination group (CG, n=231) and monotherapy group (MG, n=124).Four active components of TGP (oxypaeoniflorin, albiflorin, benzoyl paeoniflorin, paeoniflorin) and colchicine constituted five bioactive compounds. A total of 837 BD-related targets were retrieved from GeneCards, with 31 overlapping targets between the five compounds and BD. A PPI network (31 nodes, 197 edges) was constructed, and core targets (MMP9, ICAM1, FGF2, TLR4, EGFR, NOS3) were identified. Molecular docking confirmed their high affinity: colchicine formed hydrogen bonds with EGFR, ICAM1, NOS3 (2.2-3.4 Å) and hydrophobic interactions with TLR4; TGP components formed 2-4 hydrogen bonds with EGFR, FGF2, MMP9 (2.2-3.9 Å). GO analysis involved inflammation- and immune-related biological processes; KEGG identified 10 enriched pathways (including Lipid and atherosclerosis, AGE-RAGE) regulating inflammation, immunity and vascular function. Clinically, CG had superior early (M1-M2) efficacy: oral ulcer prevalence was 0.0% vs. 21.0% (M1) and 0.0% vs. 100.0% (M2), genital ulcer prevalence 0.9% vs. 6.5% (M1) (all p<0.05). Both groups achieved complete ulcer resolution from M3. ESR in CG was significantly lower at M2 (p<0.001), with no CRP difference. CG had transient diarrhea; no drug-associated cytopenia was reported in either group.TGP combined with colchicine, a regimen used in China for more than 30 years, exerts therapeutic effects on BD by regulating core targets and inflammatory pathways. Clinically, this regimen more effectively controls early mucocutaneous lesion recurrence in BD patients, with good long-term efficacy and safety.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Li, Sun, Zhang, Li, Guan and Cai.
Retinoblastoma (RB) lacks effective targeted therapies. Super-enhancers (SEs) are crucial for tumorigenesis, yet their role in RB was unclear.We profiled active SEs in RB cells using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-Seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). qRT-PCR, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were employed to identify the critical regulator of SE activity. The anti-tumour effect of targeted blockade of SE regulator, achieved via pharmacological degradation and specific lentiviruses, was investigated in vitro and in preclinical models of subcutaneous, intraocular, and central nervous system (CNS)-metastatic RB.Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) was identified as a key SE regulator. SE-driven oncogenic transcription was suppressed by CDK12 inhibition, leading to eliminated tumour outgrowth and metastasis. In addition, SE-associated oncogenes BIRC5 and PTPRC were identified as essential for RB cell survival and stemness. Furthermore, PTPRC overexpression rescued the anti-tumour effect of BSJ-4-116.This study defines CDK12 as a master regulator of oncogenic SEs in RB. Targeting the CDK12-SE axis, via CDK12 or downstream effectors like BIRC5/PTPRC, presents a novel therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
While protein A has become a reliable platform for purifying antibodies, an analogous universal purification method for native non-antibody therapeutics has yet to be widely implemented. Downstream processing of recombinant proteins that require a solubility-enhancing domain (SED) for acceptable expression in E. coli are additionally complicated by required proteolytic cleavage for SED removal. This work demonstrates that the Nostoc punctiforme (Npu) DnaE split intein platform can be used for simultaneous purification and SED removal for challenging target proteins. Targets selected for this work include human fibroblast growth factor-2, interleukin-2, and an anti-CTLA-4 nanobody. Each target exhibits improved soluble expression with a solubility-enhancing domain at the N-terminus of the split intein tag, which is fused directly to the N-terminus of the target. Each target was scaled up and purified via FPLC for characterization and activity assays. SUMO-NpuC-FGF-2, MBP-NpuC-IL-2, and SUMO-NpuC-nCTLA4, show at least ≥75% solubility with their respective fusion partners, and could be recovered at up to 98% purity with at least 98% DNA clearance over a single intein column. A single-point mutation in the intein tag was used to further improve the intein cleavage rate for previously difficult target proteins, thereby increasing the appeal of this approach. Activity assays performed on FGF-2 and nCTLA-4 show that this process produces not only highly pure, but also biologically active protein. These results demonstrate a streamlined downstream processing of SED-dependent proteins and also support the potential of intein-mediated purification beyond the discovery phase.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Spent mammalian cell culture media are commonly discarded despite having residual nutrients that could be repurposed for microbial biomanufacturing. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) is a major cost contributor in serum-free cell culture media, motivating the development of economical production strategies. Here, we investigated the use of fortified spent cell culture media for FGF2 production using Lactococcus lactis, a GRAS microorganism, and integrated statistical optimization, kinetic modeling, and continuous bioprocessing. A Box-Behnken design identified 10 g/L glucose, 35 °C cultivation temperature, and 100 ng/mL nisin as optimal conditions for enhancing intracellular and secreted FGF2 production. Subsequently, kinetic model comprising of ordinary differential equations was developed to describe temporal profiles of intracellular & secreted FGF2, glucose, lactate, and biomass. The model integrated Monod-type kinetics for growth and substrate consumption, and Luedeking-Piret kinetics to account for FGF2 production. Leveraging this model, we demonstrated that model could guide selection of dilution rate to maximize FGF2 production. To advance toward continuous manufacturing, chemostat cultivation was coupled with depth and crossflow filtration to enable real-time cell separation and FGF2 concentration. The concentrated FGF2 demonstrated comparable bioactivity to commercial FGF2 in proliferating Anguilla japonica (Japanese eel) pre-adipocytic cells. Overall, our study demonstrated utilization of design of experiments (DoE) alongside kinetic modelling to optimize bioprocess conditions, achieving FGF2 production of 16 mg/L and 396 µg/L titres for intracellular and secreted forms, respectively. The circular bioprocess, use of predictive modelling and integration of continuous upstream-downstream operation provides an opportunity for growth factor manufacturing from L. lactis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Considering the increasing prevalence of pulmonary fibrosis (PF) and the increased exposure to risk factors contributing to its development, this study utilizes the bleomycin (BLM)-induced PF model to explore the potential early therapeutic strategies displayed by the bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) and their derived exosomes. The research assessed the efficacy of two administration methods: injection and inhalation by employing a comprehensive evaluation approach, including computed tomography imaging, biochemical assays, molecular analysis, and histopathological examinations. Fifty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; the CON group received saline intratracheally (IT) and served as the control group, the BLM group received IT BLM (5 mg/kg), the BMMSCs group received (BLM + BMMSCs in a dose of 106 cells per rat, I/P), the Exo-INJ group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg per rat I/P), and the Exo-INH group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg by inhalation). The oxidative status indicators, glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the level of surfactant protein D (SP-D), a biomarker of lung damage, were evaluated. Furthermore, the level of genetic expression of inflammatory cytokines interleukin-10 (Il10), interleukin-1 beta (Il1b), pro-fibrotic and apoptotic markers, such as transforming growth factor-beta (Tgfb), Bcl-2-Associated X Protein (Bax), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (Fgf2), which functions as a growth factor to protect lung epithelial damage, were determined. Both BMMSCs and their derived exosomes exhibited antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and regenerative properties and have early therapeutic effects against PF, underlining them as promising antifibrotic candidates. In addition, the inhalation approach demonstrated superior performance in a specific metric while yielding comparable results in another. Consequently, it cannot be regarded as the optimal strategy across all evaluation criteria. Therefore, more studies are required to substantiate its applicability and explore the potential improvement that could enhance its overall efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Complexes of paracrine signals and synthesized, sulfated oligosaccharides regulate expansion and/or differentiation of human epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell partners with lineage-stage-specific distinctions exemplified in mature hepatocytes versus organoids of stem cells. Of a bank of 53 synthesized heparan sulfate-(HS)-oligosaccharides, 28 formed triggering complexes with selected paracrine signals. Of these, the 12-mer oligosaccharides proved representative for the biological effects of a specific chain chemistry. Optimized conditions for responses to complexes are:(1) A trigger consisting of a paracrine signal bound tightly to a sulfated oligosaccharide; (2) Biologically active sulfated oligosaccharides are of minimum size of 10-12-mers and with ones up to 18-mers giving similar but enhanced responses; (3) Full cell polarization. Responses are not observed at all or not observed fully in cells in two-dimensional formats even when on complex matrix substrata; (4) Epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell signaling; (5) Serum-free, wholly defined medium tailored to the cells' maturational lineage stage; (6) Responses are predictable by a tell, the ability of a complex to trigger significant changes in sizes of cell nuclei within ∼18 hours. The complexes offer nuanced regulatory controls of growth and differentiation of organs and tissues. Representative triggering complexes [HS-oligosaccharide + paracrine signal] include ones regulating: Self-renewal: fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) bound to an HS-oligosaccharide containing [NS2S] or WNT3A bound to [NS2S6S3S]. Hypertrophy: vascular epithelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) bound to an HS-oligosaccharidecontaining [NS2S6S3S or NS2S6S]. Expansion in parallel with differentiation: various complexes with a paracrine signal and an oligosaccharide containing [NS2S6S3S]; representative paracrine signals include FGF2, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and others. Newly prepared, synthesized chondroitin sulfate-(CS)-oligosaccharides also form triggering complexes with biological responses requiring similar conditions as those for HS-oligosaccharides. Ongoing research efforts are surveying the specific biological responses to particular complexes of CS-oligosaccharides and paracrine signals.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
As a chronic relapsing immune-mediated skin disorder, psoriasis is mainly driven by CD8+ T cells during disease progression, while the molecular basis of CD8+ T cell recruitment and activation in psoriatic lesions remains largely unclear, and the function of CEACAM5 in psoriasis remains uncharacterized. Here, we report that CEACAM5 is significantly upregulated in psoriatic patient epidermal lesions and M5-induced psoriatic keratinocytes in vitro. CEACAM5 knockdown prominently inhibits chemokine expression in keratinocytes, attenuates CD8+ T cell recruitment, and downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokine production in recruited CD8+ T cells. Mechanistic studies reveal that soluble CEACAM5 directly activates the Lck/ZAP70 signaling axis to promote the inflammatory activation of CD8+ T cells. Collectively, our work identifies CEACAM5 as a critical regulator of CD8+ T cell responses in psoriasis, providing a novel potential therapeutic target for this disease.© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Background/Objectives: Silicosis is a progressive occupational lung disease characterized by persistent inflammation and irreversible pulmonary fibrosis. Reliable circulating biomarkers for the early detection of fibrotic remodeling and monitoring of disease progression remain limited. Prolidase, a key enzyme involved in collagen turnover and extracellular matrix remodeling, has emerged as a potential biomarker in fibrotic disorders. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the potential role of serum prolidase as a biomarker for fibrotic remodeling and treatment monitoring in an experimental rat model of silicosis. Methods: Male Wistar rats were divided into three groups: control, silicosis, and silicosis plus nintedanib. Silicosis was induced by intratracheal crystalline silica instillation. Nintedanib was administered by gastric gavage at 50 mg/kg/day from day 10 to day 30. Lung tissues were evaluated histopathologically using hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. Serum prolidase, fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: Histopathological injury scores were significantly increased in the silicosis group and were attenuated by nintedanib treatment. Serum prolidase levels were significantly higher in both silica-exposed groups than in controls (p = 0.017), but did not differ significantly between untreated and nintedanib-treated animals. TGF-β, FGF-2, and PDGF levels were also significantly elevated following silica exposure. Serum prolidase showed a strong positive correlation with TGF-β (r = 0.69, p < 0.001). ROC analysis demonstrated good diagnostic performance for prolidase (AUC = 0.877), while the combined Prolidase + TGF-β model further improved discrimination (AUC = 0.969). The internally validated multivariable biomarker panel maintained high diagnostic accuracy after leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) (AUC = 0.892). Conclusions: Serum prolidase may serve as a potential circulating biomarker of silica-associated fibrotic remodeling. Although nintedanib improved histopathological lung injury, persistently elevated prolidase levels suggest ongoing extracellular matrix remodeling rather than short-term treatment response. Further longitudinal experimental and clinical studies are warranted to validate its diagnostic and prognostic utility.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study was designed to evaluate the genetic association of three specific intronic Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) gene-rs2005313, rs4274224, and rs4938019-with schizophrenia susceptibility in a Pakistani population. The primary objective was to identify population-specific biomarkers that could inform early intervention and personalized treatment strategies.Genotyping was conducted on a matched case-control cohort of 208 participants (104 cases; 104 controls) using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) PCR. Genetic associations were quantified using Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI), representing the standard coefficient and its margin of error to ensure statistical precision. Functional annotation of the investigated polymorphisms was performed using GTEx, FORGEdb and RegulomeDB to assess regulatory potential and tissue-specific expression effects.The research identified highly significant associations across multiple inheritance models, validating the technical robustness of the findings. The rs4938019 polymorphism emerged as the most potent genetic risk factor, particularly under the recessive model (OR: 9.60; 95% CI: 3.92-23.52; p < 0.0001), where the rare GG genotype was found in 44% of cases compared to only 7.2% of controls. Conversely, rs4274224 demonstrated a significant protective effect, with a co-dominant OR of 0.23 (95% CI: 0.09-0.59; p = 0.0022), suggesting that the T allele confers genetic resilience. Furthermore, among the investigated DRD2 variants, rs2005313 demonstrated significance primarily under the over-dominant inheritance model, whereas rs4938019 exhibited the strongest association under the recessive model (OR: 2.13; 95% CI: 1.15-3.94; p = 0.014). All variants in the control group maintained Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (p > 0.05), confirming the absence of population bias. Functional annotation revealed that rs4274224 showed the strongest direct regulatory evidence for DRD2 (FORGEdb score: 6; RegulomeDB Rank 1f), while rs4938019 demonstrated the highest overall regulatory potential (FORGEdb score: 9), with rs2005313 exhibiting substantial regulatory evidence (FORGEdb score: 7) supported by extensive GTEx cis-eQTLs across multiple tissues including brain regions.These findings establish DRD2 intronic polymorphisms as critical determinants of schizophrenia risk. The high-risk rs4938019 GG genotype provides a clear translational biomarker for rapid genetic screening, potentially improving clinical outcomes through genotype-guided therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Cyanidin-3-O-galactoside(C3G) has a variety of biological activities. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease. To define its pathogenic networks, we performed transcriptomic sequencing of lung tissues from five mouse groups: WT_Control, WT_Model, WT_Model_C3G, Control_Ccl3-/-, Model_Ccl3-/-. Comprehensive assessment of immune infiltration, weighted gene co-expression network, and functional enrichment verified that PF is tightly linked to immune microenvironment dysregulation. Seven machine learning algorithms identified five core immune-related targets: Ccl3, Xcl1, Pyy, Il31ra, Ppbp. Subsequent analysis prioritized Ccl3 and Ppbp as the key core pathogenic genes. Molecular docking clarified their binding modes and key interaction sites with C3G. Histopathological and biochemical assessments showed that the WT_Model group exhibited elevated expressions of Ccl3 and Ppbp, accompanied by marked inflammatory infiltration and collagen deposition. C3G intervention significantly ameliorated these PF phenotypes. Ccl3 knockout improved survival and ameliorated fibrotic pathology. Interaction modeling and correlation analyses identified Slc2a3 as a key Ccl3 downstream target. WB and IHC validation revealed reduced expression of Ccl3, Slc2a3, and α-SMA proteins in Model_Ccl3-/- compared to WT_Model, which suggested Ccl3 may positively regulate the expression of Slc2a3. Through transcriptome and external metabolome verification, it was found that Slc2a3 can regulate PF through metabolic pathways. In conclusion, this study confirmed the potential role of C3G in regulating Ccl3-related inflammation and metabolic pathways in bleomycin-induced PF, which is expected to become a new strategy for targeted therapy of PF and provide a theoretical basis for the development of clinical treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy is often associated with immune-related adverse events including inflammatory arthritis (ICI-IA). However, the mechanisms underlying ICI-IA, especially its recurrence, are not well understood. In this study, we sought to elucidate mechanisms of recurrent ICI-IA by analyzing longitudinal synovial fluid (SF) samples from patients with ICI-IA. SF samples were collected from six ICI-IA patients at the first and second occurrences of ICI-IA and analyzed with single-cell RNA sequencing (n=3), single-cell TCR sequencing (n=3), single-cell BCR sequencing (n=3), and flow cytometry (n=6). SF samples from cancer-naïve osteoarthritis patients (n=6) were used as negative controls. Analysis revealed that effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13hiCD4+ T cells were enriched in the SF of ICI-IA patients. Ninety three percent and fifty percent of the top ten expanded clones of effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13hiCD4+ T cells, respectively, were shared between the first and second ICI-IA flare. These top clones were characterized by the production of pro-inflammatory type 1 cytokines including IFN, TNF, and IL-21, especially in the second flare, suggesting immune memory responses to cognate antigen. Cell-cell communication analysis suggested that effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13h CD4+ T cells interacted with each other and with myeloid cells and B cells through chemokines (CXCL9/10/11/13, CCL3) and cytokines (MIF, IL-2/7/15/21). Overall, longitudinal SF analysis from ICI-IA patients revealed the expansion of effector CD8+ T cells and PD-1hiCXCL13hiCD4+ T cells with type 1 cytokine signatures that potentially contribute to development or recurrence of ICI-IA.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder increasingly associated with gut microbiota alterations, yet the mechanisms by which microbial metabolites influence PD remain unclear. Here, we applied an integrative computational and experimental strategy to identify key gut microbial metabolites and host genes potentially involved in PD. Differentially abundant gut microbes were obtained from the gutMDisorder database and their corresponding metabolites from gutMGene, with predicted protein targets generated using the Similarity Ensemble Approach. Transcriptomic data from PD brain tissues were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, which were intersected with metabolite targets, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were applied for gene prioritization, while molecular docking evaluated metabolite-gene binding affinities and ProTox3.0 predicted toxicity and blood-brain barrier permeability. In vitro assays further assessed the functional effects of 3-indolepropionic acid in a rotenone-induced SH-SY5Y cell model. Our analyses identified 44 PD-associated microbial taxa linked to 77 metabolites and 905 predicted target genes, with 29 overlapping differentially expressed genes enriched in synaptic signaling and dopaminergic pathways. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) emerged as a central hub gene, with strong docking interactions predicted for two indole metabolites, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoate and 3-indolepropionic acid. Functional validation showed that 3-indolepropionic acid improved cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and preserved DRD2 expression under neurotoxic stress. Together, these findings suggest that specific gut microbial metabolites may modulate host dopaminergic signaling via DRD2, offering new insights into the microbiota-brain axis and potential targets for further PD research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Positive social comparative feedback during motor skill practice is hypothesized to enhance motor learning by triggering a dopaminergic response. Individual differences in dopamine-related genes impact dopamine neurotransmission and may influence responsiveness to motor practice conditions that target dopaminergic pathways. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of dopamine genotype on learning of a motor sequence task under two different feedback conditions: response time only feedback or response time with positive social comparison. Fifty-two adults practiced a joystick-based motor sequence task over two consecutive days. On Day 1, participants were randomized to receive either 1) response time only feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds") or 2) positive social comparative feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds. You were faster than others"). Motor learning was assessed by retention performance, or the change in response time from the first block of Day 1 to the first block on Day 2. Saliva samples were used to genotype for dopamine receptors DRD1, DRD2 and DRD3 and COMT. Individual genes were scored (0-2) and summed to create a polygene score (0-8). Participants were then categorized as having Low (1-4) or High (5-8) dopamine neurotransmission. A significant interaction was found between time, summary polygene group and feedback group (p = 0.048). The Low dopamine group showed greater improvements with response time only feedback versus positive social comparative feedback. The High dopamine group showed similar improvements in response time regardless of feedback type. This suggests that feedback targeting dopaminergic pathways may not be beneficial for individuals with lower dopamine neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that dopaminergic genetics may impact the efficacy of positive social comparative feedback on motor learning in low dopamine genotypes.Copyright: © 2026 Lewis et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Psychedelic drugs, such as lysergic acid diethylamide and psilocybin, have emerged as potentially transformative therapeutics for various neuropsychiatric conditions, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, migraine and cluster headaches. Classical psychedelics exert their effects through activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors (HTR2As). Here we provide a suite of engineered mice that will be useful for clarifying the role of HTR2A in psychedelic drug actions. We generated Htr2aEGFP-CreERT2 mice to identify both HTR2A-EGFP-CT receptors and HTR2A-containing cells, thereby revealing HTR2A distribution in the brain. We also generated humanized Htr2aA242S-EGFP-Cre and constitutive Htr2aCre mice. Psychedelic-induced behavioral changes in these mice validated their utility for these studies. Electrophysiological investigations on brain sections from these mice revealed that 2,5,-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine induced robust increases in firing of genetically identified pyramidal neurons. These mouse lines are valuable tools for investigating the molecular, cellular, pharmacological, physiological, behavioral and other mechanisms of psychedelic actions in vivo.© 2026. The Author(s).
PurposeTo elucidate the dynamic molecular evolution and immune heterogeneity in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and identify diagnostic biomarkers.MethodsMulti-omics integrative analysis was performed on peripheral blood transcriptomic data from diabetic patients with and without DR. Techniques included differential expression analysis, immune infiltration profiling, unsupervised clustering, and LASSO regression for biomarker selection. Findings were validated in an independent high-glucose-treated endothelial cell model.ResultsDR progression exhibits staged molecular evolution from diabetes (immune suppression) to early DR (cell cycle inhibition, immune burst) and advanced DR (metabolic stress, persistent immune dysregulation). Six co-downregulated immune modules indicated systemic immune suppression. Patients were classified into three immune subtypes: vascular-inflammatory, metabolic disorder, and oxidative stress-tissue remodeling. A diagnostic model based on IK, PLBD2, FLNA, H6PD, and ZMAT2 achieved an AUC of 0.876 for distinguishing DR from diabetes alone.ConclusionThis study delineates the dynamic molecular landscape and immune heterogeneity of DR, providing a potential multi-gene diagnostic signature and a framework for patient stratification, which may facilitate early detection and personalized management.
FLNA encodes filamin A, a cytoskeletal actin-binding protein with critical roles in neuronal migration, mechano-transduction, and organ morphogenesis. Pathogenic FLNA variants are classically associated with periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH), epilepsy, and multisystem manifestations, although interpretation of missense variants remains challenging because of marked variable expressivity and limited functional evidence.We describe a mother-daughter pair carrying the heterozygous FLNA missense variant c.5776 C > T (p.Pro1926Ser). Clinical, electroencephalographic, neuroradiological, cardiological, and genetic data were retrospectively reviewed. Variant interpretation was performed according to ACMG/AMP criteria and supported by in silico and structural analyses.The proband, a 13-year-old girl, presented with migraine with aura, epilepsy responsive to levetiracetam, normal brain MRI, and QT interval prolongation, with no pathogenic variants identified in established long-QT genes. Her mother, who carried the same variant, had focal epilepsy, migraine with aura, and subtle PVNH on brain MRI. Additional family history included a maternally related male cousin reportedly hemizygous for the same variant and affected by a severe congenital multisystem phenotype including valvular and extracerebral abnormalities, overall consistent with FLNA-related disease. The p.Pro1926Ser substitution was absent from population databases, involved a highly conserved residue within immunoglobulin-like repeat 17 of the rod-2 domain, and was predicted to be deleterious by most computational tools.These findings support a likely contributory role of FLNA p.Pro1926Ser in a variably expressive neurodevelopmental and multisystem disorder in which epilepsy represents the predominant neurological phenotype.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is an aggressive T cell malignancy with poor prognosis. Recurrent genetic alterations in T cell receptor (TCR) signaling components, including PLCG1, PRKCB, and CARD11, highlight the biological relevance of this pathway in ATL. We focused on mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 (MALT1), a key regulator of TCR signaling that functions through complex formation with CARD11 and BCL10, and developed a potent and selective MALT1 protease inhibitor, CRD-1441551. CRD-1441551 exhibited variable antitumor effects across ATL models both in vitro and in vivo. Among three ATL cell lines and five patient-derived xenograft models, two demonstrated marked sensitivity, three showed modest responses, and three were unresponsive. Notably, therapeutic responses were more frequently observed in models with constitutive MALT1 activation accompanied by enhanced MALT1-NF-κB signaling. These findings suggest that CRD-1441551 preferentially targets a subset of ATL, in which tumor growth is dependent on the MALT1-driven NF-κB pathway.© 2026 The Authors.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits a desmoplastic stroma with context-dependent tumor-restraining and tumor-promoting functions, highlighting the need to selectively reprogram stromal states. Extravascular coagulation is a prominent feature of the PDAC tumor microenvironment, yet whether it functions as an upstream regulator of fibrotic stromal states, rather than merely a byproduct of tumor-associated vascular dysfunction, has remained unclear. Here, we identify extravascular coagulation as a tumor-amplified regulatory module that stabilizes pro-fibrotic stromal states via tumor-intrinsic protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR1) signaling. To interrogate this axis mechanistically, we combined human tumor bioinformatics with microphysiological tumor-stroma (MPTS) models and in vivo systems. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed heterogeneous F2R (PAR1) expression across tumors, with elevated expression associated with fibrotic transcriptional programs and reduced survival. Consistently, thrombin induced coordinated pro-fibrotic programs in tumor cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which were recapitulated in microphysiological models where tumor-intrinsic PAR1 was required for amplification of extracellular matrix deposition and CAF activation. Mechanistically, PAR1 signaling amplified tumor-stroma communication, in part through induction of TGF-β1-dependent pathways, establishing a reinforcing feedback loop that stabilizes fibrotic remodeling. Pharmacologic inhibition of PAR1 selectively suppressed the fibrotic transcriptional program within myofibroblastic CAFs while reducing the abundance of other CAF subtypes, reprogramming stromal states and attenuating tumor progression across MPTS and in vivo models. These findings establish a coagulation-PAR1 axis as an upstream organizer of PDAC stromal architecture and identify pharmacologic PAR1 inhibition as a mechanistically grounded strategy for selectively reprogramming the tumor-promoting stroma.Extravascular coagulation drives PDAC stromal fibrosis through tumor-intrinsic PAR1 signaling. Pharmacologic PAR1 inhibition selectively reprograms fibrotic CAF subtypes rather than depleting the stroma, offering a mechanistically grounded, therapeutically actionable strategy for PDAC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536112 is a review article
The HTR2A polymorphisms rs6311 (A-1438G) and rs6313 (T102C) have been thoroughly studied for their impact on atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) responsiveness in schizophrenia. However, the results remain inconsistent owing to the complex genetic and pharmacodynamic interactions. The Joanna Briggs Institute and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews criteria were followed in this scoping review to map the available data on the association between HTR2A polymorphisms and outcomes. We identified 28 studies published before May 2025. Several studies reported that the rs6311 A allele was more frequently associated with improved treatment response, whereas the G allele was linked to poorer or absent response. In contrast, rs6313 exhibited heterogeneous patterns, with some studies reporting poorer response associated with the C allele and others reporting improved response associated with the T allele. This variability across studies likely reflects differences related to specific AAPs, as well as variations in study design and outcome definitions, rather than population or ethnicity-specific biological effects. Overall, HTR2A variants may contribute to interindividual variability in response to AAPs in schizophrenia. However, the current evidence remains insufficient for clinical application and requires further validation in well-designed and adequately powered studies.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511878 is a review article
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) reflects retinal microvascular injury and systemic immune-metabolic stress, and most public DR transcriptomic datasets lack paired microbiome/metabolomic profiles. We used gutMGene v2.0 as a curated microbe/metabolite-host gene prior and integrated it with peripheral blood transcriptomics from GSE221521. Candidate genes were refined by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), repeated resampling, cross-dataset assessment, mechanism scoring, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) single-cell localization and filamin A (FLNA)-centered single-cell gene regulatory network (GRN) virtual knockout. The gutMGene prior contained 238 host genes; 15 DR-associated genes overlapped this prior, and WGCNA retained ten candidate gut microbe and microbial metabolite-related genes (GMMRGs): FLNA, AKT1, IRAK1, BCL10, CDK6, CTSD, JUP, CXCL1, CXCR2 and IL4R. Resampling prioritized FLNA as the most consistent candidate. Cross-dataset assessment localized the strongest signal to type 2 diabetes (T2D) PBMCs, retinal endothelial cells and advanced proliferative diabetic retinopathy with diabetic macular edema (PDR + DME) retinal tissue, with weaker separation in whole blood, broad retinal tissue and six-donor type 1 diabetes (T1D) PBMCs. FLNA virtual knockout predicted cell-context-dependent perturbation of immune-related transcriptional programs, including IL4R in DR B cells and CTSD in DR monocytes/NK cells. This prior-guided study identifies FLNA within a ten-gene GMMRG set as a circulating host-response signal that links curated microbe/metabolite-host records to immune-vascular and cytoskeletal remodeling in DR.
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To investigate the effect of post-operative ganciclovir therapy on transplant-free liver survival in children with biliary atresia (BA) complicated by cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, and to propose an intervention mechanism hypothesis based on the 'CMV-hepatic stellate cell-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis.This retrospective study included children diagnosed with BA complicated by CMV infection at a tertiary children's hospital between January 2017 and October 2023. Patients were divided into a treatment group and a non-treatment group based on whether ganciclovir was administered for ≥ 1 week within 3 months after Kasai portoenterostomy (KPE). All patients had follow-up of at least 2 years by 1 October 2025. Baseline characteristics and clinical outcomes (transplant-free liver survival time and 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate) were compared between groups. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to generate survival curves, and differences were assessed using the Log-Rank test. Evidence from basic and clinical research was integrated to construct a mechanistic hypothesis diagram for CMV-driven hepatic fibrosis and antiviral intervention.A total of 17 children with BA were included, with 6 in the treatment group and 11 in the non-treatment group. Baseline characteristics indicated no significant differences between the two groups in terms of sex, hepatic fibrosis stage, age at surgery, preoperative DBIL and other clinical indicators, demonstrating balanced comparability (p > 0.05). Comparison of clinical outcomes and Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that transplant-free liver survival time was significantly longer in the treatment group than in the non-treatment group: 1518 (217, 2825) versus 190 (83, 265) days, p = 0.035; the survival curve showed an improving trend (Log-Rank p = 0.087). The 3-month post-operative jaundice clearance rate did not differ significantly between groups (p > 0.05). The mechanistic hypothesis diagram suggested that CMV may activate hepatic stellate cells via multiple pathways, including CCL19/CCR7 and TGF-β, accelerating fibrosis progression, while ganciclovir may block this process.Ganciclovir antiviral therapy may be associated with improved transplant-free liver survival in CMV-positive children with BA, exerting a specific effect on long-term fibrosis progression rather than short-term bile drainage. This clinical observation aligns with the 'CMV-fibrosis-long-term prognosis' pathogenic axis hypothesis and provides preliminary evidence for clinical antiviral treatment.© 2026 Paediatrics and Child Health Division (The Royal Australasian College of Physicians).
X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is a rare genetic disorder caused by PHEX mutations, leading to hypophosphatemia and impaired bone mineralization. Burosumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting FGF23, improves phosphate levels and bone health. Although burosumab improves musculoskeletal pain, it remains unclear whether this benefit results solely from restoration of phosphate homeostasis or also involves immunomodulatory mechanisms. Given the role of FGF23 in modulating macrophage function and the involvement of TRPV1 - expressed by macrophages - in pain transmission, we investigated the effects of burosumab on macrophage polarisation and TRPV1 expression in children with XLH.Macrophages were isolated from untreated XLH patients (n=4), burosumab-treated XLH patients (n=8), and healthy donors (n=5). Western blot was used to assess M1 (CCR7, CD86, iNOS) and M2 (CD206, p-STAT6) markers, as well as TRPV1 expression. To evaluate burosumab's direct effects, macrophages from healthy donors were stimulated with LPS and treated with 1.5 or 3 μg/mL burosumab, followed by the same analyses.Untreated XLH macrophages predominantly exhibited an M1 phenotype with higher TRPV1 protein levels compared to healthy controls. In contrast, macrophages from burosumab-treated patients showed a tendency to acquire an M2-like phenotype and reduced TRPV1 expression. Similar effects were observed in vitro, with LPS-stimulated healthy macrophages shifting toward the M2 phenotype and showing decreased TRPV1 after burosumab exposure.In untreated XLH patients, macrophages exhibit a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with upregulated TRPV1 expression. Burosumab reverses this profile, driving M2 polarization and reducing TRPV1 levels, thereby suggesting that it exerts therapeutic effects beyond phosphate homeostasis through immunomodulation.X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) causes rickets and chronic pain. We found that immune cells from untreated patients show a pro-inflammatory profile. Treatment with burosumab shifted these immune cells toward an anti-inflammatory state and reduced the expression of TRPV1, a molecule involved in neuroimmune signaling, suggesting that burosumab may exert biological effects beyond bone health.© the author(s).
The high genetic diversity of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) poses a significant challenge to effective vaccination and infection prevention. Recently, NADC30-like PRRSV has become dominant in China. In this study, we characterized a PRRSV isolate XJ2020 from a vaccinated pig. The isolate exhibited moderate pathogenicity in piglets and clustered within the same sub-lineage as NADC30. Sequence analysis identified a unique deletion of the serine residue at position 32 (S32) in the GP5 protein. This deletion was introduced into a highly pathogenic PRRSV (HP-PRRSV) strain, JX2015, to generate the mutant JX2015-ΔS32 using a reverse genetic approach. We found that JX2015-△S32 showed reduced propagation in Marc-145 cells and decreased sensitivity to neutralization by MLV-derived anti-PRRSV positive serum, but exhibited enhance replication in primary porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs) compared to its parental strain JX2015. Interestingly, the viral load in lung and ileum samples from JX2015-△S32-infected piglets was higher, but the lung injury was milder than in JX2015-infected piglets. Overall, this study highlights the S32 site in the PRRSV GP5 protein as an important factor influencing virus propagation, neutralization, cell tropism and pathogenicity in piglets, and suggests that targeting this residue could lead to the development of more effective PRRSV vaccines.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) continues to pose a significant threat to global swine production. In China, PRRSV type 2 (PRRSV-2) is the predominant strain, and the inadequate cross-protection provided by existing vaccines highlights the urgent need for novel antiviral agents capable of effectively controlling PRRSV-2 infections. The host membrane-associated RING-CH 8 protein (MARCH8) has been demonstrated to play diverse roles in viral replication, either facilitating or inhibiting various viruses. However, its specific function in PRRSV infection and its broader role within the arterivirus family remain poorly understood. In this study, we identify MARCH8 as a potent inhibitor of PRRSV replication. Mechanically, we discovered that MARCH8 interacts with the viral glycoprotein GP5, which is crucial for PRRSV replication. Specifically, MARCH8 binds to GP5 and promotes its Lys-163-linked K48 polyubiquitination, subsequently targeting it for proteasomal degradation. Our findings reveal a novel antiviral mechanism through which MARCH8 restricts PRRSV replication and provide insights into virus-host interactions that may inform the development of new antiviral strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Single-cell transcriptomics identifies a convergent activation state of conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) shared by type 1 and type 2 cDCs (cDC1s and cDC2s). These activated DCs (actDCs) are characterized by co-expression of T cell-stimulating and inhibitory molecules. Here, we examined the functional contribution of actDCs to anti-tumor immunity by developing mouse models that leverage CCR7 expression to conditionally label or ablate actDCs. The capacity of cDCs to stimulate tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) was restricted to the actDC state. cDC1- and cDC2-derived actDCs supported CTL priming through cross-presentation and cross-dressing, respectively, with the latter occurring in a cancer type-dependent manner. actDCs were required for the activation of naive CTLs in tumor-draining lymph nodes and for sustaining effector CTL function within tumors. Consequently, ablation of actDCs impaired spontaneous tumor control and responses to immune checkpoint blockade or adoptive T cell therapy. Thus, the actDC state emerges as a critical determinant of cDC-mediated anti-tumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sir2-HerA systems are abortive infection defenses that integrate multiple enzymatic activities to induce growth arrest, thereby limiting phage propagation. However, the molecular logic that couples phage sensing to a precisely gated antiviral response, thereby ensuring infection-specific activation, remains unclear. Through genomic mining of Escherichia coli, we show that E. coli Sir2-HerA immunity diversifies into functional subtypes and identify three types (I-III) with distinct protection profiles. Focusing on the most potent type III system, we identified its phage activators, Gp2.5 and Gp5.9, through an unbiased T7 proteome screen. Mechanistically, type III Sir2-HerA follows a multilayered gating logic. Phage proteins trigger both the HerA nickase and Sir2 NADase; however, the activated NADase remains dormant due to an ATP-mediated checkpoint. The HerA nickase introduces DNA nicks, leading to the accumulation of end-exposed DNA intermediates that engage the complex-associated ATPase to drive ATP consumption. This process relieves the checkpoint, thereby unleashing the full trigger-dependent NADase activity and enabling robust NAD+ depletion. Together, our findings reveal a sophisticated molecular logic that integrates diverse enzymatic activities into a tiered gating architecture, ensuring high-fidelity phage defense while preventing inadvertent activation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a prevalent condition characterized by an immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated immune response. T follicular helper (TFH) cells regulate B-cell differentiation and antibody production, and circulating TFH2 cells are closely associated with type 2 humoral immunity and IgE-related responses in AR. However, whether AR is marked by isolated TFH2 expansion or broader remodeling of circulating TFH (cTFH) subsets, including TFH1-related heterogeneity, remains unclear.A total of 56 participants were enrolled, including 39 patients with AR and 17 healthy controls (HC). Flow cytometry was performed in 36 patients with AR and 14 HC to quantify cTFH subsets and activation states. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was conducted in an independent exploratory cohort comprising 3 patients with AR and 3 HC to characterize TFH transcriptional heterogeneity, based on canonical transcriptional programs.Flow cytometry demonstrated that cTFH2 cell frequencies were significantly increased in patients with AR and positively correlated with disease severity. Activated CCR7^low PD-1^high cTFH cells were also elevated, indicating enhanced TFH activation. Further scRNA-seq analysis identified six transcriptionally distinct TFH clusters, with TFH2-like transcriptional signatures enriched in patients with AR, consistent with flow cytometric findings. Notably, a GZMK+ TFH1 subset, enriched in cytotoxic genes, including GZMK, CCL5, and GZMA, was more abundant in patients with AR, a result corroborated by flow cytometry.This study demonstrates the expansion of cTFH2 and GZMK+ TFH1 subsets in patients with AR and highlights the phenotypic and transcriptional heterogeneity of cTFH cells. These findings suggest that peripheral TFH profiling may aid in characterizing systemic immune alterations in allergic inflammation. The scRNA-seq results should be interpreted as exploratory due to the limited sample size.© 2026 He et al.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565211
This study investigated influence of cysteine-cysteine chemokines (CCR5, CCR5-59029A/G, CCR2), and stoma cell derived factor 1 (SDF1); as AIDS restriction genes (ARGs), on treatment outcomes among people with HIV (PWH) on long term antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Ghana.This cross-sectional study was conducted among 167 PWH and receiving ART in Accra, Ghana. Genomic DNA from PBMCs was used to genotype CCR5-Δ32, CCR2-V64I, CCR5 A59029G, and SDF1-3'A variants using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism, CCR5 expression was estimated by RT-qPCR.All participants carried the wild-type CCR5 genotype. No AIDS Restriction Genes was associated with virologic or immunological outcomes (p>0.05). However, individuals with the CCR5 A59029G GG genotype exhibited significantly higher proviral DNA levels than those with the AA genotype (p < 0.05), and the GG genotype independently predicted higher proviral DNA burden in multivariable analysis (β = 0.840, p = 0.011).No ARG variant was significantly associated with virologic or immunological outcomes. However, CCR5 A59029G was associated with differences in proviral DNA burden and CCR5 mRNA expression, suggesting a potential role in HIV reservoir dynamics during suppressive ART.Copyright © 2026 Appiah, Bonney, Obirikorang, Aboagye, Hanson, Agomuo, Effah, Annani-Akollor and Kyei.
Programmable large-fragment genome integration using prime-editing-coupled serine integrases, such as PASTE and PASSIGE, remains constrained by the limited activity of wild-type Bxb1 (WT Bxb1) in mammalian cells. Recently, the AI-guided protein engineering framework EVOLVEpro enabled efficient identification of functional protein variants from limited experimental sampling and nominated epBxb1(T166R) as a highly active Bxb1 variant in episomal plasmid-to-plasmid recombination screens. Here, we systematically benchmarked epBxb1 (T166R) against WT Bxb1 and the previously validated high-activity eeBxb1 (V74A/E229K/V375I) variant in genome-integrated reporter and endogenous-locus PASSIGE assays at three well-characterized benchmarking loci (AAVS1, CCR5, and ACTB). epBxb1 showed reduced and variable transferability, with no detectable advantage over WT Bxb1 in the genome-integrated reporter system or at the AAVS1 safe-harbor locus, but produced modest, locus-dependent improvements at CCR5 and ACTB, with 1.89-fold and 1.58-fold increases, respectively. By contrast, eeBxb1 consistently showed superior activity, achieving up to ∼12-fold improvement over WT Bxb1. Four additional rounds of EVOLVEpro-guided optimization on the eeBxb1-BPNLS scaffold identified no reproducibly improved variant among 40 tested single-amino-acid substitutions. These results indicate reduced and genomic context-dependent transferability of EVOLVEpro-nominated Bxb1 variants and highlight the importance of application-matched genomic benchmarking when implementing AI-guided protein optimization for therapeutic genome writing.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
For most people living with Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), virus control and sufficient immune function can be achieved with polypharmacotherapy. A minority is intolerant to thereto, and drug-resistant mutants are emerging. Additionally, people living with HIV (PLWH) have significantly higher risk of cardiovascular morbidity and malignant diseases. HIV is in principle immunogenic. If T-cell depletion could be avoided immunological HIV eradication should be achievable. The "Berlin patient" in whom allogeneic stem cell transplantation from a CCR5Δ32/Δ32 donor induced long-term remission without antiviral therapy raised the hope that stem cell gene therapy with CCR5-deleted autologous stem cells could provide a cure, but the strategy did not live up to expectations. We propose to test an alternative strategy, namely expression of a designer recombinase which specifically excises HIV provirus from the genome under a Tat-inducible promoter so that expression is restricted to infected cells. A cGMP-compliant manufacturing protocol and quality control strategy for this investigational medicinal product was developed, validated, and a manufacturing authorization obtained. A First-in-Human-clinical trial, testing engraftment, repopulation of peripheral specific immunity, and ability to control HIV infection without antiviral medication is in preparation. Protocols can be adapted to other stem cell gene therapies by transferring alternative lentviral cargo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Secondary brain injury (SBI) following spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a critical determinant of neurological outcome. It is closely associated with neuronal death, and inflammatory responses. However, current research on SBI after ICH remains limited, and effective therapeutic targets are still lacking.In this study, a collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) model was employed, and experiments were conducted 24 h after hemorrhage induction. For in vitro experiments, differentiated PC12 cells were stimulated with hemin and the CKLF1 agonist peptide C27 to evaluate the potential of CKLF1 to induce neuronal ferroptosis. Mechanistically, the CKLF1 antagonist peptide C19, the CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc (MVC), and a p38 MAPK inhibitor were applied, in combination with immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays and overexpression of p53 site mutation, to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying CKLF1-induced ferroptosis in PC12 cells. In vivo, the effects of CKLF1 knockdown on secondary brain injury after ICH were assessed using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), Western blotting (WB), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and immunofluorescence (IF) analyses.Mechanistic studies revealed that CKLF1 binds to its receptor CCR5 to activate p38 MAPK, which promotes ferroptosis by regulating p53 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, while the mutation of p53 partially reversed the effect. This signaling cascade leads to the downregulation of ferroptosis-suppressing proteins (SLC7A11 and GPX4) and the upregulation of pro-ferroptotic proteins (COX2 and ACSL4), thereby exacerbating lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Conversely, AAV-mediated knockdown of CKLF1 significantly suppressed this ferroptotic signaling pathway in vivo/vitro, reduced iron deposition and neuronal ferroptosis in perihematomal tissue, improved blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, inhibited microglial activation, and enhanced both neurological function scores and 7-day survival rates in ICH rats.The present study identifies CKLF1 as a previously unrecognized regulator of neuronal ferroptosis following ICH through the CCR5/p38/p53 signaling pathway. These findings provide new mechanistic insights into ICH pathogenesis and highlight CKLF1 as a promising therapeutic target for precision treatment of hemorrhagic stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Immune evasion remains a major barrier to effective immunotherapy in cancer. Coordinated activation of different immune cell types shapes immune responses within the tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, we uncovered a spatiotemporal synergy between cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells in tumors with low T-cell infiltration. An integrative multiomics approach combining spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and high-dimensional flow cytometry demonstrated that vaccination, capable of activating both innate and adaptive immunity, rapidly reshapes the TME. Early infiltration of IRF8+KLRG1+ NK cells established a chemokine-rich niche together with myeloid cells that promoted the recruitment of antigen-primed CXCR3+ CTLs. The accompanying inflammatory monocyte recruitment and dendritic cell activation led to the coordinated structural and chemotactic remodeling of the TME. Functionally, NK-CTL clustering at the tumor margin was associated with enhanced cytotoxic activity and sustained immune engagement. These spatially organized immune interactions involved CCR5-CCL5 and CXCR3-CXCL9 signaling pathways that coordinate communication between innate and adaptive immune compartments. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized NK-CTL cooperative program that promotes the transition of poorly infiltrated tumors toward an inflamed, immune-responsive state. More broadly, this study illustrates how spatially resolved multiomics approaches can uncover immune interactions and provides a conceptual framework for designing next-generation immunotherapies that mobilize coordinated innate and adaptive immunity.Early infiltration of NK cells followed by T cell accumulation reshapes the tumor microenvironment to promote antitumor immunity following vaccination, providing a mechanistic rationale for the development of effective vaccine-based immunotherapy strategies.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
The Mizoram state of Northeast India has one of the highest HIV prevalence rates in Asia, yet the host genetic factors influencing HIV susceptibility in this Tibeto-Burman population remain uncharacterised.We performed whole-exome sequencing using Illumina NovaSeq 6000, mean coverage 100X on 76 HIV-negative Mizo individuals. Variants were called using GATK HaplotypeCaller v4.3 against GRCh38p14, annotated with ANNOVAR, and filtered using hard-quality thresholds (QD ≥ 2, SOR ≤ 3, MQ ≥ 40, DP ≥ 10, GQ ≥ 20). The allele frequencies were compared against gnomAD v2.1.1 population databases. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was assessed using the Wigginton exact test with Bonferroni correction.Post-quality filtering resulted in 12,011 sample-variants across 2,821 unique positions from 36 HIV-associated loci (33 protein-coding genes, 2 chemokine ligands, and 3 lncRNA targets). Of these, 784 observations (51 unique positions) were high-impact nonsynonymous or loss-of-function variants. ADAR rs2229857 (p.K384R, NM_015840) was the most frequently observed variant (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.895; 95% CI: 0.806-0.946). CXCR1 rs16858808 (p.R335C) showed the greatest population enrichment (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.197; 95% CI: 0.123-0.300; 7.65-fold carrier-frequency enrichment versus gnomAD South Asian; CADD = 15.60). Sixteen of 20 tested variants deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium after Bonferroni correction (p < 0.0025), predominantly showing excess homozygosity consistent with the endogamous Mizo population. The protective variant CCR5-Δ32 was absent in all the 76 individuals tested.This first whole-exome characterization of HIV host genes in the Mizo population identifies CXCR1 rs16858808 as the most population-enriched functional variant and reveals a pervasive endogamy signature. These findings provide a population-specific genetic framework for future HIV susceptibility studies and ART pharmacogenomics research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Human norovirus (HuNoV) is a major cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. Although it can be replicated in vitro using human intestinal enteroids (HIEs), generating high-titer viral laboratory stocks remains challenging due to low infection and passage efficiencies. Interferon response and chemokine signaling may be key host pathways that restrict efficient HuNoV replication. Here, we evaluated the effect of their inhibitors, ruxolitinib-a Janus kinase (JAK) 1/JAK2 inhibitor-and TAK-779-a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3)/C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5/CCR2 antagonist-on HuNoV replication in wild-type jejunal HIEs. TAK-779 increased GII.17 HuNoV replication by 2.3- and 6.0-fold at 48 and 96 h postinfection (hpi), respectively, compared with the DMSO-treated control. In contrast, ruxolitinib alone did not affect viral replication. Notably, simultaneous treatment with these compounds further enhanced GII.17 replication by 6.0- and 10.7-fold at 48 and 96 hpi, respectively, which enabled serial passaging. These findings imply that the simultaneous suppression of these pathways potentially benefits GII.17 HuNoV replication.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Vγ9Vδ2 T cells are blood-circulating, innate-like lymphocytes that contribute to tumor immunosurveillance and constitute over 95% of Vδ2+ γδ T cells, but how they perform antitumor or protumor functions remains unclear. Here, we comprehensively characterized Vδ2+ γδ T cells in paired peripheral blood and tumor samples from patients with renal cell carcinoma using flow cytometry and single-cell transcriptomic analysis. We identified two major Vδ2+ γδ T cell subsets distinguished by expression of CD16, which were present at variable proportions in both circulation and tumors. Notably, the proportion of CD16+Vδ2+ γδ T cells in blood closely reflected those in matched tumor tissues. Functionally, CD16+Vδ2+ γδ T cells exhibited potent cytotoxic capacity, characterized by high granzyme B expression and enhanced degranulation upon activation. In contrast, CD16-Vδ2+ γδ T cells displayed central and effector memory features, expressed higher levels of CCR5, CXCR3, and granzyme K, and showed superior migratory capacity but limited cytotoxic activity. Single-cell RNA sequencing of tumor-infiltrating Vδ2+ γδ T cells identified four transcriptional clusters, including FCGR3A + cytotoxic and GZMK + inflammatory clusters corresponding to CD16+ and CD16- subsets, respectively. A TOX + cluster exhibited progenitor-like features, giving rise to two divergent effector states along a differentiation trajectory. Within tumors, both CD16+ and CD16- γδ T cells were broadly distributed and CD16+ γδ T cells were more preferentially co-localized with tumor cells than CD16- γδ T cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that blood and intratumoral Vδ2+ γδ T cells are functionally heterogeneous and segregate into cytotoxic and inflammatory effector programs.Copyright © 2026 Oh, Park, Dahanayake, Yeom, Ryu, Il Seo and Kim.
Heart failure is a leading cause of mortality, and impaired cardiac excitation-contraction coupling represents a potentially fatal trigger for myocardial dysfunction. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) can contribute to cardiomyopathy, but comprehensive mechanistic insights remain elusive. We demonstrate that reduction of the lncRNA TRDN-AS in human cardiomyopathy or abrogating it in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes and mice causes a switch of cardiac TRDN/TRISK32 to skeletal muscle TRDN/TRISK95. Transcription of Trdn-as in cis is essential for stalling RNA Pol II at the 3' end of the cardiac Trdn transcript, promoting the formation of the cardiac TRDN/TRISK32 isoform. The m6A-methyltransferase METTL3 is crucial for RNA Pol II stalling, enforcing transcriptional termination and proximal polyadenylation of the Trdn transcript. Here, we establish that the switch of TRDN isoforms results in a significantly altered interactome of the cardiac calcium release complex, aberrant calcium handling, altered dyad structure, QT prolongation, and dilated cardiomyopathy in mice and humans.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42371450 is a review article
RBM20 (RNA binding motif protein 20) is a cardiac splicing factor responsible for the splicing of several cardiac genes such as titin (TTN), triadin (TRDN), ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2), PDZ and LIM domain protein 1 (PDLIM1), and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMK2D). Pathogenic variants in RBM20 are a major cause of familial dilated cardiomyopathy, and lead to missplicing of RBM20 target genes.We identified a patient with a novel RBM20 variant, and expressed the human and mouse-equivalent variant in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes and HEK293 cells. We performed splicing assays, and assessed protein expression and stability. Furthermore, we generated heterozygous RBM20-c.1222DupC human induced pluripotent stem cells, differentiated these into human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes, and evaluated splicing changes and calcium handling.We describe a novel heterozygous truncating variant, RBM20-c.1222DupC, identified in a patient with mitral valve prolapse and late-onset familial dilated cardiomyopathy. The variant introduces a premature termination codon and generates a truncated protein of ≈55 kDa in vitro. Splicing assays demonstrated complete loss of activity and no dominant-negative effect on wild-type RBM20. The truncated protein localized to both the cytoplasm and nucleus, partially colocalizing with wild-type RBM20, despite lacking the RS and RRM domains. Western blot analysis of endogenous RBM20 in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes carrying the variant revealed a strong reduction in RBM20 protein levels. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed splicing defects in canonical RBM20 targets, and RNA sequencing identified widespread splicing abnormalities, including in established RBM20 targets (TTN, RYR2, CAMK2D, and CACNA1G). Finally, we observed increased calcium transients.Together, these findings establish RBM20 c.1222DupC as a truncating variant that causes dilated cardiomyopathy likely through haploinsufficiency.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CHOL) is a highly aggressive malignancy with a poor prognosis. Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) is associated with genomic instability and cancer progression, making it a potential therapeutic target. The aim of this study is to develop novel potential prognostic biomarkers and construct an HRD-based prognostic risk prediction model for CHOL to enhance clinical precision medicine.We analyzed HRD across cancers using multiple datasets including TCGA-CHOL, TCGA-LIHC, GDC TARGET-OS, and IMvigor210. HRD scores were calculated using data from Thorsson et al. and the maftools R package was used for mutation data visualization and tumor mutational burden (TMB) calculation. Differential gene expression analysis identified HRD-related genes, validated in tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissues using RT-PCR. 10 machine-learning algorithms including RSF, LASSO, GBM, Survival-SVM, SuperPC, Ridge, plsRcox, CoxBoost, Stepwise Cox, Enet were selected to construct a prognostic model and validated in the E-MTAB-6389 and GSE107943. Among them, RSF, LASSO, CoxBoost and Stepwise Cox have the functions of dimension reduction and variable screening.Comparative analysis demonstrated significant associations between HRD scores and genomic instability markers. High HRD scores independently predicted poorer overall survival (log-rank p = 0.043) and progression-free interval (log-rank p = 0.028). Immune infiltration analysis revealed higher levels of active B cells and regulatory T cells in the low-risk group, suggesting differential immune landscapes between risk groups. We identified the CoxBoost and LASSO algorithms as the optimal combination for creating a CoxBoost+ LASSO prognostic model. Using this model, we identified six genes (ANXA2P1, BBOX1, KLHL33, MN1, OR51A4, and TRDN) with significant differential expression.Our HRD-based prediction model offers a reliable tool for CHOL prognosis, suggesting new potential for six candidate genes as prognostic biomarkers. It highlights potential therapeutic targets and drug sensitivities, providing new insights into personalized treatment strategies for CHOL management.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhou, Shen, Yu, Li, Jiang, Li and Zhu.
Growth and carcass traits are key economic traits in beef cattle production, and identifying their associated genetic markers is crucial for improving breeding efficiency. Charolais cattle, as a superior beef breed, exhibit excellent performance in growth rate and meat production. The aim of this study was to utilize the preferred high-coverage whole-genome resequencing (hcWGS) as a replacement for single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chips to identify significant SNPs and candidate genes associated with growth (body weight, body height, cross height, body length, and chest measurement across different growth stages) and carcass traits (live backfat thickness and eye muscle area at 18 months) in 240 Charolais cattle, thereby providing guidance for beef cattle breeding. Through hcWGS (approximately 13× coverage) and quality control, 4,088,633 SNPs were identified and subsequently used for genetic analyses. Through FarmCPU-based genome-wide association studies, 196 potentially significant SNPs associated with growth traits and 29 SNPs with carcass traits were identified. Annotation analyses revealed 353 candidate genes (such as RBM33, KCTD17, PTHLH, RAC2, CHD6, TRDN, WBP1L, TLL2, CH25H, and ST13) linked to growth traits and 26 candidate genes linked to carcass traits (such as CHST11, LRRK2, RIOK2, and INTS10). Additionally, three SNPs (g.8674692C>G, g.54418624G>T, and g.71085551G>A) were validated via polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP), enabling efficient marker-assisted selection. Furthermore, eight SNPs in the Acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1) gene were found to be associated with growth and backfat thickness traits. These findings provide valuable preliminary insights into the genetic mechanisms underlying growth and carcass traits in Charolais cattle, facilitating genome-assisted breeding.
To analyze the genotype-phenotype associations in huge specialized cohort of inpatients with cardiac disease.The whole-genome sequencing data from 4,856 inpatients admitted to the hospital with various cardiovascular diseases were analyzed for pathogenic (PV), likely pathogenic (LPV), and variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in 27 genes from ACMG SF v3.1 list for reporting secondary findings associated with arrhythmias and cardiomyopathies. The carriers of detected gene variants were assessed for full, incomplete, and overlapping phenotypic expressions.267 gene variants were identified in 261 (5.37 % of the overall sample) participants: 255 were single-variant carriers and six were two-variant carriers. Among them, 20 (7.5 %) had PVs, 149 (55.8 %) had LPVs, and 98 (36.7 %) had VUSs. 18 variants (6.7 %) were detected in genes associated with arrhythmias; 73 variants (27.3 %) were detected in genes associated with cardiomyopathies. The majority of variants (n = 176; 65.9 %) were located in the genes, associated with both cardiomyopathies and arrhythmias. The most prevalent were variants in the TTN (n = 128). The full penetrance of PVs/LPVs was 37.5 % in genes associated with arrhythmias, 52.4 % in genes associated with cardiomyopathies, and 16.9 % in genes ssociated with both arrhythmias and cardiomyopathies. Overall, full phenotypic expression was observed in 36 out of 169P/LP variant carriers (0.74 % of whole sample). The analyses revealed previously unknown genotype-phenotypic associations potentially indicating an overlap syndrome, such as DCM and HCM linked to variants in TRDN.The research conducted in cohort of inpatients with cardiac diseases provided crucial information about the prevalence and penetrance of genetic variants and allowed to describe previously unknown genotype-phenotypic associations.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In case of unexplained sudden death, learned societies recommend performing genetic testing on post-mortem biological specimens to search for a potential hereditary genetic cause and implement, with a multidisciplinary team, screening and prevention measures for the deceased's relatives. The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic contribution of a rigorous multidisciplinary approach (combining autopsy, toxicology, anatomopathology and genetics) in case of unexplained sudden death.This was a French, prospective (2008-2020), monocentric cohort study on unexplained sudden death in young subjects (aged 2-50 years). For each case, a rigorous autopsy, and the analysis of anatomopathological, toxicological, and genetic data were performed. Fresh cardiac and brain tissue samples were systematically collected and stored at -80°C. Genetic testing was performed using a targeted panel of 181 genes associated with channelopathies, cardiomyopathies and epilepsy. In negative cases, whole exome sequencing was performed. Exomes analyzed more than two years earlier were also reanalyzed.One or two pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants were identified in 23.5 % (8/34) of patients, and positive toxicology results as well as notable microscopic cardiac anomalies were identified in 25 % (2/8) of them. One or two variants of uncertain significance (VUS) were identified in 35 % (12/34) of patients, of whom 50 % (6/12) had positive toxicology results and 58.3 % (7/12) showed microscopic cardiac anomalies. In addition, 2.9 % (1/34) of patients carried both a pathogenic variant and a VUS in another gene. The identified variants were associated with cardiac, neurological or metabolic disorders, or found in a gene of uncertain significance. Two patients carried pathogenic variants in genes with an uncertain association with sudden death. A total of 20 different genes carried variants of interest (VUS, P/LP variant): KCNH2, SCN5A, RYR2, SNTA1, PRKAG2, AKAP9, GDP1L, TECRL, TRDN, HCN4, ZFHX3, DEPDC5, TANC2, CHRNA2, DCHS1, DMD, EYA4, ACADM, KLF10, SCN7A.Our study highlighted the value of extensive genetic testing in case of unexplained sudden death, reinforcing the importance of using a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach. The presence of multiple genetic variants, minor anatomopathological changes and toxicological factors suggests the complex interplay of contributory mechanisms leading to death. Regular reanalysis of genetic data, combined with close collaboration between forensic pathologists, geneticists and clinicians, is essential to improve diagnostic yield and guide family management.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40862759 is a review article
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is a hereditary arrhythmia syndrome that can cause sudden cardiac death, particularly in young individuals. CPVT is often linked to triadin (TRDN) variants that disrupt calcium regulation in the cardiac muscle. Although TRDN-associated CPVT is well documented, its association with resting sinus bradycardia is rarely reported. We describe 2 siblings from a consanguineous Malian family presenting with exertional syncope and bradycardia, in whom a novel homozygous pathogenic TRDN variant was identified.The probands, a 17-year-old male and his 11-year-old sister, presented with recurrent exertional syncope beginning at ages 7 and 11, respectively. After obtaining informed consent and assent, a detailed clinical evaluation was performed, including physical examination, electrocardiography, echocardiography, and exercise stress testing. Whole-exome sequencing and segregation analysis were conducted, and variant pathogenicity was assessed using in silico prediction tools.Both patients presented sinus bradycardia on electrocardiography and exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias consistent with a diagnosis of CPVT. Exome sequencing revealed a novel homozygous 5-bp deletion in TRDN (NM_006073.4: c.613_617delCAGAA; p.Gln205GlufsTer3), which was classified as pathogenic according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) criteria (PVS1, PP5, PM2). The variant co-segregated with the disease in the family.The patients were treated with the nonselective β-blocker nadolol.Therapy effectively resolved exertional syncope and reduced the frequency of arrhythmic episodes during follow-up.This report highlights an uncommon presentation of bradycardia-associated CPVT caused by a novel TRDN variant. To our knowledge, this is the first genetically confirmed case of a TRDN variant in sub-Saharan Africa. These findings expand the clinical spectrum of TRDN-related cardiac disorders and emphasize the need for genetic exploration of arrhythmic disorders in sub-Saharan Africa, especially for actionable genes.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40486713
Kidney stone disease (KSD) is multifactorial, and the genetic basis is poorly understood among the East Asian population. This study aims to elucidate comprehensive genetic factors associated with KSD.We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Taiwanese Han Chinese individuals from the Taiwan Biobank to investigate genetic predispositions to KSD. A total of 108,483 participants were included, of whom 7,635 reported having KSD. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) leveraging the National Health Insurance Research Database was used to verify GWAS findings and explore disease associations. We also assessed individual genetic risk for KSD using a polygenic risk score (PRS).Our analysis identified significant associations with KSD at single-nucleotide polymorphisms rs1481012 (odds ratio = 1.13, p = 5.53 × 10-11) and rs12872074 (odds ratio = 1.16, p = 4.77 × 10-17) on chromosomes 4 and 13, respectively. We pinpointed ABCG2, DGKH, and a novel locus PKD2. Biological pathways, including protein dimerization and CD4+ T-cell regulation, were identified in gene-set analysis. PheWAS confirmed the association of these lead variants with calculus of kidney and various phenotypes. PRS reached an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.97 on the discovery sample.This comprehensive study highlights the significant genetic contributors to KSD in an East Asian population. Our findings underscore the potential of using a national health database to validate our analyses and reveal novel disease correlations, which supported immune dysregulation in disease pathogenesis. PRS highlights the contribution of genetic variants to KSD risk and suggests potential for future clinical application, although validation in independent populations will be required to determine its predictive utility.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Fibrotic remodeling of extracellular matrix is a central driver of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) progression since early stages of the disease. Unfortunately, it cannot be assessed with currently available methodologies before irreversible structural and functional decline, creating a diagnostic blind spot that hinders accurate early risk stratification and management. Here, we report the development of Gd-hProCA32.Collagen, a collagen -targeted protein MRI contrast agent that enables precision molecular MRI (pMRI) of early fibrosis by directly imaging collagen type I deposition in vivo before conventional laboratory and imaging methods detect changes in kidneys and liver of Pkhd 1 PCK/PCK (PCK) rats and Pkd2 mutant mice. Gd-hProCA32.Collagen, used at 10-fold lower dose, outperformed the widely clinically used agent gadobutrol (Gadovist), detecting approximately 2.8-fold greater total renal cyst volume (∼8,500 vs ∼3,000 mm³, p<0.0001) and 1.5-fold higher total cyst count (∼245 vs ∼160, p<0.0001), with superior T1W and T2W kidney AUC (p<0.01 and p<0.001) and preferential sensitivity to small and medium cysts. Signal enhancement in kidneys and liver correlated strongly with histological collagen burden quantified by Sirius red staining, whereas Gadovist showed no meaningful correlation. Gd-hProCA32.Collagen also enabled in vivo visualization of previously undetectable changes resembling radial striations at sites of microcyst cluster-adjacent microfibrosis and sustained delayed MRI enhancement due to specific collagen binding. These results reveal a previously inaccessible subclinical fibrotic phase of cystic kidney and liver disease and establish collagen-targeted pMRI as a strategy for early noninvasive detection and spatial mapping of multi-organ extracellular matrix remodeling when conventional biomarkers remain non-discriminating.We report a first-in-class collagen-targeted MRI contrast agent with Precision molecular MRI that noninvasively reveals a previously inaccessible subclinical fibrotic phase of polycystic kidney disease across kidney and liver, overcoming limitations of current diagnostic methodology.
Increased matrix stiffness is a biomechanical feature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that functions as an important promoting factor driving tumor progression. Characterization of the mechanosensors and the underlying downstream mechanisms driving HCC could help identify potential treatment strategies. In this study, we developed a standard procedure for screening and identifying mechanosensors, revealing two HCC mechanosensors, SDC4 and PKD2. These two mechanosensory pathways collaboratively mediated matrix stiffness-promoted DNA damage repair. Specifically, SDC4 and PKD2 modulated matrix stiffness-increased BANF1 nuclear translocation through increasing PP2A assembly and activity. Subsequently, nuclear BANF1 promoted the formation of MRN complex and phosphorylation of its downstream effectors to enhance DNA damage repair. These findings not only expand the theoretical understanding of matrix stiffness-regulated DNA damage repair but also offer a screening/identification approach for mechanosensors in cancer.
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) arises from mutations in cilia-associated genes, such as PKD1 and PKD2, expressed in renal epithelial cells, leading to progressive kidney dysfunction and end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). PKD patients exhibit significant heterogeneity in disease progression, largely due to genetic and environmental modifiers. Like patients, mouse models of PKD also exhibit significant heterogeneity with regards to the gene mutated, age of disease onset, and rate of disease progression. To elucidate the cellular and molecular consequences of these variables, we constructed an integrated single-cell RNA sequencing atlas across mouse models of PKD, mapping changes in cell type composition, gene expression, and intercellular signaling networks across the whole atlas and within individual models. Across models, single cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) data revealed increased Spp1 (osteopontin) expression and signaling from PKD-enriched clusters. Global deletion of Spp1 in Pkd1RC/RC mice resulted in a modest reduction in cyst severity and improved kidney function. From these studies, we created a freely available, searchable website (https://bmblx.bmi.osumc.edu/scPKD/) that can be used to identify cross- and intra-model changes in gene expression, guiding researchers to new therapeutic targets for treating PKD.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a small ssDNA satellite virus that receives wide attention due to its popularity as a safe and effective gene therapy vector. The AAV cell entry receptor (AAVR) for most serotypes is a glycoprotein containing five polycystic kidney disease (PKD) domains with which AAV interacts. AAV serotypes can be classified into three groups: those that interact primarily with PKD1, those whose interactions with PKD2 are stronger, and AAV4-like serotypes whose transduction is AAVR-independent. A phylogenetic analysis of AAVR and paralog KIAA0319 revealed AAVR amino acid variability in the region of PKD1 that is bound by AAV. We hypothesized that the substitution, in all cat-like animals, of a glutamate at a site that is an arginine (R353) in human AAVR may interfere with the binding of clade H AAVs that interact exclusively with PKD1. Analysis of PKD1 mutations, including ELISA, shows that an R353E substitution of glutamate for arginine affects the binding of the clade H AAVs that interact primarily with PKD1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42479644 is a review article
Interpreting the pathogenic significance of missense variants in human disease gene candidates remains a major challenge in precision medicine. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), a common cause of kidney failure, results from mutations in PKD1 or PKD2, encoding polycystin-1 and polycystin-2. Here, we establish C. elegans as a platform for the functional classification of PC2 variants by characterizing PKD-2C180S, the C. elegans ortholog of the likely pathogenic human variant PC2C331S. Using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing with dual-color fluorescent reporters and super-resolution imaging, we show that PKD-2C180S reduces cell-body protein levels, abolishes ciliary and extracellular vesicle (EV) localization, and eliminates sensory function, phenocopying a pkd-2 null allele. In heterozygous animals, PKD-2C180S is recessive and exerts no dominant-negative effect on wild-type PKD-2 trafficking, protein levels, or function, establishing that PKD-2 is haplosufficient in this model. PKD-2C180S also abolishes ciliary and EV localization of the PC1 homolog LOV-1 and reduces LOV-1 cell-body levels, phenocopying pkd-2 null animals, consistent with PC2 acting as a molecular chaperone for PC1 stability and trafficking. Genetic epistasis analysis shows that PKD-2C180S protein levels and ciliary trafficking defects are intrinsic to the mutant protein and independent of lov-1 and the ciliary kinesin-3 klp-6. Quantitative analysis reveals that LOV-1•PKD-2 is more abundant at the ciliary membrane and more efficiently packaged into EVs than PKD-2 alone in lov-1 mutants. We conclude that PC2C331S may perturb protein stability and/or polycystin complex formation prior to ciliary/EV trafficking. This work establishes a C. elegans pipeline for mechanistic classification of conserved ADPKD-associated missense variants.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42425229 is a review article
Polycystin 1 (PKD1) is a large transmembrane protein expressed by the Pkd1 gene. Previous data obtained using germline non-specific knockout mice suggested that PKD1 regulates arterial smooth muscle cell contractility. Here, we generated tamoxifen-inducible, smooth muscle cell-specific (Myh11-CreERT2) Pkd1 knockout (Pkd1 smKO) mice to further investigate the functional significance of PKD1 in arterial myocytes. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, western blotting and immunofluorescence imaging demonstrated that PKD1 message and protein were expressed in arterial myocytes of male control (Pkd1fl/fl) mice but absent in arterial myocytes of Pkd1 smKO mice. Polycystin 2 (PKD2), a transient receptor potential channel which can couple to PKD1, was similarly expressed in arteries of Pkd1fl/fl and Pkd1 smKO mice. Kidney anatomy and glomerular and proximal tubule sizes were unaltered in Pkd1 smKO mice. Intravascular pressures of between 10 and 125 mmHg similarly constricted resistance-size mesenteric and gastrocnemius muscle arteries of Pkd1fl/fl and Pkd1 smKO mice, regardless of whether experiments were performed 14 or 28 days after tamoxifen administration. Membrane depolarization (60 mm K+), phenylephrine and angiotensin II also comparably constricted arteries of Pkd1fl/fl and Pkd1 smKO mice. Acetylcholine, an endothelium-dependent vasodilator, stimulated equivalent dilatation in Pkd1fl/fl and Pkd1 smKO mouse arteries. Consistent with these results, blood pressure and heart rate were similar in Pkd1fl/fl and Pkd1 smKO mice. In summary, these data indicate that PKD1 is expressed in systemic artery myocytes, but it does not contribute to pressure-, depolarization- or agonist-induced vasoconstriction, or regulate blood pressure. KEY POINTS: Polycystin 1 (PKD1) is a large membrane protein expressed in several cell types, including vascular smooth muscle cells. Previous data obtained using germline non-specific knockout mice proposed that PKD1 regulates arterial smooth muscle cell contractility. We generated tamoxifen-inducible smooth muscle cell-specific PKD1 knockout mice to further investigate the regulation of arterial smooth muscle cell contractility by PKD1. Our data show that PKD1 is expressed in smooth muscle cells, but it does not contribute to intravascular pressure-, agonist- or depolarization-induced constriction, nor does its knockout alter endothelial cell-dependent vasodilatation in resistance-size systemic arteries of male mice. Smooth muscle cell PKD1 does not regulate blood pressure or heart rate. We conclude that PKD1 is dispensable for physiological regulation of arterial smooth muscle cell contractility.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology © 2026 The Physiological Society.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common monogenic kidney disease, accounting for 5-10% of incident patients requiring kidney replacement therapy (KRT). Although most cases result from pathogenic variants in PKD1 (≈75%) or PKD2 (≈15%), clinical experience at a major academic hospital in Porto (ULSSJ), suggested a higher regional prevalence of ADPKD-PKD2, particularly involving the truncating variant PKD2 p.(Gln61*). This study aimed to characterize the clinical and genetic epidemiology of ADPKD in patients initiating KRT at ULSSJ, compare ADPKD-PKD1 with ADPKD-PKD2, and contrast local and national ADPKD prevalence among incident KRT patients.Nephrology reports for KRT initiation (NR-KRT) issued at ULSSJ from 1990 to 2023 were reviewed to identify ADPKD cases and extract demographic and clinical data. Genotypes were obtained from the Genetics Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, or inferred through pedigree analysis. Next-generation sequencing was the first-tier genotyping test, with Sanger sequencing and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification for unresolved cases. National prevalence figures for ADPKD among incident KRT were retrieved from the Portuguese Society of Nephrology registry.Among 6791 NR-KRT reviewed, 426 ADPKD patients were identified. Genotyping information was available for 168 individuals (39.4%), including 101 (60.1%) with inferred genotypes. Among genetically resolved cases, 70.2% had ADPKD-PKD1 and 29.8% had ADPKD-PKD2. Mean age at KRT initiation was 54.5 years in ADPKD-PKD1 and 66.9 years in ADPKD-PKD2. The PKD2 p.(Gln61*) variant was present in 39 patients (23.2%). Between 2010 and 2023, ADPKD prevalence among incident KRT patients was 7.48% at ULSSJ versus 5.19% nationwide (p<0.0001).The prevalence of ADPKD among incident KRT patients at ULSSJ exceeded national rates. ADPKD-PKD1 was associated with earlier kidney failure compared to ADPKD-PKD2. PKD2 p.(Gln61*) variant was the most frequent pathogenic allele identified. Given historical patterns of Portuguese emigration, these findings likely have broader international clinical relevance.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Background/Objectives: Germline pharmacogenomics (PGx) testing performed by clinical laboratories and companies can reveal secondary findings (SF) related to gene-disease risk that clinicians must appropriately manage. This study evaluated PGx panel content for potential SF using the Clinical Pharmacogenomics (ClinPGx) resource, the Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen), and the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). Methods: A cross-sectional review of PGx panels offered by laboratories and companies was assessed for ClinPGx PGx annotation, ClinGen's gene-disease validity and clinical actionability classifications, Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) incidental finding (IF) comments, and ACMG SF v3.3 inclusion. Results/Discussion: Forty-four testing sites provided panel content, yielding 125 genes, alleles, and variants. Of these, 26.4% (33/125) had PGx annotations while 73.6% (92/125) did not. A small subset of genes-CACNA1S, CFTR, G6PD, LDLR, MT-RNR1, and RYR1-had actionable recommendations based on CPIC and ACMG. Additional genes such as ATM, F5, ITGB3, and SCN1A may require consultation with genetics professionals. These findings underscore the need for a centralized resource for identifying gene-specific SF from germline PGx testing and guidance on their clinical management. Conclusions: PGx panels often include genes with and without established PGx annotations, some of which have potential SF implications. ClinGen's PGx Working Group, which aims to integrate PGx into the broader context of genomic medicine, may be well-positioned to facilitate the development of a standardized framework for managing potential SF from panel-based PGx testing as the field evolves.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42446440 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42442989
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42442988
Early-onset muscle weakness (MW) syndrome is a genetic disorder in Holstein cattle, that was first described in the US in 2022 and is caused by a recessively inherited variant in the CACNA1S gene. This report documents the first confirmed case of MW in Holstein cattle in Europe. A 17-day-old female Swiss Holstein calf was presented for progressive, non-ambulatory weakness and inability to stand up without assistance. Clinical examination revealed generalized muscle atrophy and tremors, a wide-based stance, and inability to acquire the quadrupedal stance without assistance. Hematologic and biochemical analyses were unremarkable, except for mild monocytopenia and reduced plasma creatinine. Histopathological analysis of semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles revealed pronounced fiber size variability, rounded hypertrophic fibers, small fibers with central nuclei, mild mononuclear infiltration, and increased connective tissue, findings consistent with chronic myopathic change. Pedigree analysis revealed that the affected calf was inbred and could be traced back to two known US MW carriers suggesting recessive inheritance. Genetic testing of the case confirmed homozygosity for CACNA1S, whereas both parents were heterozygous. The estimate of the frequency of this defect allele in the Swiss Holstein population is 0,56 %and 1,07 % in Swiss Fleckvieh. MW should be considered as a differential diagnosis in young calves of these two breeds presenting with signs of recumbency and weakness and should be tested accordingly using genetic diagnostics.
Inherited forms of cataract are a clinically important and genetically heterogeneous cause of visual impairment, usually present at an early age. Both syndromic and non-syndromic congenital cataracts exhibit all modes of inheritance and may occur in association with various ocular or systemic abnormalities. Early diagnosis and treatment are crucial for the visual prognosis.We applied next-generation sequencing (NGS) of clinical exome for identification of the disease-causing variants in a group of seven Bulgarian patients with syndromic and non-syndromic cataracts, accompanied by glaucoma with variable anterior segment defects and other ocular phenotypes.Systematic filtering pipelines coupled with copy number variation analysis and segregation studies led to the identification of four pathogenic/likely pathogenic changes and two variants of uncertain significance (VUS), three of which were newly found. Candidate disease-causing variants in the CRYAA, CRYBB1, MYH9, RP2, CLNC1, and CACNA1S genes were found, which allowed the establishment of a precise genetic diagnosis of all of the studied pedigrees.Our results confirm the usefulness of a targeted NGS approach based on clinical exome analysis as a comprehensive genetic diagnostic tool for syndromic and isolated cataracts with a significant impact on patient counseling.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Hypokalemic periodic paralysis (hKPP) is a rare neuromuscular channelopathy characterized by transient episodes of muscle weakness or paralysis associated with low serum potassium levels. It has been most commonly linked to autosomal dominant mutations in ion channel genes, specifically CACNA1S and SCN4A, which impair skeletal muscle excitability. Although hKPP typically presents in adolescent males with a positive family history, atypical cases in women may be underrecognized due to milder or less frequent attacks and non-specific symptoms between episodes. We present the case of a 31-year-old female with a history of confirmed mast cell activation syndrome (MCAS) and no family history of similar symptoms, who presented with episodes of weakness, muscle cramps, and presyncope, typically triggered by high-carbohydrate meals or exercise. During one of these attacks, she was found to have severe hypokalemia. Although mast cell activation syndrome can also cause weakness and hypokalemia with certain triggers, this patient did not experience flushing or urticaria during the episodes. Given her atypical presentation, including weakness rather than flaccid paralysis commonly seen in hKPP, and the absence of typical symptoms of MCAS, genetic testing was performed. This revealed an ultra-rare heterozygous variant in the CACNA1S gene (NM_000069.3: c.3844G > T; p.A1282S), classified as a variant of uncertain significance (VUS). When aligning protein sequences, Alanine at amino acid position 1282 is evolutionary conserved among species (human, mouse, bovine, whale); however, no functional studies on A1282S exist. In conclusion, maintaining a high index of suspicion for hKPP in patients presenting with nonspecific fatigue or weakness associated with hypokalemia and identifiable triggers is important. Although genetic testing is not always required, in cases with autosomal dominant inheritance, it can be useful in patients without family history, nonspecific symptoms or when the differential diagnosis remains challenging.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42189464 is a review article
Sudden Unexplained Nocturnal Death Syndrome (SUNDS) is a lethal disorder with a largely elusive genetic etiology. While traditionally associated with cardiac channelopathies and cardiomyopathies, the role of skeletal muscle excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling genes, such as CACNA1S and RYR1, remains under-explored in its pathogenesis. This study aimed to investigate the potential contribution of CACNA1S and RYR1 variants to SUNDS susceptibility within a Thai cohort. We performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 98 Thai SUNDS cases following forensic autopsy. Variants were prioritized using dbNSFP annotations and public population databases. Furthermore, molecular modeling was employed to evaluate the structural impact of identified variants by comparing wild-type and mutant protein models. Genetic analysis identified 16 individuals (16.3%) carrying missense variants in CACNA1S and/or RYR1. In CACNA1S, we identified five rare variants (T55M, F275L, R865C, K962E, R1547Q) and three common variants (L458H, R1539C, L1800S). In RYR1, five rare variants (V347M, A612T, P1774L, E3397K, G3482S) and three common variants (P1773S, G2060C, E3578Q) were detected. These findings expand the known genetic architecture of SUNDS and suggest that variations in the E-C coupling machinery-specifically within CACNA1S and RYR1-may significantly contribute to the risk of sudden nocturnal death.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HypoPP) is a rare autosomal dominant skeletal muscle channelopathy most commonly caused by pathogenic variants in the CACNA1S gene. It is characterized by recurrent episodes of severe hypokalemia and transient flaccid paralysis resulting from intracellular potassium redistribution rather than true potassium depletion. Despite advances in molecular genetics, familial HypoPP remains underrecognized, particularly in regions where acquired causes such as thyrotoxic periodic paralysis predominate. We report a young adult male presenting with recurrent episodes of severe hypokalemia complicated by cardiac conduction abnormalities and requiring intensive care management. A systematic diagnostic evaluation, including next-generation sequencing, was undertaken to exclude secondary and renal causes of hypokalemia. Genetic analysis identified a heterozygous pathogenic CACNA1S variant (c.1583G>A; p.Arg528His), confirming hypokalemic periodic paralysis type 1 (HypoPP1). This case highlights the importance of a structured diagnostic approach to recurrent hypokalemia and emphasizes the role of molecular testing in distinguishing familial channelopathies from more common acquired etiologies. We further discuss genotype-phenotype correlations, variable penetrance, implications for family screening, and emerging genotype-guided therapeutic strategies in hypokalemic periodic paralysis. The report underscores the growing importance of molecular diagnostics in the evaluation and management of rare neuromuscular channelopathies within the framework of contemporary precision medicine.Copyright © 2026, Ottu Para et al.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is an aggressive biliary tract cancer with limited treatment options, underscoring the need for breakthrough precision therapies. Neoantigen-based therapy is a promising novel strategy for cancer treatment. This study investigates the potential of neoantigen peptides in CCA, emphasizing their role in personalized immunotherapy and providing insights for vaccine design.Paired samples from 33 CCA patients underwent whole-exome sequencing and RNA sequencing to profile the mutational and neoantigen landscape. Besides, personalized neoantigen peptides were synthesized and immunogenicity was validated through enzyme-linked immunospot assay. Meanwhile, corresponding T cell receptor (TCR) sequences were predicted by bioinformatics.TP53 was the most frequently mutated gene (57.58%) and a significant positive correlation between tumor mutational burden and neoantigen load was observed (r = 0.6511, p < 0.0001). A total of 798 neoantigens were identified in 22 samples, predominantly characterized by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) A02:07 and A02:01. Additionally, 16 neoantigen peptides from three CCA patients were successfully synthesized and these peptides induced robust T-cell responses, with the most potent epitopes derived from UBN1, C2orf47 and ITPR2. Moreover, bioinformatic analysis further predicted in silico putative TCR sequences potentially associated with the candidate neoantigens. In Pt01, the Vβ5-6Jβ1-2 sequence had the highest predicted affinity; in Pt02, the Vβ2Jβ1-4 sequence had the highest predicted affinity; and in Pt03, the Vβ29-1Jβ2-7 sequence had the highest predicted affinity. The sequence motifs of the high-frequency TCR clusters were also demonstrated.Our findings show that candidate immunogenic neoantigen peptides can be identified in CCA and are supported by proof-of-concept functional validation. Together, these results provide a framework for the downstream validation of neoantigen targets and the development of personalized immunotherapy approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Constipation represents a prevalent gastrointestinal disorder. This study demonstrates that wheat peptides (WP) effectively ameliorate loperamide-induced constipation in mice. Administration of WP orally at 0.5 mg/g body weight led to significant improvements in defecation, small intestinal motility, and the integrity of the intestinal barrier. WP further modulated inflammatory markers and enteric nervous system (ENS) regulators while correcting gut microbiota dysbiosis through restoration of microbial diversity and taxonomic composition. Crucially, colon transcriptomics revealed WP-mediated activation of calcium signaling pathway genes and the acetylcholine receptor gene. RT-qPCR validation confirmed the upregulation of key effectors, including muscarinic acetylcholine receptor Chrm1, inositol trisphosphate receptors (Itpr2/3), and calmodulin-like proteins (Calml3, Calm4). Three-dimensional imaging substantiated WP-induced augmentation of enteric neurons in constipated colons. Collectively, these results indicate that WP alleviates constipation through a multitarget mechanism involving muscarinic receptor activation, potentiation of calcium-dependent signaling, and promotion of enteric nervous system recovery, which collectively restore normal intestinal motility. WP thus emerges as a promising therapeutic candidate for constipation management.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
In graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), Ca2+ signals in alloreactive T cells are carefully controlled to determine whether cells survive or thrive, although how this is accomplished during GVHD remains poorly defined. We demonstrate that EZH2, a chromatin-modifying enzyme, promotes alloreactive T-cell survival in GVHD by acting as a Ca2+ signaling brake to limit excessive intracellular Ca2+ responses. Ezh2 loss led to the upregulation of gene programs that promote effector differentiation in activated T cells, coincident with enhanced intracellular Ca2+ responses that ultimately caused massive cell death. Conditional deletion of Stim1 (required for cytosolic Ca2+ entry) led to "synthetic rescue" of Ezh2-null T cells by protecting them from cell death without interfering with effector differentiation, resulting in severe GVHD. Interestingly, Stim1 expression was unaffected by EZH2, whereas the expression of the endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release channel inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor 2 (Itpr2) was suppressed by EZH2. Notably, EZH2 and Ca2+ signals served mutually opposing roles in controlling the expression of genes in chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. Inhibiting Ca²⁺ signaling restored EZH2 function in CAR-T cells, significantly improving their antitumor activity. Our findings reveal the interdependent roles of EZH2 and Ca2+ signals in coordinating antigen-activated T-cell responses that mediate alloimmunity and tumor immunity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a heterogeneous malignancy influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified risk single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with RCC susceptibility, particularly within genes such as ITPR2, DPF3, EPAS1, PVT1, and MYC. These SNPs are in regions implicated in key cellular processes like calcium signaling, chromatin remodeling, hypoxia response and oncogenesis. These pathways are highly relevant to RCC pathogenesis, although the functional significance of these genetic variations in sporadic RCC remains insufficiently characterized.This study analyzed five GWAS-identified SNPs-rs1049380 and rs10771279 (ITPR2), rs4903064 (DPF3), rs7579899 (EPAS1), and rs35252396 (PVT1/MYC)-in a Spanish case-control cohort comprising 168 RCC patients and 259 healthy controls. Genotyping was performed from buccal swabs, and gene expression levels were assessed in 33 paired formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor and adjacent normal kidney tissue samples. Associations between SNPs, overall survival, and expression of quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) were evaluated in relation to RCC risk and RCC progression in the case of survival curves.The C/C genotype of ITPR2 rs10771279 was nominally associated with a protective effect (OR: 0.41), with higher ITPR2 expression observed in healthy tissues than in RCC. The C/C genotype of DPF3 rs4903064 was nominally correlated with increased RCC risk (OR: 2.21) and higher DPF3 expression, potentially linked to hypoxia-inducible pathways. Similarly, EPAS1 rs7579899 A/A genotype was nominally associated with RCC risk (OR: 1.78) While PVT1/MYC rs35252396 did not show susceptibility relation, both genes showed upregulated expression in RCC tissue. In survival analyses, the G allele of rs1049380 (ITPR2) was significantly associated with reduced 5-year survival in metastic and non-metastatic patients. Additionally, the AC genotype of rs35252396 showed nominal associations with highest risk in 5-year survival models.This study provides independent evidence supporting the biological relevance of GWAS-identified loci in RCC. While several variants showed nominal associations with disease risk, ITPR2 rs1049380 emerged as a variant of potential prognostic relevance for five-year overall survival. Overall, these findings highlight the differential contribution of genetic variants to RCC susceptibility and progression and should be considered hypothesis-generating, warranting validation in larger, independent cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Morales-Álvarez, Jiménez-Domínguez, Rios-Pelegrina, Arance, Marín-Benesiu, Vázquez-Alonso, Martínez-González and Álvarez-Cubero.
There are many common gene mutations that occur in lung cancers, including KRAS. KRAS is an oncogene responsible for mediating cell growth through the MAPK/ERK (mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase) pathway. ITPR2 is a calcium channel responsible for regulating intracellular calcium levels. This case report highlights the presence and detection of a previously unreported ITPR2::KRAS fusion in a large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung.A 65-year-old patient with a history of smoking developed an aggressive large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) of the lung. This rare tumor subtype (up to 3% incidence in lung cancer) has a particularly poor prognosis, with a median overall survival of 8-12 months. Additionally, the tumor possessed a previously unreported ITPR2::KRAS fusion, which was a unique event upon examining over 100,000 tumors in public databases. Comorbidities including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and neuropathy presented difficulties in the treatment of this patient due to an inability to undergo surgical resection. The patient was successfully treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy with carboplatin and etoposide, a first-line chemoradiotherapy.Upon applying relatively unused RNA-fusion tools, this fused ITPR2::KRAS was not projected to yield a functional protein. This supports that post hoc use of bioinformatics tools may support clinical decision-making for patients when encountering rare genomic alterations, captured by existing diagnostic tests, that would be perceived as highly oncogenic.© AME Publishing Company.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a hematological malignancy of the myeloid lineage with poor clinical outcomes due to limited targeted therapies. This study elucidates the role of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (ITPR2) in regulating cell apoptosis by modulating mitochondrial calcium (Ca2+) levels and underscores the clinical significance of ITPR2.ITPR2 expression in patients with AML compared with that of healthy controls using the quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) method. The role of ITPR2 in AML and its association with immune infiltration levels were investigated through bioinformatics analyses. ITPR2 knockdown in Tohoku Hospital Pediatrics-1 (THP-1) cells were achieved using small interfering RNA (siRNA) and 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate (2-APB), followed by comprehensive molecular characterization employing RT-qPCR, western blotting (WB), cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assays, and flow cytometry.ITPR2 was validated as being highly expressed in patients with AML, and this expression correlated with risk stratification and poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that ITPR2 is involved in Ca2+ signaling pathways and mitochondrial-related biological processes, and its expression level was negatively correlated with immune infiltration levels. Knockdown of ITPR2 or inhibition of its activity with 2-APB reduced Ca2+ ion concentrations in both the cytoplasm and mitochondria, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction (characterized by elevated intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) levels, and reduced mitochondrial DNA copy number) and eventually AML cell apoptosis.ITPR2 facilitates AML progression via the Ca2+-mitochondrial axis and may serve as a prognostic factor and potential therapeutic target.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The respiratory microbiome, including that of the nasal cavity, is involved in host defense and airway pathophysiology. Interactions of the microbiome with the host immune system may impact health and disease susceptibility through changes in the epigenome. In this study, we aimed to analyze cross-sectional associations of nasal microbiome composition and the nasal epigenome among adolescents in the Project Viva cohort (N = 372, mean age: 13.0 years). We collected nasal swabs from anterior nares, profiled the microbiome by 16 S rRNA gene sequencing, and grouped samples into 6 clusters using partitioning around medoids. Nasal cell DNA methylation was measured with the Illumina MethylationEPIC BeadChip. In an epigenome-wide association study, we tested for associations of microbiome cluster assignment and DNA methylation using robust linear models adjusting sociodemographics, season, batch, and surrogates of cell type composition. Among significant loci, we conducted differential abundance analysis to identify individual bacterial genera associated with DNA methylation levels.A total of 45 loci had differential methylation between two or more microbiome clusters (pBonferroni< 0.05). Methylation differences between clusters ranged from 0.20 to 12.45% (median = 0.95%). Differentially methylated loci were near genes related to asthma (ITPR2, MAPK1), lung function (FKBP11), mitochondrial function (MRPL20, SPTBN1), inflammation (C3), and immune function (N4BP3, EIF5). The abundance of individual taxa, particularly Propionibacterium, was associated with methylation at 15 of these loci (FDR < 0.05). In addition, we found greater Corynebacterium abundance was associated with lower nasal epigenetic aging (FDR < 0.05).Our findings support the hypothesis that the nasal microbiome is associated with small-to-modest variation in the nasal epigenome. Future research is needed to investigate how the relationship between the nasal microbiome and epigenome is impacted by environmental exposures, as well as the health effects of microbial and epigenetic variation in early life and across the life course.© 2026. The Author(s).
The escalating prevalence of diabetes-depression comorbidity (DDC) necessitates novel therapies targeting shared pathophysiological pathways, which needs to decipher the underlying molecular mechanisms. This study elucidates the therapeutic potential of chrysophanol, a natural anthraquinone, in streptozotocin (STZ) and chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced DDC rat model. Behavioral assessments, biochemical profiling, and integrated multi-omics analyses (RNA-seq and proteomics) were employed to decipher underlying mechanisms. Successful model establishment was confirmed by prolonged immobility time in the tail suspension test (p < 0.01) and reduced general health scores. Chrysophanol treatment restored serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels (p < 0.01) and ameliorated dyslipidemia (total cholesterol: p < 0.05). RNA-seq results revealed that chrysophanol regulated expression of hundreds of genes, which were enriched in synaptic vesicle cycling (downregulation of Sh3gl2, Camk5), CNS myelination, and axonal ensheathment pathways. Proteomic profile demonstrated the suppression of neurodegenerative markers and activation of axonal regeneration pathways. Notably, chrysophanol downregulated synaptic proteins associated with leukocyte chemotaxis (Pla2g7, Mdk) and glutamatergic synapses (Itpr2, Slc1a1) while upregulated axonal development, regeneration, and PPARγ signaling proteins (Apoa4, Apoa1, Apod), suggesting anti-inflammatory effects and disease-modifying potential through synaptic/axonal regulation. Integrated multi-omics identified overlapping targets linked to neuronal repair (Ankrd27) and iron metabolism (Fth1). These findings suggest chrysophanol as a multitarget agent alleviating DDC via synergistic restoration of neuroplasticity, suppression of neuroinflammation, and rebalancing of metabolic homeostasis, implying a mechanistic foundation for developing chrysophanol-based therapies of diabetes-associated neuropsychiatric disorders.© 2025. The Author(s).
Dogs display temperamental and behavioral variation between individuals, just as psychiatric, temperamental, and cognitive traits vary in humans. In both species, these traits are highly heritable, yet causal genes remain incompletely understood. We performed 14 genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for behavioral traits quantified using the Canine Behavioral Assessment and Research Questionnaire (C-BARQ) in ~1,000 golden retrievers, identifying 12 genome-wide significant loci (P < 2.97 × 10-6) for 8 traits and 9 additional loci exceeding a suggestive threshold (P < 1 × 10-5). A human phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) showed that most of the 18 canine positional candidate genes identified were associated with one or more of 190 psychiatric, temperamental, or cognitive traits in humans (7/12 genes at genome-wide loci and 5/9 at suggestive loci). For example, a genome-wide significant locus near PTPN1 (dog-directed aggression) overlapped with human measures of Intelligence, Educational attainment, and major depressive disorder. The gene ROMO1 was within a genome-wide significant locus for trainability in dogs and associated with intelligence, depression, irritability, and sensitivity/hurt feelings in humans. Other genes located at genome-wide significant loci associated with behavioral, psychiatric, temperamental, or cognitive traits in both species included PRDX1(dog-directed fear), VWA8 (touch sensitivity), ITPR2, and ADGRL2/LPHN2 (trainability), and ADD2 (stranger-directed fear). From suggestive loci we also found cross-species associations for HUNK, and ZC3H12C, (dog-directed fear), SLC35F6 and IGSF11 (separation-related problems). These results suggest that shared genetic and molecular mechanisms underlie complex behavioral and temperamental states across species and may inform our understanding of emotional states driving undesirable behaviors in dogs.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) predicts poor prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Hypoxia is a critical tumor microenvironmental regulator, yet its detailed mechanism linking to VM formation remains poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the role of hypoxic endothelial cells in promoting NSCLC aggressiveness and VM formation. We integrated clinical data analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), transcriptomic profiling, and multiple in vitro and in vivo functional validations to consolidate our findings. Clinical NSCLC data revealed a positive correlation between endothelial expression of the hypoxia marker carbonic anhydrase IX (CA9) and VM activity. Conditioned medium from hypoxic HUVECs promoted NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, stemness, and VM network formation in vitro. Endothelial HIF-1α overexpression accelerated tumor growth and VM in vivo. Transcriptomics screening pinpointed the calcium channel gene Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3) as the core downstream effector in this hypoxic endothelial paracrine signaling. Follow-up mechanistic assays revealed that hypoxic endothelial supernatant and the ITPR3 inhibitor 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) activated calcium/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling to promote malignant phenotypes in NSCLC, and these effects were further validated by ITPR3 knockdown. In conclusion, hypoxia-activated endothelial cells drive NSCLC aggressiveness and VM through a paracrine axis involving ITPR3-mediated ER calcium activation. This HIF-1α/ITPR3 axis represents a potential therapeutic target for disrupting the tumor-vascular niche in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The placenta shapes fetal brain development through metabolic and epigenetic regulation. The BTBR T+ Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) mouse provides a valuable model of neurodevelopmental vulnerability. This study investigates the cellular and spatial distribution of lipid metabolic and epigenetic alterations within the BTBR placenta.We analyzed mid-gestation (12.5 days post coitum) placentas from BTBR and control (C57BL/6J) mice. Using three-dimensional confocal microscopy and immunohistochemistry, we quantified lipid droplet (LD) architecture, the distribution of the phospholipase PLA2G4E, and specific histone modifications (H3K9 butyrylation and H3K4 trimethylation).Trophoblast giant cells in BTBR placentas exhibit a marked shift toward smaller lipid droplets, indicating altered lipid remodeling and fragmentation without a reduction in total lipid storage capacity. PLA2G4E displayed conserved, compartment-specific localization across placental layers. At the chromatin level, BTBR placentas showed increased H3K9 butyrylation in trophoblast giant cells and decidua, alongside decreased H3K4 trimethylation in the junctional zone and labyrinth compared to B6 placentas. These integrated metabolic and epigenetic alterations converge primarily within trophoblast giant cells.These findings define a metabolic-epigenetic placental phenotype in the BTBR mouse and support a model in which altered lipid droplet remodeling is associated with distinct chromatin states in key placental cell populations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Alveolar socket healing post-extraction is accompanied by alveolar bone loss, which is negative to subsequent prosthetic rehabilitation. Plant-derived exosome-like nanovesicles are extracellular vehicles with great potential for disease treatment and are advantageous for drug delivery and absorption. Herein, we report the mineralization-promoting effects of Drynaria roosii-derived exosome-like nanovesicles (DRDENs) on osteoblasts and in a mouse alveolar socket healing model. DRDENs were isolated and characterized. Treatment with DRDENs increased the formation of calcium nodules and the expression of osteogenic differentiation markers (ALP, RUNX2, and OCN) in osteoblasts. Compounds analysis of DRDENs revealed a previously unexplored component, naringenin chalcone. We evaluated the properties of naringenin chalcone and its bioactivity on osteoblast differentiation. In vivo studies confirmed the safety and efficacy of DRDENs and naringenin chalcone in bone regeneration. The mechanism was demonstrated in which DRDENs were endocytosed by cells, and naringenin chalcone was released to interact with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3) in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), thereby activating downstream calcium flux to enhance bone formation. Additionally, chalcone isomerase (CHI), a key enzyme involved in naringenin chalcone production in Drynaria roosii, was purified and functionally identified as a type I CHI with weak II CHI activity. Our findings provided a novel strategy for alveolar socket healing and shed light on the function of CHI in Drynaria roosii.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cervical cancer, the fourth most common female malignancy worldwide, is often diagnosed at advanced stages in developing countries, where survival declines dramatically from 91% to about 17%, underscoring the urgent need for new therapies. In this study, we demonstrated that overexpression of GJB1-13k, a truncated isoform of connexin 32 (Cx32) mediated by an internal ribosome entry site (IRES), significantly inhibited cervical cancer growth both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we found that GJB1-13k triggers mitochondrial calcium overload, which in turn activates caspase-dependent pathways that induce both apoptosis and GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. Additionally, we identified a physical interaction between GJB1-13k and the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3), an endoplasmic reticulum calcium channel, which may contribute to the observed calcium dysregulation and cell death. Our findings suggest that overexpressing GJB1-13k may represent a promising new strategy for the treatment of cervical cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study conducted a meta-analysis across three large European cohorts (UKBB, FinnGen, and REPAIR), including 12,660 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) cases, 2,446 radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (r-axSpA) cases, and over 530,000 shared controls.Ten independent SNPs in CARMIL1, GRM4, ITPR3, PRSS16, ZNF322, HTT, IKZF1, MANEA, and MGAM2 were analyzed, and functional characterization was performed through cytokine and protein assessments as well as eQTL analyses.Ten independent SNPs were significantly associated with both RA and r-axSpA. Risk alleles included HTT rs363075A, IKZF1 rs12718261A, MANEA rs72920280T, and MGAM2 rs73158426G, while CARMIL1 rs72831267C, GRM4 rs2495964G, ITPR3 rs77601296A, ITPR3 rs9469540T, PRSS16 rs72843633T, and ZNF322 rs6901425G had protective effects. Functional analysis showed that GRM4 rs2495964G was linked to decreased CCL25 levels (p = 0.00030), and ITPR3 rs9469540T to reduced IL10 production after LPS stimulation (p = 1.3×10-4). The ZNF322rs6901425G allele was associated with reduced TNFB and increased TGM2 levels (p = 9.60×10-4 and p = 3.00×10-4), both involved in immune signaling and tissue remodeling. Disease-specific associations were found in BTN2A1, BTN3A2, and H2BC11. The BTN2A1 rs1977199A allele was protective in RA (OR = 0.93) but increased r-axSpA risk (OR = 1.23), and was associated with reduced IL22 (p = 0.00016) and elevated HO-1 in obese individuals (p = 6.73×10-6). In contrast, BTN3A2 rs9393716G and H2BC11 rs66462181C increased RA risk but were protective in r-axSpA, linked to decreased HO-1 and IL6 (p = 2.43×10-5, 3.287times;10-4, 1.18×10-4). These SNPs also acted as eQTLs for immune-related genes such as BTN3A2, HMGN4, and TRIM38.Our findings highlight novel shared and disease-specific variants and key immunoregulatory mediators-IL10, IL22, IL6, CCL25, and HO-1-offering insights for disease stratification and therapeutic targeting.Copyright © 2026 Cabrera-Serrano, Carretero-Fernández, Pérez-Rojo, ter Horst, Cañadas-Garre, Canhão, Quartuccio, Sorensen, Glintborg, Filipescu, Pérez-Pampin, Conesa-Zamora, Swierkot, den Broeder, de Vita, Brix Petersen, Li, Coenen, Bogunia-Kubik, Andersen, Fonseca, Lund Hetland, López Nevot, López-Medina, Reyes-Zurita, Netea, Escudero, Cáliz, Collantes-Estévez, Sánchez-Maldonado and Sainz.
This study aimed to identify potential genetic variants and candidate genes associated with feed efficiency (FE), production, and feeding behavior traits in Canadian purebred Duroc pigs. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were conducted using 8,861 individuals and an imputed Affymetrix PigGen Canada 50K panel v2.0 using a linear mixed model (LMM) and a Bayesian B model. This analysis used an adjusted P-value threshold (ranging from 6.6 × 10-5 to 1.3 × 10-4) using a false-discovery rate to determine significance. The number of significant SNPs identified for each trait was as follows: average daily gain (ADG, 48), daily feed intake (DFI, 85), feed conversion ratio (FCR, 101), residual feed intake (RFI, 37), residual gain (RG, 64), residual intake and gain (RIG, 55), backfat thickness (BF, 100), loin depth (LD, 6), Kleiber's ratio (KR, 0), total time spent eating per day (TPD, 7), and number of visits to the feeder per day (NVD, 6). Several traits (BF, DFI, FCR, RFI, RG, and RIG) showed strong overlapping signals on chromosomes 7 and 10 with 24 shared significant SNPs, indicating potential shared genetic mechanisms. These traits also had 71 overlapping candidate genes, such as PACSIN1, PTCH1, ADIPOR1, and ITPR3, associated with glucose, lipid, and cholesterol metabolism. Well-known candidate genes in literature associated with growth and fatness such as MC4R and CDH20 were also identified to be associated with ADG, BF, FCR, and DFI in this study. Gene ontology enrichment analysis revealed that a set of the candidate genes were involved in the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) signaling pathways. Overall, this study contributed to understanding the genetic architecture and provided a biological foundation for improving FE, production, and feeding behavior traits in Canadian Duroc pigs, facilitating the selection of more efficient pigs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by deficits in social interaction and repetitive behaviors. Increasing evidence suggests that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress contributes to abnormal brain development in ASD; however, whether prenatal modulation of ER stress can prevent ASD-like phenotypes remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of prenatal administration of the chemical chaperone 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA) in two etiologically distinct ASD mouse models: valproic acid (VPA)-exposed Jcl:ICR (ICR) mice and BTBR T+ Itpr3tf /J (BTBR) mice. Social behaviors were evaluated using the three-chamber test, and repetitive behaviors were assessed by self-grooming duration. 4-PBA was administered to mid-gestation mice, and behavioral changes in the male offspring derived-two type ASD model (VPA and BTBR mice) were evaluated. 4-PBA reduced ER stress in the cerebral cortex of the offspring male VPA and BTBR mice. In particular, 4-PBA strongly inhibited the expression of 94-kDa glucose-regulated protein, an ER stress marker, in BTBR male mice. In addition, 4-PBA improved synaptic organizer expression and neuronal maturation, which are diminished in ASD, specifically in the cerebral cortex of VPA mice. Furthermore, 4-PBA improved social reciprocity, a behavior specific to ASD in male VPA and BTBR mice. In conclusion, ER stress during mid-pregnancy is strongly associated with the development of ASD symptoms. Furthermore, the reduction in ER stress by 4-PBA leads to the suppression of ASD symptoms. Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a lack of sociality, and the difficulty in forming social relationships often leads to various social problems. Prenatal administration of 4-PBA to mothers may reduce the risk of developing ASD, and we believe this could be a new approach to prevention.© 2026 the Author(s), licensee AIMS Press.
Dysfunction of corticostriatal circuitry is related to the emergence of self-injurious behavior (SIB) in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Despite mounting interest in circuit-based interventions for severe, refractory SIB, the lack of causal evidence linking modulation of corticostriatal networks to changes in SIB has limited the advancement of effective, targeted therapies. In this study, we demonstrate that electrical stimulation of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) mitigates SIB and induces structural changes along corticostriatal circuits in a mouse model relevant for ASD and children with severe SIB undergoing NAcc-targeted deep brain stimulation. In BTBR T+ Itpr3tf/J mice, NAcc stimulation selectively reduced injurious self-grooming-a behavioral metric of SIB-and led to morphological changes in corticostriatal networks. In children with severe SIB, electric stimulation at a locus of optimal therapeutic response within the NAcc engaged widespread sensorimotor, limbic, and striatal networks and induced longitudinal structural changes in fronto-limbic-striatal brain regions. These findings highlight the role of the fronto-limbic-striatal network in SIB regulation and support corticostriatal neuromodulation as a mechanistic therapy for these extreme behaviors.
Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are heterogeneous neoplasms arising from primordial germ cells. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous susceptibility loci for adult testicular GCTs (TGCTs), the heritable basis of pediatric TGCT and GCTs that arise outside the testes remain poorly understood.We conducted a multi-ancestry GWAS of pediatric GCTs, including 1,927 cases from the Germ Cell Tumor Epidemiology Study (GaMETES) and 10,601 controls. Cases were diagnosed with testicular (n = 678), ovarian (n = 441), intracranial (n = 435), and extragonadal (n = 373) GCT between the ages of 0 to 19 years.We identified four loci reaching genome-wide significance, including variants near BAK1 (chr 6: rs3831846), SPRY4 (chr 5: rs12515244), DMRT1 (chr 9: rs10815910), and DEPTOR (chr 8: rs13277786). Additional genome-wide significant associations were identified in subgroup analyses, including six loci for intracranial GCTs (rs2758612 [PMF1/BGLAP], rs9854760 [PLCL2], rs6851498 [KIT], rs11816992 on chromosome 10, rs3830273 [TFAM], and rs13054014 [LZTR1]), one locus for testicular GCT (rs1907702 [KITLG]), and one locus for males (rs4610628 [MAD1L1]). After Bonferroni correction, 18 of 78 previously reported TGCT loci were significantly associated with GCT overall or in at least one subgroup with a particularly strong correlation between TGCT and iGCT effect estimates (rho = 0.63, P = 5.5x10-10). Expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analyses identified candidate genes in the regions identified on chromosome 6 (BAK1, LINC003366, and ITPR3) and chromosome 8 (DEPTOR and RP11-760H22.2).Our data support a role for germline genetic variation in the development of GCT in locations outside the testes and highlight shared genetic architecture across age group and tumor location.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Hepatocyte damage is the initial factor in liver injury. De novo expression of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor type 3 (ITPR3) typically occurs in hepatocellular carcinoma and may contribute to its pathogenesis. However, the role of de novo expression of ITPR3 by hepatocytes in the pathological processes of liver fibrosis remains unclear. Expression analyses of ITPR3 in hepatocytes were combined with an evaluation Ca2+/nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)/leukocyte cell-derived chemotaxin 2 (LECT2) pathway and characterization of the effect of ITPR3 expression on hepatocytes damage. The effect of ITPR3 expression on liver fibrosis were evaluated in mice. ITPR3 expression was significantly increased in fibrotic mice livers and in hepatocytes induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), correlating with hepatocytes apoptosis. Data from treatment with ITPR3 siRNA and an NF-κB inhibitor demonstrated that excessive Ca2+ release mediated by ITPR3 activated NF-κB, which in turn initiated LECT2 expression and induced hepatocytes apoptosis, leading to hepatic stellate cell activation-mediated liver fibrosis. These results demonstrate that de novo expression of ITPR3 may play an essential role in hepatocytes damage and liver fibrosis via Ca2+/NF-κB/LECT2 pathway. Suppression of ITPR3 may represent a novel strategy for attenuating hepatocyte damage and liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Maternal immune activation (MIA) shapes fetal growth and neurodevelopment, in part by disrupting immune homeostasis at the maternal-fetal interface, thereby contributing to developmental abnormalities such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In women with a history of influenza A virus (IAV) infection, we found an enrichment off CD56dimCD16+CD49a- natural killer (NK) cells displaying enhanced NKG2D expression in the decidua basalis, as assessed at delivery. Using IAV- and poly I:C-induced MIA mouse models, we demonstrated that MIA significantly increases the proportion of NK cells at the maternal-fetal interface, characterized by elevated expression of NKG2D, with this local accumulation persisting until late gestation. Importantly, in the poly I:C model, blocking maternal NKG2D through two administrations alleviated prenatal cortical dysplasia, as well as enhancing dendritic plasticity, neural progenitor cells proliferation, and the morphological and transcriptomic changes in cortical excitatory neurons, accompanied by improved ASD-like behaviors in the offspring. However, a single peripheral NKG2D blockade failed to rescue neurodevelopment retardation. In addition, NKG2D blockade through two administrations altered neurodevelopment-related gene signatures, particularly in L2-4 Itpr1-expressing excitatory neurons. Key findings were further corroborated in the IAV model, highlighting NK cell modulation as a potential therapeutic strategy for maternal infection-associated neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and auriculocondylar syndrome 2A (ARCND2A) are distinct rare genetic disorders, each with characteristic clinical features. The simultaneous occurrence of these two syndromes is exceptionally rare and poses significant diagnostic challenges, especially in pediatric patients with complex phenotypes.We report a 3-year-old Turkish girl who presented with multiple café-au-lait macules and dysmorphic facial features. Initial single-gene sequencing revealed a variant in the NF1 gene; however, the presence of severe craniofacial anomalies prompted further investigation. Clinical exome sequencing identified a likely pathogenic PLCB4 variant, establishing a dual molecular diagnosis of NF1 and ARCND2A. Comprehensive radiological assessment, including brain and orbital MRI with temporal bone CT, and maxillo-mandibular computed cone beam tomography (CBCT), revealed both craniofacial anomalies and central nervous system lesions consistent with ARCND2A and NF1. Notable findings included dehiscence in the left superior semicircular canal, mandibular and left sphenoid wing hypoplasia, as well as NF1-related hamartomatous lesions and optic pathway involvement.The coexistence of NF1 and ARCND2A in a single pediatric patient complicates the clinical picture due to overlapping and atypical features. This dual diagnosis highlights the importance of considering multiple genetic etiologies when clinical findings cannot be fully explained by a single disorder. This case underscores the critical role of comprehensive genomic and radiological evaluation in children with unexplained or complex presentations. Recognizing the potential for multilocus genetic diagnoses is essential for accurate diagnosis, management, and genetic counseling.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is genetically heterogeneous. We aimed to define a compartment-aware driver mutation landscape of DLBCL by integrating tumor tissue and circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) sequencing, and to assess its biological and prognostic relevance.Somatic mutations were analyzed from targeted sequencing of tumor tissue or bone marrow and cfDNA from peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid, including paired tissue-liquid samples, together with whole-genome sequencing data from TCGA. Driver genes were identified using four complementary algorithms. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed. Prognostic relevance was evaluated using multigene expression-based modeling with Cox and LASSO regression in independent cohorts.Recurrent driver alterations converged on core pathogenic pathways, including B-cell receptor signaling, NF-κB activation, epigenetic regulation, and immune escape. Twenty-two high-confidence driver genes, including PIM1, KMT2D, CD79B, B2M, TP53, MYC, and EZH2, were consistently identified across clinical cohorts and supported by TCGA data. cfDNA profiling showed substantial concordance with tissue-derived drivers while revealing gene-specific differences in mutation burden and co-mutation patterns, indicating complementary capture of clinically relevant heterogeneity. Network analysis highlighted TP53, MYC, EP300, and CREBBP as central hubs. A four-gene expression-based model (MYC, PLCL1, IRF8, LNPEP) stratified patients by overall survival and modestly improved prognostic discrimination beyond the International Prognostic Index.Integrated analysis of tumor tissue and cfDNA sequencing defines a clinically relevant driver framework for DLBCL. cfDNA preserves core oncogenic signals while complementing tissue profiling, supporting refined genomic risk stratification.
Cervical cancer, the third most common cancer worldwide with 50% increase in mortality, is a growing public health concern. Recent research on non-coding RNAs including long coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and circular RNAs (circRNAs) highlights their key roles in carcinogenesis across different cancers; but the studies on lncRNA-circRNA-mRNA regulatory networks (tripartite network) are still lacking in cervical cancer. This study integrates transcriptomic data to analyse circRNA-lncRNA-mRNA interactions, focusing on immune signaling pathways. To further understand the biological relevance of these interactions, differentially expressed genes were identified using DESeq2/limma, followed by functional enrichment. A competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network was constructed in Cytoscape, with miRNA binding serving as the central connecting factor. The immune-focused subnetwork comprised 7 mRNAs, 14 circRNAs, and 80 lncRNAs. Different machine learning prognostic models based on the ncRNA network and individual RNAs including differentially expressed coding and non-coding RNAs were developed to assess prognostic performance. Among these, the LASSO model based on the circRNA-lncRNA-mRNA network showed the best overall performance, with AUC values of 0.77 in the training set and 0.89 in the test set. Model performance was also assessed using bootstrap resampling for internal validation to ensure robustness. DLEU1, ITPR1, hsa_circRNA_101206, and miR-210 were identified as key prognostic biomarkers. Docking, HPA validation, and immune infiltration analyses confirmed the miR-210:DLEU1:ITPR1 axis as a key immune regulator in cervical cancer. This network modelling approach establishes that combinatorial modelling of coding and non-coding elements outperforms individual approaches, providing a robust framework for prognostic stratification and therapeutic targeting in cervical cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Uveal melanoma is the most frequent primary intraocular malignancy in adults and is characterized by an aggressive clinical course, high propensity for hepatic metastasis, and poor survival after metastatic progression. Improvements in ocular imaging and local therapies have improved primary tumor control, but approximately half of patients will ultimately develop metastatic disease with poor treatment options. Recent advances in genomics and molecular biology have dramatically improved our understanding of uveal melanoma pathogenesis, with the discovery of activating mutations in GNAQ , GNA11 , CYSLTR2 , and PLCB4 as early oncogenic events that drive aberrant signaling through the protein kinase C (PKC), MAPK, PI3K/AKT, and Hippo-YAP pathways. Additional changes in BAP1 , SF3B1 , and EIF1AX as well as common chromosomal aberrations, contribute to tumor progression, metastatic risk and clinical heterogeneity. New insights into the distinct immune landscape of uveal melanoma, including low tumor mutational burden, immune-desert and immune-excluded phenotypes, a macrophage-dominant microenvironment, and hepatic immune tolerance, have provided important explanations for its poor response to conventional immunotherapies. This review summarizes current knowledge on the epidemiology, risk factors, molecular pathogenesis, tumor microenvironment, diagnostic innovations and prognostic biomarkers of UM. We also review novel developments in molecular profiling, liquid biopsy, artificial intelligence-assisted diagnostics, and precision oncology strategies, as well as novel therapeutic approaches such as tebentafusp, protein kinase C inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitors, adoptive cell therapies, and liver-directed therapies. These advances are together changing the clinical management of uveal melanoma and provide new opportunities for personalized treatment, earlier detection of metastatic disease and improved patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
ObjectiveTo elucidate the role and underlying mechanism of bradykinin (BK) B2 receptor and its downstream inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (ITPR1)-mediated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release signaling in the development and maintenance of trigeminal neuropathic pain.MethodsA partial infraorbital nerve transection (pIONT) mouse model of trigeminal neuralgia was employed. Mechanical allodynia was assessed using von Frey filaments. The expression and localization of BK, B2 receptor, and related molecules in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), Western blot, and immunofluorescence staining. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed to evaluate TG neuronal excitability. Intracellular calcium signals induced by BK were monitored through Fluo-4 AM calcium imaging. Pharmacological and genetic interventions were conducted via local TG injection of B2 receptor antagonist Icatibant, ITPR1 inhibitor 2-APB, and Itpr1-siRNA.ResultspIONT induced persistent facial mechanical allodynia in mice, accompanied by a significant upregulation of BK mRNA and B2 receptor expression in the TG, which was primarily localized to myelinated neurons (NF200+), peptidergic neurons (CGRP+), and non-peptidergic neurons (IB4+). Local injection of Icatibant into the TG significantly alleviated mechanical nociceptive responses and reduced the hyperexcitability of nociceptive neurons. Calcium imaging showed that BK evoked ITPR1-dependent ER calcium release in TG neurons, which was abolished by both 2-APB and Itpr1-siRNA. Co-application of 2-APB also reversed BK-induced neuronal hyperexcitability and attenuated facial withdrawal responses.ConclusionFollowing peripheral nerve injury, the B2 receptor-ITPR1 signaling mediated ER calcium release represents an essential mechanism underlying the development and maintenance of trigeminal neuropathic pain. Targeting this signaling pathway effectively attenuates peripheral neuronal hyperexcitability, providing novel experimental evidence and potential therapeutic targets for the management of trigeminal neuralgia.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine and metabolic disorder that impairs ovarian function and fertility in reproductive-aged women. Despite extensive research, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying granulosa cell (GC) dysfunction and follicular arrest in PCOS remain incompletely understood. In this study, we identify PANoptosis-a newly characterized inflammatory programmed cell death pathway-as a critical driver of GC pathology in PCOS. Key PANoptosis regulators, including ZBP1, RIPK3, TLR4, and ITPR1, were markedly upregulated and predominantly localized within GCs from PCOS patients. Single-cell trajectory analysis further revealed that the expression of these genes progressively escalates during GC differentiation, indicating sustained PANoptotic stress along follicular maturation. Concurrently, gene set variation analysis demonstrated significant enrichment of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis pathways, underscoring PANoptosis as an integrated death mechanism contributing to GC failure. Molecular docking analysis identified baicalin, a bioactive flavonoid, as a potent binder of key PANoptosis effectors. To maintain physiological relevance, all functional validation experiments were carried out in primary human GC cultures supplemented with bovine follicular fluid (BFS), which preserves the native follicular microenvironment and ensures cellular viability and steroidogenic capacity; we further confirmed that baicalin's effects remained consistent under reduced BFS conditions, indicating that its activity is not an artefact of BFS components. Collectively, our findings elucidate a novel ZBP1-driven PANoptotic cascade underlying follicular arrest in PCOS. However, as the present work is exclusively based on in vitro data, we emphasize that baicalin should be viewed as a promising mechanistic lead rather than an established therapeutic agent; rigorous in vivo studies and clinical evaluation are indispensable prerequisites before any translational application can be considered. This study thus provides a solid molecular foundation for future intervention strategies, while highlighting the critical need for further validation in animal models and patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a substantial global health challenge due to high mortality rates. This study focused on constructing and validating a calcium metabolism-related genes (CAMRGs) signature for CRC outcome prediction.Transcriptomic and clinical data for CRC were integrated from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. A prognostic risk model was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-Cox regression analysis. The predictive performance of the model was validated using an external dataset (GSE17536). Furthermore, the expression levels of the identified prognostic genes were preliminarily assessed via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in clinical specimens.PRKCB, ATP2A3, PLCB4, and SLC25A6 were detected as prognostic genes and used to develop risk models. The risk model differentiated samples into high- and low-risk groups with notable variations in overall survival (OS) (P<0.0001), demonstrating favorable predictive performance [area under the curve (AUC) >0.6]. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) reflected marked enrichment of pathways related to metabolism and immune signaling (e.g., oxidative phosphorylation and chemokine signaling) between the two groups (P<0.05). Risk score, age, and pathological stage were defined as independent prognostic factors and the nomogram demonstrated strong predictive performance (AUC >0.8). Finally, RT-qPCR expression assessed the significantly lower expression of PRKCB and ATP2A3 and higher expression of PLCB4 in CRC patients compared to controls (P<0.05).A CAMRG signature was developed and preliminary examination of CRC prognosis prediction. This model might assist in risk assessment and inform individualized treatment strategies.© AME Publishing Company.
Neuronal synapses are eliminated during brain development and disease through pruning by glial cells. Individual synapses are marked for engulfment by 'eat-me' signals, which include externalized phosphatidylserine. In apoptotic cells, phosphatidylserine externalization is driven by caspase-dependent activation of Xkr scramblases1 and inactivation of specific flippases2. Localized caspase activation at neuronal synapses can mediate spatially-restricted synaptic phosphatidylserine exposure leading to synapse pruning by glial cells during development and neurodegeneration3-6. It is unknown which caspase-regulated flippases and scramblases promote synaptic phosphatidylserine exposure and whether there are any caspase-independent mechanisms of phosphatidylserine exposure relevant for synapse elimination. To address this question, we here develop a scalable CRISPR screening approach, COMPASS-seq (compartment-anchored sgRNA screen sequencing), to uncover the genetic underpinnings of subcellular phenotypes. COMPASS-seq is compatible with in vitro and in vivo systems and a wide range of subcellular compartments; we here apply it to the neuronal synapse. We discover that inhibition of the caspase-independent, calcium-activated anoctamin ANO3 (TMEM16C) is sufficient to increase synapse numbers in vivo. ANO3 co-localizes with IP3 receptor 1 (ITPR1), a calcium channel in the endoplasmic reticulum, to form a postsynaptic signaling platform that drives spatially restricted phosphatidylserine exposure at synapses. Activation of the ITPR1 calcium channel activity is sufficient to drive synaptic phosphatidylserine exposure via an ANO3-dependent but caspase-independent mechanism. Our results suggest a mechanism for integrating synaptic activity information to control synaptic pruning. The role of ANO3 in regulating synapses could shed light on the mechanisms underlying its numerous associations with both dementia7 and other neurological diseases8,9.
Methimazole (MZL) is a widely prescribed antithyroid medication that has additionally been associated with unintended toxic effects involving organs outside its primary therapeutic site. The current work was conducted to investigate the progressive cardiac pathological alterations elicited by escalating dose levels of MZL. A total of 36 healthy (adult male albino rats) of comparable age and body weight were selected for the study after veterinary examination confirmed their suitability for experimental use. Selected animals were randomly distributed among the four experimental groups with each group having nine rats. Group I was designated as control group. Group II, III and IV were gavaged with MZL at a dose level of 60, 100 and 250 mg/kg/day body weight, respectively, continuously for 28 days. MZL treatment significantly and dose-dependently altered the expressions of MST1, LATS1, YAP1 and TEAD1. The genes for calcium-handling proteins were highly affected with a reduction in SERCA2a and RyR2 and an increase in PLN and NCX1 throughout the dose-escalation regimen of MZL. MZL intoxication significantly augmented ROS and MDA levels whereas suppressed SOD, CAT, GPx, GST, GSR, HO-1 and GSH. Echocardiographic evaluation showed cardiac remodeling, ventricular dilation, myocardial hypertrophy, and poor cardiac performance. There were significantly high level of cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB, troponin-I, CPK, LDH, BNP, troponin-T, and NT-proBNP, signifying myocardial injury and ventricular dysfunction. Besides, MZL significantly worsened cardiac inflammation by elevating the expression of TNF-α, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and COX-2 and cardiac apoptosis by increasing caspase-3, Bax, & caspase-9, but diminishing Bcl-2. Histopathological examination showed myocardial degeneration, necrosis, edema, and inflammatory infiltration and structural disorganization in direct proportion to the administered dose. These findings showed severe myocardial toxicity following MZL intoxication throughout the investigated dose range thereby demonstrating its cardiotoxic manifestations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547671 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the effects of Zhenwu Decoction(ZWT) on cardiac fibrosis in mice with heart-kidney Yang deficiency-induced chronic heart failure(CHF). The research further explored the therapeutic mechanisms of ZWT in CHF treatment in the hope of providing novel insights for TCM approaches to managing heart-kidney Yang deficiency-induced heart failure. Sixty C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into the following groups: the control group(normal untreated mice),the DOX group(doxorubicin-induced CHF model),the low-dose ZWT group(ZWT-L,4.7 g·kg~(-1)),the medium-dose ZWT group(ZWT-M,9.3 g·kg~(-1)),the high-dose ZWT group(ZWT-H,18.6 g·kg~(-1)),and the dopamine group(DA,positive control). The CHF mouse model was established over a 4-week period, which was followed by an additional 4-week treatment regimen. After 8 weeks, the spontaneous locomotor activity of mice was assessed, and TCM syndrome scoring was performed. Mouse serum samples were collected and analyzed to measure the levels of cardiac-specific biomarkers including cardiac troponin Ⅰ(cTn-Ⅰ),brain natriuretic peptide(BNP), creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme(CK-MB), creatine kinase(CK),lactate dehydrogenase(LDH),triiodothyronine(T3),succinate dehydrogenase(SDH) and myocardial cyclic adenosine monophosphate(cAMP). Cardiac tissue was collected for pathological examination. Western blot and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR) were used to detect the expression of myocardial cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit(PKA C),protein kinase A(PKA),ryanodine receptor 2(RyR2),phospholamban(PLB),B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2),caspase-3,cleaved caspase-3 and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax). The experimental results indicated that, compared with the control group, the DOX group exhibited significantly elevated TCM syndrome scores accompanied by decreased heart rate, reduced body weight, and increased cardiac index(P&lt;0.05); serum levels of CK, CK-MB, BNP, cTn-Ⅰ, LDH and myocardial cAMP were significantly increased(P&lt;0.05), while SDH and T3 levels were decreased(P&lt;0.05); meanwhile, myocardial interstitial fibrosis was aggravated and myocardial hypertrophy appeared; the expression of PKA C, PKA, caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3, Bax and phosphorylation of RyR2 were increased(P&lt;0.05), the expression of Bcl-2 and phosphorylation of PLB were decreased compared with the DOX group, the ZWT treated groups demonstrated reduced TCM syndrome scores, increased heart rate, improved body weight, and decreased cardiac index. Additionally, serum levels of CK, CK-MB, BNP, cTn-Ⅰ, LDH and myocardial cAMP were decreased(P&lt;0.05), while SDH and T3 levels were increased(P&lt;0.05); myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis were also improved; the expression of PKA C, PKA, Bax, caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3 and phosphorylation of RyR2 was reduced(P&lt;0.05), and the expression of Bcl-2 and phosphorylation of PLB were increased(P&lt;0.05). These findings suggested that ZWT may exert therapeutic effects on CHF by regulating sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium-related proteins, reducing apoptosis, and improving cardiac function.
In heart failure, β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR)-Gsα-cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) signalling predisposes to delayed-afterdepolarisation-mediated arrhythmias. Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) hydrolyse cAMP, and PDE3 restrains β1-AR, β2-AR-mediated inotropic responses in failing hearts from β-blocker-treated patients. Whether these receptors provoke arrhythmias through ryanodine receptor (RyR2) dysregulation, and how PDE activity and prior β-blockade treatment modify this, is undefined. We sought to define how β1-AR and β2-AR activation provokes arrhythmias through RyR2 mechanisms in explanted human failing hearts, and how PDE activity and prior β-blocker therapy modulate this response. A diastolic model of ventricular arrhythmia using human right ventricular trabeculae with pacing stopped was used. Trabeculae were exposed to (-)-noradrenaline/(-)-adrenaline to activate β1-AR/β2-AR respectively with or without PDE inhibitors and monitored for spontaneous contractions. In parallel, sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles from trabeculae were used to assess RyR2 channel function, phosphorylation and oxidation. Activation of β1-AR or β2-AR increased the frequency of spontaneous contractions, concomitant increases in diastolic RyR2 channel opening, phosphorylation and oxidation. Trabeculae from carvedilol-treated patients showed fewer β2-AR-mediated spontaneous contractions than those treated with β1-AR blockers. The PDE3 inhibitor cilostamide augmented β2-AR-mediated spontaneous contractions, RyR2 channel opening and Ser2808 phosphorylation. In human failing heart, β1-AR or β2-AR activation increased arrhythmic contractions associated with greater diastolic RyR2 channel opening, phosphorylation and oxidation. PDE3 attenuated β2-AR-mediated arrhythmic contractions, RyR2 channel opening and Ser2808 hyperphosphorylation. These findings suggest that combining β1- and β2-AR blockade with strategies that reduce RyR2 Ca2+ leak and preserve RyR2-associated PDE3 activity may improve arrhythmia control in heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538417 is a review article
Uncaria laevigata exhibits potential cardiovascular protective effects, and its active constituents against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MI-RI) is rarely explored. Herein, eighteen compounds were firstly isolated from hooked stems and branches of Uncaria laevigata, including alkaloids, flavonoids, lignans, triterpenoids, and fatty acids. MI-RI measurement demonstrated that compound 1 (procyanidin C1) and compound 13 (cadambine) exerted good anti-MI-RI activity, not previously reported. At 20 mg/kg, compound 1 reduced the ischaemic area to 11.40%, equivalent to metoprolol, whereas compound 13 achieved 14.36% with a clear dose-dependent improvement. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted that compound 1 and 13 were correlated with several signalling pathways, and showed favourable binding affinity with metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP1) (-9.5 kcal·mol-1) and ryanodine receptor 2 (RyR2) (-8.6 kcal·mol-1) respectively. This work provides lead compounds against MI-RI and further exploitation of Uncaria laevigata.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline, whose clinical application for cancer is limited by cardiotoxicity. The mechanisms underlying doxorubicin-induced toxic cardiomyopathy (DICM) involve electrophysiological remodelling with intracellular Na+ overload because of increased late INa and hyperactivation of CaMKIIδ. Increased [Na+]i contributes to CaMKIIδ activation through Na-dependent Ca2+ overload, and CaMKIIδ can further amplify late INa.We tested whether pharmacological inhibition of the late INa by either ranolazine (RAN, 10 μmol·L-1) or empagliflozin (EMPA, 1 μmol·L-1) is sufficient to attenuate DOX-mediated hyperactivation of CaMKIIδ in isolated wildtype (WT) ventricular cardiomyocytes. The contribution of reciprocal CaMKII-dependent stimulation of late INa was tested in transgenic S571A cardiomyocytes lacking the CaMKII-specific phosphorylation site S571A on NaV1.5. Functional readouts were obtained using patch-clamp technique, as well as confocal and epifluorescence microscopy.DOX acutely increased late INa in WT cardiomyocytes by twofold, which was associated with redox- and phospho-dependent activation of CaMKIIδ. Hyperactivated CaMKIIδ led to acutely impaired Ca2+ handling because of diastolic Ca2+ loss from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) mediated by phosphorylation of the RyR2 at the CaMKII-specific phosphorylation site serine-2814. Pharmacological inhibition of late INa by EMPA or RAN, and genetic deletion of the CaMKII-specific phosphorylation-site serine-571 at NaV1.5 prevented DOX-related stimulation of the late INa and subsequent CaMKIIδ hyperactivation, which functionally preserved intracellular Ca handling.Inhibition of late INa protects cardiomyocytes from pathologic CaMKIIδ hyperactivation and impaired Ca2+ handling in the setting of acute DOX cardiotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) is increasingly recognized as a metabolic disorder. This review investigates the role of ceramidemediated lipotoxicity in its pathogenesis, focusing on how aberrant ceramide accumulation drives myocardial dysfunction.We synthesized and critically evaluated current preclinical and clinical literature from major electronic databases (PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science) up to March 2026. Using a hierarchical evidence classification framework (Level 1: human HFpEF myocardium; Level 2: HFpEF-specific animal models; Level 3: related disease models; Level 4: in vitro studies), we analyzed evidence across calcium handling, apoptosis, autophagy, inflammation, and fibrosis pathways.Ceramide lipotoxicity represents an important pathological nexus. It directly impairs cardiomyocyte function by disrupting calcium homeostasis and ion channels (SERCA2a, RyR2, Kv4.3). Concurrently, it triggers mitochondrial and death receptor-mediated apoptosis, inhibits autophagic flux via AMPK/mTORC1 dysregulation, and activates pro-inflammatory (NF-κB, IL-6, TNF-α) and pro-fibrotic (TGF-β/Smad3) signaling pathways. These mechanisms collectively lead to diastolic dysfunction and disease progression. Interventions targeting ceramide synthesis (SPT inhibitors) or downstream effects show therapeutic promise in experimental models.The available evidence is derived predominantly from Level 3 models (diabetic cardiomyopathy, obesity-induced dysfunction) and Level 4 in vitro studies. Direct validation in human HFpEF myocardium (Level 1) and HFpEF-specific animal models (Level 2) remains a critical unmet need. The ceramide-centered hypothesis is most directly applicable to the metabolic/obesity-related phenotype of HFpEF, given the phenotypic heterogeneity of the syndrome. Therapeutic translation faces hurdles, including a lack of tissue selectivity, ceramide species complexity, and unknown long-term safety of inhibiting essential sphingolipid functions.Ceramide-mediated lipotoxicity constitutes a significant pathogenic mechanism in the metabolic phenotype of HFpEF. However, this conclusion is largely inferred from preclinical models recapitulating metabolic stress. Direct validation in human HFpEF myocardium is urgently needed. Future research must prioritize human tissue lipidomics, development of multifactorial animal models, and targeted clinical trials to translate these findings into effective therapies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major global health challenge due to high incidence, poor prognosis, and limited therapeutic options. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, has emerged as a promising anti-tumor strategy, yet pharmacological inducers remain underexplored. Hederacolchiside A1 (HeA1), a natural bioactive compound, was investigated for its potential anti-CRC effects and underlying mechanisms. In vitro, HeA1 inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion of HT-29, SW-480, HCT-116, and MC-38 cells in a dose-dependent manner, induced apoptosis, and modulated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers, increasing E-cadherin and decreasing Vimentin, Slug, MMP2, and MMP9. Ferroptosis induction was evidenced by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and intracellular Fe2+, along with a decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH) and a concomitant increase in oxidized glutathione (GSSG). HeA1 directly targeted endoplasmic reticulum oxidoreductase 1 alpha (ERO1A), resulting in suppression of PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling and downregulation of ferroptosis defense proteins SLC7A11 and GPX4. In HT-29 xenograft models, HeA1 significantly reduced tumor volume and weight, decreased Ki67 and CD31 expression, increased TUNEL-positive cells, and exhibited minimal systemic toxicity. Immunofluorescence and Western blot analyses confirmed inhibition of PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway components and ferroptosis-related proteins in vivo. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that HeA1 exerts potent anti-CRC effects by directly targeting ERO1A to induce ferroptosis through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR-SLC7A11/GPX4 axis. This study provides a mechanistic rationale for further development of HeA1 as a potential therapeutic agent for colorectal cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Intense or exhaustive exercise is known to increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias. One important mechanism is the disruption of intracellular calcium homeostasis. Exercise preconditioning (EP) has been reported to exert cardioprotective effects. However, under exercise-induced stress, how EP reduces arrhythmia susceptibility through regulation of calcium-handling signaling pathways remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether EP reduces exercise-induced arrhythmias by modulating the CaMKII-RyR2-PLN signaling pathway.In this study, a rat model of repeated exhaustive exercise (EE) was established. The effects of EE and EP on myocardial electrophysiological properties were compared. The results showed that EE significantly shortened exhaustion time. EE also increased the incidence of electrically induced ventricular arrhythmias. In addition, EE markedly altered the expression of proteins related to calcium homeostasis. Specifically, EE significantly increased CaMKII activation and enhanced RyR2 phosphorylation at the Ser2814 site. These changes were accompanied by reduced SERCA2a expression and elevated PP1 levels. These findings indicated impaired sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium reuptake and increased calcium leakage. EP significantly prolonged exhaustion time and preserved myocardial structural integrity. EP reduced the occurrence of ventricular arrhythmias. Moreover, EP suppressed CaMKII activity and prevented excessive RyR2 phosphorylation. SERCA2a expression was restored, and PP1 levels were partially normalized. The CaMKII inhibitor KN-93 acted synergistically with EP. This result further confirmed the central role of CaMKII overactivation in exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias.EP effectively reduced susceptibility to exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias by regulating the CaMKII-RyR2-PLN signaling pathway and maintaining calcium homeostasis. These findings highlight CaMKII as a potential therapeutic target. In addition, they provide mechanistic evidence for the cardioprotective effects of exercise preconditioning under extreme exercise stress.© 2026. The Author(s).
Early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) manifests as patch or plaque lesions, and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) may promote tumorigenesis and Th2-skewed microenvironment. This study aimed to investigate genomic and transcriptomic changes from patch to plaque MF and assess their prognostic significance in early-stage disease. Whole-genome sequencing, CosMx Spatial Molecular Imaging, a single-cell-resolution spatial transcriptome, and immunohistochemical staining for CAF markers FAP, TIMP-1, and CXCL12 were conducted. Whole-genome sequencing showed similar single-nucleotide, copy-number, and structural variants in patch and plaque lesions. Spatial transcriptomics identified fibroblasts as a key signaling cells in both lesion types, with plaque lesions exhibiting expanded fibroblast-driven communication networks, including greater interactions with B cells and enhanced T-cell chemotaxis. CXCL12 was markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from plaque-MF and correlated with collagen gene expression and CCL19, a key ligand mediating fibroblast-T-cell signaling. T cells in plaque lesions also displayed higher CXCL12 and CCL19 expression and lower expression of cytotoxicity-related genes. In the immunohistochemical cohort, high FAP and TIMP-1 expression correlated with poorer progression-free survival, whereas CXCL12 expression was associated only with progression to tumor-stage disease. In conclusion, this study identifies differences between patch and plaque MF and underscores the clinical and prognostic significance of CAFs in patients with early-stage disease.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Postmenopausal atrophic vaginitis (PAV) is a prevalent and undertreated condition driven primarily by estrogen deficiency. Whether circulating inflammatory proteins causally contribute to PAV pathogenesis remains unknown.Genetic instruments for 91 inflammatory proteins were derived from large-scale proteogenomic GWAS of European ancestry individuals. PAV outcome data were obtained from the FinnGen Consortium Release 12. Primary causal estimates were obtained using the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, complemented by MR-Egger, weighted median, and weighted mode analyses. Candidate proteins were defined by IVW p < 0.05 and directional consistency across all four methods. Sensitivity analyses included the MR-Egger intercept test, Cochran's Q test, leave-one-out analysis, funnel plot assessment, and reverse MR. Transcriptomic validation was performed using the publicly available vaginal tissue dataset GSE26761.Six inflammatory proteins met the candidate criteria: CCL19 (OR: 1.063, 95% CI: 1.003-1.126) and IL12B (OR: 1.050, 95% CI: 1.002-1.100) were associated with increased PAV risk, while CXCL5 (OR: 0.935, 95% CI: 0.874-0.999), TNFRSF9 (OR: 0.930, 95% CI: 0.869-0.996), IL10RA (OR: 0.906, 95% CI: 0.831-0.988), and TGFA (OR: 0.880, 95% CI: 0.790-0.981) were inversely associated with PAV risk. Sensitivity analyses revealed no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity. Transcriptomic analysis confirmed significantly lower TGFA expression in atrophic compared to control vaginal tissue (P = 0.039), consistent with its MR-derived protective effect.This study provides genetic evidence that circulating inflammatory proteins causally influence PAV risk through distinct immune pathways. TGFA emerges as the most robustly supported candidate, with convergent MR and transcriptomic evidence suggesting a role in vaginal epithelial maintenance. These findings highlight inflammation as a potential contributor to PAV pathogenesis and nominate candidate targets for future mechanistic and therapeutic investigation. Given that multiple inflammatory proteins were tested, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and warrant further validation in independent cohorts.© 2026 Hu et al.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301317
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
Intradermal injections of anti-canine immunoglobulin E (IgE) in healthy dogs have been utilized in preclinical drug testing to evaluate the efficacy of anti-allergic drugs used to treat canine atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the molecular effects of established canine anti-allergic drugs on this acute canine IgE-mediated atopic model remain largely uninvestigated. The objective of this study was to characterize the effect of proactive oclacitinib and prednisolone treatments on the immune and skin barrier transcriptome of IgE-mediated late-phase reactions (LPRs) in an acute model of canine AD. Sixteen healthy adult research-bred beagles were randomized to receive either oclacitinib or prednisolone orally for six days, followed by an intradermal anti-canine IgE injection. Biopsies were collected 24 h post-injection for RNA isolation and sequencing; previously analyzed transcriptomes (healthy skin, saline-injected skin, IgE lesions without drug modulation) from the same colony of dogs served as controls. Administration of prednisolone and oclacitinib prior to intradermal anti-IgE injections reduced the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in 24 h samples to 1251 and 1471, respectively. Both treatments resulted in a decrease in expression of several significantly upregulated T helper-(Th)1 (e.g., MX1, OAS1, STAT1), Th2 (e.g., CCL13, CCL8, IL13RA1, IL-33, IL5RA, OSM), chemokine and receptor (e.g., CCL19, CCL2, CCL3, CCR1, CCR3) genes in comparison to the untreated IgE-mediated lesions. Interestingly, only prednisolone treatment significantly reduced IL-13 upregulation, an important gene in the Th2 immune response. In conclusion, both prednisolone and oclacitinib reduced the transcriptomic changes observed in the acute lesions of the canine IgE-induced atopic dermatitis model, with prednisolone inducing a broader inhibitory immune response.
Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are associated with immunotherapy response, yet the mechanisms controlling their formation and maintenance remain unclear. Using spatial transcriptomics and multiplex imaging across human tumors, we found that CCR7+ mature dendritic cells (DCs) accumulate in TLSs. In a mouse non-small cell lung cancer model that forms mature TLSs, we show that early TLS development requires interferon-γ (IFN-γ)-driven type 1 conventional dendritic cell (cDC1) maturation, migration to tumor-draining lymph nodes (tdLNs), and T cell recruitment. As tumors progress, TLSs persist independently of tdLN T cell egress, coinciding with cDC1 accumulation within intratumoral CCL19 stromal hubs. There, cDC1-major histocompatibility complex class 1 (MHC-I) and -MHC-II concomitant antigen presentation, along with CD40 signaling, sustain TLS, T follicular helper (TFH) cell pool, germinal centers, and tumor-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG). These findings highlight local mature cDC1s as key TLS orchestrators and potential targets to enhance antitumor TLS function.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are neurodegenerative disorders characterized by reactive astrocytes that contribute to neuronal injury through TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)-or fused in sarcoma (FUS)-driven neuroinflammatory signaling. Dehydrocostus lactone (DHE), a blood-brain barrier-permeable sesquiterpene lactone with established anti-inflammatory activity, represents a promising but unexplored therapeutic candidate for ALS/FTD.The therapeutic effects of DHE were evaluated in primary mouse and human astrocytes expressing ALS/FTD-associated RNA-binding protein pathology, ALS patient-derived fibroblasts, and primary cortical neurons exposed to astrocyte-conditioned medium. Drosophila models expressing mutant FUS or TDP-43 in glial cells were used to assess locomotor performance and survival. Molecular analyses examined nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)-dependent antioxidant responses, protein aggregation, mitochondrial function, and inflammatory mediator production. Plasma concentrations of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines were measured in patients with sporadic ALS.DHE exerted neuroprotective effects through a dual mechanism involving suppression of NF-κB-dependent inflammatory signaling and activation of NRF2-mediated antioxidant pathways in astrocytes exhibiting FUS or TDP-43 proteinopathy. DHE attenuated astrocyte-mediated neurotoxicity and improved neuronal mitochondrial function in conditioned-medium assays. In addition, DHE reduced pathological FUS accumulation in FUS P525L-expressing astrocytes and in stress-challenged patient-derived fibroblasts. In Drosophila models, DHE significantly improved locomotor function and extended survival. Translationally, the chemokines CXCL10, CCL3, and CCL19 were elevated in plasma from patients with ALS, were induced by FUS or TDP-43 pathology in astrocytes, and were suppressed by DHE treatment, supporting the clinical relevance of the inflammatory pathways targeted by DHE.DHE mitigates astrocyte-driven neurotoxicity associated with ALS/FTD-related RNA-binding protein pathology by suppressing inflammatory signaling and enhancing antioxidant defense mechanisms. The consistent therapeutic effects observed across mouse and human cellular models, patient-derived samples, and in vivo Drosophila models support further investigation of DHE as a potential therapeutic strategy for ALS/FTD and highlight astrocyte-mediated signaling pathways as actionable targets in neurodegenerative disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutant C9orf72 has been extensively studied as a major genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, and is also known to generate Huntington's disease (HD)-like phenocopies. However, despite this strong disease association, the role of wild-type C9orf72 (wt-C9orf72) in neurodegeneration remains largely unexplored. HD is a neurodegenerative disease, and characterized by the accumulation of misfolded mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) and impaired proteostasis, yet the upstream mechanisms driving ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) dysfunction are not fully understood. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized modulatory role of wt-C9orf72 in regulating mHTT aggregation in experimental HD models. Analysis of public transcriptomic datasets reveal context-dependent C9ORF72 expression changes across HD-related human datasets, while C9orf72 levels are increased in R6/2 mouse brain lysates. Functional analyses reveal that overexpression of wt-C9orf72 increases mHTT aggregation and is accompanied by increased apoptotic signaling and reduced cell viability. Unbiased proteomic profiling identifies Stat1 as a key downstream effector. Mechanistically, wt-C9orf72 promotes Stat1 activation and nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional upregulation of Isg15, a ubiquitin-like modifier. Elevated Isg15 disrupts UPS function, resulting in accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins and impaired proteasomal degradation. Importantly, genetic suppression of Stat1 or Isg15 significantly attenuates C9orf72-associated mHTT aggregation, supporting a functional C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis. Consistent with these cell-based findings, Stat1, phosphorylated Stat1 and Isg15 levels are elevated in the cortex and striatum of R6/2 HD mouse brains. Collectively, our findings identify a novel wt-C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis that promotes proteasomal dysfunction and mHTT aggregation, providing new insights into wt-C9orf72-associated protein homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion (C9-HRE) is a major genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). However, approximately half of the FTD patients are sporadic without a clear genetic background. To compare characteristics of microglia from different FTD subtypes, we generated induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia (iMG) from sporadic and C9-HRE-carrying behavioral variant FTD (bvFTD) patients and healthy controls. C9-HRE iMG displayed C9-HRE-associated RNA foci and dipeptide repeat proteins. All bvFTD iMG had fewer LAMP2-A-positive vesicles compared to control iMG. Additionally, C9-HRE iMG showed significantly increased LC3BII/I conversion after bafilomycin A1 treatment and altered phagocytic activity. The gene expression profile of C9-HRE iMG only modestly differed from the control iMG, but was greatly different from the sporadic bvFTD patient iMG. Our data show alterations in phagocytic and autophagosomal/lysosomal pathways and gene expression profiles between C9-HRE and sporadic bvFTD iMG for the first time.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are clinically and genetically heterogeneous, requiring neuropathology or molecular testing for a definitive diagnosis. Clinical whole genome sequencing (WGS) enables comprehensive variant calling across flexible gene lists that can be tailored to the clinical presentation. By allowing simultaneous detection of single-nucleotide variants, copy-number variants, structural variants, and repeat expansions, WGS has the potential to improve diagnostic yield, facilitate genetic counseling and support clinical trial inclusion. This study assesses the diagnostic performance of WGS in individuals with NDD. WGS in 500 individuals representing a wide spectrum of NDDs identified a disease-causing variant in 61 cases, resulting in a diagnostic yield of 12%. These variants were found in 16 different genes, with C9orf72 being the most prevalent. Repeat expansions represented the largest variant class, accounting for 35 of 61 LP/P cases (57%); most of which were C9orf72 expansions (31/35). In the largest phenotype groups, frontotemporal dementia (FTD) had the highest diagnostic yield (19%) followed by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, 13%), whereas an underlying monogenic cause was expectedly low in Alzheimer disease (AD, 4%). A positive family history was present in the majority (74%) of FTD, ALS, combined ALS-FTD and AD cases with an LP/P finding. Clinical WGS provides a clear diagnostic advantage in NDDs marked by substantial clinical and genetic overlap. WGS enables comprehensive variant detection and mapping of genotype-phenotype relationships across the disease continuum. In FTD and ALS, these results support universal access to genetic testing independent of age at onset or family history.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
The most common genetic cause of both familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is an expanded G4C2 repeat in the first intron of the gene C9orf72. The C9orf72 repeat expansion is bidirectionally transcribed into sense and anti-sense RNA foci, and also produces dipeptide repeats (DPRs) via a non-canonical translation mechanism known as repeat-associated (RAN) translation. Each of these components of the G4C2 repeat expansion cause neurodegenerative effects in animal models when expressed in neurons, but impacts from glial expression are more poorly understood. Here, we use glial cell type-specific expression of individual DPRs, of RNA repeat-only, or of the G4C2 repeat, that produces both DPRs and RNA repeats, to systematically investigate glial toxicity of each component. We find that as with neurons, the GR and G4C2 transgenes produce the highest degree of toxicity when expressed in glia. Each of these transgenes are capable to produce the GR DPR, which also is the most toxic factor in neurons. We demonstrate that both the GR and G4C2 transgenes cause activation of mdg4, an endogenous retrovirus (ERV). Such ERV expression is a hallmark of TDP-43 dysfunction that is commonly observed in C9orf72 patients. We find that glial expression of either the GR or the G4C2 transgene is toxic to glial cells, but such expression does not cause loss nearby neurons. However, blocking apoptotic signaling within glia that express either GR or G4C2 via expression of the p35 caspase inhibitor further exacerbates effects on lifespan and ablating such glia via expression of the proapoptotic reaper gene partially ameliorates these effects. Together, these results indicate that expression of toxic C9orf72 components in glia produces deleterious effects on lifespan, though potentially through different mechanisms than seen in TDP-43 models of ALS/FTD.Copyright: © 2026 Hubbard, Dubnau. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Dementia is a syndrome caused by various diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) with an estimated global prevalence of 60 million individuals. Recently, therapeutic development in the dementia field has accelerated, with the introduction of monoclonal antibody therapeutics such as Lecanemab and Donanemab. However, AD and FTD patients are still either diagnosed too late to benefit from available therapies or are misdiagnosed due to the clinical overlap between dementia subgroups making therapeutic intervention challenging. This highlights a real need to improve early diagnostic tools of neurodegenerative disease (ND) biomarkers. A potential source of such biomarkers come from small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), groups of cell-derived, lipid-bound assemblies with the capability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and known to carry pathogenic proteins associated with AD and FTD. A known cargo of sEVs is microRNA (miRNA), regulatory molecules that post-transcriptionally silence gene expression including transcripts of autophagic systems, processes which dysfunction in dementia-causing diseases leading to toxic aggregate build-up, causing neurodegeneration. The targeting of functional machineries in macroautophagy (MA) and chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) by different miRNA may vary between AD and FTD mutations, leading to potential biomarkers of disease being highlighted. Through isolating sEVs from the frontal cortex of post-mortem brain tissue of AD, FTD-MAPT, FTD-C9orf72, FTD-GRN and no-disease control patients (Manchester Brain Bank), miRNA cargoes were analysed and compared using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Seven autophagy-associated miRNA candidates (MA: miR-124-3p, miR-30a-5p, miR-128-3p; and CMA: miR-224-5p, miR-373-5p, miR-106a-3p and miR-26b-5p) were tested to identify dementia sub-group variations, used alongside small RNA-sequencing to explore broader miRNA variation within sEV populations. Of the miRNA tested miR-224-5p (P = 1.76 × 10-5) and miR-106a-3p (P = 0.033) showed significant group differences, and further significant pairwise comparison differences [miR-224-5p: AD fold change (FC) = 4.29, MAPT FC = 7.62; miR-106a-5p: AD FC = 5.59] when compared with no disease controls and other dementia subgroups, potentially showing initial diagnostic and differentiating potential. Small RNA-sequencing results revealed 8 AD, 2 FTD-GRN, 52 FTD-MAPT and 12 FTD-C9orf72 differentially expressed sEV-miRNAs when compared with no disease controls. Further direct comparisons between AD versus FTD mutation-derived sEV cargoes, and even FTD mutation versus FTD mutation-derived sEV cargoes, identified additional miRNA with differentiating capabilities. These findings demonstrate sEV-derived miRNA signatures vary across dementia sub-types and suggest potential roles of sEV cargoes in both disease diagnostics and identifying drivers of ND, such as autophagic impairments and signalling pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Intronic GGGGCC repeat expansions in C9orf72 cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). This expansion supports a non-canonical form of translational initiation known as repeat-associated non-AUG (RAN) translation to produce toxic dipeptide repeat proteins that contribute to neurodegeneration. Here, we find that the efficiency of RAN translation and its dependency on the 5' 7-methylguanosine mRNA cap are variable across cell types, with both rodent neurons and human iNeurons favoring cap-independent RAN translation from two distinct repeats (CGG and GGGGCC) across multiple reading frames. Treatment with an eIF4E inhibitor that blocks global cap-dependent translation enhances RAN translation specifically in neurons. Intriguingly, cap-independent RAN translation exhibits less reliance on near-cognate codons for initiation than cap-dependent RAN translation. This finding led us to identify a surprising global increase in start codon stringency in neurons as a contributor to the relatively higher cap-independent RAN translation in this cell type. This effect correlates with a cytoplasmic redistribution of eIF1 in neurons and is reversed with neuronal overexpression of the eukaryotic initiation factor eIF5, which relaxes start codon stringency and selectively enhances cap-dependent RAN translation. Taken together, these findings reveal several neuron-specific features of translational regulation that favor cap-independent RAN translation with implications for nucleotide repeat expansion disorder pathogenesis and neuronal translational regulation.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) differ in their clinical features and genetic etiologies but share progressive cognitive decline. Emerging evidence implicates lipid dysregulation in neurodegeneration, but its extent across FTLD subtypes and how it compares to AD are unclear. Here, we performed integrated lipidomic and proteomic analyses of matched frontal (disease-vulnerable) and occipital (relatively spared) post-mortem cortices from individuals with genetic and sporadic FTLD-TDP, FTLD-tau (Pick's disease, PiD), AD, and controls. FTLD and AD exhibited convergent lipid alterations, including reduced levels of cardiolipins and phosphatidylethanolamines, alongside increased gangliosides, diacylglycerols, cholesterol esters, acylcarnitines, and coenzyme Q, with generally greater changes in FTLD frontal cortex. FTLD displayed additional alterations, including reductions in bis(monoacylglycerol)phosphate, ceramides, phosphatidylserines, phosphatidylinositols, and sulfatides. These lipid changes were accompanied by proteomic alterations involving lysosomal proteins, phospholipases, phospholipid remodeling enzymes, and fatty acid oxidation pathways. Although lipidomic and proteomic signatures were broadly shared across FTLD subtypes, GRN associated FTLD-TDP and PiD showed the most extensive alterations. Triglycerides were selectively reduced in PiD in association with decreased DGAT1 expression, whereas cholesterol esters were elevated across all subtypes except C9orf72 associated FTLD-TDP. These findings identify shared disruptions in lipid homeostasis and lysosomal lipid metabolism across FTLD and AD, highlighting convergent metabolic pathways underlying neurodegeneration.
Motor neuron disease (MND) comprises several clinical phenotypes, with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) being the most common. Despite the identification of over 40 ALS-associated genes, the pathogenesis remains complex and polygenic. This study evaluated the clinical phenotypes and prevalence of genetic causes in MND patients in Lithuania. We conducted a retrospective single-center study at a tertiary care clinic on patients with MND. Clinical and molecular genetic data were analyzed. The study included 53 patients with a mean age at symptom onset of 55 years. Most patients (43/53; 77.4%) were diagnosed with ALS, and the most common onset was spinal (39/53; 73.6%). The frequency of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants was 15.7% (8/51). C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion was detected in 5.9% (3/51) of patients. Next-generation sequencing was performed in 49 patients, of whom 5 (10.2%) had pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants, including pathogenic variants in the SOD1 and NEK1 genes and likely pathogenic variants in the FUS. The most common finding was C9orf72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion, followed by variants in SOD1 and FUS genes. The genetic spectrum was broadly similar to internationally recognized MND-associated genes, though formal comparisons were not performed due to the absence of a control group. These results emphasize the importance of systematic genetic testing in clinical practice and contribute to the limited data on the genetic spectrum of MND in the Baltic region.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines elicit robust T cell responses in children, resulting in substantial protection against hospitalisation and severe disease. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms that drive this robust cellular immunogenicity of mRNA vaccines in children remains unknown. Here, 37 immunological naïve children underwent primary vaccination (age 6-10) with the SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine and did not acquire natural infection before month 3; bulk RNA sequencing was performed at pre-vaccination baseline and day 1 post vaccination, and Spike-reactive T cell responses were measured at 3 months. Using previously established threshold of T cell responses for clinical protection against symptomatic SARS-CoV-2, we divided our cohort into high responders (n = 21) and low responders (n = 15). Analyses of day 1 post-vaccination gene expression signatures revealed greater induction of innate immune responses, including heightened expression of transcription factors such as STAT1, ATF3 and IRF7 was observed in low responders compared to high responders. On the other hand, LEP, PLCE1 and PLPP2 expression was significantly downregulated in low responders, with strong predictive value for T cell responses at 3 months post-vaccination (AUROC 0.89, 95% CI 0.78-1.00). Taken together, these findings suggest that future mRNA vaccine design and vaccination regimens should aim to modulate excessive innate immune responses to improve T cell responses to mRNA vaccines.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Microtubules are critical regulators of mitotic progression and cancer cell proliferation. Herein, we report a novel 2-amino-3-cyanopyridine-based scaffold that functions as a dual inhibitor of tubulin polymerization and cyclin G-associated kinase (GAK). Structure-activity relationship (SAR) optimization identified KMG-732 with nanomolar to submicromolar cytotoxicity across diverse cancer cell lines. Mechanistic investigations revealed that KMG-732 targets the colchicine-binding site, effectively disrupting microtubule assembly and triggering mitotic arrest followed by apoptosis. Beyond its antimitotic effects, KMG-732 significantly attenuates cancer cell migration and invasion. Importantly, KMG-732 displayed favorable pharmacokinetic properties and showed minimal P-glycoprotein-mediated efflux. KMG-732 demonstrated robust antitumor efficacy in both organoids and in vivo xenograft models, maintaining a superior safety profile with reduced systemic toxicity compared to colchicine. Kinome profiling and biochemical assays confirmed selective GAK inhibition, distinguishing KMG-732 from traditional tubulin inhibitors. Collectively, KMG-732 represents a promising dual-targeting antimitotic lead candidate with enhanced efficacy and therapeutic window for cancer treatment.
Loss of podocyte-associated cyclin G-associated kinase resulted in mistrafficking of lysosomal hydrolases. Loss of podocyte-associated cyclin G-associated kinase induced immune modulation.Given the postmitotic nature of podocytes, adapting to both physiologic and pathologic stress is crucial to prevent podocyte loss. An important component of maintaining cellular homeostasis are lysosomes, which are membrane-bound organelles responsible for degradation and recycling of damaged organelles and other macromolecules. Lysosome impairment has been shown to cause cellular and organ dysfunction, highlighting its crucial role in homeostasis.We previously showed that podocyte-specific loss of cyclin G-associated kinase knockout ( Gak -KO) leads to severe proteinuria, podocyte injury, and kidney failure. To interrogate which GAK domains are necessary for its function, we used a transgenic mouse expressing a truncated 62-kDa C -terminal GAK protein (GAK C62), which consists of the clathrin-binding and J domains. We evaluated the functional role of GAK C62 in podocytes using immunofluorescence, western blotting, and in vivo transcriptomic analysis.Our findings revealed significant accumulation of autophagic vesicles in Gak -KO podocytes. By systematically probing for potential causes of autophagosome accumulation, we showed that loss of Gak resulted in impaired lysosomal degradation, secondary to mistrafficking of lysosomal hydrolases. Notably, GAK C62 expression completely rescued these phenotypes at the cellular and organismal levels. Moreover, in vivo translating ribosome affinity purification sequencing and cytokine profiling demonstrated enrichment of immune-related pathways and IL-11 production in Gak -KO podocytes.GAK, specifically its C -terminal domains, plays an important role in podocyte lysosome homeostasis. Lysosomal dysfunction due to loss of Gak led podocytes to adopt immune-like properties characterized by the release of proinflammatory cytokine IL-11.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
Cytoskeletal proteins, such as actin and myosin, are essential for regulating cell morphology and motility. Rho-associated kinase (ROCK; herein referring collectively to ROCK1 and ROCK2) is a key regulator of actomyosin dynamics, including stress fibre formation and cell migration. Our previous study revealed that cyclin G-associated kinase (GAK) antagonises ROCK signalling during autophagic flux regulation; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remained unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of GAK in cytoskeletal dynamics and cell motility by genetically disrupting GAK. GAK-knockout cells exhibited enhanced stress fibre formation and cell migration, accompanied by increased phosphorylation of myosin light chain (MLC). Notably, the inhibition of stress fibre formation and MLC phosphorylation was more dependent on the intrinsically disordered region (IDR) of GAK than on its kinase activity. GAK IDR interacted with ARHGEF2, and ARHGEF2 knockdown suppressed stress fibre formation in GAK-knockout cells. Furthermore, the GAK IDR contributes to the regulation of MLC expression. Together, these findings indicate that GAK IDR is a crucial regulator of actomyosin dynamics and cell motility, and suggest that GAK antagonises ROCK-dependent cytoskeletal regulation through the coordinated control of ARHGEF2 activity and MLC expression.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and non-motor symptoms. Among the latter, sleep disturbances are particularly common and include insomnia, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), and excessive daytime sleepiness. Here, we investigated the shared genetic architecture between PD and sleep-related traits to uncover biological pathways that underpin this relationship.We analyzed genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for PD (~37.7 K cases, ~18.6 K proxy cases, ~1.4 M controls) and eight self-reported sleep-related traits (each with n > 300 000): ease of getting up, chronotype (morningness), napping, insomnia, OSA, snoring, daytime dozing, and sleep duration. Genetic correlations were estimated using Linkage Disequilibrium (LD) score regression, and GWAS-pairwise analysis was used to identify genomic segments harboring shared causal variants. We then mapped these variants to protein-coding genes.We observed a genome-wide genetic correlation between PD and daytime dozing (p < .05). A separate, local-level analysis identified six genomic regions harboring shared causal variants between PD and other sleep-related traits (primarily ease of getting up and napping). The most statistically significant of these local associations was observed at a single locus on chromosome 17, which contains the majority of mapped protein-coding genes, including ARHGAP27, PLEKHM1, CRHR1, and MAPT. These genes are implicated in neurodegeneration and circadian rhythm regulation.These findings suggest that the MAPT locus, beyond its established role in PD, may also contribute to sleep-wake regulation via shared biological pathways, including tau pathology, stress response, and chromatin remodeling. Our results highlight sleep disturbances as a potential early marker or risk factor of PD.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Sleep Research Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41681824 is a review article
Isolated/idiopathic rapid-eye-movement (REM)-Sleep Behavior Disorder (iRBD) is characterized by dream enactment behaviors associated with loss of REM atonia. iRBD is in most cases a prodromal synucleinopathy, and emerging evidence suggests associations between RBD and other neurological and psychiatric conditions. In this study, we performed pathway-based polygenic risk score (PRS) and rare variant burden analyses to examine these potential associations. Pathway-specific PRS were constructed from genome-wide association study summary statistics of five neurodegenerative and seven psychiatric traits across 10 biologically relevant pathway categories, including a total of 279 pathways, in 1,573 iRBD cases and 16,022 controls from the International RBD Study Group and UK Biobank. Rare variant burden tests were performed in 1,264 iRBD cases and 2,581 controls. We identified multiple potential pathways indicating shared polygenic risk between RBD and both neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. Lewy body diseases and post-traumatic stress disorder had the most shared polygenic risk pathways in neurological and psychiatric disorders, respectively. Two pathways, the serotonin transport pathway and the chaperone-mediated autophagy pathway, showed the strongest association with iRBD, and gene-based rare variants analyses revealed five genes associated with iRBD: GBA1, PLEKHM1, LRP2, P2RX1, and HAP1. Subsequent analysis of these genes in Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies replicated several associations. Together, these findings provide novel insights into the shared genetic architecture underlying iRBD, neurodegenerative disorders, and psychiatric traits, with implications for early identification and mechanistic understanding.
Ivermectin suppresses tumor growth in various cancers. However, the mechanism of action in cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the anticancer activity of ivermectin against gastric cancer cell lines and patient-derived organoids.Cell viability was measured in SNU719 and SNU620 gastric cancer cell lines. Protein expression levels of apoptosis-related markers were analyzed by western blotting and flow cytometry. The response of primary gastric cancer organoids (GC7 and GC15) to cisplatin and ivermectin treatments was evaluated. The organoids were stained with propidium iodide (PI) and calcein acetoxymethyl ester (AM). Messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels were analyzed in both cell lines and organoids.Ivermectin suppressed SNU719 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner and enhanced the effect of cisplatin. However, ivermectin showed no significant effect on cell viability in SNU620 cells. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that ivermectin reduced connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and yes1 associated transcriptional regulator (YAP1) expression. Western blot analysis confirmed that the protein expression levels of YAP1 and CTGF were reduced after 24 h of ivermectin treatment, while the suppression was attenuated at 48 h and showed a rebound tendency at 72 h. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that ivermectin increased the proportion of apoptotic cells in a dose-dependent manner at 24 h, whereas the proportion of apoptotic cells decreased after 48 h. In the GC7 organoid, cell death was 48.25% with ivermectin alone and increased to 82.48% with combination treatment. Similarly, in GC15 cells, cell death was 43.65% with ivermectin alone and increased to 65.77% with combination treatment. In GC7 organoids, ivermectin elevated the RNA expression of transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3 (TFE3), lysosomal associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1), and YAP1, whereas that of CTGF remained unchanged, with a smaller increase upon combination treatment. In GC15 organoids, ivermectin upregulated TFE3, LAMP1, CTGF, and YAP1 expression, which was further enhanced by combination treatment.Ivermectin showed anticancer effects in both two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) cultures, but differentially regulated anti-apoptotic genes, suppressing them in 2D cultures and increasing them in organoids. These findings suggest that ivermectin transiently suppresses YAP1-related signaling and induces apoptotic cell death at early treatment time points in gastric cancer cells. However, further research is required to assess its therapeutic potential and limitations.© AME Publishing Company.
Post-ovulatory ageing (POA) severely compromises oocyte quality. However, the upstream events linking POA to mitochondrial, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and autophagic defects remain unclear. Here, we tested whether stabilising the plasma membrane potential can protect porcine metaphase II (MII) oocytes from POA-induced damage. NS309, a pharmacological activator of small-and intermediate-conductance Ca2+ activated K+ (KCa2/KCa3.1) channels, reduced abnormal morphology, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and partially restored mitochondrial membrane potential, mtDNA copy number and mitochondrial Ca2+ in POA oocytes, indicating improved mitochondrial fitness. NS309 also preserved ER structure, normalised ER and cytosolic Ca2+ levels, re-balanced unfolded protein response (UPR) markers and remodeled enlarged, clustered lysosomal associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1)-positive structures into a more homogeneous pattern without markedly increasing total LAMP1 or microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta (LC3B), consistent with enhanced ER Ca2+ control and lysosomal/autophagic organisation. These data support a model in which NS309 protects POA oocytes primarily by stabilising the plasma membrane potential, which is upstream of Ca2+ entry, thereby secondarily improving mitochondrial, ER and autophagic homeostasis. Pharmacological manipulation of calcium-activated potassium currents may thus offer a tractable strategy to modulate ion-channel-controlled ageing pathways in mammalian oocytes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Retinal degenerative diseases are a leading cause of irreversible blindness. Their pathogenesis is intricately linked to oxidative stress-induced dysfunction of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and subsequent retinal degeneration. Macroautophagy/autophagy, a critical cellular degradation pathway, plays a vital role in maintaining RPE homeostasis, yet its dysregulation in retinal degenerative diseases remains poorly understood. In this study, we observed that sodium iodate (NaIO3), an oxidative stress inducer, triggered lysosomal dysfunction via lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP), thereby impairing autophagic flux in RPE cells and exacerbating retinal degeneration. RNA sequencing identified LAMP3 (lysosomal-associated membrane protein 3) as a downregulated gene following NaIO3 treatment. Functionally, LAMP3 overexpression alleviated NaIO3-induced LMP, improved lysosomal function, and alleviated autophagic impairment. Furthermore, upregulation of LAMP3 reduced oxidative stress and apoptosis in RPE cells, while alleviating retinal degeneration in a NaIO3-induced mouse model. Mechanistically, our data suggested that NaIO3 upregulated the transcription factor SNAI1, which acts as a transcriptional repressor of LAMP3. SNAI1 knockdown increased LAMP3 expression, thereby facilitating the recovery of lysosomal function and the alleviation of autophagic impairment. Collectively, our findings indicate that the SNAI1-LAMP3 axis contributes to the regulation of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway in retinal degeneration, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for delaying disease progression.Abbreviations: AMD: age-related macular degeneration; AO: acridine orange; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BAX: BCL2-associated X protein; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CM-H2DCFDA: chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate; CTSD: cathepsin D; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DHE: dihydroethidium; EdU: 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine; ERG: electroretinography; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HsRPE: human primary retinal pigment epithelial; JC-1: 5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2; LAMP3: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 3; LGALS3: lectin, galactose binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: leu-leu methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP: mitochondrial membrane potential; NAC: N-acetyl-L-cysteine; NaIO3: sodium iodte; NC: negative control; OCT: optical coherence tomography; PCA: principal component analysis; PI: propidium iodide; qRT-PCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; Rapa: rapamycin; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RP: retinitis pigmentosa; RPE: retinal pigment epithelium; RPE65: retinal pigment epithelium 65; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SNAI1: snail family zinc finger 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TJP1/ZO-1: tight junction protein 1; ZNF135: zinc finger protein 135.
Myosin 5b (MYO5B) is a motor protein that plays an essential role in trafficking proteins to the apical membrane. Recent studies have demonstrated that MYO5B traffics ion transporters, like NHE3, DRA, and SGLT1, water channels, like AQP7, and efflux transporters, like P-glycoprotein. However, the role of MYO5B in trafficking glycoproteins involved in mucosal defense remains unclear. Here, we investigate whether MYO5B is required for the apical localization of mucin 13 (MUC13) and deleted in malignant brain tumors 1 (DMBT1), two glycoproteins critical for epithelial protection and wound healing. To address the requirement of MYO5B in glycoprotein trafficking, we immunostained the small intestine and colon of neonatal germline and adult inducible intestine-specific MYO5B knockout (KO) mice and examined MUC13 and DMBT1 localization. Organoids derived from germline and inducible KO mice were analyzed to confirm findings in an epithelial-only system. In addition, staining was performed on human organoids expressing MYO5B-tail green fluorescent protein (GFP). MYO5B loss in vivo resulted in the intracellular accumulation of MUC13 and DMBT1, reducing their colocalization with the apical marker γ-actin in both models. MUC13 colocalized with the lysosomal marker lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1) in adult mice after MYO5B loss, indicating that a portion of cytoplasmic MUC13 undergoes lysosomal degradation. Mislocalization of MUC13 was observed in vitro in intestinal MYO5B-deficient organoids. MYO5B-tail GFP was associated with MUC13 in human intestinal organoids. MYO5B is required for the apical delivery of MUC13 and DMBT1 in the intestinal epithelium. Disrupting this pathway may contribute to mucosal dysfunction in MYO5B-related diseases, highlighting potential therapeutic targets for restoring epithelial barrier integrity.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This work identifies MYO5B as an important regulator of the apical localization of the mucosal defense glycoprotein MUC13. Our findings suggest a link between epithelial trafficking machinery and glycocalyx organization, demonstrating that MYO5B deficiency is associated with altered localization of these proteins and increased lysosomal accumulation of MUC13. These observations provide additional insight into epithelial dysfunction in MYO5B-associated enteropathies and may have broader relevance to inflammatory bowel disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease. Our previous single-cell sequencing results suggested that Transcription Factor E3 (TFE3) was only differentially expressed in microglia in the MPTP mouse model. However, the functional role of microglial TFE3 in PD pathogenesis remains unclear. First, motor function was assessed in MPTP mice following TFE3 overexpression in substantia nigra microglia. Second, RNA-seq was used to identify the function of TFE3 in microglia, and the molecular mechanism was verified both in vivo and in vitro. Finally, we investigated whether TFE3 nuclear translocation affects its transcriptional activity and subsequently influences microglia in vitro. Overexpression of TFE3 in substantia nigra microglia could alleviate PD-related phenotypes. RNA-seq revealed that TFE3 regulates microglial phagocytosis and inflammation. Mechanistically, TFE3 affects these functions by regulating the expression of Mer receptor tyrosine kinase (Mertk) and lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (Lamp1). Finally, Rapamycin could activate the nuclear translocation of TFE3 and enhance phagocytosis and alleviate inflammation of microglia. Our findings demonstrate that Rapamycin activates TFE3, which in turn upregulates the expression of Mertk and Lamp1 in the substantia nigra. This TFE3-mediated pathway plays a critical role in regulating microglial phagocytosis and inflammation in the PD model.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains a leading cause of neurological morbidity and mortality, characterized by complex pathophysiological cascades. Here, we investigate the role of the transcription factor EGR1 (early growth response 1) in modulating mitochondrial homeostasis via the HIF1A (hypoxia inducible factor 1, alpha subunit)-BNIP3 (BCL2/adenovirus E1B interacting protein 3) axis following TBI. Using integrated transcriptomic and epigenomic analyses, we identified EGR1 as a critical regulator of TBI pathology, with its expression acutely upregulated in neurons post-injury. Genetic ablation of Egr1 in mice significantly reduced neuronal apoptosis, preserved dendritic integrity, and ameliorated cognitive and sensorimotor deficits. Mechanistically, chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase assays revealed that EGR1 directly binds to the Hif1a promoter, repressing its transcription. Loss of EGR1 enhanced HIF1A-BNIP3-mediated mitophagy, reducing mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress both in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, silencing HIF1A or BNIP3 abrogated the neuroprotective effects of EGR1 deficiency. These findings establish a novel EGR1-HIF1A-mitophagy signaling axis as a key determinant of TBI outcomes, highlighting EGR1 as a potential therapeutic target.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTB/β-actin: actin, beta; AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2/adenovirus E1B interacting protein 3; CCI: controlled cortical impact; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CUT&Tag: cleavage under targets and tagmentation; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; eGFP: enhanced green fluorescent protein; EGR1: early growth response 1; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; GO: gene ontology; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1, alpha subunit; IGV: integrative genomics viewer; KEGG: Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; Lv: lentivirus; MAP2: microtubule-associated protein 2; mCherry: monomeric cherry fluorescent protein; mRFP: monomeric red fluorescent protein; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MUT: mutant; MWM: Morris water maze; NAB1: Ngfi-A binding protein 1; NAB2: Ngfi-A binding protein 2; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation; OLIG2: oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PECAM1/CD31: platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PFA: paraformaldehyde; PPI: protein-protein interaction; Puro: puromycin; ROI: region of interest; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBI: traumatic brain injury; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TSA: tyramide signal amplification; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling; VDAC1: voltage-dependent anion channel 1; WT: wild-type.
Lysosomal trafficking and homeostasis are biological functions that are pivotal for DRG neurons, given their metabolic demands and extremely long axons. Previous studies indicate that lysosomal signaling is altered in a mouse model of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) and that blocking mitogen activated protein kinase-associated kinase (MNK1/2) signaling can alleviate pain behaviors in CIPN. Here, we investigated lysosome dynamics and lysosome-associated signaling in a mouse model of CIPN induced by paclitaxel (PTX), a chemotherapeutic agent used for various types of cancer. Using spinning disk super-resolution microscope (SPINSR), we demonstrate that PTX treatment in vivo causes reduced lysosome motility observed in vitro. PTX likewise drives the accumulation of Sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1), also known as P62, in cultured mouse DRG neurons, indicating lysosomal dysfunction in DRG neurons. The transcription factor EB (TFEB), a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis, was also upregulated in the nucleus of cultured mouse DRG neurons treated with PTX. In line with this, increased lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1) expression was observed in PTX-treated mice. Given that our previous work demonstrated PTX treatment increases MNK1/2-eIF4E signaling in DRG neurons, we examined whether MNK1/2 inhibition could rescue lysosomal dysfunction. Treatment with Tomivosertib (eFT508), a potent MNK1/2 inhibitor, restored P62 levels in DRG neurons of PTX-treated mice and reduced TFEB in DRG treated in vitro. To establish translation relevance, we further show that PTX elevates phosphorylated eiF4E (p-eIF4E) in human DRG neurons, and concurrent eFT508 administration attenuates this effect. Collectively, these findings indicated that PTX disrupts lysosome trafficking and biogenesis, and that MNK inhibition with eFT508 restores lysosomal signaling and can serve as a neuroprotective strategy for CIPN.
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major threat to global public health, causing seasonal epidemics and occasional pandemics with significant morbidity and mortality. M2 (matrix protein 2), a key IAV envelope protein with ion channel activity, is critical for viral uncoating, genome release, and virion assembly. Here, we identified FKBP8 (FK506 binding protein 8) as a host restriction factor targeting IAV. Overexpression of FKBP8 inhibited IAV replication, while FKBP8 knockdown/knockout enhanced viral susceptibility. Mechanistically, FKBP8 interacted with M2 from diverse IAV strains via high-affinity binding between its tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain and the LC3-interacting region (LIR) of M2, inhibiting viral entry. Importantly, FKBP8 mediated M2 degradation through the lysosomal pathway, not via translational inhibition, as shown by cycloheximide and lysosomal inhibitor (BafA1 and CQ) experiments. FKBP8 recruited RAB7A and LAMP1 to form a FKBP8-RAB7A-LAMP1-M2 complex, facilitating M2 transport to lysosomes. Additionally, FKBP8 interacted with envelope proteins of other enveloped RNA viruses, suggesting broad-spectrum antiviral potential. Our findings reveal FKBP8 as a conserved IAV restriction factor and its mechanism, providing insights for antiviral drug development.Abbreviations: AA: amino acids; AP-MS: affinity tag purification-mass spectrometry; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; MbFKBP8: Myotis brandtii FK506 binding protein 8; CHX: cycloheximide; CQ: chloroquine; CTD: cytoplasmic tail domain; ED: ectodomain; EV: empty vector; FKBP8: FK506 binding protein 8; FL: full length; HCIPs: high-confidence interacting proteins; HsFKBP8: Homo sapiens FKBP prolyl isomerase 8; IAV: influenza A virus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; M2: matrix protein 2; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MmFKBP8: Mus musculus FK506 binding protein 8; NP: nucleoprotein; PA: polymerase acidic; PB1: polymerase basic 1; PB2: polymerase basic 2; PPIase: peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase; KO: knockout; RdRps: RNA-dependent RNA polymerases; RAB7A: RAB7, member RAS oncogene family; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; TRIM41: tripartite motif-containing 41; TMD: transmembrane domain; vRNP: viral ribonucleoprotein.
Mutations in mitochondrial protein CHCHD2 and its paralog CHCHD10 were identified in patients with Parkinson disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or Alzheimer disease (AD). CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 mutations caused neurodegeneration in model animals as seen in patients, but their pathophysiological roles remain elusive. Here we reported a direct role of CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 in autophagy. We identified a protein complex composing of CHCHD2-CHCHD10-C1QBP/p32-Atg8-family proteins (ATG8s), in which each molecule interacted with another. CHCHD2, CHCHD10 and C1QBP/p32 associated with ATG8s, preferentially, GABARAPs. Disease-associated CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 mutations exhibited varied interaction with ATG8s. By binding to GABARAPs, CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 underwent autophagic degradation, and recruited the ULK1 complex. Autophagy initiation defects occurred upon transient knockdown of CHCHD2, and also in human iPSC-derived CHCHD2-/- or CHCHD2T61I dopaminergic neurons. Importantly, CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 promoted autophagy. CHCHD2 reduced protein aggregates in cells and toxic SNCA/α-synuclein species in mouse striatum. Our study thus revealed mitochondrial proteins CHCHD2 and CHCHD10 as both autophagy substrates and autophagy activators and laid groundwork for therapy targeting patients with neurodegeneration.Abbreviations: AA: amino acid; AD: Alzheimer disease; ALS: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG8: mammalian Atg8-family protein; ATG13: autophagy related 13; bafA1: bafilomycin A1; C1QBP/p32/gC1qR/HABP1: complement component 1, q subcomponent binding protein; CHCHD2/MNRR1/MIX17B: coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain containing 2; CHCHD10/MIX17A: coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain containing 10; CHX: cycloheximide; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CQ, chloroquine; DA: dopaminergic; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; FTD: frontotemporal dementia; GABARAP: gamma-aminobutyric acid receptorbassociated protein; GABARAPL1: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; hESC: human embryonic stem cells; iPSC: induced pluripotent stem cell; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2A; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; LIR: LC3-interacting region; PD: Parkinson disease; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TARDBP/TDP-43: TAR DNA binding protein; TH: tyrosine hydroxylase; TMR, tetramethylrhodamine; WT: wild type; UB: ubiquitin; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a neurological disorder characterized by a high mortality rate for which there is currently no definitive cure. Research has demonstrated that adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ASCs) exhibit considerable potential in treating ICH. However, the advanced age of ICH patients and the necessary cell expansion before transplantation therapy could result in the senescence of ASCs, thereby compromising their viability and therapeutic efficacy. This study aims to investigate whether FGF21 (fibroblast growth factor 21) can rejuvenate aged ASCs by enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy flux and subsequently enhance the therapeutic efficacy of ICH. We demonstrated that the autophagy flux of aged ASCs was significantly decreased and FGF21 treatment significantly reversed the senescence phenotype and increased the viability of aged ASCs. Mechanistically, our findings suggested that FGF21 rejuvenates aged ASCs by augmenting autophagy flux, a process partly mediated by TFE3 (transcription factor E3) nuclear translocation. The FGF21-induced TFE3 nuclear translocation was partially facilitated potentially via the FGFR1-SIRT1-MTOR pathway. In addition, FGF21 enhanced the potential of senescent ASCs to differentiate into neurons. In the in vivo study, we further verified that FGF21 could enhance the therapeutic effect of ASCs on acute ICH rats. In conclusion, these results indicated that FGF21 could restore ASC viability by upregulating TFE3-mediated autophagy flux in part through the FGFR1-SIRT1-MTOR signaling pathway, enhanced the potential to improve the differentiation of ASCs into neural stem cells and enhanced the therapeutic effect of ASCs transplantation in acute ICH.Abbreviations: FGF21: fibroblast growth factor 21; TFE3: transcription factor E3; TFEB: transcription factor EB; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium; RAPA: rapamycin; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; CQ: chloroquine; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; RT-qPCR: quantitative real-time PCR; pAb: polyclonal antibody; mAb: monoclonal antibody; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; MAP1lc3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; MAP2: microtubule associated protein 2; SOX2: SRY-box transcription factor 2; MOI: multiplicity of infection; FGFR1: fibroblast growth factor receptor 1; SIRT1: sirtuin 1; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; siRNA: small interfering RNA; OD: optical density; SASP: senescence-related secretion phenotype; IL6: interleukin 6; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; CCL2/MCP-1: C-C motif chemokine ligand 2; BDNF: brain derived neurotrophic factor; VEGF: vascular endothelial growth factor; ICH: intracerebral hemorrhage; MLPT: modified limb placement test.
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) regulates inflammation, tissue homeostasis, and barrier integrity in lung and colon epithelial cells. Beyond classical pathways, non-canonical components including angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) and aminopeptidase N (ANPEP) are implicated in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections and bacterial sepsis due to their roles in tissue repair and signaling. Despite their similar inflammatory and coagulopathic features, their impact on RAS-associated non-immune gene expression in epithelial tissues remains unclear. This study investigates the regulation of these targets in lung (BEAS-2B) and colon (CRL-1831) cells following exposure to recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike protein N-terminal domain fragment (S1-NTD) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cells were treated with 100 ng/mL of S1-NTD or LPS for 12-72 h. Viability was assessed via XTT assays, and molecular changes were analyzed through qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Both stimuli induced a time and dose-dependent decrease in metabolic activity. ACE2 was significantly downregulated in lung cells, while transient upregulation occurred in colon cells at 24 h. EGFR expression increased in colon cells following LPS exposure but decreased in lung cells after S1-NTD treatment. Both IGF2R and ANPEP were upregulated by S1-NTD in lung cells at 72 h, whereas colon cells showed earlier upregulation at 24-48 h. Our findings reveal that viral and bacterial stimuli elicit distinct, tissue-specific regulatory patterns in RAS-associated pathways. These alterations may contribute to epithelial barrier dysfunction and inflammation, highlighting these proteins as potential targets for managing secondary bacterial infections and inflammatory lung-gut complications in COVID-19.
IFNG (interferon gamma)-activated macrophages contribute to accelerated clearance of platelets and excessive secretion of inflammatory cytokines in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). In this study, we identified two distinct subpopulations of activated macrophages: phagocytic macrophages (M[IFNG]p), which predominantly exhibit phagocytic activity, and inflammatory macrophages (M[IFNG]i), characterized by their pro-inflammatory capacity. The M(IFNG)p and M(IFNG)i subsets were functionally disturbed in patients with ITP. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) deficiency in macrophages was discovered in ITP and has been reported to induce sustained inflammation. Furthermore, CMA interference enhanced pro-inflammatory function rather than phagocytic activity of macrophages in vitro. In parallel, macrophage-specific conditional lamp2a (lysosome associated membrane protein 2A) knockout mice exhibited expansion and excessive cytokine release of M(IFNG)i. Restoring CMA restrains M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member) in ITP. Here, anti-ITGB3/CD61 immune-sensitized splenocytes were transferred into severe combined immunodeficient mice to establish an active murine model of ITP. CMA activation diminished the pro-inflammatory and phagocytic activity of activated macrophages and ameliorated thrombocytopenia in ITP mice. MeRIP-sequencing identified PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) as a crucial activator for LAMP2A, exhibiting decreased m6A methylation and subsequent downregulation, which indicated a potential mechanism underlying CMA deficiency in activated macrophages. In conclusion, restoring CMA restrains the M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms the M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 to raise platelet counts in ITP. Targeting CMA in activated primary human macrophages presents a promising therapeutic strategy to rapidly and sustainably increase platelet counts and restore immune balance in ITP.Abbreviation ALDH2: aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member; ALKBH5: alkB homolog 5, RNA demethylase; CCL: C-C motif chemokine ligand; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CSF1/M-CSF: colony stimulating factor 1; CUT&Tag: Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation; CXCL: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCGR/FcγR: Fc gamma receptor; HLA-DR: major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; IGF2R: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; IL: interleukin; ITP: immune thrombocytopenia; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; m6A: N6-methyladenosine; MeRIP-seq: methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; MFI: mean fluorescence intensity; mRNA: messenger RNA; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NOS2/iNOS: nitric oxide synthase 2; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homolog; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; Th1: T-helper 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WTAP: WT1 associated protein.
The purpose of this investigation was to formulate and evaluate a chemically optimized [225Ac]Ac-labeled radioimmunoconjugate targeting the insulin-like growth factor-2 receptor (IGF2R) for targeted alpha therapy of osteosarcoma, a disease with unchanging survival rates for over 40 years. The anti-IGF2R antibody IF3 was thiol-selectively conjugated with Macropa-PEG4-maleimide and subsequently radiolabeled with 225Ac by incubation at 37 °C for 60 min. Radiochemical purity, serum stability, receptor binding kinetics, and internalization were evaluated in vitro. Biodistribution, dosimetry (MIRD scheme), and therapeutic capacity were studied in SaOS-2 xenograft-bearing mice by a single i.v. injection of PBS, unlabeled IF3, nontarget IgG-225Ac, and 185 or 370 kBq [225Ac]Ac-Macropa-PEG4-IF3. Conjugation resulted in a well-defined antibody conjugate with a chelator-to-antibody ratio of 3.1 ± 0.2 and >97% monomer purity. Radiolabeling was 98.6% radiochemically pure and stable in human serum (>92% at 168 h). The radioimmunoconjugate had a strong IGF2R affinity (Kd = 3.8 nM) and efficient receptor-mediated internalization. Tumor uptake reached 18.7%ID/g after 72 h, with a persistent retention of 15.2%ID/g at 168 h and tumor-to-blood ratio of 19.0. Uptake in bone marrow was low (1.2%ID/g). A single 370 kBq dose caused complete tumor regression in 75% of treated mice (6/8) up to day 42, whereas no responses were noted in vehicle groups (P < 0.001). No significant systemic toxicity was observed. [225Ac]Ac-Macropa-PEG4-IF3 is a translational orphan alpha therapeutic for osteosarcoma with excellent radiochemical stability and potency and low off-target toxicity.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality. N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification regulates mRNA stability and translation, but the role of its associated co-factor, THUMP domain-containing protein 1 (THUMPD1), in cancer is unknown. Clinical LUAD samples and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets were analyzed for THUMPD1 expression and prognosis. In vitro and in vivo functional assays were performed to assess the impact of THUMPD1 on LUAD. Multi-omics approaches and mechanistic studies were employed to identify downstream targets and signaling pathways. THUMPD1 was significantly downregulated in advanced-stage LUAD. THUMPD1 acted as a tumor suppressor, inhibiting LUAD cell proliferation, metastasis, and tumor growth in mouse models. Mechanistically, THUMPD1 directly bound to and upregulated the translation of insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) mRNA in an ac4C-independent manner by facilitating its cytoplasmic localization. The THUMPD1-IGF2R axis inhibited AKT signaling, which in turn led to the activation of AMPK. This resulted in intracellular Cu+ accumulation, triggering cuproptosis and excessive mitophagy, ultimately suppressing tumor growth. Therapeutically, the copper ionophore elesclomol potently inhibited tumor growth in a Thumpd1-knockout mouse model of LUAD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, often develops resistance to targeted therapies, limiting long-term treatment success. Although agents such as the EGFR inhibitor osimertinib and the marine-derived small molecular compound Debromoaplysiatoxin (DAT), which we have demonstrated to markedly inhibit EGFR signaling in our preliminary data, show efficacy in advanced NSCLC, acquired resistance remains a major clinical challenge. This study identifies insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) as a key mediator of acquired resistance to both osimertinib and DAT. IGF2R was significantly upregulated in resistant NSCLC cells. Stable knockdown of IGF2R suppressed proliferation, migration, and invasion; induced cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis; and resensitized resistant cells to osimertinib and DAT in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, in osimertinib-resistant models, IGF2R interacted with IGF1R to suppress RAF/MAPK and PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathways; in DAT-resistant models, IGF2R exerted its inhibitory effect through interaction with EGFR. Furthermore, silencing IGF2R suppressed epithelial-mesenchymal transition and impaired DNA damage repair pathways. These findings establish IGF2R as a central regulator of acquired drug resistance in NSCLC and highlight IGF2R targeting as a promising strategy to overcome resistance and improve outcomes in refractory NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Relationship between insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) and coronary artery disease (CAD) remains unclear. We aimed to explore associations of IGF2R with CAD incident and death from CAD.The prospective analysis was conducted based on the cohort of UK Biobank, which included 51 581 participants with plasma IGF2R concentration and 487 034 participants with genetic data. We derived a polygenic risk score for IGF2R expression based on a Bayesian regression framework that incorporates genome-wide association study summary statistics. Main outcomes included CAD incident and CAD mortality. We conducted another analysis based on donors of human liver specimens. The hepatic level of IGF2R was compared between 10 donors with CAD and 11 without CAD, which was detected by immunohistochemistry.After adjusting potential confounders, one-unit increment of plasma IGF2R was associated with a 39% higher risk of CAD incident and a 60% higher risk of CAD mortality. Comparing to low tertile of plasma IGF2R normalized protein expression, participants with high tertile of IGF2R showed higher risk of CAD incident (hazard ratio: 1.23, 95% CI 1.13-1.33) and CAD mortality (hazard ratio: 1.30, 95% CI 1.01-1.68). One-unit increment in IGF2R polygenic risk score was associated with a 4% higher risk of CAD incident and 5% higher risk of CAD mortality. CAD cadaveric donors showed 120% higher hepatic IGF2R level than free of CAD cadaveric donors (2.20 ± 1.53 vs 1.00 ± 0.96, P < .01).Higher levels of IGF2R are associated with an increased risk of incident CAD and CAD-related mortality.Copyright © 2026 AACE. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Microplastics (MPs) and nanoplastics (NPs) are pervasive environmental contaminants, raising concerns about their potential to cause inflammation, oxidative stress, and lung injury through respiratory toxicity. Due to their smaller size, larger surface area, and greater reactivity, NPs may pose a greater risk than MPs, yet size-dependent toxicity mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates the distinct early molecular initiating events and toxicological effects of 1 μm polystyrene MPs (PS-MPs) and 20 nm polystyrene NPs (PS-NPs). Based on the internal exposure dose estimated from Py-GC/MS analysis, in vitro exposure concentrations were set at 0, 62.5, 125, 250, 500, and 1000 μg/mL. Multi-omics sequencing and integrative analysis identify specific proteomic and metabolomic alterations. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation assays elucidate binding interactions between PS-NPs-induced proteins and metabolic enzymes. In vitro and in vivo experiments reveal a greater accumulation of PS-NPs through endocytosis compared to PS-MPs; while pronounced histopathological damage with inflammatory response in mice lungs were only induced by PS-NPs, rather than PS-MPs. Compared to control group, PS-MPs partly caused proteomic or metabolomic perturbations, while PS-NPs induced significant differential expression of more extensive proteins and metabolites. PS-NPs exposure specifically upregulates insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) expression and reduces Hypoxanthine levels when compared with PS-MPs. IGF2R directly interacts with Hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT), a key enzyme in Hypoxanthine metabolism, causing its disruption. This study provides important insights into the comparative toxic effects between PS-NPs with PS-MPs, especially the unique toxicological mechanisms of PS-NPs, thereby advancing the understanding of airborne plastic pollutant risks and supporting future regulatory assessments.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF-2R), also known as the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor (CI-M6PR), is emerging as a critical receptor for brain function and disease. IGF-2R, in fact, plays a key role in long-term memory, and its activation by several ligands shows beneficial effects in multiple neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disease models. Thus, its targeting is very promising for neuropsychiatric therapeutic interventions. IGF-2R's main known functions are transport of lysosomal enzymes and regulation of developmental tissue growth, but in the brain, it also controls learning-dependent protein synthesis underlying long-term memory. However, little is known about this receptor in brain cells, including its cell-type-specific and subcellular expression.We conducted a comprehensive investigation to comparatively assess IGF-2R protein levels in different brain cell types across various brain regions in adult male C57BL/6J mice using dual and multiplex immunofluorescent staining with cell-type-specific markers. The IGF-2R protein distribution was also compared with Igf2r mRNA expression in publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing databases.A ranking of IGF-2R levels in the soma of various cell types in the hippocampus and cortical regions revealed that the highest enrichment is, by far, in excitatory and inhibitory neurons, followed by vascular mural cells and subpopulations of oligodendrocyte lineage cells, with low to undetectable levels in astrocytes, microglia, vascular endothelial cells, and perivascular fibroblasts. High levels of IGF-2R were also found in ependymal cells, choroid plexus epithelial cells, and a subpopulation of meningeal fibroblast-like cells. IGF-2R was found in dendritic and putative axonal compartments throughout the brain, with particularly high levels in the stratum lucidum. The receptor's protein distribution aligned with that of the mRNA in mouse brain databases.These results suggest that IGF-2R-mediated functions in the brain vary across different cell types and subcellular compartments, with the most active roles in specific subpopulations of neurons, mural cells, ependymal cells, meningeal cells, and cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage. This study advances our understanding of IGF-2R's distribution in the brain, which is essential for formulating new hypotheses about its functions and therapeutic targeting.
In neurons, autophagosome biogenesis occurs mainly in distal axons, followed by maturation during retrograde transport. Autophagosomal growth depends on the supply of membrane lipids which requires small vesicles containing ATG9, a lipid scramblase essential for macroautophagy/autophagy. Here, we show that ATG9-containing vesicles are enriched in synapses and resemble synaptic vesicles in size and density. The proteome of ATG9-containing vesicles immuno-isolated from nerve terminals showed conspicuously low levels of trafficking proteins except of the AP2-complex and some enzymes involved in endosomal phosphatidylinositol metabolism. Super resolution microscopy of nerve terminals and isolated vesicles revealed that ATG9-containing vesicles represent a distinct vesicle population with limited overlap not only with synaptic vesicles but also other membranes of the secretory pathway, uncovering a surprising heterogeneity in their membrane composition. Our results are compatible with the view that ATG9-containing vesicles function as lipid shuttles that scavenge membrane lipids from various intracellular membranes to support autophagosome biogenesis.Abbreviations: AP: adaptor related protein complex: ATG2: autophagy related 2; ATG9: autophagy related 9; DNA PAINT: DNA-based point accumulation for imaging in nanoscale topography; DyMIN STED: dynamic minimum stimulated emission depletion; EL: endosome and lysosome; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GA: Golgi apparatus; iBAQ: intensity based absolute quantification; LAMP: lysosomal-associated membrane protein; M6PR: mannose-6-phosphate receptor, cation dependent; Minflux: minimal photon fluxes; Mito: mitochondria; MS: mass spectrometry; PAS: phagophore assembly site; PM: plasma membrane; Px: peroxisome; RAB26: RAB26, member RAS oncogene family; RAB3A: RAB3A, member RAS oncogene family; RAB5A: RAB5A, member RAS oncogene family; SNARE: soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment receptor; SVs: synaptic vesicles; SYP: synaptophysin; TGN: trans-Golgi network; TRAPP: transport protein particle; VTI1: vesicle transport through interaction with t-SNAREs.
CREG1 is a small glycoprotein which has been proposed as a transcription repressor, a secretory ligand, a lysosomal, or a mitochondrial protein. This is largely because of lack of antibodies for immunolocalization validated through gain- and loss-of-function studies. In the present study, we demonstrate, using antibodies validated for immunofluorescence microscopy, that CREG1 is mainly localized to the endosomal-lysosomal compartment. Gain- and loss-of-function analyses reveal an important role for CREG1 in both macropinocytosis and clathrin-dependent endocytosis. CREG1 also promotes acidification of the endosomal-lysosomal compartment and increases lysosomal biogenesis. Functionally, overexpression of CREG1 enhances macroautophagy/autophagy and lysosome-mediated degradation, whereas knockdown or knockout of CREG1 has opposite effects. The function of CREG1 in lysosomal biogenesis is likely attributable to enhanced endocytic trafficking. Our results demonstrate that CREG1 is an endosomal-lysosomal protein implicated in endocytic trafficking and lysosomal biogenesis.Abbreviations: AIFM1/AIF: apoptosis inducing factor mitochondria associated 1; AO: acridine orange; ATP6V1H: ATPase H+ transporting V1 subunit H; CALR: calreticulin; CREG: cellular repressor of E1A stimulated genes; CTSC: cathepsin C; CTSD: cathepsin D; EBAG9/RCAS1: estrogen receptor binding site associated antigen 9; EIPA: 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HEXA: hexosaminidase subunit alpha; IGF2R: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; M6PR: mannose-6-phosphate receptor, cation dependent; MAPK1/ERK2: mitogen-activated protein kinase 1; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; PDIA2: protein disulfide isomerase family A member 2; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TF: transferrin; TFEB: transcription factor EB.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33632058 is a review article
Recently, we reported that increased expression of CASP9 pro-domain, at the endosomal membrane in response to HSP90 inhibition, mediates a cell-protective effect that does not involve CASP9 apoptotic activity. We report here that a non-apoptotic activity of endosomal membrane CASP9 facilitates the retrograde transport of IGF2R/CI-MPR from the endosomes to the trans-Golgi network, indicating the involvement of CASP9 in endosomal sorting and lysosomal biogenesis. CASP9-deficient cells demonstrate the missorting of CTSD (cathepsin D) and other acid hydrolases, accumulation of late endosomes, and reduced degradation of bafilomycin A1-sensitive proteins. In the absence of CASP9, IGF2R undergoes significant degradation, and its rescue is achieved by the re-expression of a non-catalytic CASP9 mutant. This endosomal activity of CASP9 is potentially mediated by herein newly identified interactions of CASP9 with the components of the endosomal membrane transport complexes. These endosomal complexes include the retromer VPS35 and the SNX dimers, SNX1-SNX5 and SNX2-SNX6, which are involved in the IGF2R retrieval mechanism. Additionally, CASP9 interacts with HGS/HRS/ESCRT-0 and the CLTC (clathrin heavy chain) that participate in the initiation of the endosomal ESCRT degradation pathway. We propose that endosomal CASP9 inhibits the endosomal membrane degradative subdomain(s) from initiating the ESCRT-mediated degradation of IGF2R, allowing its retrieval to transport-designated endosomal membrane subdomain(s). These findings are the first to identify a cell survival, non-apoptotic function for CASP9 at the endosomal membrane, a site distinctly removed from the cytoplasmic apoptosome. Via its non-apoptotic endosomal function, CASP9 impacts the retrograde transport of IGF2R and, consequently, lysosomal biogenesis.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; ATG7: autophagy related 7; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CASP: caspase; CLTC/CHC: clathrin, heavy chain; CTSD: cathepsin D; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; HEXB: hexosaminidase subunit beta; HGS/HRS/ESCRT-0: hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate; IGF2R/CI-MPR: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; ILV: intraluminal vesicles; KD: knockdown; KO: knockout; M6PR/CD-MPR: mannose-6-phosphate receptor, cation dependent; MEF: murine embryonic fibroblasts; MWU: Mann-Whitney U test; PepA: pepstatin A; RAB7A: RAB7, member RAS oncogene family; SNX-BAR: sorting nexin dimers with a Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain each; TGN: trans-Golgi network; TUBB: tubulin beta; VPS26: VPS26 retromer complex component; VPS29: VPS29 retromer complex component; VPS35: VPS35 retromer complex component.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39096616 is a review article
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a lethal stroke with high mortality or disability. However, effective therapy for ICH damage is generally lacking. Previous investigations have suggested that lysosomal protein transmembrane 5 (LAPTM5) is involved in various pathological processes, including autophagy, apoptosis, and inflammation. In this study, we aimed to identify the expression and functions of LAPTM5 in collagenase-induced ICH mouse models and hemoglobin-induced cell models. We found that LAPTM5 was highly expressed in brain tissues around the hematoma, and double immunostaining studies showed that LAPTM5 was co-expressed with microglia cells, neurons, and astrocytes. Following ICH, the mice presented increased brain edema, blood-brain barrier permeability, and neurological deficits, while pathological symptoms were alleviated after the LAPTM5 knockdown. Adeno-associated virus 9-mediated downregulation of LAPTM5 also improves ICH-induced secondary cerebral damage, including neuronal degeneration, the polarization of M1-like microglia, and inflammatory cascades. Furthermore, LAPTM5 promoted activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway in response to neuroinflammation. Further investigations indicated that brain injury improved by LAPTM5 knockdown was further exacerbated after the overexpression of receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIP1), which is revealed to trigger the NF-κB pathway. In vitro experiments demonstrated that LAPTM5 silencing inhibited hemoglobin-induced cell function and confirmed regulation between RIP1 and LAPTM5. In conclusion, the present study indicates that LAPTM5 may act as a positive regulator in the context of ICH by modulating the RIP1/NF-κB pathway. Thus, it may be a candidate gene for further study of molecular or therapeutic targets.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Breast cancer remains the most common malignancy and the leading cause of cancer‑associated mortality in women worldwide. Lysosomal protein transmembrane 5 (LAPTM5), a lysosomal membrane protein, plays an important role in several human malignancies. However, the biological functions and mechanism of LAPTM5 in breast cancer remain unclear. In the present study, the potential tumor‑promoting effect of LAPTM5 was predicted by bioinformatics analysis. LAPTM5 was highly expressed in breast cancer clinical specimens. Moreover, in vitro studies demonstrated that cell proliferation, migration and invasion, as well as the process of epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT) were promoted by LAPTM5 overexpression and were suppressed by LAPTM5 downregulation in vitro. The tumor‑promoting effects of LAPTM5 were also confirmed by xenograft tumor assay in vivo. It was found that the tumor‑promoting effects of LAPTM5 were partly dependent on the activation of the Wnt/β‑catenin signaling pathway. Furthermore, dual‑luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays verified that the transcription factor forkhead box protein 3 (FOXP3) directly bound to the promoter of LAPTM5 and negatively regulated its expression. Taken together, the present findings indicated that LAPTM5, negatively regulated by FOXP3, promoted the malignant phenotypes of breast cancer through activating the Wnt/β‑catenin signaling pathway.
cld-CASP3: cleaved caspase 3; cld-PARP: cleaved PARP; DTP: drug tolerant persister; GO: Gene Ontology; GTEx: The Genotype-Tissue Expression; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; IC50: half maximal inhibitory concentration value; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAPTM5: lysosomal protein transmembrane 5; NT: non-targeting; PDC: patient-derived primary cell lines; PDO: patient-derived primary organoid; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas.
Organotropism during cancer metastasis occurs frequently but the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Here, we show that lysosomal protein transmembrane 5 (LAPTM5) promotes lung-specific metastasis in renal cancer. LAPTM5 sustains self-renewal and cancer stem cell-like traits of renal cancer cells by blocking the function of lung-derived bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). Mechanistic investigations showed that LAPTM5 recruits WWP2, which binds to the BMP receptor BMPR1A and mediates its lysosomal sorting, ubiquitination and ultimate degradation. BMPR1A expression was restored by the lysosomal inhibitor chloroquine. LAPTM5 expression could also serve as an independent predictor of lung metastasis in renal cancer. Lastly, elevation of LAPTM5 expression in lung metastases is a common phenomenon in multiple cancer types. Our results reveal a molecular mechanism underlying lung-specific metastasis and identify LAPTM5 as a potential therapeutic target for cancers with lung metastasis.© 2022. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 35711736 is a review article
To investigate the significance of lysosomal protein transmembrane 5 (LAPTM5) in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC).Bioinformatics analysis as an efficient and accurate method was employed to explore the expression levels, prognostic significance, and regulatory pathways of LAPTM5 in KIRC. Finally, the association of LAPTM5 with tumor immune infiltrates was initially investigated.High LAPTM5 expression was observed in KIRC, and its mRNA expression was correlated with gender, stage, and grade (all P < 0.05) but regardless of age. Besides, high LAPTM5 mRNA expression predicted poor overall survival (OS) of KIRC patients (P < 0.01). Further, Cox regression analysis revealed the independent prognostic value of LAPTM5 for OS in KIRC patients (P < 0.001). In addition, the genetic alteration frequency of LAPTM5 was low and had no significant impact on KIRC patient prognosis. However, the low methylation levels of the two methylated sites in the LAPTM5 gene was closely linked to poor OS (all P < 0.05). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) results showed that the common regulatory pathway was immune- and inflammatory-related pathway. Moreover, LAPTM5 was also associated with tumor immune infiltrates (all P < 0.001).LAPTM5 served as an independent prognostic factor for KIRC patients. LAPTM5 might affect the OS of KIRC patients through the involvement of the immune-related pathway. Therefore, LAPTM5 served as a potential biomarker for OS of KIRC patients.© 2022 Li and Shi.
Estrogen receptor‑positive (ER+) breast cancer (BC) is a malignancy that is prone to metastasis to the spine, which is difficult to treat and often results in poor prognosis. However, the mechanism underlying the tumorigenesis and spinal metastasis of ER+ BC remains unclear. Lysosomal protein transmembrane 5 (LAPTM5) has been reported as a tumor suppressor in several types of cancer, but its role in ER+ BC has not been described. Here, by analyzing a gene sequencing dataset and ER+ BC tissues, tumor‑adjacent normal tissues and spinal metastatic tissues from patients and mouse models, we found that LAPTM5 expression is negatively related to the progression and spinal metastasis of ER+ BC. Subsequently, in vitro experiments demonstrated that downregulation of LAPTM5 expression promoted the proliferation, migration, and chemoresistance of ER+ BC cells by activating glutamine‑dependent mTOR signaling. A high level of CX3CL1 could inhibit LAPTM5 expression, explaining how ER+ BC metastasized to the spine. Thus, we found that LAPTM5 functions as a tumor suppressor in ER+ BC and that the CX3CL/CX3CR1/LAPTM5/glutamine axis mediates the spinal metastasis of ER+ BC. This axis may be a promising therapeutic target for ER+ BC.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) contribute to plaque stability. VSMCs are also a major source of CTH (cystathionine gamma-lyase)-hydrogen sulfide (H2S), a protective gasotransmitter in atherosclerosis. However, the role of VSMC endogenous CTH-H2S in pathogenesis of plaque stability and the mechanism are unknown. In human carotid plaques, CTH expression in ACTA2+ cells was dramatically downregulated in lesion areas in comparison to non-lesion areas. Intraplaque CTH expression was positively correlated with collagen content, whereas there was a negative correlation with CD68+ and necrotic core area, resulting in a rigorous correlation with vulnerability index (r = -0.9033). Deletion of Cth in VSMCs exacerbated plaque vulnerability, and were associated with VSMC autophagy decline, all of which were rescued by H2S donor. In ox-LDL treated VSMCs, cth deletion reduced collagen and heightened apoptosis association with autophagy reduction, and vice versa. For the mechanism, CTH-H2S mediated VSMC autophagosome formation, autolysosome formation and lysosome function, in part by activation of TFEB, a master regulator for autophagy. Interference with TFEB blocked CTH-H2S effects on VSMCs collagen and apoptosis. Next, we demonstrated that CTH-H2S sulfhydrated TFEB at Cys212 site, facilitating its nuclear translocation, and then promoting transcription of its target genes such as ATG9A, LAPTM5 or LDLRAP1. Conclusively, CTH-H2S increases VSMC autophagy by sulfhydration and activation of TFEB, promotes collagen secretion and inhibits apoptosis, thereby attenuating atherogenesis and plaque vulnerability. CTH-H2S may act as a warning biomarker for vulnerable plaque.Abbreviations ATG9A: autophagy related 9A; CTH: cystathionine gamma-lyase; CQ: chloroquine; HASMCs: human aortic smooth muscle cells; H2S: hydrogen sulfide; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LAPTM5: lysosomal protein transmembrane 5; NaHS: sodium hydrosulfide hydrate; ox-LDL: oxidized-low density lipoprotein; PPG: DL- propagylglycine; TFEB: transcription factor EB; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; VSMCs: vascular smooth muscle cells.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) constitutes the principal cause of disability and death globally. Recently, the group of neurotrophic and lysosomal trafficking-related proteins, including prosaposin (PSAP), progranulin (PGRN), sortilin (SORT1), and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), has garnered increasing interest in neuroscience research. The aim of this study was to profile the post-mortem levels of PSAP, PGRN, SORT1 and LRP1, and to determine whether these biomarkers could serve as diagnostic tools for mechanistic stratification in forensic neuropathology and medico-legal investigations. The study involved a total of 40 cases, individuals with head injuries (n = 20) suspected to be the cause of death and control atraumatic cases of sudden death (n = 20) due to cardiopulmonary reasons. Serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), were collected approximately 24 h post-mortem and analyzed through ELISA testing. Brain specimens were obtained during forensic autopsies and subjected to immunohistochemical staining. We observed the elevated concentration level of PSAP in CSF, and the elevated concentration level of PGRN within serum and CSF. In the frontal cortex, anti-SORT1 and anti-LRP1 immunostaining revealed a general homogenization of the reaction in the study group. The molecular and cellular evidence suggests lysosomal trafficking disruption as central element of fatal TBI. The redistribution of SORT1 and LRP1, together with CSF-specific PSAP elevation and systemic PGRN increase, support a model in which neuronal lysosomal stress, receptor trafficking breakdown, and systemic release of lysosomal proteins are intertwined. The potential use of PSAP, PGRN, SORT1, and LRP1 assays offers an novel tool for research regarding TBI diagnosis and pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ageing is associated with reduced fertility, yet the neuronal basis of reproductive decline remains poorly understood. Alpha-synuclein (αSYN), a protein implicated in neurodegeneration, accumulates in bovine gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons during ageing. Sortilin 1 (SORT1), an endocytic receptor for pathogenic αSYN fibrils, may be relevant to this process.To examine SORT1 expression in hypothalamic GnRH neurons of young heifers and aged cows, and to assess possible regional and age-related differences.SORT1 mRNA and protein were analysed by RT-PCR, quantitative RT-PCR, and western blotting in bovine cortex, hippocampus, and hypothalamic regions, including the preoptic area (POA), arcuate nucleus (ARC), and median eminence (ME). Co-localisation with GnRH was examined by immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. Expression was also examined in immortalised GnRH neurons (GT1-7).SORT1 transcripts were detected in all brain regions examined and in GT1-7 cells. Western blotting revealed multiple SORT1-like immunoreactive bands in each region, with overall stronger signals in the posterior hypothalamus (ARC and ME) of aged cows. Transcript levels showed no clear age-related differences. Confocal microscopy demonstrated SORT1-like immunoreactivity in GnRH-positive neurons in both age groups.Bovine GnRH neurons express SORT1-like immunoreactivity, indicating the presence of proteins related to SORT1 in these cells. The multiple immunoreactive bands observed may reflect isoforms, processing, or antibody cross-reactivity; however, their identities remain to be confirmed.These findings provide evidence for SORT1-like expression in bovine GnRH neurons, forming a basis for future studies on its potential role in reproductive ageing.© 2025 The Author(s) (or their employer(s)). Published by CSIRO Publishing.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) continue to be leading causes of global morbidity and mortality. Although sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors have demonstrated cardioprotective benefits in patients with advanced cardiovascular disease, their effects compared to other antidiabetic agents remain less well characterized. This randomized, controlled trial aimed to compare the effects of empagliflozin (EMPA), an SGLT2 inhibitor, with vildagliptin (VILDA), a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, on cardiac function and inflammatory biomarkers in CAD patients with T2DM. A total of 120 patients were randomized to receive either EMPA 10 mg/day or VILDA 50 mg/day for six months. Clinical outcomes assessed included glycemic control, lipid profiles, inflammatory biomarkers, and echocardiographic measures of myocardial function. Both treatment groups showed significant improvements in glycemic control and lipid profiles. However, patients in the EMPA group exhibited superior outcomes compared with VILDA group, including: decreased HbA1c levels (6.3 ± 0.9 vs. 6.8 ± 0.9; p = 0.002), hs-CRP (8.8 ± 1.1 vs. 9.7 ± 1.5; p < 0.001), sortilin (1.0 ± 0.6 vs. 1.7 ± 0.6; p < 0.001), TNF-α (1.2 ± 0.3 vs. 1.5 ± 0.3; p < 0.001), leptin levels (9.4 ± 1.7 vs. 10.1 ± 1.7; p = 0.02), and increased adiponectin (1.9 ± 0.7 vs. 1.4 ± 0.6; p < 0.001), Moreover, EMPA significantly improved atrial myocardial function, preserved ejection fraction (EF), E/E' ratio, left and right atrial strain (S), strain rate (SR), atrial volumes, and distensibility (p < 0.01). Empagliflozin not only improves metabolic and inflammatory profiles but also confers early benefits on cardiac structure and function in T2DM patients with CAD. These findings highlight the broader cardiovascular utility of SGLT2 inhibitors beyond glycemic control and support their growing role in cardio-protection within clinical practice.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the principal cause of mortality in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. Vascular calcification (VC) and cardiac valve calcification (CVC) significantly contribute to the increased CVD incidence in uremic patients. This study sought to determine the relationship between serum sortilin protein and both VC and CVC in uremic patients.In this cross-sectional study, a total of 212 uremic patients were ultimately included. Serum sortilin levels were measured, and abdominal aortic calcification scores (AACS) were determined using the Kaupplia semi-quantitative method. Echocardiographic data to identify CVC were available for 160 patients. Correlation analysis, logistic regression, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, and survival curve analysis were conducted.Serum sortilin levels were significantly elevated in patients with severe VC compared to those with mild or no calcification and healthy controls. Similarly, serum sortilin levels were higher in uremic patients with CVC compared to those without CVC and healthy controls. Ln(AACS + 1) was significantly correlated with Ln(sortilin + 1). CVC was also significantly correlated with serum sortilin. Serum sortilin was identified as an independent risk factor for AAC and CVC in uremic patients. When combined with age, hemoglobin, and the presence of osteoporosis, serum sortilin predicted AAC with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.84, a sensitivity of 70 %, and a specificity of 85 %. For CVC prediction, combined with age, albumin, ALP, and DBP, the AUC was 0.86, with a sensitivity of 60 % and specificity of 95 %. Patients with elevated sortilin levels had a higher one-year incidence of major adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE).Elevated circulating sortilin levels are a potential predictive and promoting factor for both VC and CVC in uremic patients.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Sortilin-1 (SORT1) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various malignancies, but its role in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains to be elucidated.Immunohistochemistry was employed to assess the expression of SORT1 in cancerous tissues compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissues. NSCLC cell lines, including A549, H1299, and PC-9, underwent treatment with miR-146a mimics or SORT1 small interfering RNA (siRNA), followed by evaluations of cell viability, migration, invasion, and apoptosis using cell counting kit-8, transwell assays, and scratch wound assays. Additionally, bioinformatic methods were employed to predict miR-146a target genes, which were subsequently validated through dual-luciferase reporter assays.SORT1 was significantly elevated in NSCLC tissues compared to adjacent non-cancerous counterparts. Downregulation of SORT1 inhibited proliferation, invasion, migration of tumor cell lines and promoted apoptosis. Moreover, SORT1 was a direct target of miR-146a. MiR-146a modulated tumor cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis by suppressing SORT1 expression.These results suggest that miR-146a plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of NSCLC by targeting SORT1, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for NSCLC.© 2025 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40719069
The imbalance of the skin redox system is regarded as a crucial factor contributing to the loss of melanocytes in vitiligo. However, it remains unclear whether alterations in signal transmission between melanocytes and other cells impact the homeostasis of the skin microenvironment. Hence, leveraging single-cell sequencing and microarray data, we investigated the role of cell-cell and ligand receptor interactions in the pathogenesis of vitiligo. We discovered that the granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor serves as an essential bridge for communication between melanocytes and other skin cells in normal skin, yet it is significantly downregulated in vitiligo lesions. Enrichment analysis indicates that the activation of granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor is closely associated with the regulation of oxidative stress. In vitro experiments have verified that progranulin, the protein encoded by the granulin gene, enhances the ability of melanocytes to resist cell death induced by reactive oxygen species and markedly upregulates the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 and Heme Oxygenase-1. Notably, this process can be impeded by the interaction inhibitor. Moreover, the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 might be linked to the transcription of transcription factor EB activated by progranulin. In conclusion, the granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor can activate the intracellular antioxidant system to counteract melanocyte death. The impairment of the granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor may be implicated in melanocyte loss in vitiligo.© 2025. The Author(s).
Chromosomal microdeletions in the 3q26-3q28 region are rare and often associated with fetal growth restriction (FGR), microcephaly, and dysmorphic features. However, the precise genetic mechanisms and phenotypic spectrum remain incompletely understood. This study reports a novel de novo 3q27.1-3q27.2 microdeletion and refines the critical region for this syndrome.Here we report a 10-month-old girl with FGR and postnatal growth retardation. Molecular cytogenetic investigation [chromosomal single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarray analysis] identified a de novo interstitial 1.56 Mb microdeletion of 3q27.1-3q27.2. The clinical and molecular findings in this patient were compared with the previous literature on cases with overlapping interstitial 3q-deletions. We identified the smallest region of overlap (SRO) carried on chromosome 3q27.1 as the critical region associated with this microdeletion syndrome, where dishevelled segment polarity protein 3 (DVL3) and adaptor related protein complex 2 subunit Mu 1 (AP2M1) may be associated with FGR.This study identifies DVL3 and AP2M1 as likely contributors to FGR in 3q27.1-3q27.2 microdeletion syndrome and expands the phenotypic spectrum to include hepatic involvement. The findings underscore the importance of early genetic testing in FGR cases and provide insights for future research on genotype-phenotype correlations. Functional studies are needed to validate the roles of these genes in growth and development.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is a chronic liver disease characterized by immune-mediated liver inflammation. Despite its global prevalence, the pathogenesis of AIH remains poorly understood, and there is a lack of specific biomarkers and targeted treatments. This study aimed to investigate the role of hsa_circ_0109623, hsa-miR-146b-3p, and Sortilin 1 (SORT1) in AIH and their potential as therapeutic targets.We collected liver tissue samples and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with AIH and healthy controls and performed RT-PCR, western blotting, flow cytometry, and other molecular biology techniques to analyze the expression of hsa_circ_0109623, hsa-miR-146b-3p, and SORT1. We also used bioinformatics tools to predict the interaction between these molecules and conducted luciferase reporter assays to confirm their binding.hsa_circ_0109623 was significantly upregulated in patients with AIH and positively correlated with inflammatory activity. We also found that hsa_circ_0109623 could enhance CD4+ T-cell activation and promote the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Conversely, hsa-miR-146b-3p was downregulated in patients with AIH and negatively correlated with the expression of hsa_circ_0109623 and SORT1. In addition, hsa-miR-146b-3p acted as a sponge for hsa_circ_0109623, inhibiting CD4+ Th1 cell polarization and cytokine production. SORT1 was also upregulated in patients with AIH and acted as a sponge for hsa-miR-146b-3p, promoting CD4+ Th1 cell polarization and cytokine expression. Furthermore, hsa_miR_146b-3p/SORT1 can regulate the STAT1/STAT4 signaling pathway mediating the progression of AIH.The hsa_circ_0109623/hsa-miR-146b-3p/SORT1 axis plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of AIH by regulating CD4+ T-cell activation and cytokine production. These molecules may serve as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for AIH. Further research is needed to validate these findings and explore their clinical applications.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Mycobacterial cell envelopes are rich in unusual lipids and glycans that play key roles during infection and vaccination. The most abundant envelope glycolipid is trehalose dimycolate (TDM). TDM compromises the host response to mycobacterial species via multiple mechanisms, including inhibition of phagosome maturation. The molecular mechanism by which TDM inhibits phagosome maturation has been elusive. We find that a clickable, photoaffinity TDM probe recapitulates key phenotypes of native TDM in macrophage host cells and binds several host Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-Sensitive Factor Attachment Proteins Receptor (SNARE) proteins, including Vesicle Transport through Interaction with t-SNAREs 1B (VTI1B), Syntaxin 8 (STX8), and Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 2 (VAMP2). VTI1B and STX8 normally promote endosome fusion by forming a complex with VAMP8. However, in the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, VTI1B and STX8 complex with VAMP2, which in turn decreases VAMP8 binding. VAMP2 acts together with mycolate structure to inhibit phagosome maturation and promotes intracellular M. tuberculosis replication. Thus one mechanism by which TDM constrains the innate immune response to M. tuberculosis is via noncanonical SNARE complexation.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved intracellular pathway for the degradation of cytoplasmic materials. Under stress conditions, autophagy is upregulated and double-membrane autophagosomes are formed by the expansion of phagophores. The ATG16L1 precursor fusion contributes to development of phagophore structures and is critical for the biogenesis of autophagosomes. Here, we discovered a novel role of the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTPN9 in the regulation of homotypic ATG16L1 vesicle fusion and early autophagosome formation. Depletion of PTPN9 and its Drosophila homolog Ptpmeg2 impaired autophagosome formation and autophagic flux. PTPN9 colocalized with ATG16L1 and was essential for homotypic fusion of ATG16L1+ vesicles during starvation-induced autophagy. We further identified the Q-SNARE VTI1B as a substrate target of PTPN9 phosphatase. Like PTPN9, the VTI1B nonphosphorylatable mutant but not the phosphomimetic mutant enhanced SNARE complex assembly and autophagic flux. Our findings highlight the important role of PTPN9 in the regulation of ATG16L1+ autophagosome precursor fusion and autophagosome biogenesis through modulation of VTI1B phosphorylation status.Abbreviations: csw: corkscrew; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; mop: myopic; NSF: N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor; PAS: phagophore assembly site; PolyQ: polyglutamine; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PTK: protein tyrosine kinase; PTM: posttranslational modification; PTP: protein tyrosine phosphatase; PTPN23/HD-PTP: protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 23; SNARE: soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptor; STX7: syntaxin 7; STX8: syntaxin 8; STX17: syntaxin 17; VAMP3: vesicle associated membrane protein 3; VAMP7: vesicle associated membrane protein 7; VTI1B: vesicle transport through interaction with t-SNAREs 1B; YKT6: YKT6 v-SNARE homolog; ZFYVE1/DFCP1: zinc finger FYVE-type containing 1.
Slow-transit constipation (STC) is a disabling motility disorder with unclear smooth-muscle mechanisms. Through spatial proteomics of human colon and functional assays in primary human colonic smooth muscle cells (HCoSMCs), we identified Bridging Integrator 1 (BIN1) and Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1B1 (ALDH1B1) as key regulators of intestinal motility. Both proteins were markedly reduced in smooth muscle from STC patients and localized to fibrotic areas. Lentiviral knockdown of BIN1 or ALDH1B1 impaired ATP-evoked Ca2+ responses and contraction, disrupted mitochondrial architecture, and increased reactive oxygen species. BIN1 deficiency activated mitochondrial apoptosis and extracellular matrix deposition, whereas ALDH1B1 loss induced mitophagy and NF-κB-driven inflammation. Transcriptomic and histological analyses confirmed convergence on profibrotic pathways. Together, these findings reveal a smooth-muscle-centric mechanism underlying STC pathogenesis and nominate BIN1 and ALDH1B1 as promising therapeutic entry points to restore intestinal motility.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42106068
Skipped: PubMed ID 42089370 is a review article
The MYC family of transforming oncogenes functions as regulators of gene transcription and is composed of three members, MYC, MYCN, and MYCL. As c-MYC (MYC) is deregulated in >50% of human cancers, the role, regulation, and structural features of MYC have been well-studied. By contrast, L-MYC has been understudied, as historically, oncogenic deregulation was evident only in a subset of lung carcinomas. However, recent deep genomic analyses of primary patient samples have demonstrated that L-MYC is deregulated in numerous human cancers. With this revelation it is important to understand how L-MYC compares to MYC at the structural level, particularly for the development of broad-spectrum inhibitors of the MYC family. Here, we show that L-MYC expression is elevated in several primary patient tumor samples, providing further evidence for L-MYC as a driver oncoprotein in primary human cancers. Next, we provide new biophysical insights into an N-terminal region within the L-MYC transactivation domain, which harbors two regions conserved amongst MYC proteins: MYC box 0 (MB0) and MYC box I (MBI). Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of residues 1-80 of L-MYC confirms that it is largely intrinsically disordered and interacts with the known MYC MB0 interactor, PNUTS (phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit). Comparatively, L-MYC does not interact with the MYC-MBI interactor and tumor suppressor Bin1 (bridging integrator 1). Together, these results further substantiate the oncogenic role of L-MYC in human cancer and enhance our understanding of the biophysical nature of L-MYC to improve strategies for the development of anti-cancer therapeutics targeting MYC family members.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Portland Press Limited on behalf of the Biochemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41984553 is a review article
Bridging integrator 1 (BIN1) is one of the strongest genetic risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet its function in the brain and role in AD remain unclear. Neuronal BIN1 isoform levels are decreased in AD, and recent data show an important role of BIN1 in inhibitory neurons. Inhibitory neurons are key regulators of cognition and network excitability, with parvalbumin-expressing (PV) neurons as the most abundant subtype. We tested the hypothesis that loss of BIN1 from PV neurons contributes to AD-related cognitive dysfunction and network hyperexcitability. We generated a cell type-specific conditional knock-out mouse line, Bin1-pvKO, and examined mice of both sexes. These mice showed few behavioral differences when assessed with traditional or machine learning-based behavioral tests, with only a slight reduction in exploratory behavior in aged cohorts. Bin1-pvKO mice showed no significant differences in network excitability on measures of induced seizure susceptibility and spiking on cortical electroencephalographic recordings. Finally, Bin1-pvKO mice exhibited no major differences in power spectral analysis of cortical electroencephalographic recordings, with only a modest reduction in delta power at high activity levels. These findings suggest that BIN1 loss in PV neurons alone is insufficient to drive the cognitive and network dysfunction observed in AD models. While these results do not exclude a role of BIN1 in PV neurons in AD models, if combined with a "second hit" or alterations in other cell types, they indicate that BIN1 loss in PV neurons alone does not recapitulate key AD-related phenotypes.Copyright © 2026 Davis et al.
To access the effect of SIRT1 in cerebral infarction and to explore its mechanism of ferroptosis. Bioinformatic Analysis was used to discover the associations between Ferroptosis-Related Genes and Cerebral Infarction.Rat cerebral infarction model was induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by reperfusion.In vitro experiments, astrocytes were subjected to different stimuli.HE staining was used to observe the area of cerebral infarction in rat models.The expression of autophagy proteins and ferroptosis-related proteins in vivo and vitro experiments was accessed by using Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence, and apoptosis was detected by flow apoptosis assay. Detection of MDA, Fe2+, and SOD expression using ELISA. SIRT1 was upregulated in cerebral infarction model and the area of cerebral infarction increased when SIRT1 was actived, while it decreased in Notch-1 over oxpressing.In cell experiments, SIRT1 inhibited the expression of nuclear E2F1,Notch-1,nuclear YAP and up-regulated the expression of FOX1,Beclin-2, P62 and NCOA4,which led to the apoptosis of astrocytes. Furthermore, activation of SIRT1 suppresses the expression of MDA and Fe2+ while promoting the expression of SOD. SIRT1 ultimately accelerated cerebral infarction progression by inhibiting the E2F1/NOTCH-1/YAP signaling pathway and thereby inducing FOXO1/autophagy/NCOA4-induced ferroptosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The plant Peptidase Domain Containing Enzymes (PPPDE) gene family plays crucial roles in plant growth and development, stress response, and signal transduction. Building upon previous work where a deubiquitinating enzyme was identified as an interacting protein of Eucommia ulmoides farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase 1 (EuFPS1), a key enzyme in Eucommia ulmoides rubber biosynthesis, this study systematically identified 9 PPPDE family members encoding deubiquitinating isopeptidases with the peptidase domain C97 from the Eucommia ulmoides genome. The analysis of collinearity and phylogenetic relationships among 86 PPPDE and PPPDE-like proteins from five species, including Eucommia ulmoides, demonstrated a high degree of homology for PPPDEs in rubber-producing plants. The gene encoding the EuFPS1-interacting protein, Eucommia ulmoides peptidase domain-containing enzyme 8 (EuPPPDE8), was cloned. Yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) and Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) assays confirmed the interaction between EuFPS1 and EuPPPDE8. It was found that under low-temperature conditions, the expression of the EuPPPDE8 was downregulated, while farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme activity and rubber content in Eucommia ulmoides also decreased significantly. Using EuPPPDE8 as bait, 23 potential interacting proteins were screened, including Eucommia ulmoides mahogunin ring finger 1 (EuMGRN1). Experiments confirmed the interaction between EuMGRN1 and EuPPPDE8. EuPPPDE8 was localized to the cytoplasm. It is hypothesized that EuPPPDE8 may also participate in the EuMGRN1-mediated proteolytic pathway, antagonizing EuMGRN1-regulated proteolysis through its deubiquitinating activity. By overexpressing and silencing the EuPPPDE8 gene, it was discovered that overexpression of EuPPPDE8 led to a significant 51.51% increase in Eucommia rubber compared to the wild type, whereas silencing the gene resulted in reduced rubber synthesis, reaching only 0.82 times the rubber content of the wild type. This proves that the EuPPPDE8 gene functions to promote Eucommia rubber biosynthesis. The research findings provide important foundational data for further elucidating the functional role of deubiquitination regulation in Eucommia ulmoides rubber biosynthesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recurrent idiopathic severe fetal structural anomalies present major challenges for reproductive decision-making and genetic counselling. A non-consanguineous healthy Estonian couple had experienced two electively terminated pregnancies at 12-13 weeks' gestation due to unexplained major fetal malformations and one early miscarriage. Their three pregnancies had resulted in unaffected newborns. Exome sequencing of fetal tissues from both terminated pregnancies identified a homozygous rare missense variant in MGRN1 (mahogunin ring finger 1), c.881G>A, p.(Arg294His) (Genome Aggregation Database V.4.1.0 allele frequency<8×10⁻⁵; no homozygotes reported in any population database). MGRN1 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase critical for protein homeostasis and developmental signalling. The detected substitution compromises a conserved residue within the RING (Really Interesting New Gene) finger domain. Cascade testing revealed that the parents and one unaffected child were heterozygous carriers, while two healthy siblings were homozygous for the reference allele. Both affected fetuses displayed congenital malformations closely mirroring prenatal phenotypes reported in Mgrn1 homozygous mutant mice, including cardiac malformations (ventricular septal defect, outflow tract malposition, pulmonary artery hypoplasia) and abnormal left-right axis patterning. These findings provide the first evidence implicating MGRN1 in human congenital disease and support its role in early embryonic patterning.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The proline-rich region of the tubulin-associated unit (TAU) protein is of substantial interest in understanding neurodegenerative diseases due to its interaction with bridging integrator 1 (BIN1). The associated gene BIN1 is substantially associated with the development of Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies have underlined the importance of the conformation of the proline-rich region of TAU and the effect of its phosphorylation. In this study, we investigate the change in compactness between a four times phosphorylated TAU fragment (210-240) compared to the unphosphorylated (non-P) form using computational means. We apply our Ensemble Reconstruction from Fragments (ERF) approach to create two unbiased conformational ensembles from which a reweighted ensemble is derived that agrees with observables from nuclear magnetic resonance experiments. The resulting shift of the radius of gyration indicates a preference for relatively compact conformations for the non-P form, while the restraints derived from the experimental data do not substantially influence the compactness of the phosphorylated peptide.
Patients who survive stroke usually experience rapid muscle wasting and an increased risk of physical disability. Although multifactorial interactions, including malnutrition, disuse, systemic catabolic imbalance, and neurohormonal dysregulation, are thought to contribute to the progression of stroke-related sarcopenia, the underlying mechanisms of this brain-muscle crosstalk remain elusive. Muscle-resident fibro-adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) are indispensable for maintaining muscle homeostasis and function as initial sensors of external perturbations. In the present study, we report that FAPs rapidly respond to the overactive sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and egress from the muscle niche into circulation during the acute phase of stroke. FAP-specific ablation of adrenoceptor beta 2 (Adrb2) markedly ameliorated stroke-related sarcopenia, highlighting the central role of SNS-mediated FAP loss in its pathogenesis. Mechanistically, increased norepinephrine release initiates FAP mobilization through the activation of pro-migratory signals and the degradation of extracellular matrix components. Using transcriptomic profiling, we further characterized insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) as a key anti-atrophic executive factor predominantly derived from FAPs. Collectively, our work demonstrates that the SNS-mediated loss of FAPs and subsequent compromised IGF-1 secretion contribute to sarcopenia in mice following stroke. Targeting this mechanism by early anti-sympathetic treatment with propranolol may effectively restore muscle homeostasis and mass after stroke.© 2026. The Author(s).
β2-adrenoceptor (β2AR) agonists are the cornerstone of asthma therapy and promote bronchodilation through Gαs signalling in airway smooth muscle (ASM), but their efficacy is limited by β-arrestin-mediated β2AR desensitization. We recently described allosteric modulators (AMs) of β2AR that preferentially enhance isoproterenol-mediated β2AR-Gαs signalling in ASM. Orthosteric β-agonists differ in efficacy, kinetics and signalling bias, and how this diversity shapes allosteric modulation of β2ARs remains unclear. We investigated whether AMs could selectively modulate β2AR-Gαs signalling and bronchodilation in response to endogenous and clinically relevant β-agonists.The effects of a positive AM (PAM37) and two negative AMs (NAM36 and NAM42) were examined on β-agonist-induced Gαs and β-arrestin recruitment and downstream signalling (cAMP, PKA and ERK) in HEK293 cells expressing β2ARs and primary human ASM cells. Bronchodilation was assessed using murine precision-cut lung slices and in vivo lung mechanics. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed to delineate structural determinants of agonist-dependent AM activity.PAM37 enhanced, whereas NAMs attenuated β2AR-Gαs coupling, signalling and bronchodilation with no effect on β-arrestin-ERK signalling, establishing Gαs signalling and functional bias. AM effects differed in magnitude and kinetic profiles across β-agonists, with fenoterol uniquely resistant to modulation. MD simulations revealed that fenoterol stabilizes a quasi-inactive β2AR conformation characterized by an TM6 shift that occludes the allosteric pocket, providing a structural basis for its resistance.These findings establish orthosteric ligand-dependent allostery as a fundamental feature of β2AR pharmacology. PAM37 represents a tool to selectively enhance bronchodilation by β-agonists in asthma.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) caused by aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive epileptic encephalopathy. It typically presents in the neonatal period with intractable seizures responsive to high-dose vitamin B6. Atypical later-onset presentations expand the clinical spectrum. Early recognition is crucial to prevent irreversible neurodevelopmental impairment.We report a 2-year-old Palestinian girl, born to consanguineous parents, who developed neonatal metabolic acidosis and encephalopathy, recurrent seizures from early infancy, and global developmental delay. EEG revealed epileptiform discharges, and brain MRI demonstrated partial agenesis of the corpus callosum and mild dilation of the lateral ventricle. Conventional antiepileptic therapy provided no improvement.Whole-exome sequencing at 1 year and 8 months identified a homozygous 9.9 kb deletion in ALDH7A1, confirming PDE. High-dose pyridoxine (150 mg/day) achieved seizure control, allowing tapering of other antiepileptics. Supportive management included electrolyte monitoring and treatment of dehydration.This case highlights the clinical heterogeneity of PDE-ALDH7A1, underscores the importance of early genetic testing, and demonstrates the efficacy of timely pyridoxine therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Numerous in vivo studies have demonstrated beta-2-adrenoceptor (β2AR) -agonism as permissive in the development of allergic lung inflammation, and have implicated the arrestin-dependent signaling arm of the β2AR in mediating this effect. However, the specific cell type(s) mediating β2AR regulation of allergic lung inflammation remain unestablished.To explore the potential contribution of airway epithelia in this phenomenon, we compared the ability of ractopamine (RP), recently identified as a Gs-biased beta-agonist, to that of the unbiased/balanced beta-agonist albuterol (ALB), on IL-13-stimulated mucin and cytokine production in human airway epithelia cultures in air-liquid interface (HAE).ALB, which activates both the β2AR-arrestin and -Gs signaling pathways significantly augmented IL-13-induced mucin production in HAE. RP, which preferentially signals via Gs/PKA, did not. Although IL-13 stimulated production of numerous cytokines, including IL-1α, IL-1RA, MDC, TGF-α, and GROα, ALB-mediated augmentation of these cytokines was highly variable and not statistically significant. Similarly, RP did not augment the induction of cytokines stimulated by IL-13. Moreover, in contrast to previous studies that reported a requirement of concomitant β2AR agonism for IL-13 to stimulate cytokine production, such a requirement was observed only in minority of the (12) cultures examined.These data implicate arrestin-dependent β2AR signaling augmenting airway epithelial mucin production as a contributor to the previously-demonstrated pro-inflammatory effects of β2AR agonism in vivo. Moreover, they suggest that beta-agonist effects on the cytokine profile in the allergen-inflamed lung may be influenced by specific asthmatic endotypes and involve cooperativity among multiple cell types.© 2026. The Author(s).
The field of photopharmacology develops light-responsive drugs that can modulate protein activity, enabling precise and dynamic investigations of their roles in health and disease. Adrenergic receptors are prominent targets for this approach because they are prototypical G protein-coupled receptors with high clinical relevance in bronchial and cardiovascular diseases. Here, we employed the azobenzene-based compound photoazolol-1 in combination with time-resolved serial crystallography at X-ray free-electron lasers to resolve the molecular mechanisms by which photoswitchable β-blockers modulate activity of the β2-adrenoceptor (β2AR). Time-resolved structures of the receptor bound to trans-photoazolol-1 (pre-photoconversion), a strained intermediate in the nanosecond range, and the fully photoisomerized cis-photoazolol-1 reveal how isomerization of the azobenzene moiety induces distinct conformational changes within the orthosteric ligand binding pocket. Within seconds, light-excited photoazolol-1 adopts a new binding pose, altering interactions with extracellular loop 2 and shifting the positions of transmembrane helices 5, 6, and 7. Functional assays of β2AR in cellular membranes show that photoazolol-1 acts as an efficacy photoswitch, changing from an inverse agonist to a neutral antagonist upon isomerization without leaving the binding pocket. In combination, these findings suggest a molecular mechanism for activity modulation via efficacy photoswitches and provide a framework for designing ligands that exploit light-driven transitions within the binding pocket to achieve spatiotemporal control of receptor function.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Catecholamines are known to interact with bone and cartilage cells via binding to adrenergic receptors. Among these, the β2-adrenoceptor (β2-AR) plays a key role in mediating the effects of catecholamines on bone. Mice lacking the β2-AR systemically or specifically in osteoblasts show an increased bone mass. Previous studies further indicated an important influence of catecholamines on transdifferentiation of chondrocytes towards osteoblasts during endochondral ossification. Therefore, in this study, cartilage and bone phenotype as well as fracture healing of mice with a specific knockout of the β2-AR in chondrocytes were investigated. Tibiae and femora of 6-, 12-, and 40-wk-old male and female mice were analyzed. The knockout resulted in a reduced long bone growth, most likely due to a faster transition of proliferative to hypertrophic chondrocytes. The older knockout mice additionally showed an osteopenic bone phenotype due to a reduced number of osteoblasts. Fracture healing after a standardized femur osteotomy was delayed, showing reduced cartilage area at an intermediate time point during fracture healing. Gene expression analysis in an additional in-vitro-experiment identified pathways like "Wnt-signaling" and "TGFβ-signaling" to be involved. In conclusion, our data showed an important role of the β2-AR specifically in chondrocytes during long bone growth, bone homeostasis in older animals and fracture healing.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Recent studies have shown glycerolipid metabolism played an essential role in multiple tumors, however, its function in osteosarcoma is unclear. This study aimed to explore the role of glycerolipid metabolism in osteosarcoma.We conducted bioinformatics analysis using data from the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET) database and single-cell RNA sequencing. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression was used to identify the Glycerolipid metabolism-related genes associated with the clinical outcome of osteosarcoma. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and their interactions with immune cells were examined through single-cell analysis and co-culture experiments. Virtual screening was employed to identify the potential lysophosphatidic acid receptor 6 (LPAR6) inhibitors.Glycerolipid metabolism-related genes 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) and aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) were identified as key prognostic genes in osteosarcoma, with high AGPAT3 expression correlating with improved survival. Single-cell analysis revealed that AGPAT3 expression is associated with tumor immune microenvironment, particularly with TAMs. Knockdown of AGPAT3 in osteosarcoma cells resulted in elevated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) levels, which regulated the immune environment, inhibiting cytotoxic T cell function through TAMs' LPAR6 signaling. LPAR6 signaling in TAMs mediates immune regulation through cytokine secretion, including interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Further drug virtual screening identified Dutasteride as a potential inhibitor of LPAR6.AGPAT3 is an important gene related to the prognosis of osteosarcoma. Its ability to modulate LPA signaling and TAM activity offers promising therapeutic opportunities for improving osteosarcoma treatment, particularly in immunotherapy contexts.© 2026 The Authors.
Pyridoxine dependent epilepsy (PDE) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder. Several genes involved in Pyridoxine (B6) metabolism have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PDE, two such genes are Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 7 Family Member A1 (ALDH7A1) and Pyridox(am)ine 5'- phosphate oxidase (PNPO). To add to the limited data on PDE, three cases of Vitamin B6 dependent neonatal epilepsy caused by pathogenic variation in the ALDH7A1 and PNPO genes are reported. PDE is a rare, but potentially debilitating, cause of neonatal-onset epilepsy. Keeping in view the variable presentations of this condition, patients with a clinical picture suggestive of PDE must be carefully evaluated and treatment initiated as early as possible to achieve the best outcomes.
Kyoto University Substance (KUS) 121 is a novel modulator of valosin-containing protein (VCP), with reported protective effects against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury across various organs. This study evaluated the therapeutic effect of KUS121 on axial pattern flaps subjected to I/R injury.Axial pattern flaps nourished by superficial epigastric vessels were created in Sprague-Dawley rats, measuring 3 × 6 cm, and subjected to 8 hours of ischemia followed by reperfusion. KUS121 (100 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally 1 hour before flap elevation (KUS121-pretreated group) or immediately after reperfusion (KUS121-posttreated group), followed by once-daily administration from postoperative day 1 to 6. The control group received no KUS121. Flap survival was evaluated macroscopically on day 7. Histological and immunohistochemical evaluations were performed on day 3 in the KUS121-pretreated and control groups.Flap survival was significantly higher in the KUS121-pretreated group (80.7±7.8%) and KUS121-posttreated group (96.2±1.1%) than in the control group (48.8±5.3%; p=0.002 and p<0.001, respectively). On day 3, TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells were significantly decreased in the KUS121-pretreated group compared to the control group in the distal flap region (2.3±0.5 vs. 7.7±1.1 cells/field; p<0.001) and in the middle region (2.3±0.4 vs. 9.0±1.1 cells/field; p<0.001). C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP)-positive cells were also significantly decreased in the KUS121-pretreated group compared with controls in the distal (9.0±1.5 vs. 21.4±1.8 cells/field; p<0.001) and middle (6.8±0.8 vs. 23.5±2.9 cells/field; p<0.001) regions.KUS121 markedly improves axial pattern flap survival by attenuating I/R-induced apoptosis and endoplasmic reticulum stress.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42431020 is a review article
tRNA-derived fragments (tRFs) have arisen as critical regulators in cancer development, however, their functions in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remain poorly understood. Here, we reported that tRF-17-9L5FZU3 was significantly upregulated in ESCC cells and tissues, and correlated with poor patient outcome. Through integrated small RNA sequencing and qRT-PCR validation in 40 paired clinical samples, functional analyses, including colony formation, CCK-8, Transwell migration/invasion assays, and xenograft mouse models, demonstrated that tRF-17-9L5FZU3-knockdown suppresses ESCC cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, tRF-17-9L5FZU3 was shown to directly bind the 3'UTR of RhoB (Ras Homolog Family Member B) mRNA via dual-luciferase reporter assays, RNA pull-down, and AGO2 co-immunoprecipitation, leading to repression of RhoB expression at both mRNA and protein levels. RhoB was consistently downregulated in ESCC tumors and exhibited a significant inverse correlation with tRF-17-9L5FZU3 expression. Rescue experiments confirmed that oncogenic effects of tRF-17-9L5FZU3 were dependent on RhoB suppression. Moreover, tRF-17-9L5FZU3-knockdown decreased TGF-β secretion, increased IL-2 production, and inhibited PI3K/AKT and NF-κB signaling, which were reversed by co-silencing of RhoB. Collectively, these findings found that tRF-17-9L5FZU3 promoted ESCC malignancy by directly repressing RhoB, thereby activating oncogenic signaling pathways, positioning the tRF-17-9L5FZU3-RhoB axis as a critical regulator and potential therapeutic target in ESCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mutations in the valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene lead to a hereditary type of inclusion body myositis (hIBM), in which sarcoplasmic and myonuclear inclusions with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathology and mitochondrial abnormalities are observed in histological analysis. Pathophysiological conditions in the cell cause the protein quality control system to depend on the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) for degradation of accumulated misfolded proteins and mitochondrial turnover. BCL2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) protein has a role in initiating the ALP. Our aim was to ameliorate disease processes resulting from mitochondrial abnormalities and misfolded protein aggregation by upregulating the ALP through overexpression of human BAG3 (hBAG3). The VCP-A232E mouse, a model for hIBM, received AAVrh74.tMCK.hBAG3 systemically at 3 months of age, and outcome measures, including functional, histological, and molecular studies, were assessed 9 months post-gene delivery. hBAG3 treatment improved treadmill running distance and rotarod duration, reduced the number of TDP-43-positive aggregates, and decreased the number of fibers showing abnormalities in mitochondrial enzyme histochemistry, compared with the untreated cohort. Moreover, hBAG3 gene therapy resulted in improvements in mitophagy and mitochondrial homeostasis observed as increased levels in mitophagy markers Parkin and Bnip3, mitochondria biogenesis marker Pgc1α and mitochondrial DNA-encoded subunits of complex IV, Cox1 and Cox3. In addition, the LC-II/I ratio increased, indicating increased autophagic flux. Our study presents evidence that the strategy of supporting the ALP system by overexpressing BAG3 has potential therapeutic use for myodegenerative conditions associated with abnormal protein aggregates and mitochondrial turnover.
Plumage colour in domestic geese is an important economic trait and a selection target since the early days of domestication. In European domestic geese of greylag goose (Anser anser) origin, white plumage is known to be determined by two independent loci, one causing white spotting and another sex-linked dilution, together producing white plumage. Strong candidate genetic variants have been identified upstream of the EDNRB2, that is, LOC106047519 gene (endothelin receptor B-like) and within the sex-linked MLANA gene (melan-A). To confirm these candidate variants, we genotyped differently coloured European domestic goose breeds, wild greylag geese, Chinese domestic geese (derived from swan goose A. cygnoid) and European and Chinese domestic geese crossbreeds. One base pair deletion in the MLANA gene (NW_013185876.1: g.950868 C>-) was confirmed to cause sex-linked dilution, and thus autosexing (almost white gander and diluted grey goose). However, a genetic variant upstream of EDNRB2 (NW_013185915.1: g.775151 G>T) was not causative of saddleback pattern but strongly linked to it in European domestic geese. We sequenced the EDNRB2 gene and coding sequence of a neighbouring VAMP7 gene (vesicle-associated membrane protein 7) but found no genetic variation linked to colour. Additionally, we sequenced the coding sequence of TYRP1 (tyrosinase related protein 1), a candidate gene for buff colouration, but no variation linked to colour was found. Further, we genotyped a 14-bp insertion in exon 3 of the EDNRB2 gene, known to be causative of the white phenotype in the Chinese domestic goose, and identified it in one European domestic goose.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
The immunoregulatory role of androgen receptor (AR) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still poorly understood. Herein, we found that inhibition of AR function could induce immunogenic cell death (ICD) and trigger endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in vitro. Mechanistically, AR transcriptionally regulated the valosin-containing protein (VCP) expression via directly binding the promoter of VCP. AR inhibitor promoted dendritic cells (DCs) maturation in vitro and increased tumor-infiltrating DCs and CD8+ T cells in vivo. Combination of AR inhibitor with anti-PD-1 therapy remodels tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and reduces tumor growth in mouse models of HCC. Addition of oncolytic virus further augments the therapeutic activity of the combination regimen. Our study shows the molecular mechanism for regulating VCP expression by AR and suggests that inhibition of AR has the potential to increase the efficacy of immunotherapy in HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) represents a critical clinical window for early intervention in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Identifying readily detectable, high-abundance plasma biomarkers for aMCI remains clinically important. Overexpression of Valosin-Containing Protein (VCP) has been shown to enhance autophagy and reduce tau levels in AD animal models. Notably, VCP, with a molecular weight of 90 kDa, typically assembles into hexamers, which is hypothesized to restrict its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier even under neurodegenerative conditions. In contrast, the small VCP-interacting protein (SVIP), with a molecular weight of only 9 kDa, interacts with VCP to maintain the dynamic stability of autophagosomes within cells. Therefore, we aim to explore plasma SVIP as a peripheral blood biomarker for aMCI and assess whether it can outperform VCP in detecting aMCI.This was a retrospective study based on the STAR (Shenzhen Multi-modal Aging Research) cohort. Participants were recruited as a convenience sample. Eighty-four participants (44 cognitively unimpaired [CU], 40 aMCI) were included, with diagnostic classification based on standardized clinical and neuropsychological criteria. Plasma levels of SVIP and VCP were measured using deep plasma proteomics enriched with biofunctional magnetic beads. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis and DeLong's test. This study was registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2200066700).Compared to the CU group, the aMCI group showed significantly decreased SVIP (p < 0.001), while no significant difference was observed in VCP levels (p = 0.823). The area under the curve (AUC) of SVIP in detecting aMCI was 0.836 (95% CI: 0.739 to 0.908), significantly higher than VCP [AUC = 0.513 (95% CI: 0.401 to 0.624)] (p < 0.0001, DeLong's test).Plasma SVIP demonstrates significantly higher diagnostic accuracy than VCP for the detection of aMCI, suggesting its potential as a candidate blood-based biomarker pending large-scale pathophysiological validation.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Shan, Yin, Chen, Yu, Wei, Chen, Hu, Qi, Wu, Tao, Fan and Cheng.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a key regulator of muscle mass and of muscle adaptation to stress and defective autophagy is a feature of many muscle disorders. Still, how changes in autophagic flux influence the integrity and function of differentiated muscle fibers remains under-documented. Specifically, links between autophagy and mechanisms involved in Ca2+ homeostasis and excitation-contraction coupling are largely unexplored. We developed an assay to monitor autophagy modulation in mouse muscle fibers maintained in culture. Exposure to 3-methyladenine, an inhibitor of autophagy initiation, reduced the density of autophagic vesicles. Conversely, hydroxychloroquine, a blocker of autolysosome formation, as well as two MTOR inhibitors that activate autophagy, rapamycin and torin-1, enhanced the vesicle density. The density of lysosomal vesicles was increased by MTOR inhibitors and by hydroxychloroquine, but insensitive to 3-methyladenine. Measurements of Ca2+ signals associated with contractile activation revealed that voltage-activated sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release was unaffected by torin-1 but was depressed in 3-methyladenine- and in hydroxychloroquine-exposed fibers, suggesting that restraining autophagic flux is detrimental to excitation contraction coupling. The density of the inner plasma membrane network that carries the electrical excitation was depressed by 3-methyladenine and hydroxychloroquine, likely contributing to the function defect. Results establish that autophagic flux is preserved and can be manipulated in cultured muscle fibers, and revealed the power of the approach to tackle the cellular and subcellular consequences of autophagy modulation. They also uncover the possibility that autophagy is a determinant of maintenance and/or function of excitation-contraction coupling, with a potential role in several muscle disease situations.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; EC: excitation-contraction; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; MTM1: myotubularin 1; RYR1: ryanodine receptor 1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42201138 is a review article
Porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) is an emerging enteropathogenic coronavirus that causes severe diarrhea in swine industries worldwide. However, the interactions between PDCoV and host cells remain poorly understood. In this study, we employed transcriptomic and proteomic analyses to investigate host responses to PDCoV infection. Our results identified 1448 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at 1.5 h post-PDCoV infection and 11,753 DEGs, along with 898 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) at 18 h post-PDCoV infection. Furthermore, several signaling pathways, including innate immunity, autophagy, and ferroptosis, were primarily enriched following an integrated analysis of the transcriptome and proteome. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis indicated that proteins closely associated with these pathways, such as interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1), myxovirus resistance 2 (MX2), interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), radical S-adenosyl methionine domain containing 2 (RSAD2), 2'-5'-oligoadenylate synthetase like (OASL), autophagy related 14 (ATG14), and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), were central to the interaction network. Importantly, we demonstrated that autophagy and ferroptosis were induced upon PDCoV infection, and that inhibition of autophagy significantly suppressed the induction of PDCoV-induced ferroptosis, which decreases the viral proliferation. Overall, our findings provide a comprehensive overview of transcriptomic and proteomic changes following PDCoV infection and enhance the understanding of PDCoV pathogenesis, which will be beneficial for improving strategies for the prevention and control of PDCoV infection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a serious complication of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), for which no targeted therapies are currently available. Endothelial dysfunction plays a crucial role in PH associated with HFpEF (PH-HFpEF), yet its molecular drivers remain poorly defined.Transcriptome profiling uncovered endothelial characteristics of PH-HFpEF. Endothelial-specific GPRASP1 (GPCR [G protein-coupled receptor]-associated sorting protein 1 deletion in mice was conducted to investigate its participation in PH-HFpEF pathology. Multimodal metabolomics, isotope tracing, proteomics, and mechanistic biochemical assays were used to map downstream pathways and identify druggable mediators.GPRASP1 was significantly lowered in pulmonary endothelial cells of PH-HFpEF models. Endothelial Gprasp1 knockout mice exhibited major PH-HFpEF features, including pulmonary vascular remodeling, elevated pulmonary pressure, diastolic dysfunction, and abnormal glucose/lipid metabolism. GPRASP1 loss impaired tricarboxylic acid cycle activity by stabilizing ASNS (asparagine synthetase), preferentially shifting aspartate toward asparagine synthesis over oxaloacetate production. This metabolic reprogramming led to adenosine triphosphate depletion, reactive oxygen species accumulation, endothelial nitric oxide synthase uncoupling, and nitric oxide deficiency. We discovered that, beyond its classic role in GPCR sorting, GPRASP1 functioned as a noncanonical adaptor protein that scaffolded the E3 ubiquitin ligase PRKN (Parkin) and ASNS, promoting PRKN-dependent K48-linked ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of ASNS via its C-terminal domain. In parallel, under mitochondrial stress, GPRASP1 strengthened PRKN interactions with MFN1/2, enhanced their K63-linked ubiquitination, and facilitated PRKN-mediated mitophagy. Restoration of GPRASP1 expression or pharmacological inhibition of ASNS activity with olopatadine normalized aspartate utilization, improved mitochondrial bioenergetics, rescued endothelial function, and attenuated cardiopulmonary pathology in PH-HFpEF models.Our findings unlocked a noncanonical role of GPRASP1 in preserving pulmonary endothelial homeostasis and delineated a novel GPRASP1-PRKN-ASNS axis that connected proteostasis with endothelial metabolic integrity, highlighting aspartate metabolism as a targetable vulnerability in cardiopulmonary disease.
Lipophagy, a selective form of macroautophagy/autophagy, degrades lipid droplets (LDs) to provide energy and is implicated in metabolic disorders. The molecular mechanism underlying lipophagy induction remains incompletely understood. This study explored the role of SETDB1 in starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. We demonstrate that SETDB1 deficiency exacerbates starvation-induced hepatic lipid accumulation by inhibiting lipophagy. Mechanistically, starvation promotes ATM-mediated phosphorylation of SETDB1, which enhances its interaction with and methylation of the RNA helicase DDX5. In SETDB1-knockout hepatocytes, hypomethylation of DDX5 facilitates the formation of the DDX5-METTL3-METTL14 complex, increasing m6A modification of BECN1 and TFEB mRNAs. This modification promoted YTHDF2-mediated decay of these transcripts, thereby inhibiting starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. Furthermore, administration of the SETDB1 activator (R, R)-59 significantly enhances lipophagy and attenuates starvation-induced hepatic steatosis. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel pathway in which SETDB1 deficiency drives m6A-mediated mRNA degradation to suppress lipophagy, thereby contributing to hepatic steatosis.Abbreviations: AA free: amino acid deprivation; ATG14: autophagy related 14; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATM: ATM serine/threonine kinase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; DDX5: DEAD-box helicase 5; FASN: fatty acid synthase; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; LIPE/HSL: lipase E, hormone sensitive type; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K5/ASK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; METTL14: methyltransferase 14, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase non-catalytic subunit; MGLL/MGL: monoglyceride lipase; OA: oleic acid; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein like 8; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PNPLA2/ATGL: patatin like domain 2, triacylglycerol lipase; SETDB1: SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TP53/p53: tumor protein p53; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; YTHDF2: YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2.
X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM) is a rare genetic disorder that typically presents at birth with progressive muscle weakness and respiratory difficulties and is caused by myotubularin 1 (MTM1) gene mutations. Here, we examine the role of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 2-β (PIK3C2B), a lipid kinase that interacts with MTM1, in XLMTM in various models. We examined the effect of BLU3797, a highly potent, selective, orally bioavailable PIK3C2B inhibitor, on survival, muscle development, myofiber phenotypes, and gene expression in MTM1-/y mice. PIK3C2B-deficient XLMTM animals demonstrated increased survival, restored muscle function, fewer myofibers with centralized nuclei, and normalization of disease-associated molecular markers. BLU3797 alleviated the XLMTM phenotype in a dose-dependent and reversible manner. Loss of functional PIK3C2B in XLMTM mice promoted a more differentiated, adult-like myofiber profile, which was strongly associated with normalization of disease surrogates and a reduction in markers of early muscle development and regeneration. BLU3797 treatment appears to modulate the expression of miRNAs associated with satellite cell activation and myofiber fusion. These findings indicate that PIK3C2B inhibition with BLU3797 effectively reverses the XLMTM disease phenotype by enhancing muscle function and promoting development toward a more mature state.
Delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonists display antinociceptive properties with less adverse effects than morphine derivatives and other opioids targeting mu-opioid receptor. However, a loss of their antinociceptive effect (tolerance) rapidly develops upon repeated treatments and could be due to the fast degradation of DOR. The G Protein-coupled Receptor-Associated Sorting Protein 1 (GPRASP1) has been involved in DOR sorting for degradation in vitro. Here, using a novel mouse line combining a knock-out for GPRASP1 and a knock-in for a fluorescent DOR-eGFP, we show that GPRASP1 is mandatory for the development of antinociceptive tolerance to the DOR agonist SNC80 in models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain. Surprisingly, DOR down-regulation upon repeated activations, phosphorylation kinetics of SNC80-activated DOR and DOR coupling to Gi proteins were unaffected by the loss of GPRASP1. Instead, changes in the dynamics of DOR plasma membrane localization were observed in GPRASP1 knockout neurons. Affinity-Purification of DOR followed by Mass Spectrometry analyses revealed, for the first time in the brain, that SNC80 alters DOR's interactome. In the absence of GPRASP1, the association of activated DOR with newly identified partners, particularly Synapse differentiation-inducing gene protein 1 SYNG1, was reduced. These findings indicate that SNC80-induced antinociceptive tolerance is not driven by DOR down-regulation but rather by GPRASP1-mediated changes in DOR trafficking and downstream signaling.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
We report a 38-year-old woman with secondary infertility who became pregnant by in vitro fertilization (IVF). Her pregnancy was complicated by significant and advanced polyhydramnios. At 37 weeks and five days, she was in labor with an unstable fetal condition, and an emergency cesarean section (CS) was required. The intraoperative findings showed 180° uterine torsion, which could not be reduced. A lower posterior transverse hysterectomy was successful in delivering the newborn. The male newborn exhibited severe hypotonia and respiratory failure and was subsequently diagnosed with X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM) via whole exome sequencing (WES), which identified a pathogenic myotubularin 1 (MTM1) gene mutation. Maternal testing confirmed her status as an asymptomatic carrier. This case highlights the profound diagnostic and surgical challenges of uterine torsion. It posits a dual-hit model for its etiology, where fetal XLMTM caused polyhydramnios, the primary mechanical risk factor, while the maternal genetic carrier status is proposed as a novel, speculative hypothesis for a potential underlying predisposition to uterine instability. This observation requires further research to explore the possible genetic contribution to this rare obstetric emergency.Copyright © 2025, Elzewawi et al.
The mammalian class III phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase complex (PtdIns3K) forms two biochemically and functionally distinct subcomplexes including the ATG14-containing complex I (PtdIns3K-C1) and the UVRAG-containing complex II (PtdIns3K-C2). Both subcomplexes adopt a V-shaped architecture with a BECN1-ATG14 or UVRAG adaptor arm and a PIK3R4/VPS15-PIK3C3/VPS34 catalytic arm. NRBF2 is a pro-autophagic modulator that specifically associates with PtdIns3K-C1 to enhance its kinase activity and promotes macroautophagy/autophagy. How NRBF2 exerts such a positive effect is not fully understood. Here we report that NRBF2 binds to PIK3R4/VPS15 with moderate affinity through a conserved site on its N-terminal MIT domain. The NRBF2-PIK3R4/VPS15 interaction is incompatible with the UVRAG-containing PtdIns3K-C2 because the C2 domain of UVRAG outcompetes NRBF2 for PIK3R4/VPS15 binding. Our crystal structure of the NRBF2 coiled-coil (CC) domain reveals a symmetric homodimer with multiple hydrophobic pairings at the CC interface, which is in distinct contrast to the asymmetric dimer observed in the yeast ortholog Atg38. Mutations in the CC domain that rendered NRBF2 monomeric led to weakened binding to PIK3R4/VPS15 and only partial rescue of autophagy deficiency in nrbf2 knockout cells. In comparison, NRBF2 with its CC domain replaced by a dimeric Gcn4 module showed proautophagic activity comparable to wild type while NRBF2 carrying a tetrameric Gcn4 module showed further enhanced activity. We propose that the oligomeric state of NRBF2 mediated by its CC domain is critical for strengthening the moderate NRBF2-PIK3R4/VPS15 interaction mediated by its MIT domain to fully activate PtdIns3K-C1 and promote autophagy.Abbreviations: ATG: autophagy related; ATG14: autophagy related 14; BECN1: beclin 1; CC: coiled-coil; dCCD: delete CCD; dMIT: delete MIT; Gcn4: general control nonderepressible 4; ITC: isothermal titration calorimetry; IP: immunoprecipitation; KO: knockout; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MIM: MIT-interacting motif; MIT: microtubule interacting and trafficking; NMR: nuclear magnetic resonance; NRBF2: nuclear receptor binding factor 2; PtdIns3K: class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PIK3R4/VPS15: phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated; VPS: vacuolar protein sorting; WT: wild type.
Microtubule-associated cargo transport, a central process governing the localization and movement of various cellular cargoes, is orchestrated by the coordination of two types of motor proteins (kinesins and dyneins), along with diverse adaptor and accessory proteins. Hook microtubule tethering protein 3 (Hook3) is a cargo adaptor that serves as a scaffold for recruiting kinesin family member 1C (KIF1C) and dynein, thereby regulating bidirectional cargo transport. Herein, we conduct structural and functional analyses of how Hook3 mediates KIF1C-dependent anterograde cargo transport through interaction with KIF1C and PTPN21. We verify the interactions among the three proteins and determine the crystal structure of the Hook3(553-624) - KIF1C(714-809) complex. Subsequent structure-based mutational analysis demonstrates that this complex formation is necessary and sufficient for the interaction between the full-length proteins in HEK293T cells and plays a key role in Hook3- and KIF1C-mediated anterograde transport in RPE1 cells. Thus, this study provides a basis for a comprehensive understanding of how Hook3 cooperates with other components during the initial steps of activation and assembly of the Hook3- and KIF1C-dependent cargo transport machinery.© 2025. The Author(s).
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common reproductive-endocrine disorder with wide-ranging metabolic implications, including obesity. RNA editing, a post-transcriptional modification, can fine-tune protein function and introduce heterogeneity. However, the role of RNA editing and its impact on adipose tissue function in PCOS remain poorly understood.This study aimed to comprehensively analyze RNA-editing events in abdominal and subcutaneous adipose tissue of PCOS patients and healthy controls using high-throughput whole-genome sequencing (WGS) and RNA sequencing.Our results revealed that PCOS patients exhibited more RNA-editing sites, with adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) editing being prevalent. The expression of ADAR genes, responsible for A-to-I editing, was also higher in PCOS. Aberrant RNA-editing sites in PCOS adipose tissue was enriched in immune responses, and interleukin-12 biosynthetic process. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling, Notch signaling, terminal uridylyl transferase 4 (TUT4), hook microtubule tethering protein 3 (HOOK3), and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) were identified to be of significant differences. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in PCOS adipose tissue were enriched in immune responses compared with controls, and the DEGs between subcutaneous and abdominal adipose tissue were also enriched in immune responses suggesting the important role of subcutaneous adipose tissue. Furthermore, we identified the correlations between RNA editing levels and RNA expression levels of specific genes, such as ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 (MALT1) in inflammation pathways and ATM, TUT4, and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein C2 (YTHDC2) in oocyte development pathway.These findings suggest that RNA-editing dysregulation in PCOS adipose tissue may contribute to inflammatory dysregulations. Understanding the interplay between RNA editing and adipose tissue function may unveil potential therapeutic targets for PCOS management. However, further research and validation are required to fully elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying these associations.Copyright © 2024 Chen, Li, Gao, Cheng, Zhang, Liu, Chen, Liao and Qin.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex, multifactor disorder in women of reproductive age worldwide. Although RNA editing may contribute to a variety of diseases, its role in PCOS remains unclear.A discovery RNA-Seq dataset was obtained from the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus database of granulosa cells from women with PCOS and women without PCOS (controls). A validation RNA-Seq dataset downloaded from the European Nucleotide Archive Databank was used to validate differential editing. Transcriptome-wide investigation was conducted to analyze adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing in PCOS and control samples.A total of 17,395 high-confidence A-to-I RNA editing sites were identified in 3,644 genes in all GC samples. As for differential RNA editing, there were 545 differential RNA editing (DRE) sites in 259 genes with Nucleoporin 43 (NUP43), Retinoblastoma Binding Protein 4 (RBBP4), and leckstrin homology-like domain family A member 1 (PHLDA) showing the most significant three 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR) editing. Furthermore, we identified 20 DRE sites that demonstrated a significant correlation between editing levels and gene expression levels. Notably, MIR193b-365a Host Gene (MIR193BHG) and Hook Microtubule Tethering Protein 3 (HOOK3) exhibited significant differential expression between PCOS and controls. Functional enrichment analysis showed that these 259 differentially edited genes were mainly related to apoptosis and necroptosis pathways. RNA binding protein (RBP) analysis revealed that RNA Binding Motif Protein 45 (RBM45) was predicted as the most frequent RBP binding with RNA editing sites. Additionally, we observed a correlation between editing levels of differential editing sites and the expression level of the RNA editing enzyme Adenosine Deaminase RNA Specific B1 (ADARB1). Moreover, the existence of 55 common differentially edited genes and nine differential editing sites were confirmed in the validation dataset.Our current study highlighted the potential role of RNA editing in the pathophysiology of PCOS as an epigenetic process. These findings could provide valuable insights into the development of more targeted and effective treatment options for PCOS.Copyright © 2023 Kong, Lu, Zhou, Lu, Ren, Jia, Zeng, Huang, Wang, Ma and Chen.
Background: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most frequently occurring lung cancer worldwide, with increasing death rates. It belongs to the non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) type and has a strong association with previous smoking history. Growing evidence has demonstrated the significance of adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing (ATIRE) dysregulation in cancer. The aim of the present study was to evaluate ATIRE events that might be clinically useful or tumorigenic. Methods: To explore survival-related ATIRE events in LUAD, its ATIRE profiles, gene expression data, and corresponding patients' clinical information were downloaded from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the synapse database. We evaluated 10441 ATIRE in 440 LUAD patients from the TCGA database. ATIRE profiles were merged with TCGA survival data. We selected prognostic ATIRE sites, using a univariate Cox analysis (p < 0.001). Cox proportional hazards regression and lasso regression analysis were used to determine survival-related ATIRE sites, create risk ratings for those sites, and build a prognostic model and a nomogram for assessing overall survival (OS). Six ATIRE sites were used in the prognostic model construction and patients were randomly divided into a validation cohort (n = 176) and a training cohort (n = 264). The "Pheatmap" program was used to create risk curves that included risk score, survival time, and expression of ATIRE sites. We also determined the clinical prediction model's discrimination. The decision curve analysis and the 1-, 2-, and 3-year corrective curves were simultaneously used to evaluate the nomogram. We also evaluated the relationship between the amount of ATIRE sites and host gene expression and the impact of ATIRE expression on transcriptome expression. Results: The pyroglutamyl-peptidase I (PGPEP1) chr19:18476416A > I, ankyrin repeat domain 36B pseudogene 1 (ANKRD36BP1) (dist = 3,795), T-box transcription factor (TBX19) (dist = 29815) chr1:168220463A > I, Syntrophin Beta 2 (SNTB2) chr16:69338598A > I, hook microtubule-tethering protein 3 (HOOK3) chr8:42883441A > I, NADH dehydrogenase flavoprotein 3 (NDUFV3) chr21:44329452A > I, and FK506-binding protein 11 (FKBP11) chr12:49316769A > I were used in the prognostic model construction. High levels of risk score were significantly associated with worse OS and progression-free survival. Tumour stage and risk score were related to OS in LUAD patients. The predictors were among the prognostic nomogram model's risk score, age, gender, and tumor stage. The calibration plot and C-index (0.718) demonstrated the significant accuracy of nomogram's predictions. ATIRE level was markedly elevated in tumor tissues and was highly variable between patients. Conclusion: Events involving ATIRE in LUAD were highly functional and clinically relevant. The RNA editing-based model provides a solid framework for further investigation of the functions of RNA editing in non-coding areas and may be used as a unique method for predicting LUAD survival.Copyright © 2023 Shi, Chen, Wang, Guo, He and Chen.
Recent studies suggest that RNA editing is associated with impaired brain function and neurological and psychiatric disorders. However, the role of A-to-I RNA editing during sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE) remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing in postmortem brain tissues from septic patients and controls. A total of 3024 high-confidence A-to-I RNA editing sites were identified. In sepsis, there were fewer A-to-I RNA editing genes and editing sites than in controls. Among all A-to-I RNA editing sites, 42 genes showed significantly differential RNA editing, with 23 downregulated and 19 upregulated in sepsis compared to controls. Notably, more than 50% of these genes were highly expressed in the brain and potentially related to neurological diseases. Notably, cis-regulatory analysis showed that the level of RNA editing in six differentially edited genes was significantly correlated with the gene expression, including HAUS augmin-like complex subunit 2 (HAUS2), protein phosphatase 3 catalytic subunit beta (PPP3CB), hook microtubule tethering protein 3 (HOOK3), CUB and Sushi multiple domains 1 (CSMD1), methyltransferase-like 7A (METTL7A), and kinesin light chain 2 (KLC2). Furthermore, enrichment analysis showed that fewer gene functions and KEGG pathways were enriched by edited genes in sepsis compared to controls. These results revealed alteration of A-to-I RNA editing in the human brain associated with sepsis, thus providing an important basis for understanding its role in neuropathology in SAE.Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Pan, Wei, Ren, Ru, Xia, He, Lin and Chen.
As previously reported, midazolam anesthesia exerts tumor-suppressing effects in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but the regulating effects of this drug on cisplatin-resistance in NSCLC have not been studied. Thus, we designed this study to investigate this issue and preliminarily delineate the potential molecular mechanisms.We performed MTT assay and trypan blue staining assay to measure cell proliferation and viability. Cell apoptosis was examined by FCM. qRT-PCR and immunoblotting were performed to determine the expression levels of genes. The targeting sites between genes were predicted by bioinformatics analysis and were validated by dual-luciferase reporter gene system assay. Mice tumor-bearing models were established and the tumorigenesis was evaluated by measuring tumor weight and volume. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to examine the pro-proliferative Ki67 protein expressions in mice tumor tissues.The cisplatin-resistant NSCLC (CR-NSCLC) cells were treated with high-dose cisplatin (50 μg/ml) and low-dose midazolam (10 μg/ml), and the results showed that midazolam suppressed cell proliferation and viability, and promoted cell apoptosis in cisplatin-treated CR-NSCLC cells. In addition, midazolam enhanced cisplatin-sensitivity in CR-NSCLC cell via modulating the miR-194-5p/hook microtubule-tethering protein 3 (HOOK3) axis. Specifically, midazolam upregulated miR-194-5p, but downregulated HOOK3 in the CR-NSCLC cells, and further results validated that miR-194-5p bound to the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of HOOK3 mRNA for its inhibition. Also, midazolam downregulated HOOK3 in CR-NSCLC cells by upregulating miR-194-5p. Functional experiments validated that both miR-194-5p downregulation and HOOK3 upregulation abrogated the promoting effects of midazolam on cisplatin-sensitivity in CR-NSCLC cells.Taken together, this study found that midazolam anesthesia reduced cisplatin-resistance in CR-NSCLC cells by regulating the miR-194-5p/HOOK3 axis, implying that midazolam could be used as adjuvant drug for NSCLC treatment in clinical practices.© 2021. The Author(s).
Melanosomes play a pivotal role in skin color and photoprotection. In contrast to the well-elucidated pathway of melanosome biogenesis, the process of melanosome degradation, referred to as melanophagy, is largely unexplored. Previously, we discovered that 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamate thymol ester (TCTE) effectively inhibits skin pigmentation by activating melanophagy. In this study, we discovered a new regulatory signaling cascade that controls melanophagy in TCTE-treated melanocytes. ITCH (itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase) facilitates ubiquitination of the melanosome membrane protein MLANA (melan-A) during TCTE-induced melanophagy. This ubiquitinated MLANA is then recognized by an autophagy receptor protein, OPTN (optineurin). Additionally, a phospho-kinase antibody array revealed that TCTE activates PTK2 (protein tyrosine kinase 2), which phosphorylates ITCH, enhancing the ubiquitination of MLANA. Furthermore, inhibition of either PTK2 or ITCH disrupts the ubiquitination of MLANA and the MLANA-OPTN interaction in TCTE-treated cells. Taken together, our findings highlight the critical role of the PTK2-ITCH-MLANA-OPTN cascade in orchestrating melanophagy progression.Abbreviations: α-MSH: alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone; dichlone: 2,3-dichloro-1,4-naphthoquinone; ITCH: itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; MITF: melanocyte inducing transcription factor; MLANA: melan-A; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; OPTN: optineurin; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PTK2: protein tyrosine kinase 2; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCTE: 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamate thymol ester; TPC2: two pore segment channel 2; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1.
Nearly fifty million older people suffer from neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer (AD) and Parkinson (PD) disease, a global burden expected to triple by 2050. Such an imminent "neurological pandemic" urges the identification of environmental risk factors that are hopefully avoided to fight the disease. In 2022, strong evidence in mouse models incriminated defective lysosomal acidification and impairment of the autophagy pathway as modifiable risk factors for dementia. To date, the most prescribed lysosomotropic drugs are proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), chloroquine (CQ), and the related hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), which belong to the group of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). This commentary aims to open the discussion on the possible mechanisms connecting the long-term prescribing of these drugs to the elderly and the incidence of neurodegenerative diseases.Abbreviations: AD: Alzheimer disease; APP-βCTF: amyloid beta precursor protein-C-terminal fragment; BACE1: beta-secretase 1; BBB: brain blood barrier; CHX: Ca2+/H+ exchanger; CMI: cognitive mild impairment; CQ: chloroquine; DMARD: disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs; GBA1: glucosylceramidase beta 1; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; HPLC: high-performance liquid chromatography; LAMP: lysosomal associated membrane protein; MAPK/JNK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MAPT: microtubule associated protein tau; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NRBF2: nuclear receptor binding factor 2; PANTHOS: poisonous flower; PD: Parkinson disease; PIK3C3: phosphatIdylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PPI: proton pump inhibitor; PSEN1: presenilin 1, RUBCN: rubicon autophagy regulator; RUBCNL: rubicon like autophagy enhancer; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TMEM175: transmembrane protein 175; TPCN2: two pore segment channel 2; VATPase: vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase; VPS13C: vacuolar protein sorting ortholog 13 homolog C; VPS35: VPS35 retromer complex component; WDFY3: WD repeat and FYVE domain containing 3; ZFYVE1: zinc finger FYVE-type containing 1.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is frequently associated with neurological deficits, but how severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) induces these effects remains unclear. Here, we show that astrocytes are readily infected by SARS-CoV-2, but surprisingly, neuropilin-1, not angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), serves as the principal receptor mediating cell entry. Infection is further positively modulated by the two-pore segment channel 2 (TPC2) protein that regulates membrane trafficking and endocytosis. Astrocyte infection produces a pathological response closely resembling reactive astrogliosis characterized by elevated type I interferon (IFN) production, increased inflammation, and the decreased expression of transporters of water, ions, choline, and neurotransmitters. These combined events initiated within astrocytes produce a hostile microenvironment that promotes the dysfunction and death of uninfected bystander neurons. IMPORTANCE SARS-CoV-2 infection primarily targets the lung but may also damage other organs, including the brain, heart, kidney, and intestine. Central nervous system (CNS) pathologies include loss of smell and taste, headache, delirium, acute psychosis, seizures, and stroke. Pathological loss of gray matter occurs in SARS-CoV-2 infection, but it is unclear whether this is due to direct viral infection, indirect effects associated with systemic inflammation, or both. Here, we used induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived brain organoids and primary human astrocytes from the cerebral cortex to study direct SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our findings support a model where SARS-CoV-2 infection of astrocytes produces a panoply of changes in the expression of genes regulating innate immune signaling and inflammatory responses. The deregulation of these genes in astrocytes produces a microenvironment within the CNS that ultimately disrupts normal neuron function, promoting neuronal cell death and CNS deficits.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35796003 is a review article
Secretory granules are key elements for platelet functions. Their biogenesis and integrity are regulated by fine-tuned mechanisms that need to be fully characterized. Here, we investigated the role of the phosphoinositide 5-kinase PIKfyve and its lipid products, PtdIns5P (phosphatidylinositol 5 monophosphate) and PtdIns(3,5)P2 (phosphatidylinositol (3,5) bisphosphate) in granule homeostasis in megakaryocytes and platelets.For that, we invalidated PIKfyve by pharmacological inhibition or gene silencing in megakaryocytic cell models (human MEG-01 cell line, human imMKCLs, mouse primary megakaryocytes) and in human platelets.We unveiled that PIKfyve expression and its lipid product levels increased with megakaryocytic maturation. In megakaryocytes, PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)P2 were found in alpha and dense granule membranes with higher levels in dense granules. Pharmacological inhibition or knock-down of PIKfyve in megakaryocytes decreased PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)P2 synthesis and induced a vacuolar phenotype with a loss of alpha and dense granule identity. Permeant PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)P2 and the cation channel TRPML (transient receptor potential mucolipin) 1 and TPC (two pore segment channel) 2 activation were able to accelerate alpha and dense granule integrity recovery following release of PIKfyve pharmacological inhibition. In platelets, PIKfyve inhibition specifically impaired the integrity of dense granules culminating in defects in their secretion, platelet aggregation, and thrombus formation.These data demonstrated that PIKfyve and its lipid products PtdIns5P and PtdIns(3,5)P2 control granule integrity both in megakaryocytes and platelets.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease, and the mechanism of SLE is yet to be fully elucidated. The aim of this study was to explore the role of two-pore segment channel 2 (TPCN2) in SLE pathogenesis.Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to detect the expression of TPCN2 in SLE. We performed a loss-of-function assay by lentiviral construct in Jurkat and THP-1 cell. Knockdown of TPCN2 were confirmed at the RNA level by qRT-PCR and protein level by Western blotting. Cell Count Kit-8 and flow cytometry were used to analyze the cell proliferation, apoptosis, and cell cycle of TPCN2-deficient cells. In addition, gene expression profile of TPCN2-deficient cells was analyzed by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq).TPCN2 knockdown with short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated lentiviruses inhibited cell proliferation, and induced apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest of G2/M phase in both Jurkat and THP-1 cells. We analyzed the transcriptome of knockdown-TPCN2-Jurkat cells, and screened the differential genes, which were enriched for the G2/M checkpoint, complement, and interleukin-6-Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription pathways, as well as changes in levels of forkhead box O, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B/mechanistic target of rapamycin, and T cell receptor pathways; moreover, TPCN2 significantly influenced cellular processes and biological regulation.TPCN2 might be a potential protective factor against SLE.Copyright © 2022 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Aβ: β-amyloid; AD: Alzheimer disease; AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; ALP: autophagy-lysosomal pathway; APP: amyloid beta precursor protein; ATP6V1B1/V-ATPase V1b1: ATPase H+ transporting V1 subunit B1; AVs: autophagy vacuoles; BAF: bafilomycin A1; CFC: contextual/cued fear conditioning assay; CHX: Ca2+/H+ exchanger; CTF-β: carboxy-terminal fragment derived from β-secretase; CTSD: cathepsin D; fAD: familial Alzheimer disease; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LTP: long-term potentiation; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAPT: microtubule associated protein tau; MWM: Morris water maze; NFT: neurofibrillary tangles; PFC: prefrontal cortex; PSEN1: presenilin 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBS: theta burst stimulation; TEM: transmission electronic microscopy; TPCN2/TPC2: two pore segment channel 2; WT: wild-type; V-ATPase: vacuolar type H+-ATPase.
Cardiac fibrosis occurs in most cardiac diseases, which reduces cardiac muscle compliance, impairs both systolic and diastolic heart function and, ultimately, leads to heart failure. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have recently emerged as important regulators of a variety of biological processes; however, little is known about the expression and function of lncRNAs in cardiac fibrosis. Using unbiased transcriptome profiling in a mouse model of myocardial infarction (MI), we identified a cardiac fibroblast-enriched lncRNA (AK048087) named cardiac fibroblast-associated transcript (Cfast), which is significantly elevated after MI. Silencing Cfast expression by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) or lentiviral short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) resulted in suppression of fibrosis-related gene expression and transdifferentiation of myofibroblasts into cardiac fibroblasts. Depletion of Cfast by lentiviral shRNAs in mouse hearts significantly attenuated cardiac fibrosis induced by MI or isoproterenol-infusion. Importantly, inhibition of Cfast ameliorated cardiac function following cardiac injury. RNA pull-down followed by mass spectrometry analyses identified COTL1 (coactosin-like 1) as one of the Cfast interacting proteins. Mechanistically, Cfast competitively inhibits the COTL1 interaction with TRAP1 (transforming growth factor-β receptor-associated protein 1), which enhances TGF-β signaling by augmenting SMAD2/SMAD4 complex formation. Therefore, our study identifies Cfast as a novel cardiac fibroblast-enriched lncRNA that regulates cardiac fibroblast activation in response to pathophysiological stress. Cfast could serve as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention of cardiac fibrosis and cardiac diseases.© 2020 The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, primarily due to tumor metastasis. A recent study in the World Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology identifies charged multivesicular body protein 7 (CHMP7) as a key prognostic factor in CRC. The study showed that CHMP7 expression is significantly lower in patients with CRC with metastasis and in highly metastatic cell lines, correlating with clinical factors like normal tissue, metastatic tumors, pathologic stage, and lymphatic invasion. Higher CHMP7 expression was linked to improved overall survival, highlighting its potential as a predictive biomarker. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis also suggests the role of CHMP7 in metastasis-related pathways, paving the way for further mechanistic studies. This finding challenges current CRC management strategies and calls for larger, prospective studies to validate the role of CHMP7. As a potential target for novel diagnostics and therapies, CHMP7 could advance personalized medicine in CRC, bridging molecular insights with clinical outcomes to improve patient prognosis.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Metastasis is the main reason leading to death in colorectal cancer (CRC) and about 25% of CRC patients developed metastasis when first diagnosed. Thus, unveiling biomarkers of CRC metastasis is of great significance.To reveal biomarkers of CRC metastasis.Weighted gene co-expression network analysis was conducted to identify metastatic biomarkers in CRC through a systematic analysis of the GSE29621 dataset. Comprehensive validation was performed subsequently using publicly available datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus and supplemented with experimental verification in CRC cell lines. Moreover, the identified hub gene charged multivesicular body protein 7 (CHMP7) was further subjected to clinical correlation analysis via Kaplan-Meier survival curves and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis to assess its prognostic significance and potential mechanistic involvement in CRC progression.CHMP7 was identified as a key metastatic biomarker of CRC which displayed lower expression in CRC tissues, especially in CRC patients with metastasis and CRC cell lines with high metastasis potential. The expression of CHMP7 was significantly correlated with normal, metastatic tumor, pathologic stage, and lymphatic invasion (P < 0.05). CRC patients with higher expression of CHMP7 exhibited better overall survival. Besides, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis results showed that CHMP7 might be involved in metastatic related pathways.Our results indicate that CHMP7 might be a prognostic biomarker correlated with CRC metastasis.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is linked to the reduction of certain nucleoporins in neurons. Increased nuclear localization of charged multivesicular body protein 7 (CHMP7), a protein involved in nuclear pore surveillance, has been identified as a key factor damaging nuclear pores and disrupting transport. Using CRISPR-based microRaft, followed by gRNA identification (CRaft-ID), we discovered 55 RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) that influence CHMP7 localization, including SmD1, a survival of motor neuron (SMN) complex component. Immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) and enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (CLIP) analyses revealed CHMP7's interactions with SmD1, small nuclear RNAs, and splicing factor mRNAs in motor neurons (MNs). ALS induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-MNs show reduced SmD1 expression, and inhibiting SmD1/SMN complex increased CHMP7 nuclear localization. Crucially, overexpressing SmD1 in ALS iPSC-MNs restored CHMP7's cytoplasmic localization and corrected STMN2 splicing. Our findings suggest that early ALS pathogenesis is driven by SMN complex dysregulation.Copyright © 2024 University of California San Diego. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chromosome-containing micronuclei are a hallmark of aggressive cancers. Micronuclei frequently undergo irreversible collapse, exposing their enclosed chromatin to the cytosol. Micronuclear rupture catalyzes chromosomal rearrangements, epigenetic abnormalities, and inflammation, yet mechanisms safeguarding micronuclear integrity are poorly understood. In this study, we found that mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS) disrupt micronuclei by promoting a noncanonical function of charged multivesicular body protein 7 (CHMP7), a scaffolding protein for the membrane repair complex known as endosomal sorting complex required for transport III (ESCRT-III). ROS retained CHMP7 in micronuclei while disrupting its interaction with other ESCRT-III components. ROS-induced cysteine oxidation stimulated CHMP7 oligomerization and binding to the nuclear membrane protein LEMD2, disrupting micronuclear envelopes. Furthermore, this ROS-CHMP7 pathological axis engendered chromosome shattering known to result from micronuclear rupture. It also mediated micronuclear disintegrity under hypoxic conditions, linking tumor hypoxia with downstream processes driving cancer progression.
This study aimed to understand the prognosis of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and to develop and validate a prognostic model for HNSCC based on pyroptosis-associated genes (PAGs) in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The Cancer Genome Atlas database was used to identify differentially expressed PAGs. These genes were analyzed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes functional annotation analyses and Gene Ontology analyses. The NLR family pyrin domain containing 1 (NLRP1) gene, charged multivesicular body protein 7 (CHMP7) gene, and cytochrome C (CYCS) gene were used to create a prognostic model for HNSCC. The results of the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) and Cox regression analyses indicated that the developed model served as an independent risk factor for HNSCC. According to the K-M analysis, the overall survival of high-risk patients was lower than that of low-risk patients. The hazard ratios corresponding to the risk scores determined using the multivariate and univariate Cox regression analyses were 1.646 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.189-2.278) and 1.724 (95% CI: 1.294-2.298), respectively, and the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve was 0.621. The potential mechanisms associated with the functions of the identified genes were then identified, and the tumor microenvironment and levels of immune cell infiltration achieved were analyzed. The immune infiltration analysis revealed differences in the distribution of Th cells, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, regulatory T cells, follicular helper T cells, adipose-derived cells, interdigitating dendritic cells, CD8+ T cells, and B cells. However, validating bioinformatics analyses through biological experiments is still recommended. This study developed a prognostic model for HNSCC that included NLRP1, CHMP7, and CYCS.Copyright © 2022 Chen, Luo, Kang, Sun, Jiang, Yi, Yan, Chen and Shi.
Charged multivesicular body protein 7 is briefly referred to as CHMP7, and it plays a significant role in the endosomal sorting pathway. CHMP7 can form a complex with ESCRTIII to jointly complete the process of contraction, shear bud neck and final membrane shedding.TCGA, GEO and CPTAC were chosen for the analysis of the role of CHMP7 in pan-cancer. Role of CHMP7 in pan-cancer was analyzed using R software and tools such as TIMER, GEPIA, UALCAN, String and DiseaseMeth. It includes differential expression analysis of CHMP7, survival analysis, genetic variation analysis, DNA methylation analysis, post-translationally modified protein phosphorylation analysis and functional enrichment analysis.CHMP7 presents low expression in the majority of tumor tissues and the prognosis is poor in the low expression group. The common gene mutation in CHMP7 is deep deletion, which may lead to frameshift mutations, resulting in a poor prognosis. Functional alterations due to DNA methylation and post-transcriptional protein modifications may be closely associated with tumors. GO analysis revealed that CHMP7-related genes are involved in the composition of the various ESCRT complexes. In terms of molecular function, they mainly bind to GTP, exert GTPase activity and promote multivesicular bodies assembly. In the KEGG enrichment analysis, the main pathways expressed by CHMP7 and related genes were endocytosis, gap junction and phagosome.Pan-cancer analysis showed that CHMP7 expression was statistically correlated with clinical prognosis, DNA methylation, protein phosphorylation and immune cell infiltration, which may provide new ideas or targets for the diagnosis or treatment.© 2021 Guo et al.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) carries a substantial risk of recurrence and metastasis, posing significant threats to patients' health and quality of life. Centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55) has been demonstrated to exhibit elevated expression levels in TNBC. However, its molecular regulatory mechanism in TNBC remains unclear.Bioinformatics databases, qRT-PCR, and Western blot were employed to analyze CEP55 expression in TNBC tissues and cells. EdU assays, flow cytometry, and Transwell assays were utilized to monitor cell proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion. Subsequently, macrophage polarization was detected by flow cytometry. Fe2+, malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were determined using corresponding kits. Immunoprecipitation (IP) was used to detect the ubiquitination level of CEP55, and co-IP was applied to confirm the interaction between CEP55 and Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 6 (CHMP6). Finally, a xenograft tumor model was established, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) was conducted to evaluate the expression of specific proteins.CEP55 levels were increased in TNBC tissues and cells. Silencing CEP55 repressed TNBC cell proliferation, invasion, and macrophage M2 polarization, and facilitated cell apoptosis and ferroptosis. Additionally, ubiquitin-specific protease 8 (USP8) maintained CEP55 stability through deubiquitination, and CEP55 overexpression reversed the cellular effects caused by USP8 knockdown. Moreover, CEP55 bound to CHMP6 to promote its expression, thereby facilitating the malignant progression of TNBC cells. CEP55 overexpression abolished the inhibitory influence of USP8 silencing on tumor growth in vivo.USP8 stabilized CEP55 expression through deubiquitination, and CEP55 further promoted CHMP6 expression to inhibit ferroptosis progression, thereby facilitating macrophage M2 polarization and malignant biological behaviors of TNBC cells.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Charged multivesicular body protein 4C (CHMP4C), as a subunit of endosomal sorting complex required for transport-III, is important for the abscission checkpoint in cell division, preventing premature cell division and genetic damage. The present study aimed to assess the role of CHMP4C in cervical cancer and the associated mechanisms. The levels of CHMP4C in normal and cervical cancer tissues were detected by immunohistochemistry. The MTT assay, apoptosis, wound-healing assay, and cell invasion assay were performed. Western blotting was performed to analyze the level of cancer-related proteins following CHMP4C downregulation and the CHMP4C expression following E6 downregulation and miR-543 upregulation. The transfection effectiveness of siRNA, plasmid, and miRNA mimic as well as the expression of miR-543 after silencing E6 were assessed by RT-PCR. The dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to demonstrate a connection site between CHMP4C and miR-543. The results demonstrated that CHMP4C expression in cervical cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in normal tissues. Furthermore, downregulation of CHMP4C expression significantly reduced the proliferation, migration and invasion of cervical cancer cells and significantly increased the rate of apoptosis compared to the si-scramble group. Comparison with the si-scramble group, silencing CHMP4C expression also significantly reduced the expression of Bcl2, Bcl-xL and Survivin, and was associated with a significant increase in Caspase-7 expression. After the knockdown of human papillomavirus (HPV)-encoded E6, in comparison to the si-scramble group, microRNA (miR)-543 expression was significantly elevated and CHMP4C expression significantly decreased. Moreover, a connection site was detected between miR-543 and CHMP4C. These findings indicate that CHMP4C accelerates the tumorigenesis and progression of cervical cancer through the HPV E6/miR-543 axis.Copyright: © 2025 Liu et al.
Objective: To investigate the immune mechanism of osteosarcoma (OS)-specific markers to mitigate bone destruction in the aggressive OS, prone to recurrence and metastasis. Methods: Gene expression patterns from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (GSE126209) were analyzed using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) modeling, and survival analysis to identify charged multivesicular body protein 4C (CHMP4C). Subsequently, its role in regulating the immune system and immune cell infiltration was explored. CHMP4C expression and signaling molecules in OS were assessed in osteosarcoma cell lines (MG63, U2OS, HOS) and hFOB1.19 cells using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunofluorescence staining. The impact of CHMP4C upregulation and interference on OS-related signaling molecules in MG63 cells was studied. Functional validation of CHMP4C in MG63 OS cells was confirmed through cell counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell, and colony formation assays. In vivo experiments were conducted using Specific Pathogen Free (SPF)-grade male BALB/C nude mice for OS xenograft studies. Results: Based on the gene expression profiles analysis of six osteosarcoma samples and six normal tissue samples, we identified 1,511 upregulated DEGs and 5,678 downregulated DEGs in normal tissue samples. A significant positive correlation between the "yellow-green" module and OS was found through WGCNA analysis. Expression levels of CHMP4C, phosphorylated Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3β (p-GSK3β), and β-catenin were notably higher in U2OS, HOS, and MG63 OS cells than in hFOB1.19 human osteoblasts. Overexpressing CHMP4C in MG63 OS cells upregulated CHMP4C, p-GSK3β, and β-catenin while downregulating GSK3β, leading to increased proliferation and migration of MG63 cells. Conversely, interrupting CHMP4C had the opposite effect. High expression of CHMP4C significantly accelerated the growth of OS in nude mice, resulting in substantial upregulation of CHMP4C, p-GSK3β, and β-catenin expression and suppression of Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3β (GSK3β) expression in OS tissues. Conclusion: CHMP4C may serve as a specific immunomodulatory gene for OS. Its activation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, mainly by increasing the phosphorylation echelon of GSK3β, promotes the invasion and spread of OS.Copyright © 2024 Jiang, Zhao, Zang, Wang, Gao, Chen and Yu.
Cardiac hypertrophy and subsequent heart failure impose a considerable burden on public health worldwide. Impaired protein degradation, especially endo-lysosome-mediated degradation of membrane proteins, is associated with cardiac hypertrophy progression. CHMP4C (charged multivesicular body protein 4C), a critical constituent of multivesicular bodies, is involved in cellular trafficking and signaling. However, the specific role of CHMP4C in the progression of cardiac hypertrophy remains largely unknown.Mouse models with CHMP4C knockout or cardiadc-specific overexpression were subjected to transverse aortic constriction surgery for 4 weeks. Cardiac morphology and function were assessed through histological staining and echocardiography. Confocal imaging and coimmunoprecipitation assays were performed to identify the direct target of CHMP4C. An EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) inhibitor was administrated to determine whether effects of CHMP4C on cardiac hypertrophy were EGFR dependent.CHMP4C was significantly upregulated in both pressure-overloaded mice and spontaneously hypertensive rats. Compared with wild-type mice, CHMP4C deficiency exacerbated transverse aortic constriction-induced cardiac hypertrophy, whereas CHMP4C overexpression in cardiomyocytes attenuated cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, the effect of CHMP4C on cardiac hypertrophy relied on the EGFR signaling pathway. Fluorescent staining and coimmunoprecipitation assays confirmed that CHMP4C interacts directly with EGFR and promotes lysosome-mediated degradation of activated EGFR, thus attenuating cardiac hypertrophy. Notably, an EGFR inhibitor canertinib counteracted the exacerbation of cardiac hypertrophy induced by CHMP4C knockdown in vitro and in vivo.CHMP4C represses cardiac hypertrophy by modulating lysosomal degradation of EGFR and is a potential therapeutic candidate for cardiac hypertrophy.
The prognosis of bladder cancer (BLCA) and response to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are determined by multiple factors. Existed biomarkers for predicting the effect of immunotherapy cannot accurately predict the response of BLCA patients to ICIs.To further accurately stratify patients' response to ICIs and identify potential novel predictive biomarkers, we used the known T cell exhaustion (TEX)-related specific pathways, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin (IL)-2, interferon (IFN)-g, and T- cell cytotoxicpathways, combined with weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) to analyze the characteristics of TEX in BLCA in detail, constructed a TEX model.This model including 28 genes can robustly predict the survival of BLCA and immunotherapeutic efficacy. This model could divide BLCA into two groups, TEXhigh and TEXlow, with significantly different prognoses, clinical features, and reactivity to ICIs. The critical characteristic genes, such as potential biomarkers Charged Multivesicular Body Protein 4C (CHMP4C), SH2 Domain Containing 2A (SH2D2A), Prickle Planar Cell Polarity Protein 3 (PRICKLE3) and Zinc Finger Protein 165 (ZNF165) were verified in BLCA clinical samples by real-time quantitative chain reaction (qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC).Our findings show that the TEX model can serve as biological markers for predicting the response to ICIs, and the involving molecules in the TEX model might provide new potential targets for immunotherapy in BLCA.Copyright © 2023 Xue, Zhao, Pu and Jiao.
Abscission, the final stage of cytokinesis, occurs when the cytoplasmic canal connecting two emerging daughter cells is severed either side of a large proteinaceous structure, the midbody. Here, we expand the functions of ATR to include a cell-cycle-specific role in abscission, which is required for genome stability. All previously characterized roles for ATR depend upon its recruitment to replication protein A (RPA)-coated single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). However, we establish that in each cell cycle ATR, as well as ATRIP, localize to the midbody specifically during late cytokinesis and independently of RPA or detectable ssDNA. Rather, midbody localization and ATR-dependent regulation of abscission requires the known abscission regulator-charged multivesicular body protein 4C (CHMP4C). Intriguingly, this regulation is also dependent upon the CDC7 kinase and the known ATR activator ETAA1. We propose that in addition to its known RPA-ssDNA-dependent functions, ATR has further functions in preventing premature abscission.© 2022 The Author(s).
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a promising new therapeutic platform. However, the low cargo-loading efficiency limits their clinical translation. In this study, we developed a high-yield EV cargo-loading device and explored its ability to encapsulate gene editing proteins. A series of fusion protein-based systems were constructed and their cargo loading efficiencies were compared by a NanoGlo luciferase assay. A myristoylated (Myr) peptide tag cloned from the N-terminal region of charged multivesicular body protein 6 (CHMP6), termed Myr(CHMP6), outcompeted CD9, ARRDC1, and other short polypeptides as an active packaging device. As determined by nanoparticle tracking analysis and transmission electron microscopy, the overexpression of Myr(CHMP6) increased small EV (sEV) production in Lenti-X 293T  cells without altering sEV morphology. The high passive packaging efficiency of Myr(CHMP6) was also elucidated for unmodified cargo loading. Western blotting revealed that Myr(CHMP6) facilitated the loading of Cre and Cas9 into sEVs without the generation of packaging device-cargo fusion proteins. Furthermore, Myr(CHMP6)-modified sEVs loaded with Cre or Cas9 promoted gene-editing in recipient cells, as observed using a fluorescence reporter system. Subsequent investigation demonstrated a dose-dependent effect of Myr(CHMP6) tag-induced cargo-loading. Mechanistically, N-myristoylation alone was necessary but not sufficient for the effective packaging of proteins into EVs. Thus, our results indicated that Myr(CHMP6) induces sEV production and may be effective in loading gene editing proteins into sEVs for therapeutic purposes.
Lung cancer is a common kind of human malignancies. Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is a key subtype of lung cancer. Cell cycle plays an important role in the development and occurrence of LUSC, however, there is still a lack of cell cycle-related genes in LUSC diagnosis and prediction of prognosis.We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with "limma" package in R software, and determined the biomarkers of LUSC in diagnosing by performing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, the biomarker effectiveness in diagnosing LUSC was assessed by performing five-fold cross-validation with logistic regression. Kaplan-Meier plot and the nomogram assessed the relationship between the biomarker and patient survival, and WB and qRT-PCR detected the biomarker expression in cells and tissues. Flow cytometry detects the role of the biomarker in the cell cycle.Integration analysis with The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database obtained a unique gene related to cell cycle in LUSC (Charged multivesicular body protein 4C, CHMP4C), and the protein of CHMP4C was highly expressed in LUSC tissues. ROC analysis indicated that CHMP4C was a biomarker for the diagnosis of LUSC. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that CHMP4C might be associated with cell cycle in LUSC. CHMP4C knockdown resulted in S-phase arrest of cells with LUSC. According to the survival rate analysis, CHMP4C overexpression indicated poor prognosis in patients with LUSC.CHMP4C regulates the proliferation process of tumor cells through the cell cycle. It can be used as a potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for LUSC.2021 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.
Cervical cancer (CC) is a prevalent malignancy among women worldwide with considerable incidence and mortality. Recent studies have suggested that the Rab-interacting lysosomal protein-like 2 (RILPL2) acts as a tumor suppressor and plays an inhibitory role in multiple human cancers. However, the potential effect of RILPL2 in CC remains unclear. In our investigation, we found that RILPL2 was downregulated in CC samples and was associated with a favorable outcome. Further findings indicated the interaction between RILPL2 and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), a crucial player regulating glycolysis. Mechanistically, RILPL2 reduced LDHA stability by recruiting TRIM21 to facilitate K48-linked ubiquitination chains of LDHA and promoting LDHA degradation, thereby blocking glycolytic reprogramming and, in turn, inhibiting CC progression and development. Moreover, RILPL2-mediated inhibition of the glycolytic pathway could restrain lactate production, which abolished H3K18 lactylation to induce the downregulation of SOX9 and SMYD2. Consequently, our results suggested that RILPL2 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of CC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sorting Nexin 27 (SNX27), a key regulator of synaptic receptor trafficking and endosomal recycling, has been implicated in maintaining synaptic homeostasis and cognitive function. To date, variants in SNX27 have been reported in a small number of patients across three publications with severe neurodevelopmental phenotypes. However, the genetic and functional landscape of SNX27-related disorders remains poorly understood, and further evidence is needed to confirm its association with disease and to better delineate the associated phenotype. Two unrelated Pakistani families with a total of five affected individuals segregating a neurodevelopmental disorder were investigated via exome or genome sequencing. This revealed a novel homozygous frameshift variant in family I [NM_001330723.2: c.75dup; p. (Ser26Valfs*85)], predicted to be targeted by nonsense-mediated decay. In family II, a novel homozygous missense variant [NM_001330723.2: c.929 T>C; p. (Met310Thr)] was found within the FERM-like region of the SNX27 protein, which is critical for retromer complex interaction. Comparison of five cases described in this study with previously reported six cases reinforces the presence of consistent "core" clinical features-global developmental delay, intellectual disability, speech delay, behavioral abnormalities, seizures, and motor dysfunction in all assessed cases. Other features such as dental anomalies, failure to thrive, and dysmorphisms occurred variably in few. Affected individuals with predicted loss-of-function variants typically presented with a more severe phenotype. Thus, core features of SNX27-related neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) are intellectual disability, developmental, and speech delays. This study, alongside prior reports, augments the genetic and phenotypic spectrum of SNX27-associated NDDs. The novel frameshift variant p.(Ser26Valfs*85) is predicted to severely disrupt SNX27 function, causing profound neurodevelopmental impairment, whereas the missense p.(Met310Thr) in the FERM-like region is associated with a milder phenotype. Comparative analyses with previous reports reveal a spectrum from early lethality to long-term survival with intellectual disability in SNX27-linked families. These findings underscore the importance of SNX27 in neurodevelopment and further validate its link to a neurodevelopmental disorder.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Mast cells (MCs) mediate immune, allergic, and neuroinflammatory responses by releasing inflammatory mediators upon activation through the immunoglobulin E (IgE) receptor FcεRI or innate stimuli acting through Mas-related G protein coupled receptors (Mrgprs). We previously showed that Rab12 negatively regulates mediator release by recruiting the Rab-interacting lysosomal protein (RILP)-dynein complex to the secretory granules (SGs). Because Rab12 also interacts with the RILP-like proteins RILP-L1 and RILP-L2, we examined whether phosphorylation controls Rab12 distribution among its RILP family effectors.Pulldown assays were used to compare the effects of MC activation on Rab12 interactions with its effectors.Here we show that activation by either IgE/antigen or the neuropeptide substance P, which binds to MRGPRX2, induces phosphorylation of the Rab GTPases Rab7 and Rab12. Phosphorylation of both GTPases was sensitive to protein kinase C (PKC) inhibition but resistant to inhibition of the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), a known Rab12 phosphorylating kinase. Furthermore, knockdown of the Leucine-Rich Repeat kinase 1 (LRRK1) suppressed phosphorylation of both Rab7 and Rab12, implicating LRRK1 in their phosphorylation by a PKC-dependent mechanism. Like phosphorylation by LRRK2, LRRK1-mediated phosphorylation of Rab12 increased its affinity for RILP-L1 and RILP-L2 while reducing binding to RILP. In contrast, LRRK1 phosphorylation of Rab7 enhanced its affinity for RILP.Copyright © 2025 Omar-Kabha, Omari, Gorzalczany, Amer-Sarsour, Kleeblatt, Fukuda, Ashkenazi and Sagi-Eisenberg.
SNX27, member of the sorting nexin (SNX) family, carries a unique PDZ domain and mediates recycling of endocytosed transmembrane proteins. SNX27 is critical for neurodevelopmental processes; however, its role in intestine remains unexplored. We aim to determine the previously unknown roles of SNX27 in regulating intestinal homeostasis, epithelial barrier integrity, and inflammatory responses.We used available National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets to analyze SNX27 expression in human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). We generated a novel mouse model of SNX27 conditional deletion from intestinal epithelial cells (SNX27ΔIEC) and challenged these mice with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS).SNX27 expression was significantly lower in human IBD, including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). SNX27ΔIEC mice had significantly lower bodyweight and exhibited increased proliferation and poor differentiation of secretory Paneth and goblet cells. We found reduced mucin layer and downregulation of crucial epithelial barrier proteins β-catenin, E-cadherin, ZO-1, ZO-2, and Claudin10 in SNX27ΔIEC mice. SNX27ΔIEC mice showed high intestinal permeability and spontaneously developed intestinal inflammation. Moreover, SNX27ΔIEC mice were more susceptible towards DSS-induced colitis, compared with the SNX27Loxp mice.Overall, deletion of intestinal epithelial SNX27 weakens barrier functions and promotes inflammation. Our results indicate a novel role of SNX27 in regulating intestinal physiology and protecting against intestinal disorders. Thus, understanding the mechanisms of SNX27 downregulation in IBD will provide insights into new prevention and targets against chronic inflammation.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic diarrhea is a frequent gastrointestinal complication in both type 1 (T1D) and type 2 diabetes (T2D), though the underlying mechanisms differ: T1D is linked to autonomic neuropathy and disrupted transporter regulation, while T2D is often linked to medications and intestinal inflammation. Using streptozotocin-induced mouse models of T1D and T2D, we observed increased luminal fluid in the small intestine of both. Given the role of Na⁺/H⁺ exchanger 3 (NHE3) in fluid absorption and its loss in most diarrheal diseases, we examined NHE3 expression across intestinal segments. In T1D, NHE3 protein was significantly reduced in the duodenum and jejunum without changes in mRNA, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation. In contrast, T2D mice exhibited reduced NHE3 protein and mRNA, restricted to the proximal colon. To investigate mechanisms underlying NHE3 loss in T1D, we evaluated endosomal scaffolding proteins involved in NHE3 trafficking. While our previous work showed that the Sorting Nexin-27 (SNX27)-retromer complex does not regulate NHE3 protein stability, we found that SNX17 was significantly decreased in the small intestine of T1D mice but unchanged in T2D. SNX17 knockdown in SK-CO15 cells reduced NHE3 activity and stability. A GST pull-down assay showed that SNX17 interacts with the C-terminus of NHE3. Mutation of the NHE3 distal NPxY motif disrupted this interaction, leading to reduced NHE3 expression and increased degradation. These findings reveal segment-specific and mechanistically distinct causes of diabetic diarrhea in T1D versus T2D, and identify SNX17 loss as a contributor to reduced NHE3 stability and activity in T1D, likely promoting diabetic diarrhea.
Chronic diarrhea is a frequent gastrointestinal complication in both type 1 (T1D) and type 2 diabetes (T2D), although the underlying mechanisms differ: T1D is linked to autonomic neuropathy and disrupted transporter regulation, whereas T2D is often linked to medications and intestinal inflammation. Using streptozotocin-induced mouse models of T1D and T2D, we observed increased luminal fluid in the small intestine of both. Given the role of Na+/H+ exchanger 3 (NHE3) in fluid absorption and its loss in most diarrheal diseases, we examined the NHE3 expression across intestinal segments. In T1D, the NHE3 protein was significantly reduced in the duodenum and jejunum without changes in mRNA, suggesting posttranscriptional regulation. In contrast, T2D mice exhibited reduced NHE3 protein and mRNA, restricted to the proximal colon. To investigate molecular mechanisms underlying NHE3 loss in T1D, we evaluated endosomal scaffolding proteins involved in NHE3 trafficking. Although our previous work showed that the sorting nexin-27 (SNX27)-retromer complex does not regulate NHE3 protein stability, we found that SNX17 was significantly decreased in the small intestine of T1D mice but unchanged in T2D. SNX17 knockdown in SK-CO15 cells reduced NHE3 activity and stability. A Glutathione S-Transferase (GST) pull-down assay showed that SNX17 interacts with the C-terminus of NHE3. Mutation of the NHE3 distal NPxY motif disrupted this interaction, leading to reduced NHE3 expression and increased degradation. These findings reveal segment-specific and mechanistically distinct causes of diabetic diarrhea in T1D versus T2D and identify SNX17 loss as a contributor to reduced NHE3 stability and activity in T1D, likely promoting diabetic diarrhea.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study identifies distinct mechanisms of impaired sodium absorption contributing to diabetic diarrhea in type 1 and type 2 diabetes. We identify SNX17 as a novel regulator of NHE3 in the small intestine, showing that SNX17 loss in T1D contributes to posttranslational NHE3 destabilization. In contrast, T2D-associated NHE3 downregulation is transcriptional and confined to the colon. These findings reveal region-specific mechanisms of fluid malabsorption in diabetes, with direct implications for the development of targeted therapies.
The prevalence of Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase gene (ALK) fusion is about 5% among patients with lung adenocarcinoma, underscoring the importance of pinpointing distinct fusion variants for optimizing treatment approaches. This is the first reported case of a 74-year-old female with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma, featuring a novel Kinesin Family Member 13A (KIF13A)-ALK fusion, identified via next-generation sequencing (NGS) and confirmed with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Initially undergoing chemotherapy and then crizotinib, she achieved a partial response (PR) before progressing with multiple bone metastases. However, subsequent treatment with alectinib as a third-line option yielded positive results. A stable disease state persisted for an impressive 31 months of progression-free survival (PFS), accompanied by minimal toxicity symptoms. Up until now, a remarkable near 4-year span of overall survival (OS) has been consistently observed and monitored. This report of a KIF13A-ALK fusion case benefit significantly from alectinib with extensive follow-up. The case diversifies the array of ALK fusion partners and holds clinical relevance in refining therapeutic choices for KIF13A-ALK fusion-associated lung cancer.Copyright © 2023 Mo, Cai, Yao, Zhao, Zhang, Liu and Mu.
Type I/III IFNs induce expression of hundreds of IFN-stimulated genes through the JAK/STAT pathway to combat viral infections. Although JAK/STAT signaling is seemingly straightforward, it is nevertheless subjected to complex cellular regulation. In this study, we show that an ubiquitination regulatory X (UBX) domain-containing protein, UBXN6, positively regulates JAK-STAT1/2 signaling. Overexpression of UBXN6 enhanced type I/III IFNs-induced expression of IFN-stimulated genes, whereas deletion of UBXN6 inhibited their expression. RNA viral replication was increased in human UBXN6-deficient cells, accompanied by a reduction in both type I/III IFN expression, when compared with UBXN6-sufficient cells. Mechanistically, UBXN6 interacted with tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) and inhibited IFN-β-induced degradation of both TYK2 and type I IFNR. These results suggest that UBXN6 maintains normal JAK-STAT1/2 signaling by stabilizing key signaling components during viral infection.Copyright © 2021 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.
Hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (Hgs), a key component of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT), has been implicated in many essential biological processes. However, the physiological role of endogenous Hgs in the vascular system has not previously been explored. Here, we have generated brain endothelial cell (EC) specific Hgs knockout mice to uncover the function of Hgs in EC polarity and cerebrovascular stability.Knockout of Hgs in brain ECs led to impaired endothelial apicobasal polarity and brain vessel collapse in mice. We determined that Hgs is essential for recycling of vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin to the plasma membrane, since loss of Hgs blocked trafficking of endocytosed VE-cadherin from early endosomes to recycling endosomes, and impaired the motility of recycling endosomes. Supportively, overexpression of the motor kinesin family member 13A (KIF13A) restored endosomal recycling and rescued abrogated polarized trafficking and distribution of VE-cadherin in Hgs knockdown ECs.These data uncover a novel physiological function of Hgs and support an essential role for the ESCRT machinery in the maintenance of EC polarity and cerebrovascular stability.© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Transverse tubules (T-tubules) are invaginations of the plasma membrane crucial for excitation-contraction coupling. Disruptions in T-tubule organization are frequently observed in heart diseases and are associated with impaired contractile function and malignant arrhythmias. In mammalian cells, the ESCRT (endosomal sorting complex required for transport) proteins mediate a fundamental mechanism for membrane deformation. This study aimed to elucidate the roles of key ESCRT proteins, including Chmp4b (charged multivesicular body protein 4b) and Tsg101 (tumor susceptibility gene 101), in the formation and maintenance of T-tubules.Myocardial-specific gene deletion was achieved using Chmp4bF/F, Tsg101F/F, and Rosa26Cas9-GFP mouse strains in conjunction with adeno-associated virus 9-mediated gene editing. The polymerization state of Chmp4b was assessed through the introduction of point mutations combined with glycerol-gradient fractionation. Direct interaction between Chmp4b and membrane phospholipids was examined using genetically encoded biosensors, lipid strip binding, and liposome tubulation assays. An inducible Chmp4b knockout model was utilized to determine its role in T-tubule maintenance during adulthood. Chmp4b expression levels were analyzed in a heart failure mouse model and in human patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.Chmp4b gradually localizes to the dyad during postnatal development, with its deletion causing a complete loss of T-tubules and defects in cardiac structure and contractile function. Chmp4b polymerizes and binds to PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate) as well as other negatively charged membrane lipids, driving plasma membrane invagination in a process that depends on the ESCRT-I component Tsg101. In mature cardiomyocytes, Chmp4b remains anchored to the T-tubule membranes to maintain their structure, while Tsg101 detaches and becomes dispensable for T-tubule organization. Chmp4b expression was significantly reduced in heart samples from dilated cardiomyopathy patients and in a mouse model of heart failure.These results uncover an ESCRT-mediated membrane deformation machinery that is essential for shaping cardiomyocyte structure in physiological and disease conditions.
Loss of the protein scaffold Coiled-coil and C2 domain containing 1A (CC2D1A) leads to intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and other neurodevelopmental presentations in humans. CC2D1A interactions have been studied in different cell lines proposing diverse roles in endolysosomal maturation and intracellular signaling, but the composition and function of the CC2D1A interactome remain poorly understood, especially in the brain. We performed comprehensive proteomic analyses to characterize CC2D1A binding partners, first comparing immunoprecipitations with three different anti-CC2D1A antibodies in HEK293 cells and then probing the mouse hippocampus. In HEK cells, gene ontology analysis revealed broad interaction networks in the nucleus, mitochondrion, and cytosol with a variety of functions unified by the best characterized CC2D1A interactor, the Endosomal sorting complex required for transport III (ESCRT-III) component Charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B), and reflecting the pleiotropic role of CC2D1A in membrane trafficking and protein signaling. In the hippocampus, using stringent criteria, we identified 41 high-confidence interactors in addition to CHMP4B revealing roles for protein translation, cytoskeletal organization, and synaptic function. The HEK studies had also pointed to Coiled-coil and C2 domain containing 1B (CC2D1B), the only paralog of CC2D1A, as an interactor. We confirmed that not only the two proteins can bind in the brain, but also localize in different synaptic compartments, showing that CC2D1A is uniquely enriched in the post-synapse. This supports a unique function of CC2D1A in regulation of synaptic transmission that could explain the more severe cognitive deficits in humans and mice upon its loss. To our knowledge these findings provide the most comprehensive characterization of the CC2D1A interactome to date, elucidating novel, multifaceted, and dynamic cellular functions, providing potential implications for its role in neurodevelopmental disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The systematic dissection of molecular mechanisms through which aerobic exercise (AE) mitigates neurodegenerative pathologies remains a significant challenge. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by impaired autophagy-lysosomal flux and the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau. We recently identified the β2-adrenergic receptor (β2-AR) as a key mediator of exercise-induced bene = d sought to dissect its role in regulating distinct proteostatic pathways. We revealed that AE activates β2-AR signaling to promote lysosomal acidification via upregulation of VMA21, an essential assembly factor for the vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase) proton pump, thereby facilitating Aβ clearance. Concurrently, AE enhanced autophagosome-lysosome fusion through the β2-AR - retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRα) - charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B) axis, promoting tau degradation. Critically, pharmacological inhibition of β2-AR fully abolished these effects. Here, we propose an integrated mechanism through which β2-AR activation by AE could coordinate dual autophagy-lysosomal recovery processes and suggest that targeting this pathway offers a promising therapeutic strategy for AD and related proteostatic disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Dysregulated cell cycle progression is a hallmark of cancer, promoting uncontrolled cell proliferation. Growth arrest-specific 2 like 3 (GAS2L3), which is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, correlates with poor clinical outcomes. However, the role of GAS2L3 in HCC pathogenesis remains unclear.This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which GAS2L3 contributes to cytokinesis and hyperproliferation of HCC cells.Loss-of-function assays of GAS2L3 were performed to assess midbody assembly, a process essential for cytokinesis. By analyzing protein structure, we predicted liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) potential of GAS2L3, which was validated via fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), time-lapse imaging, and in vitro droplet formation assays. Additionally, we generated an intrinsically disordered region (IDR)-deficient model to investigate the role of IDR in LLPS and its effects on cytokinesis, cell cycle progression, and HCC tumorigenicity.Highly expressed GAS2L3 localizes to the midbody and accelerates the cytokinesis of HCC cells by facilitating the recruitment of the charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B). Notably, EGFP-GAS2L3 aggregates in the midbody exhibit dynamic behavior. Structural analysis and experimental evidence confirm GAS2L3 undergoes phase separation via its IDR. GAS2L3 scaffolds the CHMP4B condensate formation at midbody through phase separation, thereby accelerating cytokinesis in HCC cells. Moreover, GAS2L3 knockdown or IDR deletion in HCC cells leads to defective cytokinesis, G1 arrest, and significant tumorigenicity inhibition.GAS2L3 critically regulates cytokinesis in HCC through LLPS-mediated remodeling of midbody abscission microenvironment. These findings reveal novel insights into HCC hyperproliferation and suggest GAS2L3 as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Deficits in the autophagy-lysosomal pathway facilitate intracellular microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) accumulation in Alzheimer disease (AD). Aerobic exercise (AE) has been recommended as a way to delay and treat AD, but the exact effects and mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Here, we found that AE (8-week treadmill running, 40 min/day, 5 days/week) alleviated autophagy-lysosomal defects and MAPT pathology through the activation of β2-adrenergic receptors (β2-AR) in MAPT P301L mice. Molecular mechanistic investigations revealed that endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) III subunit charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B), which is essential for autophagosome-lysosome fusion, was significantly decreased in the cerebral cortex of AD patients and the hippocampus of MAPT P301L mice. AE restored the levels of CHMP4B, which reversed autophagy-lysosomal defects and reduced MAPT aggregation. Inhibition of β2-AR by propranolol (30 mg/kg, intragastric administration 1 h before each AE session) restrained AE-attenuated MAPT accumulation by inhibiting autophagy-lysosomal flux in MAPT P301L mice. Our findings suggest that AE can alleviate autophagosome-lysosome fusion deficits by promoting the β2-AR-RXRα-CHMP4B-ESCRT-III pathway, reducing pathological MAPT aggregation, which also reveals a novel theoretical basis for AE attenuating AD progression.© 2025 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tris (1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP), a prevalent flame retardant, is associated with neurotoxicity linked to lysosomal damage. Timely repair of damaged lysosomal membranes is crucial for cell survival. This study aimed to elucidate the role of endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-dependent lysosomal membrane repair mechanisms in TDCPP-induced neurotoxicity, focusing on the regulatory roles of apoptosis-linked gene 2 (ALG-2) and ALG-2 interacting protein-X (ALIX) in recruiting ESCRT-III complexes. Using in vitro models of TDCPP exposure in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y and murine astrocyte cell line C8-D1A, we found that TDCPP exposure led to impaired lysosomal membrane repair via ESCRT-dependent mechanisms, disrupted lysosomal membrane integrity, and induced apoptosis. This impairment was characterized by: decreased expression of ALG-2, ALIX, and the ESCRT-III subunit - charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B); reduced recruitment of CHMP4B mediated by ALG-2/ALIX; increased levels of galectin-3 and cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (Cleaved-PARP); and an elevated apoptosis rate. Notably, ALG-2 and ALIX overexpression reinstated CHMP4B accumulation at injury sites, facilitated lysosomal recovery, and mitigated TDCPP-induced lysosomal membrane damage and apoptosis. These findings indicate that TDCPP interferes with ALG-2/ALIX-mediated ESCRT-III recruitment, leading to defective lysosomal membrane repair. Moreover, ALG-2 and ALIX overexpression attenuated TDCPP-induced lysosomal injury, enhancing cell survival. Our findings reveal a novel mechanism by which TDCPP disrupts lysosomal membrane repair through interference with ALG-2/ALIX-mediated ESCRT-III recruitment, providing the molecular mechanisms of TDCPP-induced neurotoxicity and highlighting potential therapeutic strategies for combating TDCPP toxicity.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
An imbalance exists between renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs) injury and repair in kidney stone disease, yet the underlying mechanism remains largely unclear. Here, we found that gasdermin D (GSDMD)-mediated pyroptosis occurred in both patients and mice with calcium oxalate (CaOx) nephrolithiasis, and the expression levels of NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) and GSDMD were associated with the severity of kidney stones. Deficiency of GSDMD alleviated renal tubule damage and inflammatory response, ultimately inhibiting renal injury and crystal deposition. Additionally, we found that charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B)-dependent cell repair was activated during pyroptosis of RTECs; however, the enhancement was insufficient to offset the damage. Importantly, Ca2+ fluxes during pyroptosis induce activation of the CHMP4B-dependent cell repair machinery. Overexpression of CHMP4B attenuates cell death and reduces the severity of kidney stones. Notably, combining the overexpression of CHMP4B with a GSDMD inhibitor demonstrates heightened efficacy in ameliorating kidney damage and crystal deposition induced by glyoxylate (Gly). Taken together, these results highlight the imbalance between GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis and CHMP4B-dependent cell repair as a driver for CaOx kidney stone formation. Our findings provide new insights and potential therapeutic targets for CaOx kidney stones.© The author(s).
This study investigates the effect of dietary Lactobacillus plantarum supplementation on juvenile coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch). Four groups of the juveniles (initial weight 103.87 ± 2.65 g) were fed for 10 weeks with four diets containing 0 (control diet), 105 (T1), 107 (T2), and 109 (T3) cfu/g of L. plantarum. The main results are as follows: Compared with the control diet, the final weight, specific growth rate (SGR), and weight gain rate (WGR) of the juveniles fed the T1, T2, and T3 diet significantly (p < 0.05) increased, while the feed coefficient ratio (FCR) expressed an opposite trend. The activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) in the serum of the juveniles fed the T2 diet significantly (p < 0.05) increased, while the malondialdehyde (MDA) expressed an opposite trend. The expression of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (pi3k), AKT-interacting protein (akt), mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mtor), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (g6pd), sod, cat, and gsh-px genes in the liver of the juveniles fed the T2 diet significantly (p < 0.05) increased. In conclusion, the T2 diet significantly improved the growth performance, antioxidant capacity, and upregulated key mTOR pathway genes in juvenile coho salmon.
Nearly one-third of the global population is affected by cardio-kidney-metabolic (CKM) diseases; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying CKM diseases are poorly understood. Here we show that tissue proteomics provide critical insights not captured by tissue gene expression or blood proteomics information by performing whole-genome and RNA sequencing and proteomics analysis of human kidney samples (n = 337), and we generated a publicly available database. Via Bayesian co-localization and Mendelian randomization analyses of kidney protein quantitative trait loci and 36 CKM genome-wide association studies, we prioritized 89 proteins for CKM traits. We prioritized relationships that could underlie the interconnectedness of CKM traits and discovered multiple and targetable mechanisms for CKM diseases, including the potential role of kidney angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) in serum lipid levels and kidney function as well as the role of charged multivesicular body protein 1A in kidney function and hypertension. Notably, we identify pathways with confluence of evidence from genetic loci, tissue gene expression and protein levels for CKM traits. In summary, our large-scale kidney proteomics study uncovers proteins and targetable mechanisms prioritized for CKM diseases.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Methuosis represents a novel cell death modality characterized by catastrophic cytoplasmic vacuolization in normal and malignant cells. However, the critical role and the underlying mechanism of cytoskeleton and plasma membrane damage in methuotic cells are largely unknown.We found that cytoskeleton protein F-actin, α-tubulin, β-tubulin and filamin A/B were disrupted in a reversible-dependent manner. In addition, RhoA-ROCK1 signaling pathway mediated cytoskeleton disruption in methuotic cells. Excessive cytoplasmic vacuolization triggered cellular plasma membrane damage and the release of damage associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), including lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and calreticulin (CRT). Furthermore, at the end phase of methuotic cells, plasma membrane was damaged independent of pore-forming protein phosphorylation mixed lineage kinase domain-like (p-MLKL) and gasdermin D (GSDMD). Endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III especially its subunit charged multivesicular body protein 3 (CHMP3) and charged multivesicular body protein 5 (CHMP5) negatively regulated excessive vacuolization-induced plasma membrane damage in cells undergoing methuosis.The critical role and potential mechanism of cytoskeleton and plasma membrane damage in methuotic cells are known, which would facilitate the employment of methuosis in life science and pharmacology.© 2025. The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA), the most common joint disease, is linked with chondrocyte apoptosis and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. Charged multivesicular body protein 5 (CHMP5), a member of the multivesicular body, has been reported to serve as an anti-apoptotic protein to participate in leukemia development. However, the effects of CHMP5 on apoptosis and ECM degradation in OA remain unclear.In this study, quantitative proteomics was performed to analyze differential proteins between normal and OA patient articular cartilages. The OA mouse model was constructed by the destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM). In vitro, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) was used to induce OA in human chondrocytes. CHMP5 overexpression and silencing vectors were created using an adenovirus system. The effects of CHMP5 on IL-1β-induced chondrocyte apoptosis were investigated by CCK-8, flow cytometry, and western blot. The effects on ECM degradation were examined by western blot and immunofluorescence. The potential mechanism was explored by western blot and Co-IP assays.Downregulated CHMP5 was identified by proteomics in OA patient cartilages, which was verified in human and mouse articular cartilages. CHMP5 overexpression repressed cell apoptosis and ECM degradation in OA chondrocytes. However, silencing CHMP5 exacerbated OA chondrocyte apoptosis and ECM degradation. Furthermore, we found that the protective effect of CHMP5 against OA was involved in nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway.This study demonstrated that CHMP5 repressed IL-1β-induced chondrocyte apoptosis and ECM degradation and blocked NF-κB activation. It was shown that CHMP5 might be a novel potential therapeutic target for OA in the future.© 2024. The Author(s).
Chondrocyte oxidative stress and apoptosis are critical factors contributing to the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). Methionine sulfoxide reductase B2 (MSRB2) is a mitochondrial protein that protects cells from oxidative stress and is involved in apoptosis. This study aimed to investigated the expression of MSRB2 in articular cartilage tissues and elucidated its effect on H2O2-stimulated chondrocytes.Human chondrocytes were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM)/F12. MSRB2 overexpression in chondrocytes was achieved by transfecting with an MSRB2 overexpression plasmid. Western blot, quantitative RT-PCR, Immunofluorescence staining, and TUNEL assay were employed in this study.MSRB2 expression was found to be reduced in OA patients. Furthermore, overexpression of MSRB2 in H2O2-induced chondrocytes mitigated apoptosis and enhanced cell viability. Elevated MSRB2 expression diminished chondrocyte ROS contents, decreased cytochrome C (Cyc) in the cytoplasm, and regulated mitochondrial membrane potential to maintain mitochondrial homeostasis. Interestingly, knockdown of charged multivesicular body protein 5 (CHMP5) led to a decreased inMSRB2 expression in chondrocytes. Additionally, protein levels of CHMP5 and MSRB2 were reduced in H2O2-stimulated chondrocytes, and silencing CHMP5 reduced MSRB2 expression. Knockdown of CHMP5 increased cleaved caspase-3 expression in H2O2-induced chondrocytes and elevated TUNEL-positive chondrocytes.MSRB2 decreased in OA, and overexpression of MSRB2 alleviated oxidative stress and apoptosis of chondrocyte.
Atherosclerosis (AS) was one of the main causes of death in the elderly, and lesions in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) could lead to AS. CircRNA-charged multivesicular body protein 5 (circ_CHMP5) was reported to participate in the progression of AS.Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to analyze the levels of circ_CHMP5, miR-516b-5p, and transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFβR2) in AS patients or ox-LDL-induced HUVECs. 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine and cell counting kit-8 assays were performed to detect cell proliferation. Proteins expression was assessed by western blot assay. Cell apoptosis was examined by flow cytometry. Tube formation assay was utilized to measure the tube formation ability of HUVCEs. The targeting relationships between miR-516b-5p and circ_CHMP5 or TGFβR2 were confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA-pull down assay.Circ_CHMP5 was enhanced in the serum of AS patients and ox-LDL-exposure HUVECs. Ox-LDL blocked proliferation and tube formation of HUVECs and induced cell apoptosis, and circ_CHMP5 knockdown reversed these effects. In addition, circ_CHMP5 regulated the growth of ox-LDL-induced HUVECs through miR-516b-5p and TGFβR2. Moreover, the effects of circ_CHMP5 knockdown on ox-LDL-induced HUVECs were obviously recovered by downregulation of miR-516b-5p, and overexpression of TGFβR2 restored the effects of miR-516b-5p upregulation on ox-LDL-stimulated HUVECs.Silence of circ_CHMP5 overturned ox-LDL-treated inhibition of HUVECs proliferation and angiogenesis by miR-516b-5p and TGFβR2. These results provided new solutions for the treatment of AS.
It is widely acknowledged that the experience of pain is promoted by both genetic susceptibility and environmental factors such as engaging in physical activity (PA), and that pain-related cognitions are also important. Thus, the purpose of the present study was to test the association of 64 polymorphisms (34 candidate genes) and the gene-gene, gene-PA and gene-sedentary behaviour interactions with pain and pain-related cognitions in women with FM.Saliva samples from 274 women with FM [mean (s.d.) age 51.7 (7.7) years] were collected for extracting DNA. We measured PA and sedentary behaviour by accelerometers for a week, pain with algometry and questionnaires, and pain-related cognitions with questionnaires. To assess the robustness of the results, a meta-analysis was also performed.The rs6311 and rs6313 polymorphisms (5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A, HTR2A) were individually related to algometer scores. The interaction of rs4818 (catechol-O-methyltransferase, COMT) and rs1799971 (opioid receptor μ gene, OPRM1) was related to pain catastrophizing. Five gene-behaviour interactions were significant: the interactions of sedentary behaviour with rs1383914 (adrenoceptor alpha 1A, ADRA1A), rs6860 (charged multivesicular body protein 1A, CHMP1A), rs4680 (COMT), rs165599 (COMT) and rs12994338 (SCN9A) on bodily pain subscale of the Short Form 36. Furthermore, the meta-analysis showed an association between rs4680 (COMT) and severity of FM symptoms (codominant model, P-value 0.032).The HTR2A gene (individually), COMT and OPRM1 gene-gene interaction, and the interactions of sedentary behaviour with ADRA1A, CHMP1A, COMT and SCN9A genes were associated with pain-related outcomes. Collectively, findings from the present study indicate a modest contribution of genetics and gene-sedentary behaviour interaction to pain and pain catastrophizing in women with FM. Future research should examine whether reducing sedentary behaviour is particularly beneficial for reducing pain in women with genetic susceptibility to pain.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology.
The bile salt export pump (BSEP) is a pivotal apical/canalicular bile salt transporter in hepatocytes that drives the bile flow. Defects in BSEP function and canalicular expression could lead to a spectrum of cholestatic liver diseases. One prominent manifestation of BSEP-associated cholestasis is the defective canalicular localization and cytoplasmic retention of BSEP. However, the etiology of impaired BSEP targeting to the canalicular membrane is not fully understood. Our goal was to discover what molecule could interact with BSEP and affect its post-Golgi sorting.The human BSEP amino acids (a.a.) 491-630 was used as bait to screen a human fetal liver cDNA library through yeast two-hybrid system. We identified a BSEP-interacting candidate and showed the interaction and colocalization in the co-immunoprecipitation in hepatoma cell lines and histological staining in human liver samples. Temperature shift assays were used to study the post-Golgi trafficking of BSEP. We further determine the functional impacts of the BSEP-interacting candidate on BSEP in vitro. A hydrodynamically injected mouse model was established for in vivo characterizing the long-term impacts on BSEP.We identified that charged multivesicular body protein 5 (CHMP5), a molecule of the endosomal protein complex required for transport subcomplex-III (ESCRT-III), interacted and co-localized with BSEP in the subapical compartments (SACs) in developing human livers. Cholestatic BSEP mutations in the CHMP5-interaction region have defects in canalicular targeting and aberrant retention at the SACs. Post-Golgi delivery of BSEP and bile acid secretion were impaired in ESCRT-III perturbation or CHMP5-knockdown hepatic cellular and mouse models. This ESCRT-III-mediated BSEP sorting preceded Rab11A-regulated apical cycling of BSEP.Our results showed the first example that ESCRT-III is essential for canalicular trafficking of apical membrane proteins, and provide new targets for therapeutic approaches in BSEP associated cholestasis.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2020.621509.].Copyright © 2026 Frontiers Editorial Office.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) represents a predominant multidrug-resistant pathogen that may cause severe bacterial pneumonia. Alveolar macrophages (AMs) serve as the first defensive line against respiratory infections to maintain tissue homeostasis. Licochalcone D (Lico D), a bioactive flavonoid from Glycyrrhiza uralensis, demonstrates protective efficacy against various pulmonary disorders. However, the potential of Lico D to modulate innate immune responses of AMs against bacterial pneumonia and the underlying mechanisms remain unexplored. We herein demonstrate that Lico D remarkably alleviates MRSA-induced pneumonia and protects AMs from ferroptosis. This protective effect is mediated through the suppression of mitochondrial oxidative stress and, more importantly, modulation of lipid metabolism. Specifically, our data elucidate that Lico D directly targets the vacuolar protein sorting 4 homolog A (VPS4A), a newly identified sensor for lipid droplets (LDs), and disrupts its interaction with LC3 for lipophagy to generate free fatty acids (FFAs). Accordingly, Lico D treatment lessens lipid peroxidation (LPO) and hence ferroptosis of macrophages, leading to efficient antibacterial response and inflammation resolution. Collectively, we uncover the VPS4A-targeting and AMs-protecting effects of Lico D, providing new insights into the pathogenesis of MRSA pneumonia and the treatment of critical biotic-resistant pathogens.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40902544 is a review article
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are linked by shared genetic mutations and overlapping clinical features, forming a clinical spectrum. This systematic review and meta-analysis analysed 97 studies, including 3212 patients with key ALS/FTD gene mutations, to identify gene-specific behavioural profiles. Chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72) mutations were strongly associated with psychotic symptoms and aggression, while superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations had minimal cognitive effects. Progranulin (PGRN) mutations correlated with apathy and hallucinations, microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) mutations with disinhibition, and charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) with social impairments. Fused in sarcoma (FUS) mutations caused early sleep disturbances, TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) led to disinhibition, and presenilin 1 and 2 (PSEN1/2) was linked to severe aggression. Prodromal cognitive changes in PGRN, MAPT, and CHMP2B mutations suggested early disease onset. Despite overlapping symptoms and clinical heterogeneity, understanding gene-specific patterns could inform tailored care strategies to enhance the quality of life for ALS and FTD patients. This study calls for refined guidelines integrating genetic behavioural profiles to improve patient and family support.
Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) infection induces complete mitophagy, which is essential for the clearance of damaged mitochondria. The endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) machinery plays a vital role in mediating phagophore closure and autophagosome-lysosome fusion during starvation-induced autophagy. Nevertheless, its involvement in CSFV-induced mitophagy and the underlying mechanisms remain insufficiently understood. Here, we found that the ESCRT-III subunits including CHMP1A, CHMP1B, and CHMP4B, along with the AAA-ATPase VPS4, were actively recruited to autophagosomes during CSFV-induced mitophagy. Consistent with this, depletion of CHMP1A, CHMP1B, CHMP4B or VPS4A disrupted mitophagic flux, impairing both PINK1-PRKN-dependent and -independent pathways. Further investigations revealed that CSFV transiently recruited these subunits to nascent autophagosomes for phagophore sealing during mitophagy. Remarkably, multiple CSFV nonstructural proteins (NSPs) including NS3, NS4B, NS5A and NS5B interacted with these ESCRT key subunits and colocalized on mitophagosomes. Taken together, our study identifies CHMP1A, CHMP1B, CHMP4B, and VPS4A as pivotal regulators of phagophore closure in CSFV-induced mitophagy, unveiling novel mechanisms by which the virus manipulates host cellular pathways and highlighting potential therapeutic targets for infection control.Abbreviation: ATF4: activating transcription factor 4; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BFP: blue fluorescent protein; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding andcoiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone; CHMP: charged multivesicular body protein; COX4: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CSFV: classical swine fever virus; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DN: dominant-negative; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; hpt: hours post-transfection; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; IB: immunoblotting; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN2: mitofusin 2; MITO: mitochondria; MOI: multiplicity of infection; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; OPTN: optineurin; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RAPA: rapamycin; RFP: redfluorescent protein; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription-quantitativereal-time polymerase chain reaction; RT-PCR: real-time polymerasechain reaction; SD: standard deviation; siCtrl: negative control siRNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; VPS4A: vacuolar protein sorting 4 homolog A; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
Pseudohypoparathyroidism is a rare genetic disorder characterized by hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and elevated serum intact parathyroid hormone levels. The taxonomy of pseudohypoparathyroidism is intricate, with heterogeneous clinical presentations and lack of specificity. A school-age Chinese girl was admitted with a 2-day history of fever and a single episode of seizure, with no clinical features of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy. Physical examination revealed positive Chvostek's and Trousseau's signs, with no other significant abnormalities. Laboratory tests revealed hypocalcemia, elevated intact parathyroid hormone levels, and transient hypokalemia (2.8 mmol/L). Whole-exome sequencing showed a 2.1-Kb deletion of exons 4-6 in syntaxin 16 (STX16); however, her parents did not exhibit any such alterations. The patient was finally diagnosed with pseudohypoparathyroidism and administered calcium gluconate perfusion, calcitriol, and elemental calcium. After discharge, her calcitriol and elemental calcium dosages were gradually tapered in the outpatient setting. By the 1-year follow-up, hypocalcemia had been largely corrected; however, her intact parathyroid hormone level remained above the normal reference range. This case of sporadic pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ib with a 2.1-Kb STX16 deletion underscores that pseudohypoparathyroidism can present as fever-induced seizure with transient hypokalemia, highlighting the importance of metabolic and genetic screening in children who experience seizures.
Platelet hyperreactivity and thrombocytopenia are strongly correlated with elevated mortality rates in sepsis, particularly in cases of septic shock. This study aimed to predict pediatric sepsis and distinguish it from septic shock by profiling the platelet proteome.We conducted a comparative proteomic analysis of platelet protein expression in five individuals with sepsis, five individuals with septic shock and five healthy subjects, utilizing mass spectrometry (DIA-MS).Our proteomic analysis identified that 316 and 83 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in sepsis and septic shock groups, respectively, each compared to the control group. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis unveiled that the DEPs in patients with clinical spectrum of sepsis severity were associated with molecular functions. Comparative Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of DEPs demonstrated distinct spatial enrichment: while 'extracellular region' was the top altered term in sepsis, septic shock patients displayed significant enrichment in 'extracellular region' and 'extracellular space'. KEGG pathway analysis identified enrichment of DEPs in pathways related to 'Lysosome'. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified that a set of ribosomal proteins S27a (40S), L9 (60S), P0, SA, and S3a could serve as potential discriminators between sepsis and healthy subjects. Crucially, Vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) 8, (VAMP)2, Syntaxin-16 and Synaptosomal-associated protein 23 were identified as key candidates with the potential to distinguish sepsis from septic shock.These observed proteomic changes could inform the future biomarker identification for sepsis severity stratification. Importantly, these are preliminary findings from a small sample with limited functional assessments, and their clinical utility requires confirmation in independent, larger cohorts.©2026 Cao et al.
The immune system has developed specialized mechanisms to recognize intracellular pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I-Related molecule (MR1) is a conserved nonclassical antigen presenting molecule that presents ligands derived from microbial riboflavin synthesis to Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells. While endosomal trafficking facilitates MR1 antigen presentation during Mtb infection, the exact mechanisms by which MR1 loading of Mtb-derived ligands occurs are not known. We found that trafficking through sorting endosomes mediates MR1 antigen presentation during Mtb infection. Sorting endosomes utilize trafficking proteins such as Syntaxin 6, Syntaxin 12, Syntaxin 16 and VAMP4. Prior work demonstrates the importance of VAMP4 for MR1 presentation during Mtb infection; we have found that Stx12 and Stx16 are also important. Interference with Stx12 or Stx16 via siRNA-mediated knockdown reduces MR1 antigen presentation of Mtb. Using RFP-tagged constructs, we found Stx16 co-localized more with MR1 vesicles compared to Stx12 in MR1-GFP expressing airway epithelial cells. Stx12 and Stx16 blockade increase MR1 surface stabilization and total expression, indicating that impaired endosomal trafficking hinders MR1 internalization. Together, these findings support a role for sorting endosomes in the selective sampling of the intracellular environment and MR1-mediated recognition of Mtb-infected cells.
The Golgi-localized golgins golgin-97 and golgin-245 capture transport vesicles arriving from endosomes via the protein TBC1D23. The amino-terminal domain of TBC1D23 binds to the golgins, and the carboxyl-terminal domain of TBC1D23 captures the vesicles, but how it recognizes specific vesicles was unclear. A search for binding partners of the carboxyl-terminal domain unexpectedly revealed direct binding to carboxypeptidase D and syntaxin-16, known cargo proteins of the captured vesicles. Binding is via a threonine-leucine-tyrosine (TLY) sequence present in both proteins next to an acidic cluster. A crystal structure reveals how this acidic TLY motif binds to TBC1D23. An acidic TLY motif is also present in the tails of other endosome-to-Golgi cargo, and these also bind TBC1D23. Structure-guided mutations in the carboxyl-terminal domain that disrupt motif binding in vitro also block vesicle capture in vivo. Thus, TBC1D23 attached to golgin-97 and golgin-245 captures vesicles by a previously undescribed mechanism: the recognition of a motif shared by cargo proteins carried by the vesicle.
The ability of insulin to stimulate glucose transport in muscle and fat cells is mediated by the regulated delivery of intracellular vesicles containing glucose transporter-4 (GLUT4) to the plasma membrane, a process known to be defective in disease such as Type 2 diabetes. In the absence of insulin, GLUT4 is sequestered in tubules and vesicles within the cytosol, collectively known as the GLUT4 storage compartment. A subset of these vesicles, known as the 'insulin responsive vesicles' are selectively delivered to the cell surface in response to insulin. We have previously identified Syntaxin16 (Sx16) and its cognate Sec1/Munc18 protein family member mVps45 as key regulatory proteins involved in the delivery of GLUT4 into insulin responsive vesicles. Here we show that mutation of a key residue within the Sx16 N-terminus involved in mVps45 binding, and the mutation of the Sx16 binding site in mVps45 both perturb GLUT4 sorting, consistent with an important role of the interaction of these two proteins in GLUT4 trafficking. We identify Threonine-7 (T7) as a site of phosphorylation of Sx16 in vitro. Mutation of T7 to D impairs Sx16 binding to mVps45 in vitro and overexpression of T7D significantly impaired insulin-stimulated glucose transport in adipocytes. We show that both AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and its relative SIK2 phosphorylate this site. Our data suggest that Sx16 T7 is a potentially important regulatory site for GLUT4 trafficking in adipocytes.©2023 Bremner et al.
Adipocytes play multiple roles in the regulation of glucose metabolism which rely on the regulation of membrane traffic. These include secretion of adipokines and serving as an energy store. Central to their energy storing function is the ability to increase glucose uptake in response to insulin, mediated through translocation of the facilitative glucose transporter GLUT4 to the cell surface. The trans-Golgi reticulum localized SNARE protein syntaxin 16 (Sx16) has been identified as a key component of the secretory pathway required for insulin-regulated trafficking of GLUT4. We used CRISPR/Cas9 technology to generate 3T3-L1 adipocytes lacking Sx16 to understand the role of the secretory pathway on adipocyte function. GLUT4 mRNA and protein levels were reduced in Sx16 knockout adipocytes and insulin stimulated GLUT4 translocation to the cell surface was reduced. Strikingly, neither basal nor insulin-stimulated glucose transport were affected. By contrast, GLUT1 levels were upregulated in Sx16 knockout cells. Levels of sortilin and insulin regulated aminopeptidase were also increased in Sx16 knockout adipocytes which may indicate an upregulation of an alternative GLUT4 sorting pathway as a compensatory mechanism for the loss of Sx16. In response to chronic insulin stimulation, Sx16 knockout adipocytes exhibit elevated insulin-independent glucose transport and significant alterations in lactate metabolism. We further show that the adipokine secretory pathways are impaired in Sx16 knockout cells. Together this demonstrates a role for Sx16 in the control of glucose transport, the response to elevated insulin, cellular metabolic profiles and adipocytokine secretion.Copyright © 2022 Bremner, Al Shammari, Milligan, Hudson, Sutherland, Bryant and Gould.
Neurons are highly specialized cells with a complex morphology generated by various membrane trafficking steps. They contain Golgi outposts in dendrites, which are formed from somatic Golgi tubules. In trafficking membrane fusion is mediated by a specific combination of SNARE proteins. A functional SNARE complex contains four different helices, one from each SNARE subfamily (R-, Qa, Qb and Qc). Loss of the two Qb SNAREs vti1a and vti1b from the Golgi apparatus and endosomes leads to death at birth in mice with massive neurodegeneration in peripheral ganglia and defective axon tracts.Hippocampal and cortical neurons were isolated from Vti1a-/- Vti1b-/- double deficient, Vti1a-/- Vti1b+/-, Vti1a+/- Vti1b-/- and Vti1a+/- Vti1b+/- double heterozygous embryos. Neurite outgrowth was determined in cortical neurons and after stimulation with several neurotrophic factors or the Rho-associated protein kinase ROCK inhibitor Y27632, which induces exocytosis of enlargeosomes, in hippocampal neurons. Moreover, postsynaptic densities were isolated from embryonic Vti1a-/- Vti1b-/- and Vti1a+/- Vti1b+/- control forebrains and analyzed by western blotting.Golgi outposts were present in Vti1a-/- Vti1b+/- and Vti1a+/- Vti1b-/- dendrites of hippocampal neurons but not detected in the absence of vti1a and vti1b. The length of neurites was significantly shorter in double deficient cortical neurons. These defects were not observed in Vti1a-/- Vti1b+/- and Vti1a+/- Vti1b-/- neurons. NGF, BDNF, NT-3, GDNF or Y27632 as stimulator of enlargeosome secretion did not increase the neurite length in double deficient hippocampal neurons. Vti1a-/- Vti1b-/- postsynaptic densities contained similar amounts of scaffold proteins, AMPA receptors and NMDA receptors compared to Vti1a+/- Vti1b+/-, but much more TrkB, which is the receptor for BDNF.The absence of Golgi outposts did not affect the amount of AMPA and NMDA receptors in postsynaptic densities. Even though TrkB was enriched, BDNF was not able to stimulate neurite elongation in Vti1a-/- Vti1b-/- neurons. Vti1a or vti1b function as the missing Qb-SNARE together with VAMP-4 (R-SNARE), syntaxin 16 (Qa-SNARE) and syntaxin 6 (Qc-SNARE) in induced neurite outgrowth. Our data show the importance of vti1a or vti1b for two pathways of neurite elongation.© 2022. The Author(s).
Both constitutive and regulated secretion require cell organelles that are able to store and release the secretory cargo. During development, the larval salivary gland of Drosophila initially produces high amount of glue-containing small immature secretory granules, which then fuse with each other and reach their normal 3-3.5 μm in size. Following the burst of secretion, obsolete glue granules directly fuse with late endosomes or lysosomes by a process called crinophagy, which leads to fast degradation and recycling of the secretory cargo. However, hindering of endosome-to-TGN retrograde transport in these cells causes abnormally small glue granules which are not able to fuse with each other. Here, we show that loss of function of the SNARE genes Syntaxin 16 (Syx16) and Synaptobrevin (Syb), the small GTPase Rab6 and the GARP tethering complex members Vps53 and Scattered (Vps54) all involved in retrograde transport cause intense early degradation of immature glue granules via crinophagy independently of the developmental program. Moreover, silencing of these genes also provokes secretory failure and accelerated crinophagy during larval development. Our results provide a better understanding of the relations among secretion, secretory granule maturation and degradation and paves the way for further investigation of these connections in other metazoans.© 2022 The Authors. Traffic published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35119251 is a review article
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is the most common histologic subtype of esophageal cancer globally. The development of squamous cell carcinoma has important inflammatory influences and effects. We, therefore, examined circulating levels of inflammation- and immune-related proteins for associations with ESCC.We used pre-treatment EDTA plasma from 80 ESCC patients (44% clinical stages I and II) and 80 cancer-free control individuals within the Hospital-based Epidemiologic Research Program at Aichi Cancer Center. Levels of 184 biomarkers were measured by high-throughput multiplexed proximity extension assays using Olink's Proseek Cell Regulation and Immuno-Oncology Panels. ESCC odds ratios (OR) per quantile (based on two to four categories) of each biomarker were calculated by unconditional logistic regression models, adjusted for age, sex, cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption. Correlations among continuous biomarker levels were assessed by Spearman's rank correlation. All statistical tests were two-sided with p values < 0.05 considered as significant. Given the exploratory nature of the study, we did not adjust for multiple comparisons.Seven proteins were undetectable in nearly all samples. Of the remaining 177 evaluable biomarkers, levels of cluster of differentiation 40 (CD40, per quartile OR 1.64; p trend = 0.018), syntaxin 16 (STX16, per quartile OR 1.63; p trend = 0.008), heme oxygenase 1 (per quartile OR 1.59; p trend = 0.014), and γ-secretase activating protein (GSAP, per quartile OR 1.47; p trend = 0.036) were significantly associated with ESCC. Amongst these significant markers, levels of CD40, STX16, and GSPA were moderately correlated (Rho coefficients 0.46-0.55; p < 0.05).Our case-control study expands the range of inflammation and immune molecules associated with ESCC. These novel findings warrant replication and functional characterization.© 2021. This is a U.S. government work and not under copyright protection in the U.S.; foreign copyright protection may apply.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41913024
Increased expression of syntaxin-6, a SNARE protein involved in intracellular protein trafficking, is a proposed genetic risk mechanism for sporadic prion disease and progressive supranuclear palsy, as well as being implicated in Alzheimer's disease. However, no study has validated its functional role in prion disease, its mechanism of action nor explored the disease stage at which it is acting. Here, we show that syntaxin-6 knockdown in cellular models increases cell-associated infectivity, whilst overexpression produces the opposite effect. This observation is broadly consistent across multiple cell types and prion strains. Furthermore, syntaxin-6 knockdown leads to an accumulation of perinuclear disease-related PrP, consistent with a trafficking mechanism, and alters the morphology of disease-related PrP. We demonstrate that syntaxin-6 knockdown reduces the secretion of prions from infected cells, which provides a mechanism for the prion-related cellular phenotypes observed. Complementary in vivo studies showed that syntaxin-6 influences early stages of prion disease in experimental mice, increasing transmission risk after inoculation with low prion doses. Conversely, syntaxin-6 does not affect prion propagation kinetics or toxicity during established disease. Taken together, our studies firmly establish syntaxin-6 as a modifier of prion pathogenesis with a role in prion trafficking and export. Our findings further suggest that syntaxin-6 modifies the risk of the establishment of disease in line with its genetic association in humans. Thus, this work provides important insights into the role of a pleiotropic prion/prion-like modifier, grounded in human genetics evidence, which may have wider relevance to other neurodegenerative diseases.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41176051 is a review article
To utilize the Traditional Chinese Medicine constitution (TCMC) as a complementary and alternative approach for early disease detection and treatment, with a focus on Yin and Yang deficiency constitutions, which serve as key references for disease prevention and management.The dataset containing the data of Yin and Yang deficiency constitution was identified through the Gene Expression Omnibus database. This database was used for differential expression genes (DEGs) analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and the characteristic genes were then obtained in the dataset using a machine learning method. The hub genes of Yin and Yang deficiency constitution were obtained after analysis using the above three methods, and the hub genes were enriched and analyzed. Subsequently, the hub genes of Yin and Yang deficiency constitution were validated using external datasets. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used on each hub genes of the two groups to further understand their diagnostic performance. The miRNA-lncRNA-gene network was used to further analyze the hub genes. Immunoinfiltration and gene set enrichment analysis were performed on the shared hub genes.The GSE87474 dataset was used for DEGs analysis and WGCNA. Using machine learning analyses, we identified 15 and 14 hub genes for Yin and Yang deficiency constitutions, respectively. The results of enrichment analyses showed that Yin deficiency constitution was associated with interleukin-17 signaling pathway, whereas Yang deficiency constitution was associated with glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis-keratan sulfate. The validation dataset GSE56116 showed statistically significant data for s-adenosylmethionine sensor upstream of MTORC1 (SAMTOR, also named C7orf60), cofilin 2 (CFL2), cytohesin 1 interacting protein (CYTIP), G protein-coupled receptor 183 (GPR183), hippocampus abundant transcript 1 (HIAT1), kelch like family member 15 (KLHL15), mitogen-activated protein kinase 6 (MAPK6), and prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2) in Yin deficiency and fucosy-ltransferase 8 (FUT8), TATA-box binding protein associated factor, RNA polymerase I subunit D (TAF1D), zinc finger protein 24 (ZNF24), MAPK6, and leptin receptor overlapping transcript like 1 (LEPROTL1) in Yang deficiency. The ROC results indicated that these genes have diagnostic value. MAPK6 is a shared hub gene for Yin and Yang deficiencies.This study identified C7orf60, CFL2, CYTIP, GPR183, HIAT1, KLHL15, MAPK6, and PTGS2 in Yin deficiency and FUT8, TAF1D, ZNF24, MAPK6, and LEPROTL1 in Yang deficiency as potential biomarkers, providing insights into their pathogenesis. This theory not only guides the diagnostic approach in TCM but also extends its influence to various scientific research fields.
Intracellular pathogens rely on manipulating host endocytic pathways to ensure survival. Legionella and Chlamydia exploit host SNARE proteins, with Legionella cleaving syntaxin 17 (STX17) and Chlamydia interacting with VAMP8 and VAMP7. Similarly, Salmonella targets the host's endosomal fusion machinery, using SPI effectors like SipC and SipA to interact with syntaxin 6 (STX6) and syntaxin 8 (STX8), respectively, maintaining its vacuolar niche. Recent evidence highlights syntaxin 7 (STX7), a Qa-SNARE involved in endo-lysosomal fusion, as a potential Salmonella target. BioID screening revealed STX7 interactions with SPI-2 effectors SifA and SopD2, suggesting a critical role in Salmonella pathogenesis. We investigated the role of STX7 in Salmonella-containing vacuole (SCV) biogenesis and pathogenesis in macrophages and epithelial cells. Our findings indicate that STX7 levels and localization differ between these cell types during infection, reflecting the distinct survival strategies of Salmonella. Live cell imaging showed that STX7 is recruited to SCVs at different infection stages, with significantly altered distribution in HeLa cells at the late stage of infection. STX7 knockdown resulted in reduced bacterial survival, which was rescued upon overexpression of STX7 in both HeLa and RAW264.7 cells, suggesting Salmonella hijacks STX7 to evade lysosomal fusion and secure nutrients for intracellular replication. These results underscore the essential role of STX7 in maintaining SCVs and facilitating Salmonella survival. Further, the temporal expression of STX7 adaptor/binding partners in macrophages showed dynamic interactions with STX7 facilitating Salmonella infection and survival in host cells. Together, our study highlights STX7 as a critical host factor exploited by Salmonella, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis in macrophages and epithelial cells. These findings may inform strategies for targeting host-pathogen interactions to combat Salmonella infections.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Microtubules are often nucleated at non-centrosomal sites in some differentiated cell types. We previously reported that microtubules are nucleated at the cytoplasm in cultured mouse cortical neurons. It is unclear, however, what organelle is the site of such nucleation. In this study, we examined the possibility that recently discovered neuron-specific Golgi-like structures called Golgi satellites are the nucleation sites. Microtubule nucleation was tested by observing microtubule regrowth after nocodazole depolymerization. First, the spatial association between microtubule nucleation and membrane organelles was investigated. Organelle markers including GM130 (cis Golgi and Golgi outpost marker), Golgin97 (trans-Golgi network marker), transferrin receptor (recycling endosome marker), TOMM40 (mitochondria marker), and syntaxin 6 (early endosome and Golgi satellite marker) were examined. Microtubule regrowth was observed in cytoplasmic regions where TOMM40-positive and syntaxin 6-positive organelles were rich. Triple immunostaining showed that γ-tubulin at one end of regrown microtubules was attached to syntaxin 6-organelles but not to TOMM40-organelles, indicating that syntaxin 6-organelles are the microtubule nucleation sites. To address the possibility that the microtubule-nucleating syntaxin 6-organelles were Golgi satellites, we transfected neurons with plasmid vector caring FLAG-tagged Golt sequence, a marker for Golgi satellites, and subsequently performed microtubule regrowth experiments. We found regrown microtubules on FLAG-positive organelles in dendrites. This observation suggests that Golgi satellites are microtubule nucleation sites. Microtubules from the Golgi satellites might guide transport vesicles generated at rough endoplasmic reticulum in dendrites.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Despite the diminishing global impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus continues to circulate and undergo mutations, posing ongoing challenges for public health. A comprehensive understanding of virus entry mechanisms is crucial for managing new epidemic strains. However, the cellular processes post-endocytosis remain largely unexplored. This study employs proximity labeling to examine proteins near ACE2 post-viral infection and identified syntaxin-6 (STX6) as a factor that inhibits SARS-CoV-2 infection by impeding the endocytic release of the virus. SARS-CoV-2 infection enhances early endosome recruitment of STX6. STX6 appears to hinder the maturation of viral particles-laden early endosomes into late endosomes, from which the virus could escape. Instead, it promotes the trafficking of the virus toward the autophagy-lysosomal degradation pathway. STX6 exhibits a broad-spectrum effect against various SARS-CoV-2 variants and several other viruses that enter via endocytosis. We report for the first time the function of STX6 as a restrictive factor in viral infection.IMPORTANCEVirus entry is the first step of the virus life cycle, and the exploitation of the endo-lysosome pathway for cellular entry by viruses has been well documented. Meanwhile, the intrinsic defense present within cells interferes with virus entry. We identified STX6 as a host restriction factor for viral entry by facilitating the virus trafficking to the autophagy-lysosomal degradation pathway. Notably, STX6 exhibits broad-spectrum antiviral activity against diverse severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 variants and other viruses employing endocytosis for entry.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic progressive lung disorder characterized by overactivation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and limited therapeutic efficacy. This study identifies sorting nexin 3 (SNX3), a retromer-associated protein, as a dual regulator of PF pathogenesis through coordinated molecular mechanisms. SNX3 is significantly upregulated in PF patients' lungs and bleomycin-induced murine fibrotic models, with predominant localization in alveolar type 2 (AT2) epithelial cells correlating with β-catenin hyperactivation and fibrotic progression. Genetic ablation of SNX3 in AT2 cells attenuated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, collagen deposition, and pulmonary dysfunction, while SNX3 overexpression exacerbated these phenotypes. Mechanistic studies further elucidated two distinct SNX3-driven regulatory pathways. Wls is rescued by SNX3 from lysosomal degradation to sustain Wnt ligand secretion and canonical pathway activation. In addition to Wls, casein kinase 1α (CK-1α) is identified as a novel cargo protein for SNX3, which mediates its plasma membrane recruitment via Rab5a-dependent endosomal recycling, bypassing the β-catenin destruction complex, ultimately suppressing proteasomal degradation of β-catenin. This dual regulatory mechanism positions SNX3 as a master coordinator of both Wnt-dependent and -independent β-catenin signaling in PF. Furthermore, we screened inhibitors targeting SNX3 and identified a novel small molecule, LC4, which effectively ameliorated pulmonary dysfunction and reversed pulmonary fibrosis. Tetrahedral framework nucleic acids (TDNs), known for their excellent biocompatibility and drug delivery capacity, were utilized to develop a multifunctional nanodrug delivery system (TDN-LC4) to enhance the treatment of PF. By optimizing this loading approach, we improved LC4 delivery efficiency, enhanced its therapeutic potential, and minimized off-target effects. Our findings reveal SNX3 as a master coordinator of dual Wnt-dependent and -independent β-catenin activation, and propose TDN-LC4 as a potential therapeutic strategy to disrupt pathogenic signaling redundancy in PF pathogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ecotropic viral integration site 5 (EVI5), a member of the Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC) domain-containing protein family, has been implicated in the initiation of various cancers. However, its precise role in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the function of EVI5 in LUAD, with a focus on its regulation of the immune checkpoint molecule PD-L1. In the present study, we found that EVI5, Rab11 and PD-L1 were significantly overexpressed in LUAD tissues compared to adjacent normal tissues. In vitro experiments demonstrated that EVI5 knockout suppressed the expression of Rab11 and PD-L1 in LUAD cells. Notably, EVI5 overexpression promotes the expression of Rab11 and PD-L1 in LUAD cells. EVI5 was also shown to interact with Rab11 to upregulate PD-L1 expression in LUAD cells. Mechanistically, our findings identify a novel EVI5-Rab11-PD-L1 axis and suggest that EVI5 is a potential regulator of the tumor immune microenvironment, which may have implications for the efficacy of immunotherapy.© 2025. The Author(s).
Polystyrene microplastic (MP) and its co-existing contaminants may exert different toxic effects on its surrounding aquatic organisms. In order to detect the intestinal harmful responses, tilapia were subjected to exposure with 75 nm of MPs, 100 ng·L-1 of sulfamethoxazole (SMZ), 5 ng·L-1 of BDE153, and combinations thereof over periods of 2, 4, and 8 days. Enzymatic assays, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics were employed to evaluate intestinal histopathological effects. Results showed that significant reductions were observed in ATP, ROS, SOD, EROD, lipid metabolism-related enzymes, pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα and IL-1β), and apoptosis marker caspase 3 across all groups at day 8. Histological evaluation revealed diminished goblet cell density, with distinct vacuole formation in the BDE153+MPs group. KEGG pathway analysis highlighted disruptions in endocytosis, MAPK signaling, phagosome formation, and actin cytoskeleton regulation. Proteomic findings indicated notable enrichment in endocytosis (decreased sorting nexin-2; increased Si:dkey-13a21.4), MAPK/PPAR signaling, protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum (Sec61 subunit gamma), and cytoskeletal modulation (reduced fibronectin; elevated activation peptide fragment 1), with or without SMZ and BDE153. Metabolomic profiling showed significant alterations in ABC transporters, aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, protein digestion and absorption, and linoleic acid metabolism. In summary, these findings suggest that BDE153 and MPs synergistically exacerbate intestinal damage and gene/protein expression over time, while SMZ appears to exert an antagonistic, mitigating effect.
Proliferative retinopathy is a leading cause of irreversible blindness in humans; however, the molecular mechanisms behind the immune cell-mediated retinal angiogenesis remain poorly elucidated. Here, using single-cell RNA sequencing in an oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) model, we identified an enrichment of sorting nexin (SNX)-related pathways, with SNX3, a member of the SNX family that is involved in endosomal sorting and trafficking, being significantly upregulated in the myeloid cell subpopulations of OIR retinas. Immunostaining showed that SNX3 expression is markedly increased in the retinal microglia/macrophages of mice with OIR, which is mainly located within and around the neovascular tufts. Myeloid cell-specific deficiency of Snx3 inhibited retinal neovascularization, hyperpermeability, and dysfunction in OIR mice. Using glutathione S-transferase pull-down, coimmunoprecipitation, and immunofluorescent staining, we found that SNX3 interacted with receptor-interacting protein 1/3 (RIP1 and RIP3). We further demonstrated that RIP1/3 degradation was accelerated in SNX3-deleted microglia/macrophages, causing an inhibition of hypoxia-induced necroptosis and mitochondrial fission, thereby decreasing the production of proinflammatory and proangiogenic factors (FGF2 and MMP12). Moreover, OIR retinas from myeloid cell-specific SNX3 overexpression transgenic mice presented more angiogenic tufts, while RIP1/3 inhibition largely ablated SNX3 overexpression-induced pathological angiogenesis. Based on the structure of SNX3, we identified a small-molecule inhibitor, W1122. Intriguingly, we found that W1122 effectively inhibited retinal angiogenesis in the OIR model, and combination treatment with anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) yielded enhanced antiangiogenic effects. Collectively, our findings disclose a link between SNX3 and RIP1/3 signaling and implicate SNX3 in the development of ischemic retinopathy.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains a lethal disease worldwide with a poor prognosis. The ecotropic viral integration site 5 (EVI5) is a crucial oncogene and mediator of cell division processes, and it extensively participates in tumorigenesis and progression. However, the role of EVI5 in LUAD progression remains elusive. This study aimed to further explore the underlying mechanisms of EVI5's involvement in LUAD development.The GEO database was employed to investigate the expression of EVI5 in LUAD and normal tissues, while the Kaplan-Meier Plotter database was utilized to assess its correlation with patient prognosis. Stable cell lines with EVI5 knockout and overexpression were constructed, and Western blotting was performed to detect EVI5 protein expression levels to validate the successful establishment of the stable cell lines. The abilities of proliferation, invasion, and migration of LUAD cells after transfection were analyzed using CCK-8, colony formation, transwell, and wound healing assays. Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and qRT-PCR were further carried out to measure the protein and mRNA expression levels associated with the ERK1/2-c-Myc signaling pathway. Finally, functional rescue experiments were performed on LUAD cells to further explore and verify the signaling pathway.EVI5 was found to be highly expressed in lung adenocarcinoma tissues and correlated with poor prognosis. EVI5 overexpression promoted the malignant behavior of lung adenocarcinoma, whereas its knockout produced the opposite effect. Mechanistically, ERK1/2-cMyc, the key signaling pathway in the malignant progression of LUAD, was further validated by an ERK1/2 pathway inhibitor.Our study demonstrated for the first time that EVI5 promotes malignant progression through the activation of the ERK1/2-c-Myc signaling axis, providing new insights into the pathogenesis of LUAD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Background/Objectives: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection expands early endosomes (EEs) into tubular extensions that may contribute to the control of virus replication and virion assembly. Sequential recruitment of protein coats and sorting nexins (SNXs) creates membrane zones at the EEs that serve as scaffolds for membrane tubulation and retrieval of cargo proteins, including host cell signaling proteins and viral glycoproteins. This study aims to investigate whether the SNX3-dependent zone of EEs contributes to CMV replication and assembly. Methods: Protein localization was analyzed by confocal imaging and expression by Western blot. The contribution of SNX3 to murine CMV (MCMV) replication, assembly compartment (AC) formation, and virion release was analyzed by siRNA and shRNA depletion. The impact of other downstream SNXs that act in EE tubulation was investigated by combined siRNA knockdowns of SNX1, SNX2, SNX4, SNX17, and SNX27 on cell lines expressing shRNA for SNX3. Results: The SNX3-162 isoform acting at EEs was efficiently knocked down by siRNA and shRNA. The SNX3-dependent EE zone recruited SNX27 and contributed to Rab10-dependent tubulation within the pre-AC. SNX3 was not essential for MCMV replication but contributed to the SNX27-, SNX17- and SNX4-dependent release of virions. Silencing SNX3 further reduced the release of virions after silencing SNX27, SNX4, and SNX17, three SNXs that control recycling to the plasma membrane. Conclusions: SNX3 contributes to the formation of pre-AC and MCMV assembly. It acts sequentially with SNX27, SNX4, and SNX17 along the recycling pathway in the process of the production and release of infection virions, suggesting that multiple membrane sources may contribute to the secondary envelopment of MCMV virions.
Currently, the treatment and prevention of multiple sclerosis (MS) continue to encounter significant challenges. Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis has emerged as a crucial research method in the pursuit of new therapeutic strategies. Accordingly, we hypothesize that there exists a causal association between genetic variants of specific plasma proteins and MS through MR mechanisms, and that key therapeutic targets can be precisely identified by integrating multi-omics analytical approaches. In this study, we developed a comprehensive analytical framework aimed at identifying and validating potential therapeutic targets for MS. The framework commenced with a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study utilizing two large plasma protein quantitative trait locus (pQTL) datasets. Building on this foundation, we performed Bayesian co-localization analysis of coding genes, followed by a full phenotype-wide association study (PheWAS) on the co-positive genes identified through both analytical methods. This approach allowed us to explore the functions of key genes and the mechanisms of co-morbidity associated with the disease. Subsequently, we integrated protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, gene ontology (GO) analysis, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis to facilitate drug prediction and molecular docking studies. This study conducted a systematic analysis between two large plasma pQTLs datasets and MS. In the MR analysis, the MR analysis of Icelandic plasma pQTLs and MS identified 88 positive plasma proteins, while the MR analysis of the UK Biobank database pQTLs and MS identified 122 positive plasma proteins. By comparison, uroporphyrinogen III synthase (UROS) and glutathione S-transferase theta 2B (GSTT2B) were found to be the positive proteins shared by the two datasets. After false discovery rate (FDR) correction, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was a significantly positive protein in the analysis of Icelandic plasma pQTLs. In the analysis of the UK Biobank database pQTLs, advanced glycosylation end product-specific receptor (AGER), allograft inflammatory factor 1 (AIF1), butyrophilin subfamily 1 member A1 (BTN1A1), cluster of differentiation 58 (CD58), desmoglein 4 (DSG4), ecotropic viral integration site 5 (EVI5), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 14 (TNFRSF14) were significantly positive proteins. After Bonferroni correction, AGER, CD58, EVI5, and TNF remained significantly positive proteins in the analysis of the UK Biobank database pQTLs. In the Bayesian colocalization analysis, EVI5 (PPH4 = 0.9800), O-GlcNAcase (OGA) (PPH4 = 0.8569), and TNFRSF14 (PPH4 = 0.8904) were the common positive genes in the two analysis methods. In conclusion, EVI5, OGA, and TNFRSF14 may be potential therapeutic targets for MS. Through the comprehensive application of MR analysis and Bayesian colocalization analysis, we have successfully identified that EVI5, OGA, and TNFRSF14 may be key therapeutic targets for MS. These findings may provide a scientific basis for the development of novel immunotherapies, combination treatment regimens, or targeted intervention strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
The complete molecular mechanism underlying doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy remains incompletely elucidated. In this investigation, we engineered mice with cardiomyocyte-specific sorting nexin 3 knockout (SNX3Cko ) to probe the potential protective effects of SNX3 ablation on doxorubicin-triggered myocardial injury, focusing on GPX4-dependent ferroptosis. Our findings indicate that SNX3 deletion normalized heart contractile/relaxation function and thwarted the escalation of cardiac injury biomarkers following doxorubicin exposure. Additionally, SNX3 deletion in the heart mitigated the inflammatory response and oxidative stress in the presence of doxorubicin. At the molecular level, the detrimental effects of doxorubicin-induced cell death, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction were alleviated by SNX3 deficiency. Molecular analysis revealed the activation of GPX4-mediated ferroptosis by doxorubicin, whereas loss of SNX3 prevented the initiation of GPX4-dependent ferroptosis. Furthermore, treatment with erastin, a ferroptosis inducer, markedly reduced cell viability, exacerbated ER stress, and induced mitochondrial dysfunction in SNX3-depleted cardiomyocytes upon doxorubicin exposure. In summary, our results demonstrate that SNX3 deficiency shielded the heart from doxorubicin-induced myocardial dysfunction by modulating GPX4-associated ferroptosis.© The author(s).
The clinical utilization of doxorubicin (Dox) in various malignancies is restrained by its major adverse effect: irreversible cardiomyopathy. Extensive studies have been done to explore the prevention of Dox cardiomyopathy. Currently, ferroptosis has been shown to participate in the incidence and development of Dox cardiomyopathy. Sorting Nexin 3 (SNX3), the retromer-associated cargo binding protein with important physiological functions, was identified as a potent therapeutic target for cardiac hypertrophy in our previous study. However, few study has shown whether SNX3 plays a critical role in Dox-induced cardiomyopathy. In this study, a decreased level of SNX3 in Dox-induced cardiomyopathy was observed. Cardiac-specific Snx3 knockout (Snx3-cKO) significantly alleviated cardiomyopathy by downregulating Dox-induced ferroptosis significantly. SNX3 was further demonstrated to exacerbate Dox-induced cardiomyopathy via induction of ferroptosis in vivo and in vitro, and cardiac-specific Snx3 transgenic (Snx3-cTg) mice were more susceptible to Dox-induced ferroptosis and cardiomyopathy. Mechanistically, SNX3 facilitated the recycling of transferrin 1 receptor (TFRC) via direct interaction, disrupting iron homeostasis, increasing the accumulation of iron, triggering ferroptosis, and eventually exacerbating Dox-induced cardiomyopathy. Overall, these findings established a direct SNX3-TFRC-ferroptosis positive regulatory axis in Dox-induced cardiomyopathy and suggested that targeting SNX3 provided a new effective therapeutic strategy for Dox-induced cardiomyopathy through TFRC-dependent ferroptosis.© 2023 Chinese Pharmaceutical Association and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most prevalent malignant tumors affecting men. Metastatic PCa is generally considered incurable. Circular RNA (circRNA) is a distinct class of RNA implicated in the tumorigenesis and development of various cancers, including PCa. However, the specific role and underlying molecular mechanisms of circRNA in PCa remain poorly understood. This study identifies hsa_circ_0007444, generated from the back-splicing of exons 6-7 of the Rho Related BTB Domain Containing 3 (RHOBTB3) gene and named as circRHOBTB3, as being downregulated in PCa. Low expression of circRHOBTB3 correlates with elevated pathological T stage, clinical M stage, and D'Amico grade. Functionally, circRHOBTB3 inhibits PCa cell proliferation and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, circRHOBTB3 binds to the non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO), a transcription factor for monoamine oxidase A (MAOA), sequestering NONO in the cytoplasm and preventing it from upregulating MAOA transcription. This results in decreased MAOA expression, ultimately suppressing PCa cell proliferation and metastasis. Furthermore, the RNA binding protein serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 9 specifically interacts with AluSx and AluJb, inhibiting circRHOBTB3 circularization. In conclusion, this study identifies circRHOBTB3 as a tumor suppressor with potential to be a promising clinical biomarker and therapeutic target for metastatic PCa.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The identification of novel molecular markers and the development of cancer treatment strategies are very important as cancer incidence is still very high. Obesity can contribute to cancer progression, including endometrial cancer. Adipocytes secrete leptin, which, when at a high level, is associated with an increased risk of cancer. The aim of this study was to determine the expression profile of leptin-related genes in the endometrial tissue samples and whole blood of patients. The study material included tissue samples and whole blood collected from 30 patients with endometrial cancer and 30 without cancer. Microarrays were used to assess the expression profile of leptin-related genes. Then, the expression of leptin (LEP), leptin receptor (LEPR), leptin receptor overlapping transcript (LEPROT), and leptin receptor overlapping transcript-like 1 (LEPROTL1) was determined by the Real-Time Quantitative Reverse Transcription Reaction (RT-qPCR). The serum leptin concentration was evaluated using Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Leptin and its receptors were overexpressed both at the mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, there were strong positive correlations between leptin levels and patient Body Mass Index (BMI). Elevated levels of leptin and its receptors may potentially contribute to the progression of endometrial cancer. These observations may be useful in designing endometrial cancer treatment strategies.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a fatal acute cardiovascular emergency. SUMOylation participates in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammation, but its role in AD, especially via TOPORS, remains unclear. This study investigates how TOPORS regulates AD pathogenesis through SUMOylation. AD and normal aortic samples were collected to detect TOPORS expression. AD mouse and VSMCs models were constructed to assess TOPORS depletion and overexpression effects on AD progression. In AD aortic tissues, TOPORS expression was upregulated, while tripartite motif containing 27 (TRIM27) and Sentrin-specific protease 6 (SENP6) expression showed no significant change. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that inhibition of TOPORS alleviated aortic dilation and elastic fiber degradation. TOPORS knockout suppressed the secretion of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IFN-α), promoted PI3K/AKT phosphorylation, and downregulated p53 signaling. The p53 inhibitor PFTα reduced AD-induced cell apoptosis and upregulation of inflammatory cytokines. Co-immunoprecipitation further confirmed that inhibition of TOPORS decreases SUMOylation of p53. Conclusions: TOPORS activates p53, inhibits PI3K/AKT phosphorylation via SUMOylation, promotes vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) apoptosis and inflammation, and exacerbates AD pathogenesis.
Exosomes are extracellular vesicles involved in mediating cell-cell communication by shuttling genetic information and proteins. Here, we investigated whether glomerular endothelial cells-derived exosomes play a central role in mediating podocyte injury and proteinuria formation in diabetic kidney disease and its precise mechanism. In vitro, upon stimulation with high glucose and transforming growth factor-β1, primary human renal glomerular endothelial cells (HRGECs) produced more exosomes that directly mediated podocyte injury. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition of exosome secretion by GW4869, knockdown of tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27) expression, or inhibition of miR-486-5p all abolished the ability of high glucose and transforming growth factor-β1-treated HRGECs to induce podocyte injury. In vivo, injections of HRGEC-derived exosomes aggravated podocyte injury and proteinuria in diabetic mice, which was negated by a miR-486-5p inhibitor. Furthermore, specific knockdown of TRIM27 expression or miR-486-5p in endothelial cells preserved kidney function and attenuated podocyte injury in diabetic mice. Thus, our results suggest that TRIM27-induced glomerular endothelial cell-derived exosomes play a major role in podocyte injury by shuttling miR-486-5p in diabetic kidney disease. Hence, strategies targeting exosomes may be a new direction in developing therapeutics for podocyte injury and proteinuria in diabetic kidney disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epithelial cells (ECs) are key drivers of prostate cancer (PCa) initiation and progression. Our study aimed to identify EC-related immune genes as prognostic biomarkers and explore their clinical significance to guide therapy.Single-cell RNA sequencing data from prostate adenocarcinoma samples were analysed to identify EC-specific markers. Prognosis-related immune genes were screened using univariate Cox regression analysis, and a predictive gene signature model was established by employing least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression analysis. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the performance of the gene signature model. Immunohistochemical staining of clinical specimens was conducted to validate key findings.A five-gene prognostic signature (opioid receptor κ1 (OPRK1), early growth response 1 (EGR1), arrestin β2 (ARRB2), high mobility group box 2 (HMGB2), and tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27)) model was derived from the differential expression profiles of EC-associated immune genes in PCa. Patients with PCa placed in the high-risk group exhibited significantly poorer survival outcomes. Our prognostic gene signature model demonstrated strong predictive accuracy and clinical applicability. Patients in the high-risk group showed a higher infiltration of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and M2 macrophages, whereas resting memory cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) T cells were more abundant in the low-risk group. Among the signature genes, OPRK1 was markedly overexpressed in PCa tumour tissues, and its expression was positively associated with a favourable prognosis.This study highlights the prognostic value of EC-derived immune genes in PCa and establishes a reliable gene signature model for PCa risk stratification. Notably, OPRK1 may serve as a novel therapeutic target, offering new insights into precision oncology and improving outcome prediction for patients with PCa.© 2025 The Author(s).
Ovarian cancer (OV) is a highly malignant gynecologic malignancy with a poor prognosis, primarily due to late-stage diagnosis and therapeutic resistance. Tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27), a member of the TRIM protein family, acts as a bifunctional regulator in various cancers. However, its role in OV remains underexplored. This study demonstrated that TRIM27 is significantly upregulated in OV tissues and cell lines. Functional assays utilizing both gain- and loss-of-function approaches revealed that TRIM27 depletion inhibits ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Mechanistic investigations, including RNA sequencing, immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and in vivo ubiquitination assays, identified TRIM27 as a ubiquitin ligase that mediates K48-linked ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of AMPKα, thereby suppressing the cGAS-STING signaling pathway. These results established TRIM27 as a pivotal oncogenic driver in OV through immune surveillance evasion. Additionally, elevated TRIM27 expression was associated with poor clinical outcomes, suggesting its potential as both a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Liver dysfunction predicts poor outcome in patients with sepsis, with a lack of effective treatment, emphasizing the critical need for innovative therapeutic strategies. Tripartite motif containing 27 (TRIM27) plays vital roles in pyroptosis, inflammation, and autophagy. However, the impact of TRIM27 on septic liver injury remains unclear. In this study, the mice were injected with adeno-associated virus 8 for generating the hepatocyte-specific overexpression of TRIM27 mice and control littermates, and subsequently underwent a cecal ligation and puncture operation. Hepatocytes were challenged with lipopolysaccharide to simulate the sepsis-related damage. Liver damage was associated with the downregulation of Trim27 induced by sepsis in hepatocytes. Trim27 overexpression ameliorated liver injury and hepatocyte damage in vivo and in vitro. Mechanically, TRIM27 bound to HSPA8 via its SPRY domain and modified HSPA8 by ubiquitination. This interaction inhibited JNK phosphorylation and mitigated inflammatory responses. Silencing Hspa8 partially offset TRIM27's cytoprotective function whereas overexpressing HSPA8 enhanced this protective effect. These findings clarified that TRIM27 mitigated sepsis-related inflammatory responses by binding to HSPA8 to inhibit JNK activation in hepatocytes, suggesting TRIM27 as a prospective target for treating septic liver injury.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27) is highly expressed in the mouse thymus, spleen, and hematopoietic compartment cells and regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis, and innate immune responses. However, the role of TRIM27 in bone remodeling remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate the role of TRIM27 in the differentiation of osteoclasts and osteoblasts.We measured the effects of overexpression or knockdown of TRIM27 in osteoclasts and osteoblasts using real-time PCR and Western blot analysis to quantify the mRNA and protein levels of marker genes. Additionally, we performed an in vivo analysis of TRIM27 knockout mice through bone mineral density analysis and histological analysis.TRIM27 deficiency decreased bone mineral density by enhancing osteoclast differentiation and inhibiting osteoblast differentiation. Overexpression of TRIM27 in osteoclast precursors suppressed osteoclast formation and resorption activity, and ectopic expression of TRIM27 in osteoblast precursors induced osteoblast differentiation and mineralization. Additionally, we found that TRIM27 attenuated NF-κB activation in both osteoclasts and osteoblasts by interacting with TAB2 and promoting TAB2 degradation through lysosomal-dependent pathways, thereby inhibiting NF-κB signaling.Our results identify TRIM27 as a novel negative regulator of NF-κB in bone remodeling, suggesting that regulating TRIM27 may be useful in developing treatments for musculoskeletal diseases, such as osteoporosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Efficient ground-glass opacities (GGOs) diagnosis is challenging. A diagnostic method distinguishing malignant from benign GGOs is warranted. In this study, we sought to construct a noninvasive method based on tumor educated platelet (TEP) RNA profiles for malignant GGOs diagnosis and explore the molecular mechanism of the potential biomarker for the first time.Based on TEP RNA-sequencing (TEP RNA-seq) in benign and malignant GGOs, a classification model was constructed using differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and was used to evaluate diagnostic performance. High-throughput quantitative polymerase chain reaction (HT-qPCR) verified 23 genes selected from the top 60 DEGs between benign and malignant GGOs. The correlation between 17 verified DEGs and 22 key glycolytic genes was analyzed. Tripartite motif-containing 27 (TRIM27) overexpressing and knockdown (KD) cell models were constructed using A549 and PC-9 cells, respectively in which cell growth, apoptosis, migration and invasion were evaluated. The protein levels of HK-1/2, PKM1/2, LDHA and GLUT1 were evaluated by western blot. Glycolysis was evaluated through adenosine triphosphate (ATP), reactive oxygen species (ROS), lactate acid (LD) production, glucose uptake, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity assays. RNA-seq was performed in loss-of TRIM27-KD PC-9 cells to clarify the downstream factors of TRIM27 which was verified using western blot and immunofluorescence double staining.In 81 samples, the 1,647-DEG-based classification model exhibited area under the curve (AUC), sensitivity, and specificity values of 0.99 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.972-1.000], 100%, and 91%, respectively, while the top 60-DEG-based classification model exhibited AUC, sensitivity, and specificity values of 0.986 (95% CI: 0.962-1.000), 98%, and 91%, respectively. TRIM27 achieved AUC of 0.87 in the diagnosis of malignant GGOs, with 83.93% sensitivity, 78.79% specificity, 81.15% accuracy, 77.05% positive predictive value (PPV) and 85.25% negative predictive value (NPV). TRIM27 was highly expressed in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells, and accelerated cell migration and invasion. In addition, TRIM27 was found to promote glycolysis in NSCLC cells partially through HMOX1 which was negatively correlated with TRIM27.We constructed a novel TEP RNA-seq based classifier for malignant GGOs diagnosis. TRIM27, an important target discovered, could accelerate migration, invasion and regulate glycolysis partially through HMOX1 in NSCLC cells, thus providing scientific support for TRIM27 as a diagnostic biomarker for malignant GGO diagnosis.2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Mitochondria are susceptible to damage resulting from their activity as energy providers. Damaged mitochondria can cause harm to the cell and thus mitochondria are subjected to elaborate quality-control mechanisms including elimination via lysosomal degradation in a process termed mitophagy. Basal mitophagy is a house-keeping mechanism fine-tuning the number of mitochondria according to the metabolic state of the cell. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying basal mitophagy remain largely elusive. In this study, we visualized and assessed the level of mitophagy in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts at basal conditions and after OXPHOS induction by galactose adaptation. We used cells with a stable expression of a pH-sensitive fluorescent mitochondrial reporter and applied state-of-the-art imaging techniques and image analysis. Our data showed a significant increase in acidic mitochondria after galactose adaptation. Using a machine-learning approach we also demonstrated increased mitochondrial fragmentation by OXPHOS induction. Furthermore, super-resolution microscopy of live cells enabled capturing of mitochondrial fragments within lysosomes as well as dynamic transfer of mitochondrial contents to lysosomes. Applying correlative light and electron microscopy we revealed the ultrastructure of the acidic mitochondria confirming their proximity to the mitochondrial network, ER and lysosomes. Finally, exploiting siRNA knockdown strategy combined with flux perturbation with lysosomal inhibitors, we demonstrated the importance of both canonical as well as non-canonical autophagy mediators in lysosomal degradation of mitochondria after OXPHOS induction. Taken together, our high-resolution imaging approaches applied on H9c2 cells provide novel insights on mitophagy during physiologically relevant conditions. The implication of redundant underlying mechanisms highlights the fundamental importance of mitophagy.Abbreviations: ATG: autophagy related; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CLEM: correlative light and electron microscopy; EGFP: enhanced green fluorescent protein; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PepA: pepstatin A; PLA: proximity ligation assay; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RAB5A: RAB5A, member RAS oncogene family; RAB7A: RAB7A, member RAS oncogene family; RAB9A: RAB9A, member RAS oncogene family; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SIM: structured illumination microscopy; siRNA: short interfering RNA; SYNJ2BP: synaptojanin 2 binding protein; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1.
Accumulating evidence announces that aberrantly expressed circRNAs were closely related to the development of human cancers. However, the role and mechanism of multiple circRNAs remain unclear. Our work aimed to disclose the functional role and mechanism of circ_0081054 in melanoma.Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assay was utilized to detect circ_0081054, microRNA-637 (miR-637) and RAB9A (member RAS oncogene family) mRNA expression. Cell proliferative ability was evaluated via Cell Counting Kit-8 and colony formation assay. Cell invasion was assessed by using wound healing assay.The significant upregulation of circ_0081054 was detected in melanoma tissues and cells. The proliferation, migration, glycolytic metabolism, and angiogenesis in melanoma cells were suppressed, while apoptosis was promoted following the silence of circ_0081054. In addition, circ_0081054 could target miR-637, and miR-637 inhibitor could reverse the effects of circ_0081054 deficiency. Furthermore, RAB9A was a target gene for miR-637 and RAB9A overexpression could reverse the effects of miR-637 overexpression. In addition, the deficiency of circ_0081054 hampered tumor growth in vivo. Moreover, circ_0081054 could regulate RAB9A expression by sponging miR-637.All results indicated that circ_0081054 promoted the malignant behaviors of melanoma cells partly by regulating the miR-637/RAB9A molecular axis.© 2023 The Authors. Skin Research and Technology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 32264724 is a review article
Within the plant endomembrane system, the vesicle coat protein clathrin localizes to the plasma membrane (PM) and the trans-Golgi Network/early endosome (TGN/EE). While the role of clathrin in endocytosis at the PM is well established, its function at TGN/EE, presumably in late secretion (trafficking from the TGN/EE to the cell surface) or en route to the vacuole, is debated. Similarly debated are potential homeostatic mechanisms balancing the trafficking routes, especially endocytosis and late secretion. We address these questions in Arabidopsis thaliana using conditional silencing of CLATHRIN HEAVY CHAIN (CHC), conditional overexpression of the clathrin uncoating factor AUXILIN-LIKE1, and secretory mutants. CHC silencing interferes with trafficking of cargoes destined for the apoplast and the PM, supporting a function of clathrin in late secretion. The secretory cargoes become abnormally rerouted from the TGN/EE to the vacuole. Unlike CHC silencing, overexpression of AUXILIN-LIKE1 selectively inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis while secretion continues normally at early points of induction. Conversely, secretory mutants exhibit a reduced PM recruitment of clathrin, and variably, of the TPLATE endocytic component. Together, our data show a role of clathrin in secretion and suggest secretion as a fundamental trafficking process to which endocytosis is adjusted by a weak homeostatic mechanism.© 2026 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2026 New Phytologist Foundation.
We have previously showed that loss of clathrin light chain (CLC) 2 and CLC3 in Arabidopsis simultaneously impairs autophagy pathway, thereby resulting in enhanced disease resistance. To understand whether clathrin heavy chain (CHC) proteins play similar roles as CLCs, we used combined approaches of genetics, cell biology, and resistance assays to investigate the roles of CHCs in the autophagy pathway and in autophagy-related immunity. The results showed that the loss of either CHC1 or CHC2 accelerated dark-induced senescence, a hallmark phenotype of defective autophagy, suggesting that the autophagy pathway may be impaired. Consistent with this phenotype, the number of autophagosomes induced under dark treatment conditions was significantly reduced in both chc1-2 and chc2-2 mutants, which indicated that the autophagic flux was significantly reduced in both mutants. The disease resistance assay showed that both mutants exhibited enhanced resistance to the fungal pathogen Golovinomyces cichoracearum, which was highly correlated with elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and increased callose deposition. Together, these findings reveal that CHC-dependent functions are required for efficient autophagy and disruption of clathrin-mediated trafficking leads to the activation of plant immune responses due to an impaired autophagy pathway. This study provides a theoretical basis to enhance disease resistance in crops through manipulation of autophagy pathway.
Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is essential for neural development and function. Recent studies have linked de novo mutations in the clathrin heavy-chain gene to a range of neurodevelopmental disorders. In this study, we have modeled two pathogenic mutations, L1047P and W1108R, in Drosophila melanogaster and examined their effects on vesicle dynamics, ligand uptake, neuronal development, and memory formation. Our data show that expression of these mutant forms of clathrin heavy chain results in reduced survival and defective learning when expressed ubiquitously or exclusively in neurons. These mutations also disrupted vesicle dynamics and reduced ligand uptake under conditions of heat stress. While no obvious defects in neuronal morphology and function were observed at the larval neuromuscular junction, we noticed significant disruptions in the expression of markers associated with synapse maturation. Overall, our study establishes a model that can provide insights into the cellular basis of clathrin heavy-chain-related neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2026 The Author(s).
Influenza A virus (IAV) infection can lead to severe complications, including acute lung injury, driven by hypoxia, excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS), and cytokine release syndrome (CRS). To address the limitations of current therapies, such as insufficient antiviral efficacy and poor CRS control, we developed polydopamine-platinum core-shell nanoparticles (PDA@Pt) with dual antiviral and anti-inflammatory functions. The PDA core scavenges ROS to alleviate CRS and disrupts viral replication, while the Pt shell inhibits viral entry and catalyzes the decomposition of H2O2 into O2 to relieve hypoxia. PDA@Pt demonstrated excellent biocompatibility and potent antiviral activity by suppressing viral replication through dual mechanisms: inhibition of clathrin-mediated endocytosis via downregulation of clathrin heavy chain and dynamin, and multimodal therapeutic effects via ROS scavenging, O2 generation, and suppression of proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, PDA@Pt modulated key signaling pathways, including JAK/STAT and NF-κB, highlighting its broad-spectrum potential against viral infections and associated inflammatory complications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Spring viremia of carp virus (SVCV), an aquatic rhabdovirus, causes lethal disease and major economic losses in carp aquaculture, yet no licensed antivirals are available. In this study, we identify the plant-derived diterpenoid quinone cryptotanshinone (CPT) as a potent inhibitor of SVCV that acts by inhibiting clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) and attenuating early mitochondrial apoptosis. CPT was well tolerated by epithelioma papulosum cyprinid cells (50% cytotoxic concentration [CC50] = 303.2 µM) and suppressed SVCV replication in a dose-dependent manner (50% inhibitory concentration [IC50] = 3.2 µM), reducing nucleoprotein (SVCV-N) gene expression and infectious virion production by >99% at 16 μM. Time-of-addition/removal and virion pre-incubation assays revealed that CPT acts predominantly at early entry or early post-entry steps: CPT did not impair viral attachment but selectively blocked internalization, causing DiO-labeled SVCV particles to remain trapped at the plasma membrane. Mechanistically, CPT inhibited CME, as evidenced by reduced transferrin uptake and redistribution of clathrin heavy chain from the cytosol to the cell surface. CPT also preserved mitochondrial integrity by limiting Bcl-2-associated X protein translocation, cytochrome c release, and caspase-9/3 activation. In vivo, therapeutic bath treatment with 4 μM CPT significantly lowered viral loads, decreased cumulative mortality, and reduced horizontal transmission in juvenile common carp, whereas prophylactic oral CPT primed type I interferon and interferon-stimulated gene expression, and markedly improved survival after SVCV challenge. Together, these findings define CME-dependent internalization as a druggable entry checkpoint for an aquatic rhabdovirus and highlight CPT as a promising antiviral lead for integrated control of SVCV.IMPORTANCEViral diseases are a major bottleneck to sustainable aquaculture, yet most control strategies still depend on husbandry and culling rather than on mechanism-based antiviral therapy. For spring viremia of carp virus (SVCV), a notifiable rhabdovirus of global concern, it remains unclear whether host entry pathways in fish are realistically "druggable" and how small molecules can be integrated into practical farm interventions. Here, we use cryptotanshinone (CPT) as a chemical probe to demonstrate that clathrin-mediated endocytosis in fish cells can be selectively perturbed to block SVCV internalization, and that this strategy is compatible with immersion and oral delivery in juvenile carp. At the same time, CPT reshapes host responses by stabilizing mitochondrial function and sustaining antiviral signaling, thereby linking a defined entry pathway to cell-death control and innate immunity in vivo. These findings open a conceptual route toward host-targeted, entry-focused antivirals for aquatic rhabdoviruses and provide a translational framework for developing environmentally compatible antivirals in aquaculture.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 29939658
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301378
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301324
Malaria control remains constrained by an incomplete understanding of the molecular interactions that enable Plasmodium falciparum transmission within mosquito vectors. Although blood-stage parasite biology has been extensively studied, the mosquito-stage processes required for transmission are less well defined. Here, we characterize a previously unannotated Anopheles gambiae midgut factor, Midgut Ookinete Binding Protein 1 (AgMOBP1; AGAP008138), and define its role in parasite infection. AgMOBP1 is a membrane-associated protein localized predominantly to the apical surface of midgut epithelial cells, is induced by blood feeding, and appears restricted to anopheline mosquitoes. Functional infection assays showed that exogenous recombinant AgMOBP1 enhanced Plasmodium infectivity by increasing midgut oocyst burden, whereas anti-AgMOBP1 antibodies significantly reduced infection, establishing AgMOBP1 as a host factor that promotes transmission. Using biochemical interaction assays, we identified the parasite binding partner of AgMOBP1 as the P. falciparum syntaxin-5-like protein PfSyn5. Disruption of this interaction with anti-PfSyn5 polyclonal antibodies produced exceptionally potent transmission-blocking activity, with complete inhibition at 1 μg/mL and an estimated IC50 of ~3 ng/mL (~20 pM). This potency is approximately one million-fold lower than the total IgG concentration in normal human plasma. Together, these findings identify a critical mosquito-parasite molecular interface required for malaria transmission and establish the AgMOBP1-PfSyn5 axis as a promising target for transmission-blocking vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, and other intervention strategies.
Mitotic spindle stability is enhanced through microtubule crosslinking by a complex formed when an α helix in transforming acidic coiled-coil 3 (TACC3) binds to the helical repeats of the heavy chain of clathrin (CHC). Here, we show that the phosphorylation of TACC3 at S558 modulates the interaction by overcoming the electrostatic repulsion between K507 of CHC and basic residues in TACC3. Leveraging this insight, we optimized the sequence using peptide arrays to develop a hydrocarbon-stapled peptide (SP TACC3) that binds CHC with over 400-fold higher affinity than the native sequence, disrupting the interaction. The crystal structure of the SP TACC3-CHC complex reveals the contribution of additional polar and hydrophobic contacts to the enhanced interaction. SP TACC3 penetrates cells and displaces TACC3 from the mitotic spindle, causing a delay in mitotic progression in two out of three cancer cell lines. This work showcases a strategy for targeting the TACC3-CHC interaction with hydrocarbon-stapled peptides in a cellular context for potential cancer therapies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Astrocytes maintain neuronal homeostasis by removing extracellular disease-relevant proteins, such as tau, to prevent their uptake by neurons. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), this astrocytic function is impaired, contributing to pathological tau accumulation. Many AD-associated risk genes are linked to endocytosis pathways, suggesting their role in AD pathogenesis. Although astrocytes can internalize, degrade, and release tau, the mechanisms governing these processes remain unclear. Bcl2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3), a multifunctional protein regulating vacuolar processes, interacts with components of clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME), including clathrin heavy chain, dynamin, and AP-2 complex members. However, BAG3's role in astrocytic CME and tau processing is not fully understood. We demonstrate for the first time that BAG3 depletion in astrocytes reduces clathrin-AP-2 interactions, inhibits CME-dependent epidermal growth factor receptor internalization, and decreases tau uptake. Live cell imaging reveals impaired CME dynamics with BAG3 depletion, marked by prolonged clathrin particle lifetimes. BAG3 depletion also increases Lamp1+ puncta and colocalization of tau with Lamp1-positive structures, indicating vacuolar disturbances beyond CME. These findings suggest BAG3 facilitates CME, tau uptake, and trafficking in astrocytes, playing a critical role in vacuolar processes and tau proteostasis. Alterations in astrocytic BAG3 may contribute to AD pathogenesis and other proteinopathies.NEW & NOTEWORTHY In this study, we demonstrate that the multifunctional protein BAG3 facilitates clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) and tau uptake in astrocytes. We show that BAG3 depletion reduces clathrin-AP-2 interactions, inhibits CME-dependent epidermal growth factor receptor internalization, and decreases tau uptake. BAG3 depletion impairs CME dynamics as indicated by prolonged clathrin particle lifetimes, and increases Lamp1+ puncta and colocalization of tau with Lamp1-positive structures, indicating vacuolar disturbances beyond CME.
Homozygous (Q789X) DNAJC6 mutation causes PARK19. Q787 of Dnajc6 corresponds to Q789 of DNAJC6. Dnajc6Q787X/Q787X mouse was utilized to elucidate pathomechanisms underlying (Q789X) DNAJC6-induced PARK19. Dnajc6Q787X/Q787X mice displayed PARK19 motor deficits and degeneration of substantia nigra (SN) dopaminergic neurons. (Q787X) Dnajc6 decreased clathrin heavy chain and lysosomal number, leading to downregulation of lysosomal cathepsin D and upregulation of α-synuclein or α-synuclein oligomers in SN dopaminergic neurons. Lysosomal biogenesis activator rapamycin precluded (Q787X) Dnajc6-induced downregulation of cathepsin D, upregulation of α-synuclein, and PARK19 phenotypes. (Q787X) Dnajc6-induced elevation of ER and mitochondrial α-synuclein excited ER stress and mitochondrial pro-apoptotic cascades. (Q787X) Dnajc6-evoked α-synuclein oligomer overexpression activated SN microglia and NLRP3 inflammasome and upregulated IL-1β, IL-18, and TNF-α, which stimulated MKK4-JNK -c-Jun/ATF-2 and RIPK1-RIPK3-MLKL death cascades. Our results suggest that PARK19 (Q789X) DNAJC6 mutation causes lysosomal deficiency and impairs cathepsin D-mediated degradation of α-synuclein, resulting in upregulated α-synuclein-induced neurodegeneration of SN dopaminergic cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-derived foam cells critically drive atherosclerotic plaque progression, yet their regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to elucidate the pathophysiological role of the VSMC-enriched factor axin interactor, dorsalization-associated (AIDA) in this process and evaluate its therapeutic potential. We utilized VSMC-specific AIDA knockout in male ApoE-/- mice and adenoviral shRNA silencing in oxLDL-stimulated murine aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (MOVAS), combined with co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), cholesterol flux assays, and ubiquitination profiling, which revealed that AIDA is selectively upregulated in VSMCs within human and murine atherosclerotic plaques. AIDA knockout attenuated aortic plaque burden, fibrosis, and elastic fiber fragmentation in vivo, and suppressed oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) uptake and foam cell formation in vitro by specifically impairing CD36 membrane trafficking without affecting cholesterol efflux. Mechanistically, AIDA scaffolds HMG-CoA reductase degradation protein 1 (HRD1)-mediated K63-linked ubiquitination of vesicle-associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3), resulting in the VAMP3-CD36 interaction and subsequent CD36 membrane translocation. These results demonstrate that AIDA promotes VSMC-derived foam cell formation by facilitating CD36 trafficking through the HRD1-VAMP3 ubiquitination axis, identifying the AIDA-HRD1-VAMP3-CD36 pathway as a potential novel strategy for the treatment of atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41921430
Mutations in the gene encoding the p150 subunit of the dynactin complex (DCTN1) are linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, and Perry syndrome. These neurodegenerative diseases can cause muscle weakness and atrophy, parkinsonian-like symptoms, and paralysis. To examine the evolution of neuropathology caused by a mutation in DCTN1 and cellular mechanisms of disease for therapeutic discovery, we characterized mice expressing either human wildtype or mutant (G59S) DCTN1. Neuron-specific expression of mutant, but not wildtype, DCTN1 caused fatal age-related paralytic disease and motor neuron (MN) degeneration in the spinal cord with axonopathy and chromatolysis without apoptotic morphology. MNs became positive for cleaved caspase-3, cleaved caspase-8, and nitrated Hsp90. Mitochondria accumulated and appeared fragmented and dysmorphic and then were lost. This pathology was accompanied by invasion of CD95- and CD8-positive mononuclear T cells into the ventral horn and accumulation of TNFα and IL9. Administration of the mitochondrial division inhibitor-1 (Mdivi-1) protected MNs and extended the lifespan of G59S-DCTN1 mice. A mitochondrial permeability transition pore inhibitor also extended lifespan. Thus, mutant DCTN1 causes degeneration of MNs associated with axonopathy, mitochondriopathy, nitrative stress, and caspase activation. It appears as retrograde neurodegeneration and inflammatory T-cell-like cytolysis. Mitochondria are possible therapeutic targets in DCTN1-linked neurodegenerative disorders.
Trophoblast apoptosis is a major cause of adverse pregnancy outcomes in patients with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism of action of exosomal microRNAs (miRNAs) retrieved from the peripheral blood of patients with GDM on trophoblast apoptosis.Ultracentrifugation was performed to collect peripheral blood-carrying exosomes. HTR-8/SVneo (HTR-8) cell line was used in apoptosis assay and 293T cell line was used in dual-luciferase assay. Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry, immunofluorescence (IF) and western blotting (WB). Differentially expressed miRNA was obtained through RNA sequencing. The dual-luciferase assay was performed to verify the gene targeting. WB, qPCR, immunohistochemistry and IF were used to detect the expression of vesicle associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3). HTR-8 cells were co-transfected with miR-152-5p inhibitor and siVAMP3 to identify the mechanism of miR-152-5p in regulating apoptosis under high glucose conditions.miR-152-5p was significantly upregulated in exosomes from patients with GDM vs controls. In vitro miR-152-5p upregulation was associated with increased trophoblast apoptosis. miR-152-5p downregulation was associated with activation of PI3K/AKT/FOXO3a pathway and higher levels of VAMP3. VAMP3 was a target of miR-152-5p, and its expression was lower in GDM placental tissues. The inhibition of VAMP3 expression was associated with enhanced trophoblast apoptosis in vitro. Exosomal miR-152-5p inhibited the PI3K/AKT/FOXO3a pathway leading to decreased proliferation and increased trophoblast apoptosis, and this was mediated by the inhibition of targeting VAMP3.miR-152-5p, the most differentially expressed exosomal miRNA, appeared to increase trophoblast apoptosis by inhibiting the VAMP3 pathway.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The expression of repressor element 1 silencing transcription factor (REST) in peripheral nerves increases with age, which leads to a decline in axon regeneration. However, the detailed mechanisms behind the decline in axon regeneration with age remain to be elucidated. The present study investigated the mechanism of nuclear transport of REST using hydrogen (H2), which has neuroprotective effects. First, aged mice as an animal model and REST‑overexpressed (REST‑OE) cells generated from the NIH‑3T3 fibroblast cell line as a cellular model were treated with H2 to examine REST expression and growth‑associated protein 43 (GAP43) as an axon regeneration marker. Subsequently, to examine differences in the localization of REST expression, in vitro cell lines were fractionated into cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions for immunofluorescence staining and western blotting, and REST expression was quantified. Furthermore, to investigate the mechanisms of nuclear transport, REST nuclear transport proteins (REST‑interacting LIM domain protein, Huntingtin and dynactin subunit 1/p150Glued) and the autophagy‑related protein LC3 were semi‑quantified by western blotting. REST expression was decreased, and GAP43 expression was increased following H2 administration in animal models and REST‑OE cells. REST intracellular localization analysis revealed that REST expression was significantly increased in the cytoplasm and significantly decreased in the nucleus in the REST‑OE + H2 group compared with the REST‑OE group. Furthermore, the present findings revealed that the addition of H2 resulted in a significant decrease in several REST nuclear transport proteins, subsequently suppressing the nuclear translocation of REST. These findings suggest that regulation of the nuclear transport of REST by H2 improves the decline in axon regeneration.
Wenchang chicken is a special local breed in Hainan Province, China, known for its excellent adaptation to the tropical environment and good meat quality. In this study, we compared the differences in serum immunoglobulin levels, antioxidant indices, and liver transcriptome, proteome, phosphoproteomics between antibiotic-free Wenchang chickens (AFS) and normal Wenchang chickens (NS). The IgM level, activities of CAT, TAOC and GSH in serum were significantly higher in AFS Wenchang chickens than in NS Wenchang chickens, but MDA activity in serum was significantly lower in AFS Wenchang chickens. A total of 1,356 DEGs were identified by liver transcriptome analysis and mainly enriched in pathways such as response to bacterium, mitotic cell cycle process, anion binding, and so on. GSEA analysis further indicated that many of the gene sets were associated with immunity regulation and inflammatory responses. A total of 499 DAPs were identified in the liver proteome, mainly involved in the peroxisome, SNARE interactions in vesicular transport and glycerophospholipid metabolism pathways. Three proteins were identified as hubs in the protein interactions network: beta-2-microglobulin precursor (B2M), dedicator of cytokinesis protein 4 (DOCK4) and vesicle-associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3). There was a weak Spearman's correlation between mRNA expression and protein abundance in the liver. A total of 3,436 phosphoproteins, including 38,891 phosphorylation sites, were identified in the liver of Wenchang chicken. There are 356 phosphoproteins with differential phosphorylation sites, mainly enriched in six pathways, such as the insulin signaling pathway, tight junction and RNA transport pathway. Multi-omics analyses showed that protein phosphorylation in the liver of the Wenchang chicken is largely an independently regulated process. 143 proteins had both up- and down-regulated phosphorylation sites, suggesting that these proteins undergo complex phosphorylation regulation. The AFS Wenchang chickens have higher serum IgM levels and stronger serum antioxidant activity. Accordingly, signaling pathways related to immune and inflammatory responses are highly activated in the livers. The results provide basic data for the disease resistance breeding of Wenchang chicken in the future.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) in aquatic animals can resist pathogen infection by delivering bioactive substances between cells. Chlamys farreri, as a commercial aquaculture species, was used as the research object in this study to explore the possible innate immune regulation mediated by EVs. In this study, data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics analysis was performed on EVs in the serum of C. farreri after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. A total of 124 upregulated and 205 downregulated differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified through comparative analysis. Related DEPs that may be involved in immune regulation in EVs were further screened, such as glucose-regulated protein 94 (HSP90B1), lysosome-associated membrane glycoprotein 1 (LAMP1), calreticulin (CALR), ras-related protein Rab-11 A (RAB11A), serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 1 (SRSF1), tumor susceptibility gene 101 protein (TSG101), and vesicle-associated membrane protein 3 (VAMP3). Enrichment analysis demonstrated that these DEPs were identified to be involved in the response to stimulus function, immune system process, and classical immune-related signaling pathways, such as the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway and RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathway. Further, PPI analysis was performed to predict the interactions between immune-related DEPs, which were mainly divided into proteins directly involved in immune regulation (such as HSP90B1, LAMP1, CALR, and RAB11A) and proteins indirectly involved in immune regulation by vesicle transport (such as TSG101, VAMP3, SNAP25, RAB14, and RAB2). These findings reveal that EVs play a central role in mediating innate immune regulation in C. farreri via cell communication under LPS stimulation, and are expected to provide important insights into disease-resistant breeding and aquaculture practices in shellfish.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Mast cells play pivotal roles in allergic pathogenesis and inflammatory disorders, with their pathologic effects largely mediated through granule exocytosis. Dynactin subunit 1 (Dctn1), a microtubule-associated motor protein, remains unexplored in mast cell-driven inflammation. This study investigates Dctn1's functional role in regulating mast cell degranulation during food allergy (FA).An ovalbumin-sensitized murine FA model was established to profile mast cell activity. Gut lavage fluid (GLF) was analyzed via Olink proteomics and ELISA to quantify Dctn1 levels and mast cell mediators (histamine, Mcpt1). Mechanistic studies employed RNA interference, conditional knockout mice (Dctn1f/fCma1-Cre), and immunoprecipitation to assess Dctn1's role in granule trafficking.FA mice exhibited 3.2-fold higher Dctn1 levels in GLF versus controls (p < 0.001), strongly correlating with mast cell mediator concentrations (histamine: r = 0.73; Mcpt1: r = 0.7). Intestinal mast cells showed selective Dctn1 upregulation (2.8-fold mRNA increase, p < 0.01), mechanistically linked to granule trafficking through CMA1 complex formation. Mast cell-specific Dctn1 ablation reduced Mcpt1 release by 74 % (p < 0.001) and ameliorated FA symptoms (92 % core temperature drop, p < 0.005), independent of AKT/ERK signaling pathways.This study identifies Dctn1 as a novel regulator of mast cell degranulation in FA, operating through microtubule-dependent granule transport. Targeted inhibition of Dctn1 significantly attenuates allergic responses without disrupting canonical activation signals, positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for mast cell-driven pathologies.Copyright © 2025 European Federation of Immunological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The REarranged during Transfection (RET) proto-oncogene fusion is a typical cancer driver gene frequently observed in thyroid and lung cancers. This study characterized the novel dynactin subunit 1 (DCTN1)-RET fusion gene and evaluated the efficacy of RET inhibitors against this fusion.Thyroid cancer tissue DNA samples were sequenced to identify fusion genes, and an expression vector was generated using extracted RNA. Cell lines stably expressing DCTN1-RET variants, including those lacking the coiled-coil (CC) domain, were established. The functionality of these variants and therapeutic efficacy of RET inhibitors were examined both in vitro and in vivo.The DCTN1-RET fusion gene contains the CC domain from DCTN1 and the kinase domain from RET. Deletion of the CC domain abrogated dimer formation and reduced RET and extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. Cells expressing DCTN1-RET exhibited enhanced proliferation and tumorigenesis in vivo. The RET inhibitor TAS0286 effectively suppressed DCTN1-RET-mediated RET autophosphorylation and tumor growth in a mouse subcutaneous tumor model.DCTN1-RET is a novel oncogenic fusion gene in thyroid cancer that promotes tumorigenesis through CC domain-mediated dimerization. It represents a potential therapeutic target for RET-specific inhibitors.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Genomic imprinting, a mechanism resulting in parent-of-origin expression of genes through epigenetic regulation, intersects with a broad range of biological fields, including evolution, molecular genetics and epigenetics, and determinism of complex traits. Although next generation sequencing technologies nowadays enable imprinted genes to be detected in a genome-wide manner, a wide spectrum of this phenomena is evaluated only in humans and rodents.Here, we propose to map genes showing a parental expression imbalance in hypothalamus, muscle and placenta in piglets around birth using an extensive strategy that minimized biases and relied on reciprocal crosses, reconstruction of parental phases after imputation, and statistical analyses discriminating parent-of-origin from allele-specific expression. We detected 141 genes with strong to exclusive parental expression imbalance (ratio > 25:75). A large proportion (80%) of these genes have never been shown to exhibit parent-of-origin expression and a small proportion (15%) are shared by at least two tissues, suggesting an overall weak conservation landscape of genomic imprinting. Interestingly, we identified novel parent-of-origin expressed genes involved in neurodevelopmental (PREPL, Prolyl Endopeptidase Like) and fetal growth (FAM20B, Glycosaminoglycan Xylosylkinase, and POU6F2, POU Class 6 Homeobox 2) functions. In-depth analyses of specific loci highlighted specific imprinted isoforms of COPG2 (COPI Coat Complex Subunit Gamma 2) and confirmed livestock-specific imprinted genes such as the Zinc Finger Protein 300-like gene.Altogether, our results provide an atlas of parent-of-origin expressed genes in the pig, making it the most documented species for genomic imprinting after humans and rodents. Our findings indicate weak conservation of this mechanism across species and tissues, suggesting a small number of core imprinted genes shared across eutherians and another imprinted genes that seem specific to species or tissues. These latter parent-of-origin expressed genes may have been subjected to evolutionary forces that have determine their imprinting status in either a livestock-specific or a tissue-specific manner.© 2026. The Author(s).
The study aimed to identify the manifestation of isolated Prolyl endopeptidase-like (PREPL) deficiency in children to aid in diagnosis and early intervention.We performed a retrospective cohort study, including five children genetically confirmed with PREPL gene mutations. Clinical features, genotypes, and treatment responses were analyzed.The study involved four girls and one boy. The major neuromuscular features were hypotonia and feeding difficulties in the neonatal period. They all had global muscle weakness. Different from typical symptoms of CMS, only one patient had transient unilateral mild ptosis with no obvious fluctuating nature. Minor facial dysmorphism, growth retardation (especially underweight), and significantly delayed motor development were frequently observed. One patient also showed language and cognitive development delay. In addition, two cases had a predominant decrease in insulin-like growth factor 1 at 2.3 and 1.6 years, respectively. The median age at diagnosis was 5 (1-12) months. Eight previously nondescribed mutations were detected among the five patients, in four children with compound heterozygous mutations and one child with homozygous mutations (maternal uniparental disomy). The frameshift mutation site (p. F428fs∗18) was found in two unrelated patients. All patients have received pyridostigmine treatment at median age of 6 (3-14) months. Four cases exhibited significant improvements in motor development.Isolated PREPL deficiency is a multisystem disease more than just myasthenia. Early referral to diagnosis is crucial to enable timely initiation of treatment. Pyridostigmine is an effective treatment to improve motor development in most children. Monitoring hormone levels, including insulin-like growth factor 1, can assist in early intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
DOP1 leucine zipper-like protein A (DOPEY1), a member of the DOPEY family, is mainly localized in the Golgi apparatus, endosomes, and cytoplasmic compartments within cells. The involvement of DOPEY1 in H. pylori infection-induced carcinogenesis has remained unresolved. Here, we report that DOPEY1 is upregulated in GC tissues compared to adjacent normal tissues, correlating with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, H. pylori infection increases DOPEY1 expression and promotes p53 degradation through a CagA-dependent pathway. Using the String database and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, we identified DOPEY1-interacting proteins, confirming through co-immunoprecipitation that DOPEY1 interacts with USP7 and TRIP12. H. pylori infection enhances the expression of DOPEY1, USP7, and TRIP12, leading to p53 degradation, which is reversed by DOPEY1 silencing. Moreover, USP7 overexpression rescues p53 degradation in DOPEY1-silenced cells. Functionally, DOPEY1 knockdown reduces GC cell proliferation and suppresses tumor growth in mouse models. Immunohistochemistry analysis further reveals a link between DOPEY1, USP7, and TRIP12 expression, H. pylori infection, and GC progression. These findings demonstrate that H. pylori-induced upregulation of DOPEY1 drives p53 degradation via the USP7/TRIP12 axis, contributing to gastric tumorigenesis, and highlight DOPEY1 as a potential therapeutic target for H. pylori-associated GC.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Congenital myasthenic syndrome-22 (CMS22, OMIM 616224) is a rare genetic disorder caused by deleterious genetic variation in the prolyl endopeptidase-like (PREPL) gene. Previous reports have described patients with deletions and nonsense variants in PREPL, but nothing is known about the effect of missense variants in the pathology of CMS22. In this study, we have functionally characterized missense variants in PREPL from 3 patients with CMS22, all with hallmark phenotypes. Biochemical evaluation revealed that these missense variants do not impair hydrolase activity, thereby challenging the conventional diagnostic criteria and disease mechanism. Structural analysis showed that the variants affect regions most likely involved in intraprotein or protein-protein interactions. Indeed, binding to a selected group of known interactors was differentially reduced for the 3 variants. The importance of nonhydrolytic functions of PREPL was investigated in catalytically inactive PREPL p.Ser559Ala cell lines, which showed that hydrolytic activity of PREPL is needed for normal mitochondrial function but not for regulating AP1-mediated transport in the transgolgi network. In conclusion, these studies showed that CMS22 can be caused not only by deletion and truncation of PREPL but also by missense variants that do not necessarily result in a loss of hydrolytic activity of PREPL.
Loss of prolyl endopeptidase-like (PREPL) encoding a serine hydrolase with (thio)esterase activity leads to the recessive metabolic disorder Congenital Myasthenic Syndrome-22 (CMS22). It is characterized by severe neonatal hypotonia, feeding problems, growth retardation, and hyperphagia leading to rapid weight gain later in childhood. The phenotypic similarities with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) are striking, suggesting that similar pathways are affected. The aim of this study was to identify changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis in mouse models for both disorders and to examine mitochondrial function in skin fibroblasts of patients and knockout cell lines. We have demonstrated that Prepl is downregulated in the brains of neonatal PWS-IC-p/+m mice. In addition, the hypothalamic-pituitary axis is similarly affected in both Prepl-/- and PWS-IC-p/+m mice resulting in defective orexigenic signaling and growth retardation. Furthermore, we demonstrated that mitochondrial function is altered in PREPL knockout HEK293T cells and can be rescued with the supplementation of coenzyme Q10. Finally, PREPL-deficient and PWS patient skin fibroblasts display defective mitochondrial bioenergetics. The mitochondrial dysfunction in PWS fibroblasts can be rescued by overexpression of PREPL. In conclusion, we provide the first molecular parallels between CMS22 and PWS, raising the possibility that PREPL substrates might become therapeutic targets for treating both disorders.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Deficiency of the serine hydrolase prolyl endopeptidase-like (PREPL) causes a recessive metabolic disorder characterized by neonatal hypotonia, feeding difficulties, and growth hormone deficiency. The pathophysiology of PREPL deficiency and the physiological substrates of PREPL remain largely unknown. In this study, we connect PREPL with mitochondrial gene expression and oxidative phosphorylation by analyzing its protein interactors. We demonstrate that the long PREPLL isoform localizes to mitochondria, whereas PREPLS remains cytosolic. Prepl KO mice showed reduced mitochondrial complex activities and disrupted mitochondrial gene expression. Furthermore, mitochondrial ultrastructure was abnormal in a PREPL-deficient patient and Prepl KO mice. In addition, we reveal that PREPL has (thio)esterase activity and inhibition of PREPL by Palmostatin M suggests a depalmitoylating function. We subsequently determined the crystal structure of PREPL, thereby providing insight into the mechanism of action. Taken together, PREPL is a (thio)esterase rather than a peptidase and PREPLL is involved in mitochondrial homeostasis.© 2021 The Author(s).
Prolyl endopeptidase-like (PREPL) deficiency (MIM#616224) is a rare congenital disorder characterised by neonatal hypotonia and feeding difficulties, growth hormone (GH) deficiency and hypergonadotropic hypogonadism. This syndrome is an autosomal recessive disease resulting from mutations in the PREPL gene (MIM#609557). Herein we report a 7-year-old female patient with biallelic mutations in PREPL (c.1528C>T in one allele and whole gene deletion in the other) with early growth impairment in infancy. GH deficiency was confirmed at 20 months of life. Recombinant GH treatment was introduced with a good response. Her clinical features were similar to those of previously reported cases. The description of new patients with PREPL deficiency syndrome is essential to better delineate the phenotypic and genotypic spectrum of the disease.©Copyright 2023 by Turkish Society for Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes | The Journal of Clinical Research in Pediatric Endocrinology published by Galenos Publishing House.
Fundamental changes in intracellular processes, such as overactive growth signaling pathways, are common in carcinomas and are targets of many cancer therapeutics. GRIP and coiled-coil containing 2 (GCC2) is a trans-Golgi network (TGN) golgin maintaining Golgi apparatus structure and regulating vesicle transport. Here, we found an aberrant overexpression of GCC2 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and conducted shRNA-mediated gene knockdown to investigate the role of GCC2 in NSCLC progression. shRNA-mediated GCC2 knockdown suppressed NSCLC cell growth, migration, stemness, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. In addition, GCC2 knockdown suppressed cancer cell exosome secretion and the oncogenic capacity of cancer cell-derived exosomes. Mechanistically, GCC2 inhibition decreased epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression and downstream growth and proliferation signaling. Furthermore, GCC2 inhibition compromised Golgi structural integrity in cancer cells, indicating a functional role of GCC2 in regulating intracellular trafficking and signaling to promote lung cancer progression. Together, these findings suggest GCC2 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of NSCLC.© 2024. The Author(s).
The fluctuation in temperature poses a significant challenge for poikilothermic organisms, notably insects, particularly in the context of changing climatic conditions. In insects, temperature adaptation has been driven by polygenes. In addition to genes that directly affect traits (core genes), other genes (peripheral genes) may also play a role in insect temperature adaptation. This study focuses on two peripheral genes, the GRIP and coiled-coil domain containing 2 (GCC2) and karyopherin subunit beta 1 (KPNB1). These genes are differentially expressed at different temperatures in the cosmopolitan pest, Plutella xylostella. GCC2 and KPNB1 in P. xylostella were cloned, and their relative expression patterns were identified. Reduced capacity for thermal adaptation (development, reproduction and response to temperature extremes) in the GCC2-deficient and KPNB1-deficient P. xylostella strains, which were constructed by CRISPR/Cas9 technique. Deletion of the PxGCC2 or PxKPNB1 genes in P. xylostella also had a differential effect on gene expression for many traits including stress resistance, resistance to pesticides, involved in immunity, trehalose metabolism, fatty acid metabolism and so forth. The ability of the moth to adapt to temperature via different pathways is likely to be key to its ability to remain an important pest species under predicted climate change conditions.© 2024 Royal Entomological Society.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK )-fusion sarcomas are rare part of the emerging theoretically targetable tyrosine kinase RAS::MAPK pathway fusion myopericytic-ovoid sarcomas. We report our clinicopathologic and treatment experience with an ALK fusion sarcoma. A novel ELKS/RAB6-interacting/CAST family member 1 - unaligned ALK fusion infiltrative nonmetastatic low-grade sarcoma of the right hand of a 15-month-old male was treated with crizotinib, an ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitor as oral monotherapy, inducing complete radiographic and clinical resolution by 10 months and sustained response now over 12 months after elective discontinuation. Crizotinib can successfully be used to treat unresectable novel ALK fusion sarcomas.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
No specific markers have been identified to detect non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell-derived exosomes circulating in the blood. Here, we report a new biomarker that distinguishes between cancer and non-cancer cell-derived exosomes. Exosomes isolated from patient plasmas at various pathological stages of NSCLC, NSCLC cell lines, and human pulmonary alveolar epithelial cells isolated using size exclusion chromatography were characterized. The GRIP and coiled-coil domain-containing 2 (GCC2) protein, involved in endosome-to-Golgi transport, was identified by proteomics analysis of NSCLC cell line-derived exosomes. GCC2 protein levels in the exosomes derived from early-stage NSCLC patients were higher than those from healthy controls. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis revealed the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of exosomal GCC2 to be 90% and 75%, respectively. A high area under the curve, 0.844, confirmed that GCC2 levels could effectively distinguish between the exosomes. These results demonstrate GCC2 as a promising early diagnostic biomarker for NSCLC.
We aimed to investigate the mechanism of circular RNA circ_0084927 in the progression of breast cancer (BC).The levels of circ_0084927, miR-142-3p, and ELKS/RAB6-interacting/CAST family member-1 (ERC1) mRNA in the BC tissues and cells were detected by qRT-PCR. CCK8, colony formation, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays were performed to examine the cell proliferation, colony formation, cell invasion, and apoptosis, respectively, in the BC cells with regulated expressions of circ_0084927, miR-142-3p, and ERC1. RNase R treatment was employed to verify the circular structure of circ_0084927. Nucleocytoplasmic separation experiment, bioinformatics analysis, dual-luciferase reporter assay, and RNA immunoprecipitation were performed to investigate the ceRNA mechanism of circ_0084927.High levels of circ_0084927 and ERC1 and low levels of miR-142-3p were detected in the BC tissues and cells. Knockdown of circ_0084927 promoted apoptosis and inhibited proliferation, colony formation, and invasion of BC cells (all P<0.05), whereas overexpression of circ_0084927 in the BC cells achieved the opposite effects. miR-142-3p is the target of circ_0084927. Overexpression of miR-142-3p could inhibit BC cell proliferation, colony formation, and cell invasion and induce apoptosis of the BC cells (all P<0.05), and the effects of miR-142-3p knockout on the BC cells could be reversed by silencing circ_0084927. miR-142-3p could target ERC1. Both ERC1 silencing and circ_0084927 knockout in the BC cells could achieve the tumor-suppressing effect, and this effect could be more remarkable under simultaneous ERC1 silencing and circ_0084927 knockout (all P<0.05).Circ_0084927 can promote the progression of BC by regulating the miR-142-3p/ERC1 axis.AJTR Copyright © 2021.
Axonal Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2) accounts for 24% of Hereditary Motor/Sensory Peripheral Neuropathies. CMT2 type GG, due to four distinct heterozygous mutations in the Golgi brefeldin A resistant guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GBF1) gene (OMIM 606483), was described in seven cases from four unrelated families with autosomal dominant inheritance. It is characterized by slowly progressive distal muscle weakness and atrophy, primarily affecting the lower limbs. Here, we present two siblings sharing a novel GBF1 variant.Patient II.1 (male, 61 years at onset) presented lower limb hypoesthesia and walking difficulty; the examination revealed a postural tremor, a positive Romberg test, and muscle atrophy in the lower limbs and hands. Patient II.2 (his sister, 59 years at onset) had lower limb dysesthesias, hand paresthesia, and lower-limb stiffness. They underwent clinical evaluations, blood tests, and electroneurography. Their father represents a potentially affected individual, although a genetic analysis was not conducted.All tests for peripheral neuropathies were unremarkable, including metabolic and autoimmune screening. Both showed a mixed demyelinating-axonal sensory-motor neuropathy. Genetic analysis revealed a new heterozygous GBF1 variant of uncertain significance.Based on autosomal dominant inheritance, as well as clinical and physiological features, a possible novel CMT2GG was diagnosed. Further research, including functional assays and in vitro studies, is necessary to confirm this variant's causal link.
Two markers on Chromosome 2 of chickpea (Cicer arietinum ) are reportedly associated with resistance to race 4 Fusarium wilt, and are frequently used in breeding. However, the genes in this region that actually confer wilt resistance are unknown. We aimed to characterise them using both in silico approaches and marker trait association (MTA) analysis. Of the 225 protein-encoding genes in this region, 51 showed significant differential expression in two contrasting chickpea genotypes under wilt, with potential involvement in stress response. From a diverse set of 244 chickpea genotypes, two sets of 40 resistant and 40 susceptible genotypes were selected based on disease incidence and amplification pattern of the TA59 marker. All cultivars were further genotyped with 1238 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) specific to the 51 genes; only seven SNPs were significantly correlated with disease. SNP Ca2_24099002, specific to the LOC101498008 (Transmembrane protein 87A) gene, accounted for the highest phenotypic variance for disease incidence at 16.30%, whereas SNPs Ca2_25166118 and Ca2_27029215, specific to the LOC101494644 (β-glucosidase BoGH3B-like) and LOC101505289 (Putative tRNA pseudouridine synthase) genes, explained 10.51% and 10.50% of the variation, respectively, in the sets with contrasting disease susceptibility. Together with the TA59 and TR19 markers, these SNPs can be used in a chickpea breeding scheme to develop wilt resistance.
The components and subprocesses underlying the formation of COPI-coated vesicles at the Golgi are well understood. The coating cascade is initiated after the small GTPase Arf1 is activated by the Sec7 domain-containing guanine nucleotide exchange factor GBF1 (Golgi brefeldin A resistant guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1). This causes a conformational shift within Arf1 that facilitates stable association of Arf1 with the membrane, a process required for subsequent recruitment of the COPI coat. Although we have atomic-level knowledge of Arf1 activation by Sec7 domain-containing GEFs, our understanding of the biophysical processes regulating Arf1 and GBF1 dynamics is limited. We used fluorescence recovery after photobleaching data and kinetic Monte Carlo simulation to assess the behavior of Arf1 and GBF1 during COPI vesicle formation in live cells. Our analyses suggest that Arf1 and GBF1 associate with Golgi membranes independently, with an excess of GBF1 relative to Arf1. Furthermore, the GBF1-mediated Arf1 activation is much faster than GBF1 cycling on/off the membrane, suggesting that GBF1 is regulated by processes other than its interactions Arf1. Interestingly, modeling the behavior of the catalytically inactive GBF1/E794K mutant stabilized on the membrane is inconsistent with the formation of a stable complex between it and an endogenous Arf1 and suggests that GBF1/E794K is stabilized on the membrane independently of complex formation.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia worldwide. Rare, truncating variants in the sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) gene are well established as high-risk factors for early-onset AD, although with incomplete penetrance. In this study, we identified a novel heterozygous frameshift variant in SORL1 (c.6152delA) in a Chinese family presenting with early-onset dementia characterized by progressive memory impairment and neuropsychiatric symptoms. The variant is extremely rare in gnomAD v4 and is predicted to introduce a premature termination codon. To investigate whether the truncated SORL1 transcript escapes nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) and to explore the potential cellular effects of residual truncated SORL1, the mutant SORL1 construct was expressed in SH-SY5Y cells and APPswe-expressing HEK293 cells. Additionally, SORL1 mRNA levels in the serum of the proband and her families were assessed by qRT-PCR. Confocal microscopy was used to examine amyloid precursor protein (APP) trafficking within early endosomes, late endosomes, and the trans-Golgi network, marked by EEA1, Rab7, and TGN46, respectively. Amyloid-β (Aβ40 and Aβ42) levels were quantified by ELISA. The results showed that SORL1 mRNA levels in the proband were reduced. And the SORL1 c.6152delA variant impaired the ability of SORL1 to retain APP within the Golgi-endosomal transport network, resulting in increased Aβ production. Overall, these findings indicate that the SORL1 c.6152delA frameshift variant is a significant risk factor for AD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
BackgroundAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disorder. The sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) gene, which regulates the trafficking and recycling of amyloid precursor protein, has been reported to be associated with the development of AD.ObjectiveThis study investigated the impact of SORL1 polymorphisms (rs641120 and rs1784933) and their interaction with the apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele on AD preclinical stages-subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We also explored the association between the rs641120 and serum biomarkers.MethodsThe study included 225 SCD, 131 MCI, and 62 normal controls (NC). Logistic regression models were utilized to assess genetic risks and interactions. Nonparametric tests or t-tests were employed to examine group differences stratified by protective genes in neuropsychological performance and biomarkers.ResultsThe rs641120 A allele was associated with a lower risk of SCD and MCI, within AA genotype (OR = 0.575) and AG genotype (OR = 0.588). In MCI patients, the A allele was associated with lower levels of serum Aβ1-42 and p-tau181. An interaction between SORL1 rs1784933 and the APOE ε4 allele was identified. In NC carrying ε4, AA is associated with higher risk of SCD (OR = 12.030, p = 0.029) and MCI (OR = 10.015, p = 0.044). In SCD patients without ε4, AA genotype is associated with lower risk of MCI (OR = 0.301, p = 0.006).ConclusionsSORL1 polymorphisms influence SCD and MCI susceptibility and correlate with AD serum biomarkers. Additionally, we detected an interaction between SORL1 rs1784933 and the APOE ε4 genotype.
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) shows a notable female bias in both prevalence and severity. This bias is closely linked to declining estradiol levels during menopause. Our study demonstrated that estradiol can inhibit the accelerated progression of AD caused by ovariectomy (OVX) in female APP/PS1 mice. Transcriptome analysis revealed that estradiol prevented the decline in sortilin-related receptor 1 (Sorl1), which encodes the sorting receptor SORLA, in the hippocampus of female APP/PS1-OVX mice. Neuronal Sorl1 knockdown blocked estradiol’s ability to alleviate AD symptoms. Mechanistically, estradiol enhanced SORLA-mediated redirection of amyloid precursor protein (APP) trafficking from early endosomes toward the Golgi apparatus and lysosomes, which were involved in non-amyloidogenic processing and reducing Aβ levels. Additionally, estradiol promoted estrogen receptor α (ERα) binding to the Sorl1 promoter, thereby activating SORLA expression. Notably, estradiol ameliorated AD progression in female APP/PS1-OVX mice through ERα, and this effect depended on SORLA. Overall, estradiol mitigated AD pathology by activating Sorl1 transcription via ERα, which in turn directed APP endosomal trafficking through SORLA. This pathway provides valuable mechanistic insights into sex differences in AD and highlights potential therapeutic targets.
The SorLA protein, encoded by the Sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) gene, is a major player in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. Functional studies demonstrated that SorLA deficiency results in increased production of Aβ peptide, and thus a higher risk of AD. SorLA can be subject to proteolytic shedding at the cell surface, leading to the release of the soluble ectodomain of the protein (sSorLA) in the extracellular space. Recently, we demonstrated that a large proportion (~25%) of rare SORL1 missense variants found in AD patients alter SorLA trafficking along the constitutive secretory pathway, resulting in reduced delivery of SorLA to the plasma membrane and thus a loss of function. Here, we aimed to determine if CSF levels of sSORLA in AD patients carrying SORL1 rare variants that impact or not the trafficking of the protein can be used as a novel biomarker to explore disrupted trafficking of SorLA protein in AD.A total of 151 participants were categorized into 5 study groups: controls without any neurodegenerative disease (n=30), patients suffering from Fronto-Temporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD, n=34), AD patients not carrying a SORL1 rare variant (AD SORL1 WT, n=40), AD patients carrying SORL1 trafficking-defective variants or a protein-truncating variant (PTV) (ADSORL1 TD, n=16), and AD patients carrying a SORL1 variant with no evidence of trafficking defect (AD SORL1 nTD, n=31). Thirty-three unique rare variants of SORL1 were included for this study: 3 PTVs, 13 missense variants that impact SorLA protein trafficking in in vitro cellular assays, and 17 variants with no detectable effect on SorLA protein trafficking. We measured amounts of cleaved sSorLA by western blot in CSF samples.We found significantly decreased levels of sSorLA in ADSORL1 TD, compared to all other groups. According to ROC curve analysis, levels of sSorLA showed good performances to distinguish ADSORL1 TD patients from other AD patients (AUC=0.89 [95%CI: 0.81-0.97]).Our results suggest that differential levels of sSorLA in CSF could be used as a novel marker to explore disrupted trafficking of SorLA protein in Alzheimer disease. This could help solve some proportion of variants of uncertain significance in SORL1.© 2025. The Author(s).
Mutation studies of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) have previously implied that PAI-1 promotes lung fibrosis via a vitronectin-dependent (VTN-dependent) mechanism. In the present study, employing 2 distinct murine fibrosis models and VTN-deficient mice, we found that VTN is not required for PAI-1 to drive lung scarring. This result suggested the existence of a profibrotic interaction involving the VTN-binding site on PAI-1 with an unidentified ligand. Using an unbiased proteomic approach, we identified sortilin-related receptor 1 (SorLA) as the most highly enriched PAI-1 binding partner in the fibrosing lung. Investigating the role of SorLA in pulmonary fibrosis demonstrated that deficiency of this protein protected against lung scarring in a murine model. We further found that SorLA is required for PAI-1 to promote scarring in mice, that both SorLA and PAI-1 protein levels are increased in human idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) explants, and that these proteins are associated in IPF tissue. Finally, confocal microscopy showed that expression of SorLA in CHO cells increased cellular uptake of PAI-1, and these proteins colocalized in the cytoplasm. Together, these data elucidate a mechanism by which the potent profibrotic mediator PAI-1 drives lung fibrosis and implicate SorLA as a potential therapeutic target in IPF treatment.
Sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) is a risk gene of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and some protein-truncating (PTV) and rare missense variants causing the loss of function of SORL1 contribute to AD pathogenesis. SORL1 is an endosomal receptor that interacts with multiple protein sorting complexes to facilitate the transport of various cargoes through the endolysosomal network (ELN). However, the regulatory mechanisms governing SORL1 expression remain unknown. Through biochemical methods, we identified Forkhead Box P1 (FOXP1) as a binding protein to the minimal promoter region of SORL1 gene. Silencing FOXP1 using siRNA significantly decreased the activity of the SORL1 minimal promoter and reduced SORL1 protein and mRNA levels in the neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. Additionally, using 5xFAD mouse models of AD, we observed significantly decreased FOXP1 and SORL1 expression in neurons within the prefrontal cortex. Disruption of ELN and the autophagy degradation system by bafilomycin A1 (BafA1) appeared to be a specific condition to suppress FOXP1 and hence SORL1 in SH-SY5Y cells. These findings highlight the critical role of FOXP1 in regulating SORL1 expression and suggest that FOXP1 could be a potential target to maintain SORL1 expression for AD prevention and therapy.© 2025 International Society for Neurochemistry.
Recurrent tumors that are resistant to conventional chemotherapy are a major challenge of ovarian cancer treatment. A better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms of chemoresistance is critical for developing more effective targeted therapies for ovarian cancer. In this study, we analyzed the transcriptomic profiles of thirteen pairs of matching primary and recurrent ovarian cancers to identify genes that were upregulated in the recurrent tumors. Among these genes, we identified sortilin-related receptor 1 (SORL1) and its role in promoting carboplatin resistance through regulating the stability of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and fibroblast growth receptor 4 (FGFR4) using ovarian cancer models in vitro and in vivo. We further identified that an anti-SORL1 antibody inhibited the pro-tumor functions of SORL1. Our data showed that a selective inhibitor of FGFR4, FGF401, can improve the therapeutic efficacy of carboplatin in a xenograft mouse model of ovarian cancer. This study has demonstrated the therapeutic potential of targeting the SORL1/FGFR4 pathway to improve the chemoresponse of patients with recurrent and/or resistant ovarian cancer.
Sorting protein-related receptor containing class A repeats (SORLA) is an intracellular trafficking receptor encoded by the Alzheimer's disease (AD) gene SORL1 (sortilin-related receptor 1). Recent findings argue that altered expression in microglia may underlie the genome-wide risk of AD seen with some SORL1 gene variants, however, the functional significance of the receptor in microglia remains poorly explained. Using unbiased omics and targeted functional analyses in iPSC-based human microglia, we identified a crucial role for SORLA in sensitizing microglia to pro-inflammatory stimuli. We show that SORLA acts as a sorting factor for the pattern recognition receptor CD14, directing CD14 exposure on the cell surface and priming microglia to stimulation by pro-inflammatory factors. Loss of SORLA in gene-targeted microglia impairs proper CD14 sorting and blunts pro-inflammatory responses. Our studies indicate an important role for SORLA in shaping the inflammatory brain milieu, a biological process important to local immune responses in AD.© 2024 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39596030 is a review article
Cancer cells compensate with increasing mitochondria-derived vesicles (MDVs) to maintain mitochondrial homeostasis, when canonical MAP1LC3B/LC3B (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta)-mediated mitophagy is lacking. MDVs promote the transport of mitochondrial components into extracellular vesicles (EVs) and induce tumor metastasis. Although HSP90 (heat shock protein 90) chaperones hundreds of client proteins and its inhibitors suppress tumors, HSP90 inhibitors-related chemotherapy is associated with unexpected metastasis. Herein, we find that HSP90 inhibitor causes mitochondrial damage but stimulates the low LC3-induced MDVs and the release of MDVs-derived EVs. However, why LC3 decreases and what is the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of MDVs formation under HSP90 inhibition remain unknown. Because TFEB (transcription factor EB) is the most important mitophagy transcription factor, and the HSP90 client HCFC1 (host cell factor C1) regulates TFEB transcription, there should be a hidden connection between TFEB, HCFC1 and HSP90 in MDVs formation. Our results support the idea that HSP90 N-terminal inhibition reduces TFEB transcription via decreased HSP90AA1-HCFC1 interaction, which prevents HCFC1 from binding to the TFEB proximal promoter region. Decreased TFEB transcription and consequently reduced LC3, ultimately promoted MDVs formation. Blocking MDVs formation with the microtubule inhibitor nocodazole (NOC) activates the HCFC1-TFEB-LC3 axis, weakens HSP90 inhibitors-induced MDVs and the release of MDVs-derived EVs, inhibits the growth of tumor cell spheres and primary liver tumors, and reduces the extravasation of cancer cells to secondary metastatic sites. Taken together, these data suggest that combination therapy should be used to reduce the metastatic risk of low TFEB-triggered-MDVs formation caused by HSP90 inhibitors.Abbreviation: ACIs: ATP-competitive inhibitors; BaFA1: bafilomycin A1; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CHX: cycloheximide; CTD: C-terminal domain; EVs: extracellular vesicles; HCFC1: host cell factor C1; HSP90: heat shock protein 90; ILVs: intralumenal vesicles; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MDVs: mitochondria-derived vesicles; MQC: mitochondrial quality control; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; MVBs: multivesicular bodies; NB: novobiocin; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TFs: transcription factors. NOC: nocodazole; NTD: N-terminal nucleotide binding domain; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; RFP: red fluorescent protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; STA9090: Ganetespib; VPS35: VPS35 retromer complex component.
Inhibition of chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), a selective type of lysosomal degradation for intracellular proteins, may contribute to pathogenesis in neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson disease (PD). Pathogenic variants of PD-related proteins that reside in the cytosol, including SNCA/alpha-synuclein, LRRK2 (leucine rich repeat kinase 2), UCHL1 (ubiquitin Cterminal hydrolase 1) and VPS35 (VPS35 retromer complex component), exert inhibitory effects on CMA. Decreased CMA activity has also been reported in sporadic PD patients, consistent with an association between CMA inhibition and PD. We have now reported the first example of CMA dysfunction caused by a non-cytosolic PD-related protein, GBA/β-glucocerebrosidase, the most common genetic risk factor for PD, which uncovers a new role for CMA in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) quality control.
To identify and investigate patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) harboring VPS35 variants in Japan.Using targeted gene panel screening, we analyzed 393 familial, 294 young-onset, and 52 late-onset sporadic PD patients derived from the Juntendo PD DNA bank, and obtained clinical information from the medical records on each patient in whom we found VPS35 p.D620N variants.We identified VPS35 p.D620N in three new patients: two patients with familial PD and one patient with sporadic PD. Additionally, we newly confirmed p.D620 from a patient of a family reported previously. The prevalence of familial PD was 0.7% (2/307), young-onset sporadic PD was 0.3% (1/294), and late-onset sporadic PD was 0% (0/52) in our cohort. Combining four patients with p.D620N from our previous reports, haplotype analysis indicated at least two founders in our cohort. Patients commonly showed a slow progression of parkinsonism with onset in middle or late age and mild parkinsonism with good response to levodopa and little cognitive decline even for more than 10 years of disease duration. Psychosis was occurred in two patients. One-half of patients required device-aided therapies such as deep brain stimulation or levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel. Brain magnetic resonance imaging mostly showed normal findings, even at more than 10 years after onset. 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine myocardial scintigraphy indicated normal heart-to-mediastinum ratio values among three of four patients.Patients with VPS35 p.D620N showed distinctive symptoms and neuroimaging. Our findings expand the clinical findings of patients with VPS35 variants.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Disorders of lysosomal physiology have increasingly been found to underlie the pathology of a rapidly growing cast of neurodevelopmental disorders and sporadic diseases of aging. One cardinal aspect of lysosomal (dys)function is lysosomal acidification in which defects trigger lysosomal stress signaling and defects in proteolytic capacity. We have developed a genetically encoded ratiometric probe to measure lysosomal pH coupled with a purification tag to efficiently purify lysosomes for both proteomic and in vitro evaluation of their function. Using our probe, we showed that lysosomal pH is remarkably stable over a period of days in a variety of cell types. Additionally, this probe can be used to determine that lysosomal stress signaling via TFEB is uncoupled from gross changes in lysosomal pH. Finally, we demonstrated that while overexpression of ARL8B GTPase causes striking alkalinization of peripheral lysosomes in HEK293 T cells, peripheral lysosomes per se are no less acidic than juxtanuclear lysosomes in our cell lines.Abbreviations: ARL8B: ADP ribosylation factor like GTPase 8B; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; ATP5F1B/ATPB: ATP synthase F1 subunit beta; ATP6V1A: ATPase H+ transporting V1 subunit A; Baf: bafilomycin A1; BLOC-1: biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex 1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; Cos7: African green monkey kidney fibroblast-like cell line; CQ: chloroquine; CTSB: cathepsin B; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino -2- phenylindole; DIC: differential interference contrast; DIV: days in vitro; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium;‎ E8: embryonic day 8; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGTA: ethylene glycol-bis(β-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FITC: fluorescein isothiocyanate; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GOLGA2/GM130: golgin A2; GTP: guanosine triphosphate; HEK293T: human embryonic kidney 293 cells, that expresses a mutant version of the SV40 large T antigen; HeLa: Henrietta Lacks-derived cell; HEPES: 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; IGF2R/ciM6PR: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; LAMP1/2: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1/2; LMAN2/VIP36: lectin, mannose binding 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; PCR: polymerase chain reaction; PDL: poly-d-lysine; PGK1p: promotor from human phosphoglycerate kinase 1; PIKFYVE: phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing; PPT1/CLN1: palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1; RPS6KB1/p70: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; STAT3: signal transducer and activator of transcription 3; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TGN: trans-Golgi network; TGOLN2/TGN46: trans-Golgi network protein 2; TIRF: total internal reflection fluorescence; TMEM106B: transmembrane protein 106B; TOR: target of rapamycin; TRPM2: transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2; V-ATPase: vacuolar-type proton-translocating ATPase; VPS35: VPS35 retromer complex component.
Ovarian cancer (OC) represents the most lethal gynecologic malignancy because the majority of patients with OC are diagnosed at advanced stages with peritoneal colonization of OC cells owing to subtle and nonspecific nature of symptoms. Thus, peritoneal colonization-directed therapeutic approaches are urgently needed for patients with advanced OC. Here, we investigated whether Ring-finger protein 126 (RNF126), an E3 ubiquitin ligase that is aberrantly upregulated in epithelial OC tissues, contributes to the peritoneal colonization of OC. RNF126-depleted OC cells showed comparable proliferation under normal culture conditions but displayed decreased growth under floating (anchorage-independent) conditions in vitro. Further analyses showed that RNF126 promoted anoikis resistance in vitro and increased peritoneal colonization in immunodeficient mice in a RING domain-dependent manner. Mechanistically, RNF126 activated the transcriptional factor NF-κB in OC cells under floating conditions in a RING domain-dependent manner, and this NF-κB activation was essential for anchorage-independent growth and peritoneal colonization of OC cells. Thus, RNF126 is a possible target for the prevention and/or therapy of peritoneally colonized OC.
Ferroptosis is a newly identified cell death triggered by iron-induced lipid peroxidation. Numerous studies reveal that ferroptosis participates in multiple types of tissue injury including ischaemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury and doxorubicin (Dox)-induced damage. Targeting ferroptosis is a promising approach for disease treatment as the blockade of ferroptosis efficiently alleviates the symptoms. However, no known ferroptosis inhibitors have been used for clinical treatment. Although certain clinical compounds act as ferroptosis inhibitors in vitro, whether these drugs cure tissue injury by suppressing ferroptosis is little known. Here, by screening a large panel of drugs used in the clinic, it is identified that dipyridamole significantly attenuates Dox or I/R-induced cardiac injury. Moreover, dipyridamole can achieve a good therapeutic effect on  liver and kidney injury. Mechanistically, dipyridamole-mediated ferroptosis inhibition is strictly dependent on solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11). Dipyridamole down-regulates the expression of ring finger protein 126 (RNF126), which is an E3 ligase to ubiquitinate SLC7A11 for proteasome degradation. Deficiency of SLC7A11 largely blocks the protective role of dipyridamole in vitro and in vivo. Together, the findings uncover that dipyridamole acts as a clinical compound to alleviate organ injury via suppressing ferroptosis, providing novel insights into the clinical therapy for ferroptosis-related tissue damage.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Ovarian cancer (OC) primarily arises from heterogeneous malignant epithelial tissue in the ovary, fallopian tube, or peritoneum. Ubiquitin ligase Ring-finger protein 126 (RNF126) was aberrantly expressed in OC. However, its molecular mechanism is unknown. This study investigates the role and mechanism of RNF126 in regulating ArfGAP with coiled-coil, ankyrin repeat, and PH domains 2 (ACAP2) during OC progression. RT-qPCR and Western blot (WB) were used to assess the expression of RNF126, ACAP2, and lipid synthesis-related genes in OC tissues and cells. The proliferation and migration abilities of OC cells were detected by CCK-8 and Transwell assays. Nile red staining was used to detect the lipid accumulation. The interaction between RNF126 and ACAP2 in OC cells was detected using co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). The stability of the ACAP2 protein was analyzed using the cycloheximide (CHX) assay. The effect of RNF126 on tumor growth and metastasis in vivo was investigated by detecting tumor volume and size as well as the number of lung nodules. The expression of RNF126 was upregulated in OC tissues and cells, and RNF126 silencing significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and lipid accumulation of OC cells. Mechanistically, ACAP2 was identified as a ubiquitination substrate of RNF126, and its expression was negatively regulated by RNF126. Furthermore, RNF126 promoted OC progression both in vitro and in vivo by suppressing ACAP2 protein expression. RNF126 promotes ovarian cancer progression by reprogramming lipid metabolism via degrading ACAP2.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) has higher molecular heterogeneity and metastatic potential and the poorest prognosis. Because of limited therapeutics against TNBC, irradiation (IR) therapy is still a common treatment option for patients with lymph nodes or brain metastasis. Thus, it is urgent to develop strategies to enhance the sensitivity of TNBC tumors to low-dose IR. Here, the authors report that E3 ubiquitin ligase Ring finger protein 126 (RNF126) is important for IR-induced ATR-CHK1 pathway activation to enhance DNA damage repair (DDR). Mechanistically, RNF126 physically associates with the MRE11-RAD50-NBS1 (MRN) complex and ubiquitinates MRE11 at K339 and K480 to increase its DNA exonuclease activity, subsequent RPA binding, and ATR phosphorylation, promoting sustained DDR in a homologous recombination repair-prone manner. Accordingly, depletion of RNF126 leads to increased genomic instability and radiation sensitivity in both TNBC cells and mice. Furthermore, it is found that RNF126 expression is induced by IR activating the HER2-AKT-NF-κB pathway and targeting RNF126 expression with dihydroartemisinin significantly improves the sensitivity of TNBC tumors in the brain to IR treatment in vivo. Together, these results reveal that RNF126-mediated MRE11 ubiquitination is a critical regulator of the DDR, which provides a promising target for improving the sensitivity of TNBC to radiotherapy.© 2022 The Authors. Advanced Science published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
This study explores the relationship between the E3 ubiquitin ligase Ring finger protein 126 (RNF126) and early breast cancer metastasis and tests the hypothesis that RNF126 determines the efficacy of inhibitors targeting Ataxia telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related kinase (ATR).Various metastasis-related genes were identified by univariable Cox proportional hazards regression analysis based on the GSE11121 dataset. The RNF126-related network modules were identified by WGCNA, whereas cell viability, invasion, and migration assays were performed to evaluate the biological characteristics of breast cancer cells with or without RNF126 knockdown. MTT, immunoblotting, immunofluorescence, and DNA fiber assays were conducted to determine the efficiency of ATR inhibitor in cells with or without RNF126 knockdown.RNF126 was associated with early breast cancer metastasis. RNF126 promoted breast cancer cell proliferation, growth, migration, and invasion. ATR inhibitors were more effective at killing breast cancer cells with intact RNF126 due to replication stress compared with the corresponding cells with RNF126 knockdown. Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) was involved in regulating replication stress in breast cancer cells with intact RNF126.A high level of expression of RNF126 in early breast cancer patients without lymph node metastases may indicate a high-risk type of metastatic disease, possibly due to RNF126, which may increase breast cancer cell proliferation and invasion. RNF126-expressing breast cancer cells exhibit CDK2-mediated replication stress that makes them potential targets for ATR inhibitors.© 2022. The Author(s).
Alpha-herpesvirus causes lifelong infections and serious diseases in a wide range of hosts and has developed multiple strategies to counteract the host defense. Here, we demonstrate that the tegument protein UL21 (unique long region 21) in pseudorabies virus (PRV) dampens type I interferon signaling by triggering the degradation of CGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase) through the macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome pathway. Mechanistically, the UL21 protein scaffolds the E3 ligase UBE3C (ubiquitin protein ligase E3C) to catalyze the K27-linked ubiquitination of CGAS at Lys384, which is recognized by the cargo receptor TOLLIP (toll interacting protein) and degraded in the lysosome. Additionally, we show that the N terminus of UL21 in PRV is dominant in destabilizing CGAS-mediated innate immunity. Moreover, viral tegument protein UL21 in herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) also displays the conserved inhibitory mechanisms. Furthermore, by using PRV, we demonstrate the roles of UL21 in degrading CGAS to promote viral infection in vivo. Altogether, these findings describe a distinct pathway where alpha-herpesvirus exploits TOLLIP-mediated selective autophagy to evade host antiviral immunity, highlighting a new interface of interplay between the host and DNA virus.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; AHV-1: anatid herpesvirus 1; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG13: autophagy related 13; ATG101: autophagy related 101; BHV-1: bovine alphaherpesvirus 1; BNIP3L/Nix: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCDC50: coiled-coil domain containing 50; CCT2: chaperonin containing TCP1 subunit 2; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CHV-2: cercopithecine herpesvirus 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DBD: N-terminal DNA binding domain; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; DYNLRB1: dynein light chain roadblock-type 1; EHV-1: equine herpesvirus 1; gB: glycoprotein B; GFP: green fluorescent protein; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; HSV-2: herpes simplex virus 2; IB: immunoblotting; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; lenti: lentivirus; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MARCHF9: membrane associated ring-CH-type finger 9; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NC: negative control; NEDD4L: NEDD4 like E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; NH4Cl: ammonium chloride; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; Poly(dA:dT): Poly(deoxyadenylic-deoxythymidylic) acid; PPP1: protein phosphatase 1; PRV: pseudorabies virus; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; RNF126: ring finger protein 126; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; sgRNA: single guide RNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; TRIM33: tripartite motif containing 33; UL16: unique long region 16; UL21: unique long region 21; UL54: unique long region 54; Ub: ubiquitin; UBE3C: ubiquitin protein ligase E3C; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; Vec: vector; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella-zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the malignant tumors with the worst prognosis, and tumor recurrence and metastasis are the main factors leading to poor prognosis of HCC patients. Accumulating studies show that RNF126, ring finger protein 126, is involved in the pathological process of many tumors. However, the biological function and exact molecular mechanism of RNF126 in HCC remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of RNF126 in the pathogenesis of HCC. By analyzing database and verifying with our clinical specimens, it was found that RNF126 was highly expressed in HCC tissues, which is associated with shorter overall survival and higher recurrence rate. Overexpressed RNF126 can significantly promote the proliferation, migration, invasion and angiogenesis of HCC cells, whereas knockdown RNF126 can reverse this effect. Mechanically, RNF126 down-regulates liver kinase B1 (LKB1) expression by ubiquitination of LKB1 to weaken its stability, thereby significantly promoting stem-cell-like activity, migration, and angiogenesis of HCC. Notably, consistent with in vitro results, RNF126 was stably transformed in Hep3B and subcutaneously injected into nude mice. In established mouse xenograft models, tumor growth can be effectively inhibited and the occurrence of lung metastasis is reduced. In HCC, RNF126 may down-regulate LKB1 through ubiquitination, thus becoming a powerful prognostic biomarker and a recognized tumor suppressor. Therefore, our study may provide a promising new therapeutic strategy for targeting RNF126 for HCC patients.© 2022. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) and brassinosteroid (BR) play important roles in alleviating cold stress in maize. In this study, two maize inbred lines with differing cold tolerance were treated with exogenous ABA, BR, and their combined solution under cold stress conditions at 10 °C to investigate the effects of these treatments on the physiological characteristics of maize seedlings. The results indicated that cold stress significantly inhibited the growth of maize seedlings. Exogenous hormone treatments enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities and promoted the synthesis of osmolytes, thereby alleviating cold stress; however, the combined treatment (AR) did not significantly improve maize cold tolerance. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that pathways including plant hormone signal transduction, fatty acid elongation, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis were involved in the interaction between ABA and BR. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified four key candidate genes responsive to exogenous ABA and BR under cold stress, namely Zm00001eb343270, Zm00001eb401890, Zm00001eb206790, and Zm00001eb199820. Based on the gene annotation results, we speculate that ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 O, tubulin-tyrosine ligase-like protein 12, the negative regulator of systemic acquired resistance SNI1, and mRNA stability regulators in response to DNA damage may be involved in regulating maize cold tolerance. These findings provide further evidence for the regulatory mechanisms by which exogenous ABA and BR affect maize cold tolerance and elucidate their interaction under cold stress.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39272922 is a review article
The ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) is a critical component of the ubiquitin-proteasome system and regulates hepatocarcinogenesis by controlling protein degradation. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 O (UBE2O), a member of the E2 family, functions as an oncogene in human cancers. Nevertheless, the role of UBE2O in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unknown yet. Here, we demonstrated that the UBE2O level was markedly upregulated in HCC compared with adjacent noncancerous tissues. UBE2O overexpression was also confirmed in HCC cell lines. UBE2O overexpression was prominently associated with advanced tumor stage, high tumor grade, venous infiltration, and reduced HCC patients' survivals. UBE2O knockdown inhibited the migration, invasion, and proliferation of HCCLM3 cells. UBE2O overexpression enhanced the proliferation and mobility of Huh7 cells. Mechanistically, UBE2O mediated the ubiquitination and degradation of AMP-activated protein kinase α2 (AMPKα2) in HCC cells. UBE2O silencing prominently increased AMPKα2 level and reduced phosphorylated mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (p-mTOR), MYC, Cyclin D1, HIF1α, and SREBP1 levels in HCCLM3 cells. UBE2O depletion markedly activated the AMPKα2/mTOR pathway in Huh7 cells. Moreover, AMPKα2 silencing reversed UBE2O downregulation-induced mTOR pathway inactivation. Rapamycin, an inhibitor of mTOR, remarkably abolished UBE2O-induced mTOR phosphorylation and HCC cell proliferation and mobility. To conclude, UBE2O was highly expressed in HCC and its overexpression conferred to the poor clinical outcomes of patients. UBE2O contributed to the malignant behaviors of HCC cells, including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, by reducing AMPKα2 stability and activating the mTOR pathway.© The author(s).
Osteoporosis (OP) has gradually become a major public health problem. It is clinically important to elucidate further the pathophysiologic mechanisms that induce OP and to identify more effective therapeutic targets. In the present study, we used Mendelian randomization analysis to assess the causal effects of 4907 plasma proteins on bone mineral density (BMD) outcomes to identify their potential therapeutic targets. The data files of 4907 plasma proteins were downloaded from the deCODE Genetics database, the bone density data files were obtained from the publicly available genome-wide association study database, the single nucleotide polymorphisms of weak instrumental variables in plasma proteins were removed based on the F test value of >10, the inverse variance weighted method was the main statistical method, and MR-Egger analysis was used for the test of diversity and difference. The obtained plasma proteins strongly associated with the disease were enriched by gene ontology (GO), pathway enrichment, and protein interaction networks were constructed in the GeneMANIA database. Based on P < .05 and false discovery rate value < 0.2, plasma proteins with consistent odds ratio values of 5 statistical methods were extracted, and a total of 22 plasma proteins strongly associated with diseases were obtained. The results of GO enrichment analysis showed that the disease-associated plasma proteins were functionally related to the Notch signaling pathway, trabecular morphogenesis, and so on, and their main enrichment was in the Notch signaling pathway and Toll-like receptor signaling pathway. A total of 20 interacting genes were predicted by the GeneMANIA database. Through least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression, key variables were selected from 22 plasma proteins. There is a causal relationship between plasma proteins and BMD, with proteins such as recombinant pleckstrin homology domain containing family A, member 1, RAB6B, member RAS oncogene family (RAB6B), and UDP-glucose dehydrogenase exacerbating the disease process. In contrast, proteins such as lipopolysaccharide-binding protein, manic fringe homolog, and cartilage adhesion protein can exert a protective effect, and both act as prognostic markers for OP and as potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for approximately 80% of lung cancer cases. TBC1D23, a member of the TBC/RABGAP family, is widely expressed in human tissues; however, its role in NSCLC is currently unknown. Immunohistochemical analysis was conducted on 173 paraffin-embedded lung tissue sections from patients with NSCLC from 2014 to 2018 at the First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University. MTT, colony formation assay, cell cycle assay, scratch assay, transwell assay, Western blotting and real-time PCR were employed on multiple NSCLC cell lines modified to knock down or overexpress TBC1D23/RAB11A. Immunoprecipitation, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, immunofluorescence and flow cytometry were performed to explore the interaction between TBC1D23 and RAB11A and TBC1D23 involvement in the interaction between RAB11A and β1 integrin in the para-nucleus. TBC1D23 was correlated with tumour size, differentiation degree, metastasis, TNM stage and poor prognosis. TBC1D23 was involved in the interaction between RAB11A and β1 integrin in the para-nucleus, thus activating the β1 integrin/FAK/ERK signalling pathway to promote NSCLC. Furthermore, TBC1D23 promoted NSCLC progression by inducing cell proliferation, migration and invasion. This study indicated the relationship between TBC1D23 expression and the adverse clinicopathological characteristics of patients with NSCLC, suggesting that TBC1D23 may be an important target for NSCLC treatment.© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and circular RNAs (circRNAs) play important roles in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Aerobic glycolysis is a metabolic characteristic of GBM. However, the roles of RBPs and circRNAs in aerobic glycolysis in GBM remain unclear. The aim of this study is to explore the mechanisms by which RBPs and circRNAs regulate aerobic glycolysis in GBM cells.RNA sequencing and circRNA microarray analysis were performed to identify RBPs and circRNAs for further study. Mass spectrometry validated the encoded protein and its interacting proteins. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR and western blot assays were used to determine the mRNA and protein expression, respectively. Furthermore, immunofluorescence and fluorescence in situ hybridization assays were used to determine the protein and RNA localization, respectively. Glucose and lactate measurement assays, Seahorse XF glycolysis stress assays and cell viability assays were conducted to investigate the effects on glycolysis and proliferation in GBM cells.We selected zinc finger CCHC-type and RNA-binding motif 1 (ZCRB1) and circRNA HEAT repeat containing 5B (circHEATR5B) as candidates for this study. These genes were expressed at low levels in GBM tissues and cells. Both ZCRB1 and circHEATR5B overexpression suppressed aerobic glycolysis and proliferation in GBM cells. ZCRB1 overexpression promoted the Alu element-mediated formation of circHEATR5B. In addition, circHEATR5B encoded a novel protein HEATR5B-881aa which interacted directly with Jumonji C-domain-containing 5 (JMJD5) and reduced its stability by phosphorylating S361. JMJD5 knockdown increased pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) enzymatic activity and suppressed glycolysis and proliferation in GBM cells. Finally, ZCRB1, circHEATR5B and HEATR5B-881aa overexpression inhibited GBM xenograft growth and prolonged the survival time of nude mice.This study reveals a novel mechanism of regulating aerobic glycolysis and proliferation in GBM cells through the ZCRB1/circHEATR5B/HEATR5B-881aa/JMJD5/PKM2 pathway, which can provide novel strategies and potential targets for GBM therapy.© 2022. The Author(s).
Mutations in the endosomal Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE6) cause Christianson syndrome (CS), an X-linked neurological disorder. Previous studies have shown that NHE6 functions in regulation of endosome acidification and maturation in neurons. Using yeast two-hybrid screening with the NHE6 carboxyl-terminus as bait, we identify Golgi-associated, Gamma adaptin ear containing, ARF binding protein 1 (GGA1) as an interacting partner for NHE6. We corroborated the NHE6-GGA1 interaction using co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP): using over-expressed constructs in mammalian cells; and co-IP of endogenously-expressed GGA1 and NHE6 from neuroblastoma cells, as well as from mouse brain. We demonstrate that GGA1 interacts with organellar NHEs (NHE6, NHE7 and NHE9) but not with cell-surface localized NHEs (NHE1 and NHE5). By constructing hybrid NHE1/NHE6 exchangers, we demonstrate that the cytoplasmic tail of NHE6 is necessary and sufficient for interactions with GGA1. We demonstrate the co-localization of NHE6 and GGA1 in cultured, primary hippocampal neurons, using super-resolution microscopy. We test the hypothesis that the interaction of NHE6 and GGA1 functions in the localization of NHE6 to the endosome compartment. Using subcellular fractionation experiments, we show that NHE6 is mis-localized in GGA1 knockout cells wherein we find less NHE6 in endosomes but more NHE6 transport to lysosomes, and more Golgi retention of NHE6 with increased exocytosis to the surface plasma membrane. Consistent with NHE6 mis-localization, and Golgi retention, we find the intra-luminal pH in Golgi to be alkalinized. Our study demonstrates a new interaction between NHE6 and GGA1 which functions in the localization of this intra-cellular NHE to the endosome compartment.
Imprinted genes are subject to germline epigenetic modification resulting in parental-specific allelic silencing. Although genomic imprinting is thought to be important for maternal behaviour, this idea is based on serendipitous findings from a small number of imprinted genes. Here, we undertook an unbiased systems biology approach, taking advantage of the recent delineation of specific neuronal populations responsible for controlling parental care, to test whether imprinted genes significantly converge to regulate parenting behaviour. Using single-cell RNA sequencing datasets, we identified a specific enrichment of imprinted gene expression in a recognised "parenting hub", the galanin-expressing neurons of the preoptic area. We tested the validity of linking enriched expression in these neurons to function by focusing on MAGE family member L2 (Magel2), an imprinted gene not previously linked to parenting behaviour. We confirmed expression of Magel2 in the preoptic area galanin expressing neurons. We then examined the parenting behaviour of Magel2-null(+/p) mice. Magel2-null mothers, fathers and virgin females demonstrated deficits in pup retrieval, nest building and pup-directed motivation, identifying a central role for this gene in parenting. Finally, we show that Magel2-null mothers and fathers have a significant reduction in POA galanin expressing cells, which in turn contributes to a reduced c-Fos response in the POA upon exposure to pups. Our findings identify a novel imprinted gene that impacts parenting behaviour and, moreover, demonstrates the utility of using single-cell RNA sequencing data to predict gene function from expression and in doing so here, have identified a purposeful role for genomic imprinting in mediating parental behaviour.Copyright: © 2023 Higgs et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Intellectual and social disabilities are common comorbidities in adolescents and adults with MAGE family member L2 (MAGEL2) gene deficiency characterizing the Prader-Willi and Schaaf-Yang neurodevelopmental syndromes. The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the risk for autism in these syndromes are not understood. We asked whether vasopressin functions are altered by MAGEL2 deficiency and whether a treatment with vasopressin could alleviate the disabilities of social behavior. We used Magel2-knockout mice (adult males) combined with optogenetic or pharmacological tools to characterize disease modifications in the vasopressinergic brain system and monitor its impact on neurophysiological and behavioral functions. We found that the activation of vasopressin neurons and projections in the lateral septum were inappropriate for performing a social habituation/discrimination task. Mechanistically, the lack of vasopressin impeded the deactivation of somatostatin neurons in the lateral septum, which predicted social discrimination deficits. Correction of vasopressin septal content by administration or optogenetic stimulation of projecting axons suppressed the activity of somatostatin neurons and ameliorated social behavior. This preclinical study identified vasopressin in the lateral septum as a key factor in the pathophysiology of Magel2-related neurodevelopmental syndromes.
The AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) mediate the majority of fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain and are central to synaptic plasticity in excitatory neurons. Functional AMPARs are tetramers composed of different combinations of the channel-forming GluA1-GluA4 subunits, with GluA2 critically influencing receptor biophysics and trafficking. However, the mechanisms governing AMPAR subunit-specific trafficking and assembly in resting and activated neurons remain incompletely understood. Using hippocampal neurons and conditional knockout mice, we demonstrate that sorting nexin 6 (SNX6), a membrane trafficking regulator, selectively mediates sorting of newly synthesized GluA2 into the post-Golgi secretory pathway before its assembly with GluA1, a process essential for AMPAR delivery to the plasma membrane. Loss of SNX6 diverts GluA2 to lysosomal degradation, leading to decreases in constitutive and activity-dependent surface expression of AMPARs, impairment of AMPAR-mediated synaptic transmission and the NMDA-type glutamate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation, and deficits in learning and memory. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel, subunit-specific mechanism for AMPAR biogenesis and trafficking, and underscore the importance of regulatory steps within the biosynthetic secretory pathway in synaptic receptor delivery.© 2025. The Author(s).
Increased expression of inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase, type II (INPP4B) correlates with aggressive phenotypes in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Although prior studies have linked INPP4B to lysosome positioning, exocytosis, and enhanced cell migration and invasion in PDAC, the specific mechanisms underlying these processes remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that INPP4B promotes fibronectin 1 (FN1) secretion via transient receptor potential cation channel mucolipin subfamily member 1-dependent lysosomal exocytosis. In addition, we show that INPP4B-mediated regulation of F-actin formation, focal adhesion kinase activation, and increased cell migration and invasion depend on FN1 exocytosis. These findings underscore the INPP4B-transient receptor potential cation channel mucolipin subfamily member 1-FN1 axis as a critical contributor to PDAC aggressiveness and identify it as a promising candidate for the development of new therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the genetic characteristics of five Chinese families with keratoconus (KC).In the five families affected by KC, medical records, clinical observations, and blood samples were collected from all individuals. All KC family members (n = 20) underwent both whole exome sequencing of genomic DNA and Sanger sequencing to confirm the variants. Online software was utilized to analyze all variants, and the online server I-TASSER was employed for in silico predictions of the three-dimensional protein structures of the variants. The newly discovered variants and single nucleotide polymorphisms were further examined in 322 sporadic KC patients.The Pentacam tomographic composite index in those affected first-degree family members of the probands showed a pathological change. Five new variants were detected in the five probands and other affected members in their families: a heterozygous missense variant g.19043832C>T (p.Ser145Asn) in the homer scaffolding protein 3 (HOMER3) gene; a heterozygous missense variant g.99452113G>A (p.Gly483Arg) in the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) gene; a heterozygous missense variant g.55118280G>T (p.Trp843Leu) in the echinoderm microtubule-associated protein like 6 (EML6) gene; a heterozygous frameshift variant c. 1226_1227del (p.Gln410Glufs*17) in the DOP1 leucine zipper-like protein B (DOP1B) gene; and a heterozygous splice-site variant c.7776+2T>A in the neurobeachin-like protein 2 (NBEAL2) gene. These variations were predicted to be potentially pathogenic and associated with KC.Five novel variants in HOMER3, IGF1R, EML6, DOP1B, and NBEAL2 genes were identified in this study and may be associated with the pathogenesis of KC. This study provides new information about the gene variants and their protein changes in KC patients. The findings should be explored further and could potentially be applied to the early diagnosis of KC before clinical onset.© 2024 Lin et al.
The small intestine is the primary site of nutrient digestion and absorption, which plays a key role in the survival of neonatal calves. A comprehensive assessment of the phosphoproteomic changes in the small intestine of neonatal calves is unavailable; therefore, we used phosphopeptide enrichment coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to investigate the changes in the phosphoproteome profile in the bovine small intestine during the first 36 h of life. Twelve neonatal male calves were assigned to one of the following groups: (1) calves not fed colostrum and slaughtered approximately 2 h postpartum (n = 3), (2) calves fed colostrum at 1 to 2 h and slaughtered 8 h postpartum (n = 3), (3) calves fed 2 colostrum meals (at 1-2 and 10-12 h) and slaughtered 24 h postpartum (n = 3), (4) calves fed 3 colostrum meals (at 1-2, 10-12, and 22-24 h) and slaughtered 36 h postpartum (n = 3). Mid-duodenal, jejunal, and ileal samples of the calves were collected after slaughter. We identified 1,678 phosphoproteins with approximately 3,080 phosphosites, which were mainly Ser (89.9%), Thr (9.8%), and Tyr (0.3%) residues; they belonged to the prodirected (52.9%), basic (20.4%), acidic (16.6%), and Tyr-directed (1.7%) motif categories. The regional differentially expressed phosphoproteins included zonula occludens 2, sorting nexin 12, and protein kinase C, which are mainly associated with developmental processes, intracellular transport, vesicle-mediated transport, and immune system process. They are enriched in the endocytosis, tight junction, insulin signaling, and focal adhesion pathways. The temporal differentially expressed phosphoproteins included occludin, epsin 1, and bridging integrator 1, which were mainly associated with macromolecule metabolic process, cell adhesion, and growth. They were enriched in the spliceosomes, adherens junctions, and tight junctions. The observed changes in the phosphoproteins in the tissues of small intestine suggest the protein phosphorylation plays an important role in nutrient transport and immune response of calves during early life, which needs to be confirmed in a larger study.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. and Fass Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is critical for the ability of cancer cells to evade attacks by the host immune system. However, the molecular mechanisms controlling PD-L1 expression have not been fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that sorting nexin 6 (SNX6) is a novel regulator of PD-L1 expression. Knockdown of SNX6 in cancer cells significantly decreases PD-L1 protein levels. In contrast, loss of SNX6 does not reduce PD-L1 mRNA levels. Instead, SNX6 interacts with Cullin3, an E3 ubiquitin ligase responsible for PD-L1 ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. By binding with Cullin3, SNX6 decreases the interaction between the adaptor protein speckle-type POZ protein and Cullin3, which in turn downregulates Cullin3-mediated PD-L1 ubiquitination. This research reveals a novel molecular nexus in modulating PD-L1.© 2021 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Chlamydia trachomatis is the leading cause of bacterial sexually transmitted infections. This obligate intracellular bacterium develops within a membrane-bound vacuole called an inclusion, which sequesters the chlamydiae from the host cytoplasm. Host-pathogen interactions at this interface are mediated by chlamydial inclusion membrane proteins (Incs). However, the specific functions of most Incs are poorly characterized. Previous work from our laboratories indicated that expressing an IncF fusion protein at high levels in C. trachomatis L2 negatively impacted inclusion expansion and progeny production. We hypothesize that some Incs function in the structure and organization of the inclusion membrane and that overexpression of those Incs will alter the composition of endogenous Incs within the inclusion membrane. Consequently, inclusion biogenesis and chlamydial development are negatively impacted. To investigate this, C. trachomatis L2 was transformed with inducible expression plasmids encoding IncF-, CT813-, or CT226-FLAG. Overexpression of IncF-FLAG or CT813-FLAG, but not CT226-FLAG, altered chlamydial development, as demonstrated by smaller inclusions, fewer progeny, and increased plasmid loss. The overexpression of CT813-FLAG reduced the detectable levels of endogenous IncE and IncG in the inclusion membrane. Notably, recruitment of sorting nexin-6, a eukaryotic protein binding partner of IncE, was also reduced after CT813 overexpression. Gene expression studies and ultrastructural analysis of chlamydial organisms demonstrated that chlamydial development was altered when CT813-FLAG was overexpressed. Overall, these data indicate that disrupting the expression of specific Incs changed the composition of Incs within the inclusion membrane and the recruitment of associated host cell proteins, which negatively impacted C. trachomatis development.
Behçet's disease (BD) is a chronic multisystem inflammatory disorder with diverse neurological manifestations. While central nervous system involvement is well recognized, peripheral neuropathy remains an underdiagnosed and poorly understood complication. Chemokines, particularly C-C motif chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21), play a critical role in immune-mediated neuroinflammation and have been implicated in several autoimmune diseases. This study aimed to investigate the association between selected CCL21 gene polymorphisms and BD-associated peripheral neuropathy, and to assess their relationship with disease activity.This cross-sectional observational study included 42 adult patients with BD and 20 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. All patients underwent comprehensive clinical and neurological evaluation, assessment of disease activity, and nerve conduction studies. Genotyping of CCL21 single nucleotide polymorphisms rs951005, rs2492358, and rs2812378 were performed for patients and controls.Electrophysiological evidence of peripheral neuropathy was detected in all evaluated Behçet's disease patients, despite only 50% reporting clinical neuropathic symptoms. Polyneuropathy was the predominant pattern, with sensory and mixed nerves more frequently affected than purely motor nerves, and greater involvement of upper limb nerves. A significant difference in the distribution of the CCL21 rs2492358 polymorphism was observed between patients and controls (p = 0.001). Additionally, the rs951005 polymorphism was significantly associated with higher disease activity scores (p = 0.009).Peripheral neuropathy is a frequent and often subclinical manifestation of BD. CCL21 gene polymorphisms appear to contribute to both peripheral neuropathy association and disease activity, highlighting CCL21 as a potential biomarker linking systemic inflammation to peripheral nerve involvement. Key Points • Chemokine dysregulation previously found to play a central role in the development of neuroinflammation. • This cross-sectional study identifies specific chemokines' gene of CCL21 linked to peripheral neuropathy in Behcet's disease. • Results may guide future therapeutic strategies targeting chemokine modulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic, low-grade inflammatory neurodegenerative disorder. Inhibiting the NOD-, LRR- and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is a potential therapeutic strategy for AD, but no approved NLRP3-specific inhibitors are available for clinical use, and current agents often cause significant side effects despite their anti-inflammatory benefits. Acacetin, is a flavonoid compound that can penetrate the blood-brain barrier, with potential for treating AD.The purpose of this study is to clarify the relationship between the anti-AD effect of acacetin and its mechanism of inhibiting NLRP3. Acacetin improved cognitive function and reduced neuronal damage in 3xTg mice. Further Acacetin directly binds to sorting nexin-5 (SNX5) and upregulates its expression. This, in turn, activates autophagy to degrade the NLRP3 inflammasome, alleviates inflammationin HT-22 cells and BV-2 cells. These findings suggest that Acacetin can exert an anti-AD effect by targeting SNX5 to activate autophagy and promote the degradation of the NLRP3 inflammasome, which underscore the importance of targeting SNX5 to suppress NLRP3 inflammasome activation in AD treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Epigenetic modifications, especially DNA methylation, play an increasingly important role in oral cancer. However, their specific contributions to the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remain unclear. The present study used the Shiny Methylation Analysis Resource Tool (SMART) database (https://smart.embl.de/smart/change_mode.cgi) to identify methylation‑driven genes associated with OSCC. Among the identified candidates, integrin subunit α4 (ITGA4) exhibited significantly elevated methylation levels in head and neck cancers. A methylation‑specific PCR assay showed that ITGA4 is highly methylated in OSCC cells compared with normal immortalized human normal oral keratinocyte (iNOK) cells. Additionally, the mRNA expression levels of ITGA4 were significantly lower in OSCC cell lines compared with normal iNOK cells. ITGA4 overexpression markedly inhibited the cell proliferation, migratory ability and capacity of colony formation and induced apoptosis in FaDu and YD‑15 cells. In proteomic analysis, ITGA4 suppressed the expression of Sorting Nexin 5 (SNX5), a protein linked to cancer progression. siRNA‑mediated knockdown of SNX5 importantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation in FaDu and YD‑15 cells. Moreover, in a chick chorioallantoic membrane xenograft model, overexpression of ITGA4 or small interfering SNX5 significantly inhibited OSCC tumor growth and angiogenesis in vivo. Collectively, these findings demonstrated that ITGA4 acts as a tumor suppressor in OSCC by downregulating SNX5 and suggested that ITGA4 may serve as a valuable prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for OSCC.
Colon cancer harboring TP53 mutations is highly aggressive and associated with short survival. Adaptive, rather than apoptotic, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress endows TP53-mutant tumor cells with enhanced protein-folding capacity, metabolic plasticity, and chemoresistance. However, the upstream regulators that selectively drive this cytoprotective program within the cancer stem cell compartment remain elusive.Single-cell RNA-seq analysis of TP53-mutant versus wild-type tumors was performed to identify ER stress- and mitochondrial metabolism-related differentially expressed genes (EMRDEGs). A four-gene prognostic signature was constructed from TCGA-COAD and GEO cohorts using DESeq2 and LASSO regression. Functional analyses included gain- and loss-of-function studies in TP53-mutant (SW480, HT-29) and TP53-wild-type (HCT116) colon cancer cells, followed by CCK-8, colony formation, microsphere formation, xenograft, dual-luciferase reporter, coimmunoprecipitation and western blot assays.TP53-mutant tumor stem cells exhibited synchronized activation of ER stress and mitochondrial metabolic pathways, guiding EMRDEG selection. Among the signature genes, nucleolar protein 3 (NOL3) emerged as an independent adverse prognostic factor that correlated with advanced stage, nodal positivity and shorter overall survival. NOL3 enhanced proliferation and cancer stem cell properties in a TP53-mutant-dependent manner. Mechanistically, ELK1 transcriptionally upregulated NOL3, which physically interacted with GRP78 to activate the PERK/CHOP branch of the unfolded protein response, thereby amplifying adaptive ER stress.The ELK1/NOL3/GRP78 axis promotes the progression of TP53-mutant colon cancer by increasing adaptive ER stress and stemness. NOL3 serves as a valuable prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alveolar bone resorption during the socket healing process compromises subsequent restoration outcomes. Recent clinical evidence suggests that dental implant placement can effectively prevent such bone loss, yet the mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, combined multi-dataset screening pinpointed sorting nexin 5 (Snx5) as a potential regulator of mechanotransduction, whose expression was downregulated in early peri-implant bone remodeling zones following implant placement. Functional studies showed that loss of Snx5 abolished the additional osteogenic enhancement normally induced by mechanical stimulation. In vivo, Snx5 deficiency disrupted the mechanosensitive activation of LepR+ MSCs and compromised implant-induced osteogenesis. Mechanistically, Snx5 facilitates the recycling of phosphorylated EGFR (p-EGFR) back to the plasma membrane to sustain EGFR signaling. Loss of Snx5 redirects EGFR trafficking toward late endosomes and lysosomal degradation, thereby weakening its signaling. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for Snx5 in mediating the osteogenic fate of peri-implant BMSCs in response to mechanical cues, expanding the functional repertoire of the Snx family. Collectively, these findings highlight Snx5 as a novel regulator of mechanosensitive bone remodeling and suggest that its downregulation may contribute to peri-implant bone adaptation. This study provides new insights into how the mechanical microenvironment regulates bone repair and highlights Snx5 as a promising molecular target for modulating skeletal mechano-responsiveness in clinical bone regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the leading causes of death from a single infectious agent worldwide, yet the host pathways that regulate antigen presentation and lung inflammation during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection are incompletely defined. Sorting nexin 5 (SNX5) is a protein best known for roles in endosomal trafficking, antigen processing, and antiviral host defense, but its contribution to immunity during Mtb infection is unknown. Here, we show that SNX5-deficient mice exhibit markedly increased mortality following low-dose aerosol infection despite unchanged pulmonary bacterial burden compared to wild-type mice. Snx5 -/- mice developed exacerbated lung inflammation without major alterations in immune cell recruitment. In macrophages, Snx5 did not affect phagocytosis, vacuolar maturation, intracellular bacterial control, or global transcriptional responses to Mtb, but was required for efficient MHC class II antigen presentation. Snx5 deficiency reduced antigen degradation, limited peptide loading onto MHC-II and impaired activation of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells without altering surface MHC-II abundance or expression of costimulatory molecules. Together, these findings identify SNX5 as a previously unrecognized regulator of MHC-II peptide loading that shapes inflammatory outcomes during pulmonary Mtb infection, highlighting a role for the endosomal sorting machinery in immunity to intracellular pathogens.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41571961 is a review article
Objectives: Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is an aggressive head and neck malignancy in which post-treatment recurrence and distant metastasis remain major contributors to poor clinical outcomes. Although microRNAs are important post-transcriptional regulators of tumor progression, the role of miR-320d in NPC remains incompletely understood. This study evaluated the biological role of miR-320d and explored whether it is involved in regulating neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation through the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)/interleukin-8 (IL-8) signaling axis. Methods: miR-320d was overexpressed in NPC cell lines S18 and 5-8F, and cell viability, migration, and invasion were evaluated. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were performed to identify miR-320d-regulated genes, proteins, and pathways. Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence analyses were used to validate NET-associated proteins, including glycoprotein Ib platelet subunit alpha (GP1BA), histone deacetylase 10 (HDAC10), and fibrinogen gamma chain (FGG), as well as the expression of NET formation markers, including peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PADI4), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and neutrophil elastase (NE); and key components of the NF-κB/IL-8 axis. Results: miR-320d overexpression significantly inhibited the viability, migration, and invasion of both S18 and 5-8F cells. Multi-omics analyses indicated that miR-320d-regulated molecules were mainly enriched in NET-related pathways. Consistently, miR-320d reduced the expression of GP1BA, HDAC10, FGG, PADI4, MPO, and NE. Mechanistically, miR-320d suppressed NF-κB signaling, as shown by decreased phosphorylated NF-κB (p-NF-κB) and total NF-κB levels, and reduced IL-8 secretion in NPC cells. Conclusion: miR-320d may suppress NPC progression, at least in part, by attenuating NF-κB/IL-8-associated NET formation. These findings suggest that the miR-320d/NF-κB/IL-8/NET regulatory axis may participate in NPC progression and may warrant further translational investigation.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
2-Bromo-4,6-dinitroaniline (BDNA), a synthetic intermediate of brominated azo dyes, poses potential nephrotoxicity risks; however, its early molecular injury mechanisms remain elusive. This study integrated network toxicology prediction, machine learning algorithms (least absolute shrinkage and selection operator [LASSO], support vector machine recursive feature elimination [SVM-RFE], and random forest), and transcriptomic data mining with a 90-day subchronic male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat exposure model to identify early biomarkers of BDNA-induced nephrotoxicity. Cross-validation of three algorithms identified CD45 (protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, PTPRC) and cyclophilin C (peptidylprolyl isomerase C, PPIC) as high-confidence core targets (training area under the curve [AUC] = 0.951; validation AUCs = 0.958 and 0.929). Single-gene gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) revealed PTPRC enrichment in immune-inflammatory pathways and PPIC in protein homeostasis-related pathways. Single-cell analysis confirmed their cell type-specific expression patterns. Subchronic BDNA exposure induced dose-dependent renal tubular epithelial injury with significant upregulation of both targets, without interstitial fibrosis or glomerulosclerosis in male SD rats. PTPRC and PPIC may serve as potential early response biomarkers for BDNA-induced renal tubular injury, involving immune-inflammatory activation and proteostasis imbalance. This study establishes an integrative toxicological framework from computational prediction to experimental validation, while acknowledging that causal roles require further functional verification.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42242572 is a review article
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is widely recognized as the most prevalent degenerative disorder affecting the joints, representing a major contributor to chronic pain and disability. Despite its high burden, the molecular mechanisms underlying OA pathogenesis remain poorly understood, particularly in the context of immune microenvironment modulation. This study explores the immune-related OA progression mechanisms and investigates potential biomarkers to aid diagnosis and therapeutic intervention.Gene expression data from the GEO database were analyzed, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and OA-associated gene modules were identified using the LIMMA package in combination with weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were conducted on intersecting genes, which were analyzed using the protein-protein interaction network, XGBoost, and Random Forest, identifying core genes. Subsequently, immune cell infiltration was determined through immune cell infiltration analysis and single-cell sequencing analysis. Next, core genes were validated using Mendelian randomization (MR) and Western blotting (WB). Finally, in vitro validation confirmed key findings.A total of 1,171 upregulated DEGs were identified. WGCNA analysis delineated 25 co-expression modules, and the turquoise module emerged as the most strongly related to OA. The PPI network, XGBoost, and Random Forest analysis pinpointed three hub genes: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (PTPRC), C-X3-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 1 (CX3CR1) and Integrin Subunit Beta 2 (ITGB2). Immune cell infiltration analysis indicates that these key genes exhibit significant associations with immune cells, while single-cell sequencing and GSEA enrichment analysis further suggested their involvement in inflammatory pathways and immune activation. In vitro experiments demonstrate that one of the hub genes-PTPRC-alleviates the deterioration of OA through three levels. Virtual knockout in Natural Killer (NK) cells further confirms that PTPRC influences OA by regulating the immune microenvironment.This study identified three promising biomarkers in OA and certificated that PTPRC plays a pivotal role in alleviating OA progression through immunomodulation, offering a novel intervention pathway for tissue engineering combined with immunomodulatory therapy in OA.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Wang, Tan, Yu and Liu.
Objective: To explore the regulatory mechanism of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2 (TRPM2) on the osteogenic differentiation capacity of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs), and to clarify the role of TRPM2-regulated mitophagy in the progression of periodontitis. Methods: Twelve TRPM2 gene knockout (TRPM2-/-) mice and twelve wild-type (WT) mice were used in this study. A periodontitis model was established by silk ligation on the maxillary second molars of mice, with sham operation performed in the control group, and the modeling lasted for 10 days. The mice were divided into four groups (n=6 per group): WT sham operation group, WT periodontitis group, TRPM2-/- sham operation group, and TRPM2-/- periodontitis group. In the periodontitis group, silk ligation was performed on the maxillary second molars of mice, while no silk ligation was conducted in the sham operation group. Micro-CT was employed to collect imaging data for three-dimensional reconstruction. CTvox and CTAn v1.15.4.0 software were used to quantify the distance from the cementoenamel junction to the alveolar bone crest (CEJ-ABC) and bone volume fraction (BV/TV) in maxillary bone tissues of the mice in four groups. Statistical analysis was performed subsequently. Immunohistochemical staining was conducted to detect the expression intensity of Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) in periodontal tissues in maxillary bone tissues of the mice in four groups. BMMSCs were isolated from the femurs of the two types mice and cultured in vitro, followed by induction for osteogenic differentiation. Alizarin red S (ARS) staining and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining were used to evaluate the osteogenic differentiation potential of BMMSCs. Western blotting (WB) was performed to determine the expression levels of osteogenic-related markers [RUNX2, bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), ALP, osteopontin (OPN)]. Meanwhile, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used to observe intracellular mitophagy status. WB was applied to detect the expression of autophagy-related proteins [microtubule-associated proteins 1A/1B light chain 3 (LC3), PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin)], and immunofluorescence colocalization labeling was used to assess the fluorescence intensity of LC3, translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane 20 (Tomm20), and Lysosomal-associated membrane protein (LAMP). Results: No statistically significant differences were observed in bone volume fraction, trabecular number, and trabecular separation between TRPM2-/- and WT mice (all P>0.05). However, the buccal and palatal CEJ-ABC values in the TRPM2-/- periodontitis group [(265.40±21.72) μm and (273.30±17.56) μm, respectively] were significantly lower than those in the WT periodontitis group [(416.50±20.90) μm and (428.00±17.59) μm, respectively] (both P<0.001). In addition, the relative expression level of RUNX2 in periodontal tissues of the TRPM2-/- periodontitis group [(15.03±0.48) %] was significantly higher than that of the WT periodontitis group [(11.95±0.40) %] (P<0.001). In vitro experiments (ALP and ARS staining) demonstrated that the osteogenic differentiation capacity of BMMSCs derived from TRPM2-/- mice was significantly enhanced compared with that from WT mice. WB results showed that the expression levels of osteogenic-related markers (RUNX2, BMP2, ALP, OPN) in BMMSCs from TRPM2-/- mice were all upregulated compared with WT mice (all P<0.05, respectively), and so as the protein levels of mitophagy-related indicators (LC3 and BECLIN1)(both P<0.001). Furthermore, TRPM2 deficiency remarkably upregulated the expression of proteins related to the PINK1/Parkin pathway (all P<0.001). Conclusions: TRPM2 regulates the osteogenic differentiation capacity of BMMSCs through mitophagy, thereby participating in the progression of periodontitis. Therefore, targeting TRPM2 is expected to serve as a novel and effective strategy for the treatment of periodontitis.
Ischemic stroke is a severe medical condition characterized by diminished blood flow to the brain, resulting in a shortage of oxygen and nutrients. During ischemia, neurons surrounding the cerebral infarct initiate macroautophagy. However, the implications of this activation for neuronal cell survival are still debated. The identification of new autophagy modulators could aid in understanding autophagy's role in brain ischemia and lay the groundwork for innovative therapeutic strategies aimed at minimizing brain damage in this life-threatening neurological emergency. In this study, we developed a robust and sensitive screening platform to identify autophagy modulators from a library of bioactive compounds. Selected compounds underwent further in vitro validation, leading to the identification of duloxetine, a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug, as an effective autophagy inhibitor at low-micromolar concentrations. Following its original characterization, the molecule, a serotonin-norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor (SNRI) family member, was subsequently tested in young and aged mice subjected to photothrombotic stroke. Our results demonstrated that duloxetine significantly reduced infarct size and improved locomotor performance in mice that had undergone a stroke. Similar protective effects were observed in transgenic mice lacking the autophagy gene Atg5 (autophagy related 5) in SLC17A6/Vglut2+ (solute carrier family 17 member 6) excitatory cortical neurons. Finally, we elucidated the underlying mechanism of action that involves duloxetine-mediated inhibition of TRPM2 (transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2) ion channels. Altogether, our findings suggest that early autophagy inhibition is neuroprotective in stroke, and duloxetine serves as an effective means of achieving this inhibition.Abbreviation: AMPK - AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG5 - autophagy related 5; AVs - autophagic vacuoles; Baf -bafilomycin A1; BBB - blood-brain barrier; BECN1 -beclin 1; CAMK2 -calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II; cCASP3 -cleaved CASP3; cKO -conditional knockout; CNS -central nervous system; DMPK - drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics; DMSO -dimethyl sulfoxide; DIV - days in vitro; DMEM - Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; FDA - Food and Drug Administration; FBS -fetal bovine serum; GFP -green fluorescent protein; GFAP -glial fibrillary acidic protein; HIF1A/HIF-1α - hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMGCR - 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase; IHC - immunohistochemistry; I/R - ischemia-reperfusion; LAMP1 - lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3B -microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MCAO - middle cerebral artery occlusion; MFI -mean fluorescence intensity; MTT - 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide; ND -nutrient deprivation; NPCs -neural precursor cells; NVU -neuro-vascular unit; OGD - oxygen-glucose deprivation; PI - propidium iodide; PIKK - phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-like; PRKDC/DNA-PKcs - protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic subunit; SQSTM1/p62 -sequestosome 1; PIK3C3/VPS34 - phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PK-hLC3 -pHluorin-mKate2-human LC3; PLP1 - proteolipid protein 1; PT - photothrombotic; ROS -reactive oxygen species; SLC17A6/Vglut2 - solute carrier family 17 member 6; S:N -signal-to-noise; SSMD - strictly standardized mean difference; SNRIs - serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake Inhibitors; TTC - 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride; TEER - transendothelial electrical resistance; TEM - transmission electron microscopy; TRPM2 -transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2; TBI -traumatic brain injury; ULK1 - unc-51 like autophagy activating ainase 1; V-ATPase - vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a progressive joint disease characterized by cartilage degradation, synovial inflammation, and limited regenerative capacity. Adipose-derived stem cell exosomes (ADSC-Exo) represent a promising cell-free therapeutic approach due to their immunomodulatory properties.Gluteal ADSC-Exo were isolated and characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis and Western blotting. Their effects were evaluated in vitro in human chondrocytes, fibroblast-like synoviocytes, and THP-1-derived macrophages using proliferation, migration, immunofluorescence, Seahorse metabolic analysis, and RNA sequencing. In vivo, OA was induced in mice by destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) and treated with ADSC-Exo, a protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C (PTPRC/CD45) inhibitor alone, or in combination. Cartilage pathology and inflammation were assessed by histology, Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI) scoring, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of PTPRC was performed in M1-polarized macrophages to validate mechanistic involvement.ADSC-Exo enhanced cell proliferation, migration, and extracellular matrix gene expression while suppressing catabolic markers under inflammatory conditions. ADSC-Exo promoted macrophage polarization toward an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine production, and shifted macrophage metabolism toward oxidative phosphorylation. Transcriptomic analysis identified PTPRC as a consistently downregulated target. Genetic deletion of PTPRC attenuated inflammatory and glycolytic gene expression and reduced chondrocyte catabolic responses. In the DMM model, ADSC-Exo preserved cartilage structure, reduced OARSI scores, and suppressed synovial PTPRC expression and inflammatory mediators; these effects were selectively attenuated by PTPRC inhibition.Gluteal ADSC-Exo exert potent anti-inflammatory and chondroprotective effects through immunometabolic reprogramming of macrophages, with PTPRC identified as a key mediator, supporting their translational potential for OA therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
N-(1,3-Dimethylbutyl)-N'-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q) is an oxidation product of the tire rubber antioxidant 6PPD. Recent studies have detected 6PPD-Q in various environmental media, including water, air, and soil, and in human biospecimens such as urine, breast milk, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid. These findings highlight its widespread presence in the environment and the potential for multi-route human exposure. Although previous research has demonstrated that 6PPD-Q induces multi-organ toxicity, particularly in the liver and nervous system, its effects on the male reproductive system and the associated molecular mechanisms remain unexplored. We developed a chronic exposure model in male mice to systematically assess the toxic effects of 6PPD-Q on the testes and its potential mechanisms. Our results indicate that 6PPD-Q accumulates in testicular tissue and induces testicular damage, which is characterized by reduced serum testosterone levels, impaired sperm quality, sloughing of the spermatogenic epithelium, and disruption of the blood-testis barrier. Mechanistic investigations suggest that these effects are associated with impaired autophagy, elevated oxidative stress, and increased apoptosis in testicular tissue. Through integrated network toxicology and transcriptomics analyses, we identified TRPM2 (transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 2)-mediated autophagy dysfunction as a critical event in 6PPD-Q-induced testicular injury. This study systematically unveils the toxic effects of 6PPD-Q on the male mouse reproductive system and elucidates the underlying molecular mechanisms. It demonstrates that TRPM2-mediated autophagy plays a crucial role in the testicular injury induced by 6PPD-Q. This research provides essential evidence for understanding the reproductive health risks posed by emerging environmental pollutants and for developing prevention strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The extensive use of antibiotics in intensive farming weakens immunity and threatens food safety. Stevia isochlorogenic acid (SICA), a kind of dicaffeoylquinic acid derived from stevia residue, exhibits strong antioxidant activity. This study evaluated the ability of SICA to improve immune function in an immunosuppressed broiler model. SICA significantly increased the spleen, thymus, and bursa of Fabricius indices (p < 0.05), alleviated spleen damage, and elevated serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, interferon-γ, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, immunoglobulins (IgA, IgM, IgG), and complement components C3 and C4 (p < 0.05). Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification-based proteomics indicated that SICA enhanced splenic immune function by activating cell adhesion molecules, phagosomes, and the intestinal immune network for IgA production pathways. Quantitative PCR analysis showed upregulation of mRNA and protein levels of B-cell receptor, major histocompatibility complex class II, protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, and neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (p67phox) and downregulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 9. Molecular docking demonstrated the strongest binding affinity between SICA and p67phox. Overall, SICA effectively alleviated immunosuppression in broiler chickens and represents a promising natural alternative to antibiotic feed additives.
Periodontal regenerative therapy using recombinant human fibroblast growth factor-2 (rhFGF-2) combined with deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM) has demonstrated favorable and predictable clinical outcomes for intrabony defects. However, long-term outcomes and potential challenges following such combination therapies remain poorly documented.A 40-year-old woman with generalized stage III grade C periodontitis underwent periodontal regenerative therapy using rhFGF-2 combined with DBBM for a one-wall defect at the mandibular left first molar (#19).Favorable periodontal healing was maintained for approximately 4 years. However, for tooth #19, the probing depth gradually increased at 5 years 2 months post-surgery, and the patient developed discomfort and pulpal symptoms by 6 years 2 months. Clinical examination revealed an agglomerate of DBBM particles and a palpable external root resorption lesion. The tooth was extracted due to irreversible pulpal involvement.This case illustrates that despite favorable early healing, periodontal regenerative therapy may lead to rare late-onset complications such as external root resorption. Long-term follow-up and careful consideration of biomaterial interactions are essential when employing combination regenerative approaches.Periodontal regenerative therapy using rhFGF-2 and DBBM achieved favorable clinical outcomes for 4 years before unexpected late-onset external root resorption developed. Long-term persistence and partial separation of DBBM particles, along with the response of macrophage- or osteoclast-lineage cells, are associated with a potential for delayed resorptive pathology on adjacent root surfaces. Clinicians should recognize the possibility of late complications and carefully consider biomaterial interactions when selecting regenerative strategies and informing patients.© 2026 American Academy of Periodontology.
A cell line from Korean rockfish, Sebastes schlegelii muscle was successfully established and characterized. Primary cultures were initiated by enzymatic digestion and maintained in Leibovitz-15 (L-15) medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The cells were continuously sub-cultured and maintained in L-15 with 10% FBS, 10 ng/mL fibroblast growth factor-2 (bFGF), and 1% antibiotics (penicillin/streptomycin and antibiotic/antimycotic solution) for more than 60 passages over 10 months, and named Korean rockfish muscle Sebastes schlegelii-1 (KRMSS-1) cell line. Under experimental conditions, best growth was achieved at 24 °C with 20% FBS concentration and 10 ng/mL bFGF addition. Cryopreservation using 5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) resulted in an 85-90% recovery rate after three months of freezing. Amplification of a CO1 fragment of the expected size provided supporting evidence for the rockfish origin of the KRMSS-1 cell line. Myogenic capacity was checked following serum reduction to 2% horse serum, resulting in myocyte alignment and cell fusion. During progression of the differentiation process, myosin heavy chain (MyHC) immunofluorescence staining revealed positive fluorescence distributed along elongated and enlarged cytoplasmic regions, indicating myogenic capacity. Differentiation success was further confirmed by increased protein expression of myogenin, desmin, and MyHC. Activation of intracellular PI3K/Akt/mTor and MEK/ERK pathways suggest a potential association between pathway activation and the differentiation process. Lastly, an increased proportion of cells in the G0/G1 phase at day 3 post-induction confirmed cell-cycle withdrawal. Collectively, this study established a new teleost muscle cell line with myogenic potential, providing a new model for muscle cell physiology research and for future aquaculture biotechnology applications.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512251 is a review article
Phospholipase C gamma-2 (PLCγ2) catalyzes the hydrolysis of the membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) to form diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol trisphosphate (IP3), feeding into diverse downstream signaling pathways. PLCG2 polymorphisms have been associated with reduced and/or increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias, longevity, autoinflammation, and immune disorders. In the brain, PLCγ2 is expressed in microglia, and other neuroimmune and vascular interface populations, yet its role in brain homeostasis remains incompletely defined.We analyzed the brains of three-month-old Plcg2 wild-type (WT), heterozygous (Het KO) and homozygous knockout (Homo KO) littermate mice modeling human PLCG2 loss-of-function risk alleles linked to AD risk using a multiomic approach that included lipidomics, metabolomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics, together with immunofluorescence, as well as flow-cytometric profiling of peripheral and brain-draining immune compartments.Plcg2 deficiency substantially impaired early survival and produced splenomegaly without increasing total spleen cellularity, instead shifting spleen composition toward myeloid/innate-enriched cells and away from B cells, with expansion of age-associated B-cell (ABC-like) subsets and parallel reductions in CD4 and CD8 regulatory T cells in spleen and cervical lymph nodes. Brain lipidomics revealed selective depletion of PIP2, despite very low bulk PLCγ2 protein abundance relative to other PLC family members. PLCγ2 loss led to significant reductions in myelin-enriched lipid classes and myelin/paranode-associated proteins, accompanied by compensatory upregulation of oligodendrocyte/myelin genes, and modest shifts in microglial, lysosomal, complement, and oxidative metabolism pathways by NanoString and DIA-MS. Targeted acylcarnitine profiling demonstrated reprogramming of brain oxidative metabolism, with increased short-, medium-, and long-chain acylcarnitines and enrichment of mitochondrial matrix fatty-acid and amino-acid catabolic enzymes in Homo KO brains.Loss of PLCγ2 installs a coordinated program that compromises systemic immune tolerance and subtly erodes central myelin and phosphoinositide homeostasis while enhancing brain oxidative metabolism, effects that extend beyond microglial phagocytic signaling and may underlie increased vulnerability to AD pathology and aging, providing a mechanistic framework for how PLCG2 variation may link systemic immune regulation, white-matter integrity, and neurodegenerative risk.Because constitutive Plcg2 Homo KO mice display high early mortality and intestinal vascular abnormalities, observed phenotypes may reflect developmental compensation and may not fully recapitulate protective human PLCG2 variants.
Dantrolene is a clinically approved therapeutic used to suppress abnormal calcium release associated with malignant hyperthermia linked to RyR1 mutations. Cryo-electron microscopy studies have revealed a putative dantrolene-binding cavity within the RyR1 P1 domain and highlighted several residues associated with ligand recognition. However, the dynamic molecular interactions governing ligand stabilization within this region remain incompletely understood. MM/GBSA calculations, conformational entropy analyses, and potential of mean force (PMF) profiling were employed to investigate the local binding dynamics of dantrolene within isolated RyR1 P1-domain complexes. Comparative analyses of the P1 domain from open- and closed-state conformations of RyR1 revealed that the closed-state complex provides a more stable binding environment characterized by lower backbone fluctuations, enhanced ligand-protein contacts, stabilization of a distal loop region (residues 1006-1028), and higher ligand dissociation barriers. Per-residue energetic decomposition and interaction analyses identified W882 and W996 as major contributors to ligand stabilization through cooperative hydrogen bonding and π-mediated interactions. Alanine substitution of these residues increased ligand conformational flexibility and substantially reduced the energetic barriers associated with ligand dissociation, whereas R1000 exhibited comparatively smaller contributions to overall binding stability. Overall, these computational findings are consistent with previous experimental observations and provide atomistic insight into the interaction networks and structural determinants underlying state-dependent stabilization of dantrolene in a cryo-EM-derived RyR1 P1-domain binding model.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the basis of neurogenesis and neural regeneration and are widely used as models for drug test and disease therapy. However, how NSCs self-renewal is modulated is not fully understood. In this study, we show that cytoskeletal Filamin A (FLNA) acts as a negative regulator in NSCs proliferation or self-renew. FLNA can be localized to the nucleoli of both NE-4C and C17.2 cell lines. FLNA silencing activated the expression of Pol Ⅰ products. In contrast, FLNA overexpression dampened rDNA transcription, suggesting that FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by downregulating Pol Ⅰ-directed transcription. Mechanistically, FLNA downregulates Pol I-directed transcription by inhibiting RRN3 expression and the occupancies of the Pol I transcription machinery factors at the rDNA promoter. In addition, FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by maintaining high levels of P53 and PTEN expression. Finally, we show that FLNA silencing does not affect the identity of neural stem cells, but inhibits neuronal differentiation from neural stem cells. These findings provide a novel insight into the mechanisms by which FLNA negatively regulates NSCs self-renew.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
T cell receptor-associated transmembrane adaptor 1 (TRAT1) is a well-characterized regulator of T-cell signaling, yet its functional roles in innate lymphocytes remain largely undefined. This study aimed to identify autoimmune hepatitis (AIH)-associated immune targets and perform an exploratory functional characterization of TRAT1 in NK-cell models.We performed transcriptomic analysis on liver tissues from AIH patients and disease controls to prioritize candidate genes. Public datasets and a Concanavalin A (ConA)-induced acute immune-mediated hepatitis murine model were used for contextualization and experimental support for Trat1 expression and immune cell dynamics. The functional role of TRAT1 in NK cells was assessed using NK92-MI cells and primary human NK cells with siRNA-mediated TRAT1 knockdown (KD). TRAT1 expression kinetics and cytotoxicity were examined in both systems, whereas proliferation, effector molecule production, surface receptor expression, calcium flux, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling were further analyzed in NK92-MI cells.TRAT1 was prioritized as an AIH-enriched immune-related candidate gene in this discovery cohort. In the ConA-induced acute immune-mediated hepatitis model, Trat1 expression was selectively elevated in sorted hepatic NK-cell-enriched populations. In vitro, TRAT1 mRNA expression transiently increased in both NK92-MI and primary human NK cells upon activation; its knockdown subsequently enhanced their cytotoxicity against target cells. In NK92-MI cells, TRAT1 deficiency led to enhanced proliferation and elevated production of Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), Granzyme B (GZMB), and perforin. TRAT1 deficiency also selectively upregulated activating receptors NCR1 (NKp46) and NCR2 (NKp44) while downregulating NKG2D. Mechanistically, TRAT1 KD was associated with increased Ca²+influx, phospholipase C gamma 2 (PLCγ2) phosphorylation, and the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p38.Through an exploratory transcriptomic discovery approach, this study suggests that TRAT1 acts as an in vitro candidate negative modulator of NK-cell effector functions, potentially involving calcium and MAPK signaling in NK92-MI cells. These data support TRAT1 as a candidate mechanistic lead for future validation in larger clinical cohorts and lineage-specific in vivo models.Copyright © 2026 Gao, Huo, Zhong, Cai, Yu, Li, Jiang, Hong, Yao and Feng.
Over the last 34 years, the Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices has provided an interactive forum for stakeholders to discuss investigational and recently licensed treatments for seizures and epilepsy. The Eighteenth Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVIII) took place in Madrid, Spain, on May 3-6, 2026. This article provides summaries of eight treatments in preclinical and early clinical development that were presented at EILAT XVIII. These include AUT00206, a positive allosteric modulator of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channels in development for the treatment of rare epilepsy syndromes as well as neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders; ION283, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to suppress the expression of glycogen synthase 1, under investigation for the treatment of Lafora disease; MSCA-7136, a selective allosteric RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor being developed for the treatment of focal seizures associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex; OV329, a selective inhibitor of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase, in development for the treatment of drug-resistant focal seizures; PTI5803 (probenecid), an uricosuric agent and a blocker of pannexin 1 channels, repurposed as a treatment for seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasia; simufilam, a filamin A modulator under investigation for the treatment of tuberous sclerosis complex-related epilepsy; SN-2000, a selective allosteric phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, in development for the treatment of focal seizures; and sodium selenate, a promoter of the dephosphorylation of pathological hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain, under investigation as a disease-modifying agent in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Treatments in more advanced clinical development are discussed in an accompanying article.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide and are strongly associated with atherothrombotic events. Thrombus formation results from the interplay between platelet activation and the coagulation cascade. While anticoagulant systems are essential for maintaining hemostasis, these systems can also increase the risk of bleeding complications. Coumarins led to the development of clinically important oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, which inhibits vitamin K epoxide reductase complex subunit 1 (VKORC1), a key enzyme in vitamin K recycling and normal blood clotting. Ferulenol, a prenylated coumarin derived from Ferula communis, has been reported to inhibit VKORC1, indicating a similar anticoagulant mechanism. Indeed, the close interplay between coagulation and platelet activation suggests that ferulenol may also modulate platelet function. However,the role of ferulenol in platelet activation has not yet been fully clarified.In this study, washed platelets obtained from healthy human donors were used to examine whether ferulenol suppresses platelet activation. To further clarify the underlying mechanisms, this study performed immunoblotting and confocal microscopy. In addition, this study evaluated the in vivo antithrombotic and hemostatic effects of ferulenol using a vascular thrombosis model and a tail bleeding time assay in mice.Collagen (2 μg/mL)-induced platelet aggregation was reduced by ferulenol in a concentration-dependent manner from 10 to 40 μM, with near-complete inhibition at 40 μM. Ferulenol produced only moderate inhibition of arachidonic acid (AA, 60 μM)-induced aggregation at 80 μM and did not significantly affect by thrombin (0.02 U/mL)-induced platelet responses. Moreover, ferulenol markedly reduced collagen-induced platelet activation markers, including P-selectin expression, intracellular Ca2+ mobilization, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release. These inhibitory effects were accompanied by reduced phosphorylation of phospholipase Cγ2 (PLCγ2), cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family members, including extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Ferulenol also suppressed activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β) signaling pathway. In mice, ferulenol extended the time to thrombotic platelet plug formation, without significantly increasing bleeding time.This study, provides the first evidence that ferulenol inhibits platelet activation. Mechanistically, ferulenol may inhibit collagen-induced platelet activation, at least in part, by suppressing PLCγ2 activation, thereby reducing phosphorylation of cPLA2, MAPKs, and PI3K/Akt/GSK3β signaling proteins. These inhibitory effects were reflected by reduced P-selectin exposure on the platelet surface, suggesting suppression of α-granule release. In addition, ferulenol reduced dense-granule ATP release and limited the rise in intracellular Ca2+ levels, thereby contributing to the inhibition of platelet aggregation. Therefore, ferulenol may be a promising candidate for preventing thromboembolic events associated with CVDs.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The gut-joint axis has been increasingly implicated in osteoarthritis (OA), yet the causal contribution of specific gut microbes and their downstream molecular mechanisms remain unclear. We employed a multi-stage, two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) framework. This approach utilized summary-level data from large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for gut microbiota, plasma proteins, and OA. The analysis involved three steps: (1) identifying gut microbial taxa with potential causal associations with OA risk; (2) screening of pyroptosis-related proteins using pQTL data; and (3) performing mediation analysis to evaluate potential intermediate mechanisms. We also performed transcriptomic analysis of human cartilage and in vitro experiments in chondrocytes to support the biological relevance of our findings. Our MR analysis identified Gordonibacter pamelaeae as a suggestive microbial taxon inversely associated with OA risk. Among 11 candidate pyroptosis-related proteins, only Phospholipase C Gamma 1 (PLCG1) showed a significant inverse association with OA. MR analysis further suggested that G. pamelaeae was positively associated with genetically predicted PLCG1 levels. Mediation analysis indicated that PLCG1 partially mediated the association between G. pamelaeae and OA. Consistent with these findings, PLCG1 mRNA levels were reduced in human OA cartilage. Furthermore, our in vitro experiments demonstrated that PLCG1 knockdown enhanced IL-1β-induced inflammatory and pyroptotic responses in chondrocytes. This study suggests a potential link involving gut microbiota and OA through PLCG1-related signaling. PLCG1 may act as a context-dependent regulator that limits excessive inflammatory responses under stress conditions. These findings refine the current understanding of the gut-joint axis and may help identify potential targets for OA intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spatially confined β-adrenergic receptor-cAMP nanodomain signaling depends on scaffolded protein-protein interactions (PPIs), yet converting such nanointerfaces into cell-active disruptor peptides remains challenging. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A)-filamin A complex in human cardiac tissue that is disrupted in dilated cardiomyopathy. To target this interaction, we developed a nanodomain-resolved AlphaFold3 workflow integrating interface-recurrence filtering, orthogonal docking, and peptide-binding site inference to define a tractable binding region. This approach identified a filamin A docking sequence spanning R2520-H2528, which was optimized to RLVSNHSLH and rendered cell-permeant by N-terminal polyarginine tagging. In ventricular cardiomyocytes, the peptide reduced PDE4A-filamin A proximity and selectively attenuated β-adrenergic cAMP signaling in cytosolic and sarcolemmal compartments, measured by FRET biosensors. This work establishes a potential transferable strategy for translating predicted scaffolded PPI nanointerfaces into functional disruptor peptides and highlights compartmentalized signaling complexes as actionable targets for selective cellular modulation.
This study aimed to evaluate the antidepressant activity of Piper laetispicum extract and preliminarily explore its underlying mechanism using a zebrafish model of depression combined with quantitative proteomics. A chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) paradigm was employed to establish the depression model. AB strain zebrafish were randomly assigned into four groups: control, model, P. laetispicum, and fluoxetine, with 15 fish in each group. Except the control group, all groups were subjected to CUMS for 2 weeks. Intervention of P. laetispicum extract or fluoxetine lasted for 3 consecutive weeks. Upon completion of the experiment, the pathological morphology of zebrafish brain tissue was observed, and the expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta(IL-1β), brain-derived neurotrophic factor(BDNF), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A(5-HT2A) were measured in each group. Brain tissue proteins were extracted and subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins(DEPs), which was followed by bioinformatics analysis. Key DEPs were validated using Western blot and RT-qPCR. The results demonstrated that P. laetispicum extract significantly ameliorated CUMS-induced brain histopathological damage, reduced the levels of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β, and reversed the aberrant expression of BDNF and 5-HT2A. Proteomic profiling identified a total of 11 633 proteins, among which the expression levels of 81 proteins were markedly reversed following P. laetispicum extract treatment. Subsequent validation by Western blot and RT-qPCR confirmed that P. laetispicum significantly modulated the expression of annexin A1(Anxa1) and transcription factor JunB(JunB). Collectively, these findings suggest that P. laetispicum exerts antidepressant effects potentially through the regulation of Anxa1 and JunB expression.
Cognitive improvement is mediated by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and connectome gradient analysis has important potential to explore more comprehensive information for treatment efficacy. However, it remains unclear whether and how rTMS mediates connectome gradient reconstruction and its spatial neurotransmitter associations in subjects on the AD spectrum.A total of 84 subjects on the AD spectrum underwent 4 weeks of conventional neuronavigated rTMS targeting the left angular gyrus (20 Hz, 20 sessions over 4 weeks, 20 minutes per session), including 60 subjects with true stimulation and 24 with sham stimulation. This study identified functional connectome gradients and investigated their neuroplasticity between pre- and post-rTMS intervention. A support vector regression model was subsequently used to explore the cognitive prediction value of baseline measures. Finally, connectome‒neurotransmitter association analysis was used to investigate neurotransmitter profiles related to rTMS therapeutic efficacy.These findings showed that rTMS treatment mainly mediated the decreased gradient values in the somatomotor regions and such baseline values of these regions showed preliminary predictive value for memory improvement after treatment (R 2: 0.40-0.63, mean absolute error: 1.54-3.19, root mean square error: 1.98-3.94, p = 0.0002). Moreover, connectome-neurotransmitter association analysis suggested spatial associations between these gradient changes and normative metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5HT2a) receptor distributions.rTMS mediates plasticity in high-order metric levels in the brain and is linked to the spatial distributions of specific neurotransmitter receptors in subjects on the AD spectrum.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482371 is a review article
To investigate the regulatory effect and mechanism of nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1) on the apoptosis of dendritic cells (DCs) in septic mice.Nufip1+/- C57BL/6J mice were generated, and Western blotting was performed to verify the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs. A total of 48 SPF male wild-type (WT) mice and Nufip1+/- mice were divided into the sham group (18 mice) and the sepsis group (30 mice). Three independent replicate experiments were conducted, and mice were grouped using a random number table in each trial. The cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was performed to establish the sepsis model in the sepsis group; mice in the Sham group only underwent laparotomy and cecal separation without ligation. Twenty-four hours after operation, orbital blood was collected. The mice were then sacrificed, and heart, lung, liver, kidney tissues as well as spleens were harvested for isolation and extraction of splenic DCs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins including caspase-3, Bcl-2, heat shock protein 5 (HSPA5), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), phosphorylated EIF2AK3 (p-EIF2AK3), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (EIF2A), phosphorylated EIF2A (p-EIF2A), activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and DNA damage-inducible transcript 3 protein (DDIT3) in splenic DCs. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adopted to detect the serum levels of interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was performed to observe the injury of heart, lung, liver and kidney under light microscope. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology of splenic DCs was observed under a laser confocal microscope. An additional 20 WT mice and 20 Nufip1+/- mice were respectively assigned to the sham group and sepsis group, with 10 animals in each subgroup. The 7-day survival rate after CLP was observed in all groups.Western blotting results showed that the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs of Nufip1+/- mice was lower than that of WT mice (NUFIP1/β-actin: 1.080±0.233 vs. 2.178±0.440, P<0.05), indicating the successful construction of NUFIP1 gene-deficient mice. Flow cytometry results revealed that the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs at 24 h after CLP in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was higher than that in the WT sepsis group [(43.41±1.70)% vs. (30.43±4.99)%, P<0.05]. Meanwhile, compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression level of caspase-3 in splenic DCs was increased, while the protein expression level of Bcl-2 was decreased in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (caspase-3/β-actin: 1.23±0.17 vs. 0.59±0.14, Bcl-2/β-actin: 0.46±0.13 vs. 0.72±0.08, all P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the serum levels of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were decreased [IL-2 (ng/L): 8.54±0.27 vs. 209.70±1.56; IFN-γ (ng/L): 391.60±9.24 vs. 512.70±31.50, all P<0.05], whereas the serum levels of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β were increased [IL-4 (ng/L): 73.19±2.38 vs. 28.52±0.98; IL-10 (ng/L): 359.20±2.02 vs. 267.60±5.05; TGF-β (ng/L): 826.20±26.73 vs. 497.30±3.33, all P<0.05], and the IFN-γ/IL-4 ratio was decreased (7.98±0.46 vs. 16.59±0.40, P<0.05). These findings suggested that peripheral immunosuppression was further aggravated in Nufip1+/- mice during sepsis relative to WT mice. HE staining demonstrated that the injury of heart, lung, liver, kidney and other tissues in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was markedly severer than that in the WT sepsis group, and the 7-day survival rate was lower in Nufip1+/- mice [20% (2/10) vs. 50% (5/10), P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression levels of HSPA5, the ratio of p-EIF2AK3 to EIF2AK3, the ratio of p-EIF2A to EIF2A, ATF4 and DDIT3 in splenic DCs after CLP were all up-regulated in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (HSPA5/β-actin: 0.93±0.38 vs. 0.34±0.02, p-EIF2AK3/EIF2AK3 ratio: 1.67±0.28 vs. 0.59±0.05, p-EIF2A/EIF2A ratio: 0.90±0.09 vs. 0.61±0.08, ATF4/β-actin: 1.71±0.77 vs. 1.60±0.48, DDIT3/β-actin: 1.18±0.12 vs. 0.56±0.34, all P<0.05). Laser confocal microscopy showed that the morphological changes of ER in splenic DCs of the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were more obvious than those in the WT sepsis group, presenting irregular distortion, swelling and fragmentation.NUFIP1 gene deficiency induces extensive apoptosis of splenic DCs in the early stage of sepsis, further aggravate peripheral immunosuppression, exacerbate multiple organ damage and worsen survival outcomes in septic animals.
Objective To investigate the early transcriptomic characteristics of neutrophils and monocytes stimulated by the major surface protein 2 (MSP2) of anaplasma phagocytophilum(AP), to preliminarily explore their functional differences and potential common pro-inflammatory mechanisms of these two cell types in the inflammatory response, and to provide a theoretical basis for understanding the inflammatory pathogenesis of Human Granulocytic Anaplasmosis (HGA) and for developing anti-inflammatory strategies. Methods HL60 cells (rHL60) differentiated with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 8 days were used as a neutrophil-like cell model, and human acute monocytic leukemia (THP-1) cells were used as a monocyte model. Both cells were stimulated with recombinant MSP2 (rMSP2) for 2 hours. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome sequencing, and their biological functions and related signaling pathways were analyzed via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. The mRNA expression levels of key DEGs were validated by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and the concentrations of cytokines in cell supernatants were measured by ELISA. Results Transcriptome analysis showed that in rHL60 cells, DEGs were mainly enriched in inflammation. qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), while CD1D molecule and C-X-C motif chemokine receptors 1/2 (CXCR1/2) were down-regulated. In THP-1 cells, DEGs were primarily enriched in transcriptional regulation. qPCR validated the up-regulation of nuclear factor kappa B inhibitor zeta (NFKBIZ) and nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3 (NR4A3), whereas thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) and interleukin-16 (IL-16) were down-regulated. ELISA results demonstrated that both cell types significantly secreted C-C motif chemokine ligands 3/4/20 (CCL3/4/20) following MSP2 stimulation. Conclusion In the early phase of MSP2 stimulation, neutrophils serve as the primary cells initiating the inflammatory response, whereas monocytes focus on immune regulation. The co-secretion of CCL3, CCL4, and CCL20 may represent a potential molecular mechanism by which these two innate immune cell types jointly promote inflammatory responses during AP infection.
White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) devastates shrimp aquaculture, yet safe antivirals remain scarce. Here we identify a druggable host-directed pathway centered on hemocyanin (HMC). This pathway coordinates endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial crosstalk to promote WSSV replication, which could be counteracted by the natural anthraquinone emodin. In Litopenaeus vannamei, emodin suppressed viral replication with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 1.174 μM, improved survival in both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens, remained effective after per os administration, and retained antiviral activity in water for up to 4 d. Target fishing, orthogonal biophysics, and docking analyses show that emodin binds HMC (Kd = 4.49 μM) and interferes with HMC-HSPA5/BiP (heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5) association. Mechanistically, emodin weakens the ITPR/IP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor)-VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel)-MCU (mitochondrial calcium uniporter) conduit at ER-mitochondrial contact sites, thereby limiting Ca2+ transfer, restoring mitochondrial membrane potential and organelle spacing, and attenuating ER stress. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that WSSV induced phosphoinositide and amino acid dysregulation, whereas emodin selectively normalizes phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns[1,4,5]P3) signaling and rebalances amino acid, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) intermediates. Correspondingly, emodin inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT/protein kinase B-MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) signaling and restored lysosome-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy. HMC RNAi or ITPR and MCU inhibition phenocopied emodin, whereas exogenous HMC or ER stress activation exacerbated infection and was mitigated by emodin or MCU blockade. These findings establish HMC-anchored ER-mitochondrial contact as a central proviral vulnerability and position emodin as a practical scaffold for next-generation antivirals in aquaculture.Abbreviations: 2-APB: 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG1/ULK1: autophagy related 1; ATG13: autophagy related 13; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DDIT3/Chop: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EAS6B: epoxy-activated sepharose 6B; EGTA: ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EPC: epithelioma papulosum cyprini; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HMC: hemocyanin; HPLC-MS: high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA9/GRP75: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; ITPR/IP3R: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAMs: mitochondria-associated ER membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCU: mitochondrial calcium uniporter; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; OPLS-DA: orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PA: phosphatidic acid; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PCA: principal component analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PLS-DA: partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns(1,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2: phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate; RPS6KB1/S6K1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPR: unfolded protein response; VDAC: voltage dependent anion channel; WSSV: white spot syndrome virus; XBP1: X-box binding protein 1.
New psychoactive substances (NPS) are a heterogeneous group of recreational drugs that mimic the actions and psychoactive effects of existing pharmaceutical products or recreational drugs. As NPS can be highly potent, even exceeding their template compound's potency, there are frequent reports of non-fatal and fatal intoxications. One principal target for hallucinogenic and psychedelic drugs, including NPS, is the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5-HT2A). Since NPS are designed to evade legal restrictions, this drug market is quickly evolving, and researchers are playing catch-up, investigating these novel compounds for their toxicological and pharmacological properties. Receptor binding affinity (Ki) is an important property describing ligand-receptor interactions and is a prerequisite for receptor activation. Competitive in vitro assays can be used to assess Ki; this is a resource-intensive process. We used publicly available Ki data for the 5-HT2A, calculated molecular descriptors and fingerprints, and trained five classification machine learning models. The predictive performance of the models had precisions and recalls up to 93% and 92%, respectively. We used explainable artificial intelligence, i.e., SHAP values and similarity maps, for model interpretation. The results are in line with previous experiments and support its suitability to predict the binding affinities of possible 5-HT2A ligands.
Intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinoma (ICC) has poor prognosis, especially with lymph node (LN) metastasis (LNM). Lysine methyltransferase SET and MYND domain-containing 2 (SMYD2) has critical roles and is reportedly associated with poor prognosis in various cancers, but the role of SMYD2 in ICC is unclear. Here, we examined the role of SMYD2 in the progression of LNM of ICC. We immunohistochemically analyzed SMYD2 expression using resected specimens first in primary ICC and then in metastatic LNs derived from ICC. For functional analyses, we then performed cell proliferation assay following SMYD2 inhibition using two ICC cell lines such as HuCCT-1 and HuH28. To explore the detailed mechanisms of LNM, immunocytochemistry and western blotting related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were first performed. Moreover, we performed clinically immunohistochemical staining of C-C motif chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) in metastatic LNs, immunofluorescence staining and western blotting for functional analyses to evaluate the relationship between SMYD2 and CCR7. Finally, p65 of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and phospho-p65 (Ser536) status were checked as the regulator of CCR7. Protein expression levels of SMYD2 in the primary ICC lesion were not associated with any clinicopathological characteristics or prognosis. However, SMYD2 was expressed in metastatic LNs of all cases and LNM was strongly associated with poor disease-free and overall survival also as previously reported. This study therefore aimed to clarify the molecular-biological roles for LNM by SMYD2. SMYD2 knockdown significantly inhibited ICC cell proliferation. According to subsequent EMT-related research, SMYD2 knockdown did not induce morphological changes or cadherin switching. Next, chemotaxis assay revealed that SMYD2 knockdown reduced chemotaxis in HuCCT-1 from metastatic ascites but not in HuH28 from the primary lesion. CCR7 expression in metastatic LNs was immunologically confirmed in all cases and had a positive correlation with SMYD2 expression. Decreased expression of CCR7 was observed in SMYD2-suppressed HuCCT-1 cells by immunofluorescence staining and western blotting simultaneously with the decreasing phosphorylation of p65S536. SMYD2 could be demonstrated to express in all metastatic LNs derived from ICC and may regulate this metastatic mechanism through CCR7-dependent chemotaxis rather than EMT via the SMYD2-phospho-p65S536-CCR7 pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Disruption of proteostasis is a defining feature of cancer and other chronic diseases. The AAA+ ATPase VCP/p97 (valosin containing protein) is a key regulator of proteostasis by disassembling ubiquitinated substrates for degradation. VCP overexpression supports cancer cell survival and correlates with poor prognosis, promoting the development of VCP inhibitors as anti-cancer agents. However, the molecular basis for cancer-selective vulnerability of VCP inhibition remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that allosteric VCP inhibition triggers cell-type specific macroautophagy/autophagy through dynamic reorganization of organelle contact sites. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), VCP inhibition induces adaptive autophagy through coordinated reorganization of plasma membrane (PM)-ER-mitochondria contacts. Controlled opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) releases calcium into the cytosol, activating AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and TFEB pathways, collectively enhancing autophagic flux and sustaining endothelial survival. Critically, calcium-activated kinase inhibitor or calcium chelators blocked VCP inhibitor-induced autophagy in HUVECs, confirming calcium signaling as the central mediator of adaptive autophagy. In contrast, HCT116 colon cancer cells fail to maintain calcium homeostasis under VCP inhibition, leading to mitochondrial calcium overload, defective autophagy, and cell death. Together, our findings identify organelle contact reorganization and calcium homeostasis as key determinants of cell fate under conditions of proteotoxic stress, revealing how VCP inhibition selectively suppresses tumor progression while preserving vascular integrity that could enhance drug delivery and reduce tumor hypoxia.Abbreviations: ATF4: activating transcription factor 4; ATG3: autophagy related 3; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; CAMKK2: calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase 2; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; CQ: chloroquine; CTS: cryptotanshinone; DDIT3/CHOP: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DQ-BSA: dye quenched-bovine serum albumin; EIF2A: eukaryotic initiation factor 2A; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERAD: endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation; HCT116: human colon carcinoma cell line; HSPA5: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; ITPR1/IP3R1: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; mPTP: mitochondrial permeability transition pore; MT-ND1: mitochondrially encoded NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit 1; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; ORAI1: ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1; PLA: proximity ligation assay; PM: plasma membrane; PRKAA/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STIM1: stromal interaction molecule 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; U87MG: human glioblastoma astrocytoma cell line; FAF2/UBXD8: Fas associated factor family member 2; UPR: unfolded protein response; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1.
Methotrexate (MTX), a commonly used chemotherapeutic and immunosuppressive agent, induces dose-dependent neurotoxicity characterized by oxidative stress, glial reactivity, and dysregulation of apoptotic signaling, contributing to chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment. Agomelatine (AGO), a melatonergic melatonin receptor type 1/melatonin receptor type 2 receptor agonist and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2C antagonist, exhibits antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiapoptotic properties, suggesting potential neuroprotection. Twenty-four female Wistar rats were randomly divided into control, MTX, MTX + AGO, and AGO groups (n = 6 each). AGO (20 mg/kg/d, by mouth) was administered for 7 days, with a single MTX injection (20 mg/kg, i.p.) on day 2. Cortical tissues were examined histopathologically (Hematoxylin and Eosin), immunohistochemically (glial fibrillary acidic protein and oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2), and molecularly via RT-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) (Bcl-2-associated X protein and B-cell lymphoma 2 [BCL2]). MTX-induced marked cortical neurodegeneration, vascular hyperemia, gliosis, and parenchymal hemorrhage, accompanied by elevated glial fibrillary acidic protein and oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2 expression. MTX also increased proapoptotic Bcl-2-associated X protein and decreased antiapoptotic BCL2 expression, shifting the Bcl-2-associated X protein/BCL2 ratio toward apoptosis. AGO cotreatment significantly mitigated these alterations, preserving cortical cytoarchitecture, reducing glial activation, and restoring apoptotic balance. AGO alone upregulated BCL2 expression without histopathological abnormalities. AGO confers significant neuroprotection against MTX-induced cortical toxicity by attenuating glial reactivity and re-establishing apoptosis survival equilibrium. These findings highlight AGO as a promising adjunct therapeutic strategy for reducing chemotherapy-related neurotoxicity and improving neurological outcomes in MTX-treated patients. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Agomelatine, a clinically available melatonergic antidepressant, mitigated methotrexate-induced cortical neurotoxicity in rats by dampening astrocytic/oligodendrocytic reactivity and restoring the Bcl-2-associated X protein/B-cell lymphoma 2 apoptotic balance. These findings identify glial apoptotic homeostasis as a tractable target and support repurposing agomelatine as an adjunct to reduce chemotherapy-related neurotoxicity and potentially improve cognitive outcomes in methotrexate-treated patients.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Immune evasion in lung cancer is tightly regulated by epigenetic mechanisms. This study identifies key epigenetic drivers of immune escape in lung cancer and elucidates how they remodel the tumor microenvironment to induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion. We performed a CRISPR-negative screen targeting 159 epigenetic regulators (mEpi driver library) in a mouse model of lung metastasis and used single-cell sequencing, cell-based experiments, and chromatin analyses to identify mechanisms of immune escape. SET domain-containing protein 2 (SETD2) emerged as a critical suppressor of immune evasion. Loss of SETD2 markedly increased lung colonization and metastasis in mice with intact T cells, whereas this effect disappeared after T cell depletion. Mechanistically, SETD2 recruited adenine-thymine-rich interaction domain-containing protein 2 (ARID2) to maintain a repressive chromatin state at genes encoding the chemokines C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, 2, and 5. Loss of the SETD2-ARID2 axis increased secretion of these chemokines and recruited polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells, which inhibit T cell responses. These cells increased expression of free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2), depleted arginine from the tumor environment, and impaired signaling required for T cell activation, driving cytotoxic T cells into terminal exhaustion. Depleting polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells or conditionally deleting FFAR2 in these cells restored T cell function and reduced metastasis of SETD2-deficient tumors. These findings show that loss of SETD2 creates an arginine-depleted, immunosuppressive tumor environment through a chemokine-FFAR2 pathway, revealing an epigenetic-metabolic immune checkpoint that may inform combination treatments for lung cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xuyu Gu et al.
Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphoid cells that play a critical role in tumor surveillance by releasing proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic granules. NKp44 is an activating receptor that promotes NK cell secretion of TNF and IFN-γ upon engaging platelet-derived growth factor D (PDGF-DD), a ligand frequently overexpressed in aggressive malignancies, such as glioblastoma (GBM). However, whether NKp44-mediated recognition of PDGF-DD can directly enhance NK cell cytotoxicity against tumor cells remains unclear. Here we investigated the effect of PDGF-DD stimulation on NK cell cytotoxicity by analyzing the activity of cytotoxic transcriptional programs and cytolytic function of human NK cells in flow cytometry-based cytotoxicity assays. We demonstrate that PDGF-DD stimulation of NKp44 activates a procytotoxic transcriptional program and secretion of key cytotoxic effectors, including granzyme B, perforin, and Fas ligand. This response significantly enhanced NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity of GBM cell lines (T98G, U87, LN229 and A172) and HEK 293T cells, but not the NK-sensitive K562 cell line. Furthermore, the negation of PDGF-DD-mediated cytotoxicity and lytic granule secretion upon blockade and genetic ablation of NKp44 reveal that PDGF-DD augmentation of NK cell tumoricidal activity is tumor-type specific and reliant upon NKp44. Our data highlight a novel mechanism by which NK cells can detect soluble components of the tumor secretome, expanding the paradigm of NK cell activation beyond classical cell-surface interactions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) is a frequent and severe complication after liver transplantation and hepatectomy, driven by sterile inflammation and lacking effective therapies. Regulator of G-protein signaling 16 (RGS16) is an inflammatory modulator, but its role in HIRI remains unclear. We found that RGS16 expression was markedly increased in the livers of post-hepatectomy patients and positively correlated with neutrophil extracellular trap formation (NETosis). Using hepatocyte-specific Rgs16 knockout and transgenic mouse models, we demonstrated that Rgs16 deficiency attenuated hepatic inflammation and apoptosis after HIRI, whereas Rgs16 overexpression significantly exacerbated liver injury. Integrated multi-omics analyses, including RNA-seq, MeRIP-seq, and mass spectrometry, identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) as a key downstream effector of RGS16. Mechanistically, RGS16 competitively binds YTH domain family protein 3 (YTHDF3), displacing poly(A)-nuclease deadenylation complex subunit 3 (PAN3) and stabilizing m6A-modified Cxcl1 mRNA, thereby enhancing CXCL1 expression. Elevated CXCL1 promotes hepatocyte apoptosis and inflammation through C-X-C chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) and drives neutrophil recruitment and NETosis. Pharmacological inhibition of CXCL1 or degradation of NETs with DNase I significantly alleviated RGS16-induced liver injury. Collectively, RGS16 aggravates HIRI by amplifying hepatocyte-intrinsic CXCL1-CXCR2 signaling and CXCL1-mediated neutrophil recruitment and NETosis, suggesting RGS16 and its downstream pathways as potential therapeutic targets for HIRI.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Local tumor progression and metastasis substantially compromise the therapeutic efficacy of thermal ablation in liver cancer. Although the inflammatory microenvironment contributes, the specific role of neutrophils after ablation remains unclear. This study aimed to clarify the roles of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) after thermal ablation and evaluate the translational potential of NETs-targeted strategies.The adverse prognostic impact of thermal ablation-induced neutrophil and inflammatory changes in liver cancer was retrospectively evaluated. Circulating NETs were quantified by ELISA, and their association with local tumor progression was analyzed. An orthotopic liver cancer mouse model and patient-derived neutrophils elucidated the spatiotemporal dynamics and mechanisms of ablation-induced NETs, and pharmacologic inhibition was used to investigate NET formation, function, and translational potential.Thermal ablation rapidly activates neutrophils, elicits a sustained local inflammatory response and NET formation, which is closely associated with poor prognosis in patients with liver cancer. Depletion of neutrophils, inhibition of NET formation, or degradation of thermal ablation-induced NETs markedly suppressed post-ablation tumor progression. Mechanistically, tumor cell-intrinsic reactive oxygen species generated under heat stress contributed to nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) activation, promoting p65 binding to theC-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) promoter and transcriptional upregulation of CXCL1. This process drove CXCL1-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) signaling and led to the formation of a characteristic band-like NETs-enriched zone at the peri-ablational margin. In turn, NETs activated toll-like receptor (TLR)9-dependent NF-κB,mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in heat-stressed cancer cells, reinforcing a pro-inflammatory feedback loop. Concurrently, NETs impaired CD8+ T-cell responses and fostered an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Together, this coordinated pro-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effect promotes liver cancer progression following thermal ablation, which can be effectively reversed by dual blockade of NF-κB and CXCR2.Our research uncovers a novel mechanism underlying tumor-promoting inflammation after thermal ablation, highlighting the critical role of NETs as mediators through TLR9 activation of downstream inflammatory pathways and the significant potential of NETs-targeted strategies in combination with thermal ablation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Liver fibrosis is a common pathological stage in the progression of various chronic liver diseases. Current interventions primarily focus on anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, lacking safe and universally applicable strategies for reversal. This work aimed to clarify the chemical basis and the potential mechanism of the ethyl acetate fraction of Prismatomeris tetrandra(HG). The constituents of HG were characterized by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry(LC-MS). Transcriptomic dataset was analyzed for differential expression, which was followed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis(WGCNA). Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) analyses were performed to build a &quot;constituent-target-pathway&quot; network for key pathway screening. A mouse liver fibrosis model was induced by carbon tetrachloride(CCl_4). After mice were administered continuously for 4 weeks, serum alanine aminotransferase(ALT), aspartate aminotransferase(AST), malondialdehyde(MDA), hyaluronic acid(HA), laminin(LN), procollagen type Ⅲ(PCⅢ), and type Ⅳ collagen(COL4) were detected. Hematoxylin and eosin(HE) and Masson staining were performed to assess histological changes, and Western blot was employed to detect the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) and the proteins related to death receptor pathway(Fas, Fas ligand [FasL], and Fas-associated death domain protein [FADD]). The results showed that the fraction was rich in coumarins and flavonoids. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that the signaling primarily acted on apoptosis-related pathways. In vivo, HG ameliorated liver injury and oxidative stress, reduced serum fibrosis markers, alleviated collagen deposition, and suppressed hepatic stellate cell(HSC) activation, with an overall dose-dependent trend. Network pharmacology results indicated that HG may reduce extracellular matrix(ECM) deposition by rebalancing inflammatory receptor-kinase signaling and promoting death receptor-mediated programmed cell death. Collectively, HG exhibits a clear anti-fibrotic effect in hepatic fibrosis models, potentially through mobilization of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway, which provides a basis for further validation of key monomers and causal mechanisms.
To identify potential biomarkers of atrial fibrillation (AF) using bioinformatics, machine learning (ML) and experimental methods.AF transcriptomic data were obtained from the GEO and MSigDB databases to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and inflammation-related gene sets (IRGs). The overlap between DEGs and IRGs was used to identify the DE-IRGs set. Two machine learning algorithms were used to filter AF-related DE-IRGs. Twelve male SD rats were randomly divided into a control group and an AF group. Rats received acetylcholine (66 μg/mL) and calcium chloride (10 mg/kg) via tail vein injection for five consecutive weeks to establish the AF model. Morphological characteristics of atrial myocytes were assessed with HE staining, while RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to measure changes in mRNA and protein levels.In the training set, 119 DEGs were identified, with IRGs showing the highest correlation with two co-expression modules (r = 0.60 and 0.56, P < 0.0001). The intersection of DEGs and IRGs yielded nine DE-IRGs. The SVM-RFE and RF algorithms identified 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2B gene (HTR2B), latent-transforming growth factor beta-binding protein 2 gene (LTBP2), matrix remodeling associated protein 5 gene ( MXRA5), and transforming growth factor β-induced protein gene (TGFBI) as highly expressed in both the training and test sets in AF groups with high diagnostic efficacy (AUC > 0.77). The electrocardiogram limb leads of AF rats showed numerous f-waves. HE staining revealed disorganized atrial myocyte arrangement and inflammatory cell infiltration in the AF group. The TUNEL fluorescence assay showed an apoptosis rate of (55.34 ± 4.29)% in the AF group, compared to (8.69 ± 3.12)% in the control group (P = 0.0001). There were statistically significant differences in the relative expression levels of LTBP2 and TGFBI between the AF group (4.97 ± 4.20, 2.62 ± 1.85) and the control group (1.12 ± 0.21, 1.18 ± 0.77) (P = 0.0137, P = 0.0444). IHC revealed positive rates of LTBP2 and TGFBI proteins in the AF group of (36.50 ± 1.31)% and (27.39 ± 4.57)%, respectively, compared to (22.95 ± 2.62)% and (18.26 ± 3.70)% in the control group (P = 0.0008, P = 0.0485).The characteristic genes LTBP2 and TGFBI are highly expressed in AF and serve as valuable diagnostic biomarkers.© 2026《四川大学学报（医学版）》编辑部 Copyright © 2026 Editorial Office of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Sciences).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42367238 is a review article
LARC patients exhibit heterogeneity in their response to total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT). This study aims to screen and identify plasma biomarkers associated with treatment response to TNT in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) to predict pathological complete response (pCR).Pre-treatment plasma RNA sequencing and functional annotation were performed in six patients with LARC (three pCR and three non-pCR) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with TNT response. The Olink® Target 96 Oncology II panel was employed to validate a subset of DEGs at the protein level in 61 patients with LARC (20 pCR vs 41 non-pCR), 6 patients with rectal adenoma (RA), and 6 healthy participants. Correlations between pretreatment plasma differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), clinicopathological characteristics, and TNT-response in LARC patients were analyzed.Compared to the non-pCR group, 365 DEGs were upregulated, and 198 were downregulated in the pCR group. These genes are involved in pathways related to cell growth and death, signal transduction, metabolism, the immune system, insulin secretion, mitophagy, and neutrophil extracellular trap formation. The transcriptomic analysis was conducted in a limited discovery cohort, and these DEGs identified should be interpreted with extreme caution due to the high risk of false discovery. Plasma levels of Fas ligand (FASLG), CD160, andLY6/PLAUR domain containing 3 (LYPD3) in the pCR group were higher than those in the non-pCR group. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed that a multi-marker panel consisting of FASLG, CD160, and LYPD3 was superior to three individual indicators in predicting pCR, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.791 (95% CI, 0.668-0.885). According to the optimal cutoff value of the multi-marker panel, all LARC patients were stratified into high (n=34, 55.7%) and low (n=27, 44.3%) expression groups. Statistical analysis indicated that high expression group was associated with a higher proportion of EMVI-negative status and a higher pCR rate. High expression of multi-marker was associated with pCR in multivariate analysis.The multi-marker panel consisting of FASLG, CD160, and LYPD3 may serve as a candidate predictor of treatment response in LARC patients undergoing TNT, warranting further validation in larger, multicenter cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Wen, Zou, Kang, Chen, Zhu, Fan and Huang.
Apoptosis plays a paramount role in endometriosis pathogenesis. This process may be disrupted in endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) of women with endometriosis, causing them to continue developing in ectopic locations. This study investigates the role of apoptosis in endometriosis by comparing the protein expression of Fas (CD95) and Fas ligand (FasL) in ESCs of women with endometriosis to that of healthy controls. Additionally, it examines the gene expression levels of Fas and FasL in peritoneal fluid mononuclear cells (PFMCs) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from both groups. Lastly, it assesses the levels of soluble FasL (sFasL) released by ESCs and PFMCs. ESCs were isolated from ectopic (n = 11) and eutopic samples (n = 17) of endometriosis patients and control (n = 10), alongside peritoneal fluid and blood samples from 10 patients and 10 controls. Using Western blot, Fas and FasL protein expression were assessed in ectopic endometrial stromal cells (EESCs), eutopic endometrial stromal cells (EuESCs), and control endometrial stromal cells (CESCs). Additionally, quantitative real-time PCR was used to evaluate Fas and FasL gene expression in PFMCs and PBMCs. Lastly, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was conducted to assess the concentration of sFasL molecules in the supernatants of EESCs, EuESCs, CESCs, and PFMCs. Importantly, Fas protein levels in EESCs and EuESCs were lower than in CESCs (p < 0.01). Conversely, FasL protein levels were elevated in EESCs compared to both EuESCs and CESCs (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). Additionally, patients with endometriosis exhibited higher Fas gene expression in PFMCs (p < 0.05) and lower expression in PBMCs (p < 0.01) compared to controls, along with reduced FasL expression in PFMCs (p < 0.01). Moreover, the concentration of sFasL molecules released from EESCs was significantly higher compared to EuESCs (p < 0.01) and CESCs (p < 0.05). All in all, our findings shed light on the understanding of the involvement of the Fas/FasL pathway in endometriosis pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cerebral ischemia remains a major cause of disability, and the contribution of the hyperacute immune response is increasingly recognized. The aim of this study was to investigate the local inflammatory response in the affected brain of stroke patients with large vessel occlusion during the hyperacute phase of stroke.To decipher the role of myeloid immune cells in stroke-induced inflammation, we performed an unsupervised multiomics analysis of innate immune pathways in ischemic blood obtained directly from the occluded middle cerebral artery in 54 patients undergoing mechanical recanalization. Paired nonischemic arterial blood served as an internal control.Stroke triggered a local hyperacute activation of classical monocytes and neutrophils in the ischemic cerebral vasculature, with interleukin (IL)-1β emerging as a key mediator of inflammation. Elevated plasma adenosine triphosphate levels and inflammasome priming in intravascular monocytes were associated with IL-1β production within the occluded middle cerebral artery within 4.5 hours of stroke onset. IL-1β release coincided with increased neutrophil-attracting chemokines (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 [CXCL1], IL-8). Locally activated neutrophils formed neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) within the ischemic vasculature, a hallmark of thromboinflammation. Postmortem analyses revealed NET deposition within ischemic brain parenchyma.These findings indicate increased IL-1β expression and enhanced NET formation within the cerebral circulation in stroke caused by large vessel occlusion, suggesting that these mechanisms might contribute to early stroke pathophysiology and represent potential targets for immunomodulatory strategies. ANN NEUROL 2026.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42429852 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42428479 is a review article
Memory persistence, the ability to retain information over time, is a fundamental feature of long-term memory. Although astrocytes contribute to synaptic plasticity, the molecular mechanisms by which they support memory persistence remain unclear. Here we show that astrocytic ankyrin-2 (Ank2) is required for memory persistence in adult mice. Astrocyte-specific deletion of Ank2 impaired remote memory without affecting recent memory and disrupted the maintenance of long-term potentiation. Loss of Ank2 reduced astrocyte contacts with engram neurons and impaired astrocyte morphogenesis driven by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling through the truncated tropomyosin receptor kinase B receptor (TrkB.T1) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2). Consistent with this mechanism, astrocytic Ank2 was required for the enhancement of memory persistence by hippocampal BDNF infusion. Furthermore, selective optogenetic activation of astrocytic TrkB.T1 signaling enhanced remote memory, demonstrating that astrocytic BDNF signaling is sufficient to promote memory persistence. These findings identify astrocytic Ank2 as a key regulator of long-term memory persistence.© 2026. The Author(s).
Learning-related synaptic plasticity is regulated by metaplasticity, which adjusts plasticity thresholds in an activity-dependent manner. We have previously described a heterodendritic form of metaplasticity whereby priming stimulation in stratum oriens (SO) inhibits subsequent long-term potentiation (LTP) in the neighboring stratum radiatum of the hippocampal CA1 region. Here, we report that this metaplasticity is transregional, in that the SO priming stimulation also inhibits later LTP induction at dentate gyrus (DG) middle molecular layer (MML) synapses, both in vitro and in vivo. This effect operates across the hippocampal fissure and occurs in the absence of CA3, highlighting a previously unappreciated reverse-direction and long-distance hippocampal crosstalk. Our findings demonstrate an essential role of astrocytes as SO priming elicited an increase in the frequency of calcium (Ca2+) events in astrocytes in the DG MML, while the metaplasticity effect was blocked by calcium-buffering in MML astrocytes. It could be triggered by either activation of M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors or group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, and was critically dependent on inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 signaling. The transregional inhibition of LTP was mediated by astrocytic release of tumor necrosis factor (TNF), which likely acts in an autocrine fashion on astrocytic TNF type 1 receptors (TNFR1s). Downstream of TNF-TNFR1 signaling, the inhibition of MML LTP was mediated by the activation of GluN2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Thus, a complex, bidirectional neuron-glia signaling cascade orchestrates long-distance metaplasticity across hippocampal subregions, providing a framework for understanding how hippocampal neuronal networks dynamically regulate plasticity thresholds across space and time.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41622389 is a review article
This study investigated the molecular regulation of uterine calcium ion (Ca²⁺) transport during the oviposition cycle in Guizhou Sansui ducks. Uterine tissues were collected at 0, 2, 5, and 16 h after oviposition to determine Ca²⁺ concentrations and quantify the mRNA levels of ten Ca²⁺ transport-related genes, including transient receptor potential vanilloid 6 (TRPV6), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (IP3R3), solute carrier family 4 member 4 (SLC4A4), solute carrier family 4 member 9 (SLC4A9), potassium inwardly-rectifying channel subfamily J member 15 (KCNJ15), sodium channel epithelial subunit gamma (SCNN1G), adenosyl homocysteinase-like 1 (AHCYL1), and protein kinase C alpha (PRKCA). In addition, the expression profiles of these ten genes were assessed across 12 tissues (heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, large intestine, small intestine, duodenum, pancreas, proventriculus, gizzard, and pectoral muscle) at the four oviposition time points. The results showed that the Ca²⁺ concentration in the uterine tissue was relatively low at 0 h, increased at 2 h and 5 h (P < 0.01), and reached its peak at 16 h (P < 0.01). The expression of the ten genes showed an overall upward trend, with TRPV6 slightly decreasing initially and then continuously increasing. Correlation analysis revealed that at 0 h, uterine Ca²⁺ concentration was negatively correlated with IP3R2 and KCNJ15 (P < 0.05), while IP3R2 was positively correlated with KCNJ15 (P < 0.05). At 2 h, TRPV6 expression was negatively correlated with both Ca²⁺ concentration and KCNJ15 (P < 0.05). At 16 h, Ca²⁺ concentration was negatively correlated with SCNN1G but positively correlated with SLC4A9 (P < 0.05). All ten genes were expressed across 12 tissues, showing distinct temporal and spatial patterns. These results suggest that TRPV6, IP3Rs (IP3R1, IP3R2, and IP3R3), SLC4A4/9, KCNJ15, SCNN1G, AHCYL1, and PRKCA may cooperatively regulate uterine Ca²⁺ absorption, intracellular release, and local homeostasis, while their tissue-specific expression reflects systemic regulation of calcium metabolism.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study employed primary uterine epithelial cells from Sansui ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) at the peak of lay as an in vitro model. Using shRNA-mediated interference, we generated single knockdowns of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2), and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (IP3R3), as well as dual knockdowns of IP3R1+IP3R2, IP3R1+IP3R3, and IP3R2+IP3R3, and a triple knockdown targeting all three IP3R isoforms. These treatments were designed to elucidate the regulatory effects of IP3R expression on intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) concentrations and the expression of genes related to ion transport. After 48 h of transfection, fluorescence labeling with the Fluo-3/AM probe showed that intracellular Ca²⁺ concentrations were significantly higher in all treatment groups compared with the control group (P < 0.01). The real-time qPCR (RT-qPCR) analysis of ten ion transport-related genes revealed that the expression of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6), ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1 (ORAI1), epithelial sodium channel gamma subunit (SCNN1G), solute carrier family 8 member A1 (SLC8A1), ATPase plasma membrane Ca²⁺-transporting 1 (ATP2B1), and ATPase sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca²⁺-transporting 2 (ATP2A2) was significantly downregulated in multiple IP3R knockdown groups compared with the NC group (P < 0.05). The expression levels of these genes also showed significant correlations with intracellular Ca²⁺ levels (P < 0.05), including both positive and negative correlations. In the IP3R1 knockdown group, TRPV6, ORAI1, and SCNN1G were negatively correlated with Ca²⁺ concentration (P < 0.05). In contrast, ATP2B1 exhibited a positive correlation with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R2 knockdown group (P < 0.01), whereas SLC8A1 expression was positively correlated with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R1 + IP3R3 dual knockdowns group (P < 0.05). Collectively, the knockdown of IP3Rs not only reduced intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) release but also altered the expression of ion channel-related genes, thereby affecting Ca²⁺ homeostasis. These findings provide new molecular evidence for the regulatory role of IP₃Rs in ion transport networks and Ca²⁺ balance in uterine epithelial cells of laying ducks.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by edema resulting from increased vascular permeability. Transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) interacts with inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R-1) through calmodulin-binding domains and regulates vascular permeability. However, the specific mechanisms underlying the roles of TRPV4 and IP3R-1 in endothelial pyroptosis and vascular permeability remain unclear.EMPs were measured in septic patients and controls, and co-cultured with human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (HPMECs). LPS-induced ALI was assessed in wild-type or Gsdmd-/- mice with pharmacological modulation of TRPV4, as well as in Trpv4-/- mice. Pyroptosis was detected in IP3R-1-silenced HPMECs treated with LPS and TRPV4 agonist. IP3R-1/GSDMD interaction was confirmed by structural prediction, Co-IP, and immunofluorescence. Intracellular Ca2+ was detected by flow cytometry, and tissue Ca2+ was visualized by in vivo imaging.Elevated EMPs in septic patients enhanced endothelial permeability, upregulated TRPV4 and GSDMD-NT generation in HPMECs. TRPV4 promotes HPMECs permeability and pyroptosis in an IP3R-1-dependent manner. TRPV4 inhibition attenuated lung injury and ameliorated pulmonary dysfunction, while Trpv4 knockdown improved survival. Knockdown of IP3R-1 reduced intracellular Ca2+ and mtDNA levels in HPMECs. In vivo imaging revealed attenuated Ca2+ accumulation in Trpv4-/- mice. The interaction between TRPV4/IP3R-1 and GSDMD was Ca2+-dependent.TRPV4 disrupts HPMEC integrity via IP3R-1 and triggers GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis through a Ca2+-dependent mechanism, exacerbating LPS-induced ALI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Backgrounds: Early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1), originally identified as a critical transcription factor modulating the development and differentiation of B lymphocytes, has recently attracted significant interest owing to its diverse functional characteristics and regulatory mechanisms in solid tumors. Although current evidence suggests a potential connection between EBF1 and oncogenic developments, its exact role in the progression of prostate cancer (PCa) is unclear. This study sought to investigate its biological roles and regulatory mechanisms in human PCa. Methods: Bioinformatic analyses were performed utilizing Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) 2.0, Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, along with quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays and immunostaining on clinically available PCa and normal prostate tissues, to investigate the expression profile and clinical significance of EBF1. The manipulation of EBF1 expression through lentivirus was conducted to explore the impact of both knockdown and overexpression of EBF1 on the malignant behaviors of PCa cells in vitro, as well as in a xenograft mouse model. Ultimately, various molecular biomedical techniques were employed to clarify the possible transcriptional regulation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (ITPR1) by EBF1. Results: Bioinformatic analyses revealed that reduced EBF1 expression exhibited a robust prognostic association with PCa progression. From a functional standpoint, knockdown of EBF1 promoted cell proliferation (n = 3, *p < 0.05, ***p < 0.001 for LNCaP-48 h and LNCaP-72 h; *p < 0.05, ****p < 0.0001 for 22RV1-48 h and 22RV1-72 h respectively), colony formation (n = 3, ***p < 0.001 for LNCaP and **p < 0.01 for 22RV1), migration (n = 3, ***p < 0.001 for LNCaP and ***p < 0.001 for 22RV1) and invasion (n = 5, ****p < 0.0001 for LNCaP and ****p < 0.0001 for 22RV1) capabilities in LNCaP and 22RV1 cells, while ectopic overexpression of EBF1 in PC-3 cells significantly inhibited tumor growth (n = 5, *p < 0.05 at d 36 after cell inoculation) and invasiveness (n = 5, **p < 0.01 for E-cadherin and Vimentin H-scores, respectively) in vivo. Mechanistically, EBF1 depletion was associated with a reduced expression of ITPR1, a key player in intracellular calcium release and a fundamental tumor suppressor in multiple cancers. Furthermore, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) and luciferase reporter assays, we demonstrated that EBF1 could directly bind to the distal region of the ITPR1 promoter (n = 3, **p < 0.01 for ChIP-qPCR), thereafter facilitating its transcriptional expression (n = 3, ****p < 0.0001 for reporter assays). Importantly, overexpression of exogenous ITPR1 effectively ameliorated EBF1 deficiency-induced tumorigenicity in both LNCaP and 22RV1 cells. Conclusions: These findings together indicate a new function of EBF1 loss in enhancing PCa progression, highlight ITPR1 as a key downstream effector in facilitating the tumor-suppressing function of EBF1, and provide significant insights into improving our understanding of the transcriptional regulation of malignant behaviors in PCa cells.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer among women worldwide and is often diagnosed at advanced stages, highlighting the need for effective systemic therapies, including those targeting key cancer-related pathways. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling plays a critical role in cell biology, activating FGF receptors (FGFRs) to regulate proliferation, migration and apoptosis. Aberrant activation of the pathway contributes to tumour progression in many cancers, including cervical cancer. FGFR inhibitors (FGFRi) have shown clinical promise but are limited by emergence of therapeutic resistance. Here, we describe mechanisms underpinning FGFRi resistance in three human cervical cancer cell lines (CaSki, HeLa, and SiHa). Transcriptomic analysis identified several genes differentially expressed between parental and resistant lines, including downregulation of Pleckstrin Homology Like Domain Family A Member 1 (PHLDA1) and upregulation of Phospholipase C beta 4 (PLCB4), changes that associate with a metastatic phenotype. Protein interaction network analysis revealed integrin α2 (ITGA2) as a putative central node. Increased cytoplasmic localisation of ITGA2 and concomitant loss at cell-cell contacts, alongside focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activation was observed in PD173074 resistant cells. Moreover, resistant cell lines exhibited elevated S6 ribosomal protein (p-S6) phosphorylation, which persisted despite inhibition of FGFR, FAK or mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Collectively, these findings suggest that FGFR inhibitor resistance in cervical cancer is associated with ITGA2-FAK signalling and AKT-independent mTOR activation, offering potential for overcoming therapeutic resistance via combinatorial treatment strategies.Copyright © 2026 Bou Antoun, Grose, Walker, Modjtahedi and Chioni.
White adipose browning is a promising route to restore energy balance; however, how inorganic anion signals engage intracellular organelle networks to drive this process remains unclear. Here, we identify Sialin2 as a nitrate sensor that converts dietary nitrate into a spatially confined thermogenic program by coupling ER-mitochondria Ca2+ transfer with lipid routing into mitochondrial oxidation. Sialin2 localizes to mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where it strengthens ER-mitochondria contacts and engages the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1)-voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1)-mitochondrial calcium uniporter 1 (MCU1) conduit to enhance inducible mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake. In parallel, Sialin2 associates with lysosomal acid lipase (LIPA), acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 3 (ACSL3), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 A (CPT1A) to channel lipid-droplet-derived fatty acids into β-oxidation, thereby fueling the tricarboxylic acid cycle and uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1)-dependent respiration. Loss of Slc17a5 abolishes nitrate-evoked browning and metabolic benefits, whereas nitrate supplementation improves adipose thermogenesis and systemic metabolic indices in male mice with diet-induced obesity without adrenergic stimulation. Together, these findings identify an organelle-specific nitrate-sensing mechanism that couples inorganic anion signalling to substrate routing in adipocytes and establish a non-hormonal pathway for restoring metabolic homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42268453 is a review article
Gillespie syndrome (GS) is a rare congenital disorder with ocular and neurological defects. Classically, it has been noted to have a triad of cerebellar ataxia, variable absence of iris but always with a scalloped edge and intellectual disability. This scalloped iris edge is essential to make a diagnosis of GS. Both autosomal dominant and recessive inheritance have been reported with de novo pathogenic variants in the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 gene (ITPR1). We report a novel variant of ITPR1 gene causing Gillespie syndrome in multiple members of a family.A retrospective chart review of a single pedigree was performed. Three pediatric patients and a parent underwent complete ophthalmic examinations. Molecular genetic testing was pursued where clinically indicated.Two siblings (one male, one female) were being evaluated for ataxia. Genetic testing identified a paternally inherited ITPR1 variant, c.5970A>C, p.Gln1990His, in both siblings. A third sibling (female) was later evaluated and also found to have the familial ITPR1 variant. On ophthalmic examination, all three siblings and their father had characteristic iris hypoplasia confirming the diagnosis of Gillespie syndrome.We report a new variant of ITPR1 gene causing Gillespie syndrome in the described family. Clinical and molecular analyses and their correlation helped to establish the clinical relevance of this variant.
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is an inherited, stress-provoked arrhythmia that can precipitate life-threatening ventricular fibrillation, syncope, or sudden cardiac death. Although most CPVT cases arise from pathogenic variants in the cardiac ryanodine receptor gene (RYR2), data on trauma-triggered episodes in children remain scarce.A previously healthy 18-month-old Chinese boy suffered cardiopulmonary arrest after falling from a chair. Following return of spontaneous circulation, he developed acute heart failure and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia. During the acute phase, analgo-sedation, invasive mechanical ventilation, targeted temperature management, and veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) were instituted. Subsequent genetic analysis revealed a de novo missense variant in RYR2, leading to a diagnosis of CPVT. Long-term oral propranolol was initiated, and no further arrhythmic episodes have been observed to date.For previously healthy children who experience cardiac arrest or syncope triggered by minor trauma, CPVT should be strongly suspected. Targeted diagnostic evaluation and early genetic testing are warranted to facilitate timely diagnosis. Additionally, ECMO support should be considered when conventional resuscitative measures fail and life-threatening hemodynamic instability occurs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Carbon monoxide poisoning (COP) induces systemic hypoxia and oxidative stress-related injury, leading to myocardial injury and persistent cardiac dysfunction. However, reliable biomarkers for monitoring long-term cardiac sequelae and therapeutic responses remain lacking. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), which reflect the molecular status of their cells of origin, may serve as candidate biomarkers for organ-specific injury. This study investigated whether cardiac EV proteins capture COP-induced myocardial and mitochondrial dysfunction and reflect the therapeutic effects of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy.A rat model of COP was established with or without HBO treatment. Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography, and myocardial injury was evaluated using histological, ultrastructural, and biochemical analyses. Cardiac-enriched EVs isolated from ex vivo whole-heart perfusate were used for global proteomic profiling. Candidate differentially abundant proteins were analyzed with emphasis on pathways related to mitochondrial dynamics, mitochondrial energy metabolism, calcium handling, and myocardial contractility. Key EV-associated and tissue proteins were further validated, and selected candidates were examined in serum-derived EVs as preliminary targeted circulating EV validation.COP induced significant cardiac dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced ejection fraction and fractional shortening, together with histological myocardial injury, all of which were attenuated by HBO treatment. Proteomic analysis demonstrated that COP reshaped the cardiac EV proteome in a manner consistent with mitochondrial abnormalities, altered calcium-handling protein profiles, and impaired myocardial contractile function. These EV proteomic alterations were enriched in pathways related to mitochondrial dynamics, calcium signaling, and cardiac contractile regulation. Specifically, COP was associated with dysregulation of mitochondrial dynamics regulators, including optic atrophy type 1 (Opa1) and mitochondrial fission protein 1 (FIS1), as well as calcium-handling proteins such as ryanodine receptor 2 (Ryr2) and phospholamban (Pln). Ultrastructural and biochemical analyses showed mitochondrial cristae disruption, altered mitochondrial fusion-fission protein profiles, mitophagy-related protein changes, and pyroptosis-associated signaling in cardiac tissue following COP, whereas HBO mitigated these abnormalities. Notably, EV-associated Opa1 and FIS1 were associated with COP-related alterations in mitochondrial dynamic balance, whereas EV-associated Ryr2 and Pln were associated with impaired myocardial contractile parameters. Additional analysis of EV proteins related to mitochondrial function and ATP energy production further supported COP-associated mitochondrial energy metabolism-related protein remodeling. Targeted analysis of serum-derived EVs further showed that selected calcium-handling proteins, including Ryr2 and Pln, were detectable in circulating EVs and exhibited COP-associated changes consistent with cardiac tissue alterations. These findings support selected cardiac-enriched EV proteins as candidate molecular readouts of COP-associated myocardial, mitochondrial, and contractile abnormalities.Cardiac EV proteomic remodeling reflects COP-associated mitochondrial and contractile abnormalities and captures the therapeutic effects of HBO. These findings identify cardiac-enriched EV proteins as candidate molecular readouts of myocardial injury and treatment response, providing a cardiac-enriched EV discovery framework for future blood-based biomarker development. The observed alterations in mitochondrial dynamics-, mitochondrial energy metabolism-, and calcium-handling-related proteins provide hypothesis-generating insight into molecular pathways associated with COP-induced cardiac dysfunction. Further validation using circulating EV proteomics, biomarker classifier analyses, and dedicated redox proteomics will be required to establish clinical utility and redox-regulated mechanistic relevance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is a potentially life-threatening arrhythmic disorder typically treated with beta-blockers and, occasionally, with flecainide.All patients underwent genetic testing, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and exercise testing. Ventricular arrhythmias were assessed using qualitative and quantitative scoring systems. Flecainide dosing was progressively titrated, and follow-up extended from 2007 to 2024.Among 235 genetically confirmed carriers of the RyR2 (ryanodine receptor 2) p.Gly357Ser mutation, 32 required combination therapy with beta-blockers and flecainide (age at diagnosis 18 [1-55] years; age at flecainide initiation 32 [15-66] years; 50% male). Forty-seven percent had an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Flecainide was indicated for exercise-induced ventricular arrhythmias despite beta-blocker therapy, and the median treatment duration was 7.3 years. All patients received propranolol (median dose 65 mg/day). Flecainide (median dose 100 mg/day) was well tolerated, with no syncope or stress-induced symptoms. Before flecainide, five patients (16%) experienced ventricular arrhythmic events recorded by the ICD, including two requiring appropriate shocks; no events occurred after treatment initiation. Both qualitative (2.07 ± 0.77 vs. 1.22 ± 1.08, p < 0.001) and quantitative (69.78 ± 83.17 vs. 15.29 ± 5.53, p < 0.001) arrhythmic scores improved significantly. Additionally, maximum heart rate and the percentage of age-predicted maximum heart rate were significantly reduced, while metabolic equivalents increased significantly (12.3 ± 3.8 vs. 14.7 ± 7.5; p = 0.010).In CPVT patients, the addition of flecainide to beta-blocker therapy was associated with a significant reduction in arrhythmic burden and improvement in exercise-related parameters during long-term follow-up.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cardiovascular Electrophysiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Ventricular remodeling occurring in heart failure (HF) involves structural disarray of the sarcolemma T-tubule (TT)-sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) dyad junctions, thereby disrupting the close apposition of L-type Ca2+ channels (CaV1.2) with ryanodine receptors (RyR2) that trigger SR Ca2+ release and myofilament contraction. In a rat ischemic heart failure model expressing low thyroid hormone (TH) function, we used 3D stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM) to image RyR2 clusters with CaV1.2 channels, and the associated protein junctophilin-2 (Jph2). We tested whether treatment with T3, the biologically active form of TH, throughout progression of the disease would preserve T-tubule structure and dyadic ion channel organization. Confocal microscopy of isolated cardiomyocytes (CMs) stained with ANEPPS membrane dye showed significantly decreased TT density in diseased CMs while T3 treatment attenuated TT disorganization. 3D STORM images of dyadic ion channels labeled with fluorescent-tagged antibodies to RyR-Dylight550, Jph-CF647 and CaV1.2/IgG-Dylight488 were captured. A density-based algorithm defined RyR2 clusters, and a 400 nm spherical 3D volume of interest around each RyR2 cluster's centroid determined the number of CaV1.2 and Jph2 localizations associated with each RyR2 cluster. Analysis revealed significant reduction in RyR2 cluster size and number with reduced co-localized Jph2 in failing CMs. T3 treatment increased RyR2 cluster numbers and cluster volumes albeit non-significantly, with increased co-clustering of Jph2. The number of CaV1.2 co-localized with RyR2 clusters trended lower in the failing CMs. These results support maintaining TH homeostasis in optimizing the nanoscale organization of Ca2+ ion channels in triggering Ca2+ release and myofibrillar contraction in patients with heart disease.
The aims of the present study were to investigate the changes of cardiac dysfunction induced by Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide (PG-LPS, 0.8 mg/kg/day for a week) in mice, and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms, as well as to evaluate the effect of the non-selective β-blocker propranolol (PPL) on the PG-LPS-induced changes. Since little is known about the involvement of the sympathetic nervous system in the development or exacerbation of periodontitis-induced cardiovascular disease (CVD), we first examined the effects of PG-LPS on heart variability. The normalized low frequency, an index of sympathetic nervous activity, was significantly increased after administration of PG-LPS, with an increase of mean heart rate at all time points examined. We then evaluated the effects of PPL on these PG-LPS-induced changes. Left ventricular ejection fraction was significantly decreased from baseline (from 66 ± 1.1 to 57 ± 2.3%) by PG-LPS, while PPL ameliorated the dysfunction. PG-LPS significantly increased cardiac fibrosis (approximately 3.1-fold), myocyte apoptosis (approximately 5.1-fold) and oxidative DNA damage (approximately sixfold), and PPL blocked these changes. Mechanistic studies suggested that impairment of cardiac function in PG-LPS-treated mice involves activation of NADPH oxidase 4/receptor-interacting protein 3/calmodulin kinase II signaling, leading to Ca2+ leakage from sarcoplasmic reticulum mediated by phosphorylation of phospholamban and ryanodine receptor 2. Overall, our results suggested that activation of β-adrenergic signaling might play an important role in the development of periodontitis-induced CVD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Normal heart contraction requires synchronized calcium ion (Ca2+) release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), traditionally attributed to ryanodine receptor 2 (RyR2). Here, we identify vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1) as a previously unrecognized SR Ca2+ release channel essential for postnatal cardiac function. VMP1 expression is up-regulated in cardiomyocytes after birth, and its genetic deletion causes severe arrhythmias, dilated cardiomyopathy, and sudden cardiac death. Mechanistically, VMP1 loss results in increased SR Ca2+ content and aberrant cardiac action potentials. Single-channel electrophysiology reveals that VMP1 forms a Ca2+-regulated Ca2+ channel, which senses luminal Ca2+ via aspartic acid 272. Notably, VMP1 expression is elevated in human heart failure, suggesting a pathophysiological role. These findings establish VMP1 as a critical component of the cardiac Ca2+ release machinery and uncover its involvement in heart failure.
The ryanodine receptor (RyR2) is an intracellular Ca2+ release channel which mediates numerous cellular functions across different tissues. Dysregulation of RyR2 channel activity leads to pathological Ca2+ release, which often underlies disrupted cellular signaling in disease states. In the heart, RyR2 channels forms discrete clusters and calcium release units (CRUs) which control channel activity. These structures demonstrate nanoscale remodeling in disease states associated with pathological Ca2+ release activity in the heart. Hence, these nanoscale structures are critical in regulating Ca2+ release in health and disease. RyR2 is also expressed in brain; however, whether analogous clusters and CRUs form in neurons remains unexplored.Using super-resolution imaging, we assessed RyR2 organization in CA1 pyramidal neurons of wild-type mice. Furthermore, we used the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) to assess whether there is nanoscale remodeling of RyR2 in a setting associated with pathological Ca2+ release in neurons.Here, we provide the first identification and detailed characterization of RyR2 clusters in central nervous system neurons, which are comparable to those reported in the heart. Moreover, we observed a decrease in RyR2 cluster size and reduced CRU organization in AD mice at an age associated with high plaque burden and cognitive deficits. This remodeling is analogous to that reported in pathological states in the heart.Together, these findings implicate the nanoscale remodeling of RyR2 clusters and CRUs as a novel mechanism underlying Ca2+ channel dysregulation and neuronal dysfunction in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Acta Physiologica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Scandinavian Physiological Society.
Several thermogenic pathways have been described in adipose tissue, including calcium-mediated thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. We have previously shown that adipocyte-specific deletion of the RNA binding protein human antigen R (HuR; Elavl1) results in thermogenic dysfunction. RNA sequencing revealed the downregulation of several calcium transport genes upon HuR deletion. The goal of this work was to define the HuR-dependent mechanisms of calcium driven thermogenesis in brown adipocytes. Brown adipose tissue (BAT)-specific HuR-deletion (BAT-HuR-/-) mice have no changes in their body weight, glucose tolerance, adipose tissue weights, or lipid droplet size compared to control, but are cold intolerant following acute thermal challenge at 4 °C. We also found decreased expression of ryanodine receptor 2 (Ryr2) in BAT from BAT-HuR-/- mice. We show that genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of HuR blunts both the increase in cytosolic calcium and the β-adrenergic-mediated heat generation in stromal vascular fraction (SVF)-derived primary brown adipocytes. Mechanistically, we show that HuR directly binds and reduces the decay rate of Ryr2 mRNA in brown adipocytes, and stabilization of Ryr2 via S107 rescues the observed changes. In conclusion, our results suggest that HuR-dependent control of Ryr2 expression plays a significant role in the thermogenic function of brown adipose tissue through modulation of sarcoendoplasmic-reticulum calcium cycling.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been recognized as one of the three hallmark biological features of autism spectrum disorder. This study is intended to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying prenatal psychological fear stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the calcium signaling pathway, particularly the phospholipase C beta 1(PLCβ1)- inositol 1,4,5‑trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)- voltage‑dependent anion channel 1(VDAC1) pathway, may play a key role in prenatal stress‑induced hippocampal mitochondrial damage in offspring. To validate this, we examined pathway activation in the offspring hippocampus of prenatal fear stressed rats and in corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH; also known as CRF in rodents) overexposed SH‑SY5Y cells, along with mitochondrial calcium levels in the cells. Prenatal fear stress induced depressive-like behavior and HPA axis activation in pregnant dams, and reduced survival and growth in offspring. Placental and neonatal brain CRF levels were elevated. At the early socialization stage (Postnatal day 21-30), model offspring showed normal basal but exaggerated stress-induced HPA responses. Their hippocampus exhibited expanded MAM coverage, reduced ER-mitochondria distance, and upregulated PLCβ1, IP3R1, VDAC1 expression, along with increased GRP75‑VDAC1 co‑localization, confirming MAM remodeling at the molecular level. In vitro, CRH (20 µM for 48 h or 5-20 µM for 96 h) inhibited SH-SY5Y cell proliferation, upregulated CRH receptor 1(CRHR1), PLCβ1, VDAC1, and increased mitochondrial calcium; these effects were reversed by the CRHR1 antagonist CP376395 or PLCβ1 knockdown. Furthermore, the MCU inhibitor DS16570511 partially reversed CRH‑induced mitochondrial calcium elevation and proliferation inhibition, suggesting that mitochondrial calcium overload contributes to the proliferation inhibition. Collectively, these results suggest that prenatal fear stress may, via the CRF-CRFR1 axis, influence the PLCβ1-IP3R-VDAC1 pathway, inducing MAM remodeling and mitochondrial calcium overload, thereby contributing to offspring hippocampal neuronal damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
CD81, a member of the tetraspanin family, is implicated in tumor progression, and its elevated expression in tumor cells has been associated with poor prognosis across multiple cancers. However, the functional significance of CD81 within the stromal compartments of the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains unclear. This study investigated the clinical relevance and mechanistic role of stromal CD81 (sCD81) in invasive breast cancer.A total of 462 human primary invasive breast cancer samples, along with 13 normal breast tissues and 10 ductal carcinoma in situ samples collected between 2000 and 2013, were analyzed. Immunohistochemistry and spatial analyses were used to evaluate sCD81 expression, and its association with cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subsets and immune components in the TME, as well as correlation with clinicopathological correlations and survival outcome.sCD81 expression was significantly higher in invasive breast cancer than in normal breast stromal tissue but did not differ across clinical subtypes. High sCD81 expression was associated with significantly longer disease-free survival, and multivariate analysis identified sCD81 as an independent prognostic factor alongside nuclear grade, estrogen receptor status, and lymph node metastasis. Co-expression analyses demonstrated that sCD81-high stromal cells exhibited a CD34-positive, FAP-low, and PDGFRα-low phenotype, indicating that they are distinct from established CAF subtypes. Both sCD81 and podoplanin (PDPN) expression correlated with increased immune cell infiltration. However, PDPN-positive CAFs promoted an immunosuppressive TME characterized by enrichment of regulatory T cells and M2-like macrophages, whereas CD81-high stromal cells did not exert such effects. Spatial analyses revealed that CD81-high stromal cells were preferentially localized near tumor vasculature and CCL19-expressing cells, suggesting a potential association with T-cell recruitment into the TME through CCL19-mediated mechanisms.These findings identify stromal CD81 expression as a novel prognostic marker in invasive breast cancer and highlight its association with a tumor-suppressive immune microenvironment, distinct from the immunosuppressive phenotype typically associated with PDPN-positive CAFs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatitis is a significant risk factor for pancreatic cancer, with Kras mutations being the most common in this malignancy. Inflammation accelerates tumorigenesis driven by Kras mutations. However, the interactions between inflammation and Kras mutation in the context of pancreatic tumorigenesis remain unclear. In this study, we discovered that under pancreatitis conditions, the endoplasmic reticulum stress-related pathways are downregulated in Kras mutant mice compared to wild-type mice, while endoplasmic reticulum oxidoreductase 1 alpha (ERO1L) is abnormally upregulated. Kras mutation downregulates the ER-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase HRD1, resulting in reduced ubiquitination and degradation of HIF1α, which transcriptionally induces the expression of ERO1L. Inhibition of ERO1L activity or pancreas-specific knockout of the Ero1l gene can delay the progression of pancreatic carcinogenesis. Mechanistically, ERO1L enhances the protein expression of the chemokine CCL2 through its role in oxidative folding, thereby promoting the recruitment of macrophages. Thus, this study reveals that Kras mutation upregulates ERO1L to promote inflammation and pancreatic tumorigenesis, providing new insights and potential targets for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to explore potential causal relationships between 91 circulating inflammatory cytokines and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) using a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) framework, with findings further examined at the transcriptomic level. We conducted a two-sample MR analysis utilizing summary-level genome-wide association studies data. The inverse-variance weighted method was used for the primary analysis, supplemented by sensitivity analyses (MR-Egger, weighted median) to assess pleiotropy. A false discovery rate (FDR) was applied to correct for multiple comparisons. Subsequently, we performed a differential expression analysis of the GSE197702 dataset, containing esophageal biopsies from a pediatric cohort with a significance threshold of adjusted P-value < .05. Our MR analysis identified nominally significant associations where genetically predicted higher levels of interleukin-8 (IL-8) and C-C motif chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19) were associated with an increased risk of EoE, whereas higher levels of hepatocyte growth factor were associated with a decreased risk (P < .05; P_fdr < .2). Sensitivity analyses showed no evidence of significant horizontal pleiotropy. Complementing the genetic finding for IL-8, our transcriptomic analysis observed that the gene encoding IL-8, chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8), was upregulated in esophageal tissues from EoE patients compared to healthy controls. Integrating genetic and transcriptomic insights, this study suggests a potential link between the IL-8 pathway and EoE pathogenesis. Given that the MR associations were suggestive after FDR correction, these findings should be considered exploratory. Nevertheless, they highlight the IL-8 pathway as a candidate target warranting further mechanistic and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) represents a severe subtype of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD), characterized by hepatic steatosis, chronic inflammation, with or without fibrosis. Without appropriate intervention, MASH can progress to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein regulating phospholipid composition, is critical for maintaining endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial homeostasis. However, its role in MASH-to-HCC progression remains unclear.To investigate the mechanism by which LPCAT3 influences the progression from MASH to HCC.LPCAT3 expression levels were examined in tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissues from patients with MASH-associated HCC. A MASH-HCC mouse model was established using a high-fat, high-cholesterol diet, and lipidomics and proteomics analyses were performed to elucidate the role of LPCAT3 in MASH-HCC progression. In addition, a liver-specific LPCAT3 knockout mouse model was generated, and LPCAT3 was overexpressed in mouse livers using an adeno-associated virus (AAV) system to evaluate its role in the development of MASH-HCC.Our study revealed that hepatic LPCAT3 expression was markedly reduced in mice fed a high-fat, high-cholesterol diet. Liver-specific LPCAT3 deficiency accelerates MASH progression, as evidenced by increased hepatic inflammation and fibrosis, and further promoted the transition from MASH to HCC over time. Mechanistically, LPCAT3 deficiency upregulated protein disulfide isomerase (Pdi)-endoplasmic reticulum oxidoreductase 1 alpha (Ero1α) expression, leading to mitochondrial accumulation of H2O2 and Ca2+ and impairing mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation function. LPCAT3 deficiency also reduced PC (18:2/18:2) levels, whereas supplementing PC (18:2/18:2) in LPCAT3-knockdown cells reversed the upregulation of Pdi-Ero1α and alleviated mitochondrial H2O2 and Ca2+ accumulation. Furthermore, LPCAT3 overexpression ameliorated mitochondrial dysfunction and inhibited the progression from MASH to HCC in mice.LPCAT3 deficiency triggers Pdi-Ero1α-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction, identifying LPCAT3 as a promising therapeutic target for MASH-associated HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41917399 is a review article
Increasing evidence suggests that inflammatory protein factors are closely associated with the underlying mechanisms of cervical cancer. Therefore, 2-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was performed to assess the potential correlation between circulating inflammatory protein levels and cervical cancer risk. A 2-sample MR study, using genetic variants related to inflammatory proteins as instrumental variables, was conducted to improve the accuracy of cervical cancer diagnosis. By analyzing 14,824 individuals, 91 plasma proteins having strong association with single nucleotide polymorphisms were chosen as instrumental variables, with cervical cancer (909 cases and 238,249 controls) serving as outcome variables. The analysis of causal effects was completed using random effect inverse variance weighted, weighted median/mode, and MR-Egger. Sensitivity analysis was performed using Cochran Q test, funnel plots, leave-one-out analyses, MR-Egger intercept tests, as well as reverse MR analysis. Our analysis showed that C-C motif chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19), monocyte chemotactic protein-3 (MCP-3), and interleukin-12 (IL-12) was related to the risk of cervical cancer. Additionally, the inverse variance weighted method indicated that both CCL19 (OR: 1.479, 95% CI: 1.207-1.813, P = .0002) and IL-12 (OR: 1.171, 95% CI: 1.019-1.345, P = .0253) significantly increased the risk of cervical cancer. Nevertheless, MCP-3 levels may protect individuals from developing cervical cancer (OR, 0.647; 95% CI: 0.442-0.947, P = .0253). Furthermore, consistent outcomes were achieved in the sensitivity analysis. In our study, MR analysis of 91 inflammatory proteins revealed potential causal associations between CCL19, MCP-3, IL-12, and the etiology of cervical cancer. We believe that related inflammatory proteins will provide potential treatment opportunities for clinical interventions in cervical cancer.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
In current clinical applications, there are challenges with using chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells to effectively treat solid tumors. These challenges include promoting the infiltration and proliferation of CAR-T cells, as well as extending their survival and generating immune memory. To address these issues, we developed CAR-T cells that can coexpress interleukin-7 (IL-7), interleukin-15 (IL-15), and C-C motif chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19). Gene cloning technology, the humanized single-chain variable fragment (scFv) method, and lentiviral transfection tools were used to construct the specific CAR-T cells co-expressing IL-7, IL-15 and CCL19, and B7-H3 (H3-7/15 × 19-CAR-T cells). Our results revealed that H3-7/15 × 19-CAR-T cells could target B7 family protein H3 (B7-H3) antigen with a high affinity (1.77 × 10-10 mol/L) and release cytokines (e.g., IL-7 and IL-15) and chemokines (e.g., CCL19). Moreover, H3-7/15 × 19-CAR-T cells cocultured with B7-H3-positive tumor cells exhibited outstanding proliferation, maintained their memory phenotype, and induced tumor cell apoptosis in vitro. Furthermore, H3-7/15 × 19-CAR-T cells exhibited good infiltration with long-lasting survival and antitumor efficacy in vivo. H3-7/15 × 19-CAR-T cells significantly improved the therapeutic efficacy of traditional CAR-T cells, including CD19- and H3-CAR-T cells, acting in pancreatic cancer- and non-small cell lung cancer-derived xenograft tumor models based on NOD-Prkdcem26Cd52Il2rgem26Cd22/Nju (NCG) mice. In summary, H3-7/15 × 19-CAR-T cells possess potential for clinical transformation and represent a new strategy for treating solid tumors.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This paper aimed to study the effects of photoperiod during incubation on hatching performance, embryonic leg bone development and metabolism, and key gene expression in melanopsin mediated PLC-PKC pathway in Beijing You Chicken (BYC). A total of 1,408 eggs from 32-wk-old BYC breeders were randomly divided into four light incubation groups: Inc8L:16D (6:00-14:00), Inc12L:12D (6:00-18:00), Inc16L:8D (6:00-22:00), and Inc24D (24 h darkness). Each group contained 352 eggs with 4 replicate trays of 88 eggs each. The leg bone development and metabolism, and key gene expressions including Protein Kinase C (PKC), Phospholipase C Beta 1 (PLCβ1), Diacylglycerol Kinase (DGK), and Transient Receptor Potential Canonical 6/7 (TRPC6/7) in melanopsin mediated PLC-PKC pathway were determined at embryonic day 8, 11, 14, 17, 20 (E8, E11, E14, E17, E20). The hatching performance at day 1 and the gait score of chickens at day 1, 7, 21 and 42 were assessed. Results showed that Inc8L:16D increased hatch weight (P < 0.05), and enhanced femur, tibia, third toe length and femur width at E11 (P < 0.05). The Inc12L:12D increased tibia length (P < 0.05), and Inc16L:8D improved metatarsal length (P < 0.05) at E11. At E14, Inc8L:16D increased femur and metatarsal lengths compared to Inc24D (P < 0.05). By E17, Inc12L:12D exhibited greater femur length, while Inc8L:16D showed increased tibia length, femur width, and tibia width (P < 0.05). The Inc12L:12D decreased gait scores at day 7 and 21 (P < 0.05). The Inc12L:12D and Inc18L:6D had higher BAP level at E14 (P < 0.05), and Inc12L:12D had significantly higher bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BAP) level at E20 (P < 0.01). The Inc16L:8D and Inc24D had higher (P < 0.05) or significantly higher (P < 0.01) TRAP-5b and β-CTx at E11. The Inc24D had significantly higher β-CTx (P < 0.01) at E17. The Inc24D had significantly higher parathyroid hormone (PTH) level at E11 (P < 0.01) and higher level at E17 (P < 0.05). Melanopsin gene (OPN4) expression was increased in Inc8L:16D at E14 (P < 0.05). The Inc12L:12D increased PLCβ1, DGK, PKC expression (P < 0.05) at E11 and E14. The Inc8L:16D upregulated PLCβ1, DGK, PKC and TRPC6/7 at E11 (P < 0.05), while Inc12L:12D elevated TRPC6/7 expression. The Inc12L:12D upregulated TRPC7 expression at E8 compared to Inc16L:8D (P < 0.05). At E17, Inc12L:12D enhanced PLCβ1 and PKC expression (P < 0.05). This study suggested that photoperiod during incubation affected embryonic and post-hatch bone development over time, especially Inc8L:16D and Inc12L:12D. The Inc8L:16D group exhibited a higher hatch weight, while the Inc12L:12D group showed lower gait scores (better leg quality). The Inc16L:8D may suppress melatonin secretion of embryos and bring negative effects. The Inc12L:12D reduces osteoclast-related enzyme secretion, which may be related with its increased PLCβ1, DGK and PKC expression, elevated TRPC6/7 expression in melanopsin mediated PLC-PKC pathway.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
As a promising cancer immunotherapeutic agent, oncolytic viruses (OV) can specifically kill tumor cells and elicit systemic antitumor immune responses. However, the intrinsic resistance of tumors to oncolytic virotherapy severely limits its therapeutic efficacy. This study identified phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) as a key negative regulator of OV antitumor effects via CRISPR-Cas9 metabolic gene screening in MC38 colorectal cancer model. PLCE1 inhibitor U-73122 enhanced OV infection efficiency and immunogenic cell death in vitro. In vivo, U-73122 combined with OV synergistically reduced tumor volume and prolonged survival. The combination therapy has been shown to remodel the tumor immune microenvironment, leading to an increase in CD45+ immune cells and CD8+ T cells, including naïve subsets, and a decrease in FOXP3+ Treg cells. This shift promotes T cell activation by modulating relevant genes and signaling pathways. This study provides a novel target for optimizing OV immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a leading cause of vision loss, with lipid metabolism implicated in its pathogenesis. Our study explores lipid metabolism-derived acylation modifications in POAG using GEO, GWAS, and PubChem databases.Integrated multi-omics approaches were employed: Mendelian randomization assessed causal relationships between lipid traits and POAG risk; transcriptomic analysis (gene set variation analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis) identified key acylation-related genes; machine learning selected feature genes; and single-cell sequencing validated mechanisms in human trabecular meshwork samples.Four lipid metabolism-derived acylations (palmitoylation, myristoylation, succinylation, malonylation) were significantly upregulated in POAG. Core genes 5'-aminolevulinate synthase 2 (ALAS2) and phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) were mechanistically linked: ALAS2 catalyzed acyl-CoA accumulation, while myristoylated PLCE1 promoted trabecular fibrosis via collagen type IV alpha 3 chain interaction. External datasets confirmed these findings.Lipid-derived acylations drive POAG through ALAS2-mediated acyl-CoA production and PLCE1-induced fibrosis, revealing novel targets for intervention. Lipid metabolism-derived acylation modifications, particularly succinylation, propionylation, and myristoylation, may play a crucial role in POAG. These findings highlight the potential role of acylation modifications in POAG and offer new insights into POAG's molecular mechanisms and potential research directions.© The Author(s), 2025.
Filtration slit proteins are important for maintaining the integrity of the glomerular filtration barrier. Genetic mutations and environmental factors can disrupt their structure and functions, leading to proteinuria and kidney diseases. This scoping review aims to synthesize the available information on the genetic and environmental factors that affect the slit proteins to enhance our understanding of the (patho)physiology of glomerular filtration.Online databases such as Wiley and PubMed were used. Relevant studies were selected focusing on genetic variations, environmental influences, and their impact on filtration slit proteins. Data extraction and synthesis were conducted to highlight key themes and knowledge gaps.We summarized at least 20 proteins and their genes, including nephrin, podocin, phospholipase C Epsilon 1 (PLCE1), CD2-Associated Protein (CD2AP), ITGA 3, synaptopodin, myosin 1E (MYO1E), flotillin-2 (Flot2), podocalyxin, FAT1, Apo Hemoglobin-Haptoglobin (Apo Hb-Hp), spermidine, P-Cadherin, ephrin B1, Zo- 1 (Zona Occluden), MAGI 1&2 (MAGUK inverted), Par- complex, IP-10 (interferon-inducible protein), neurexin 1, and liver type fatty acid binding protein. We also reported at least 8 environmental factors, including oxidative stress, inflammation, heavy metals, air-bone pollutants, high-fat diets, vitamins and micronutrient deficiency, mechanical stretch, and nephrotoxic agents.This review highlights various filtration slit proteins and the mechanisms of their alterations by genetic and environmental factors. It contributes to efforts toward personalized therapeutic strategies for disorders of glomerular filtration.Copyright © 2025 Adepoju, Muhammad, Adamson, Adewale, Adekunle, Ojulari and Alagbonsi.
The myometrium plays a critical role during pregnancy as it is responsible for both the structural integrity of the uterus and force generation at term. Emerging studies in mice indicate a dynamic change of the myometrial epigenome and transcriptome during pregnancy to ready the contractile machinery for parturition. However, the regulatory systems underlying myometrial gene expression patterns throughout gestation remain largely unknown. Here, we investigated human term pregnant nonlabor myometrial biopsies for transcriptome, enhancer histone mark cistrome, and chromatin conformation pattern mapping. More than thirty thousand putative enhancers with H3K27ac and H3K4me1 double positive marks were identified in the myometrium. Enriched transcription factor binding motifs include known myometrial regulators AP-1, STAT, NFkB, and PGR among others. Putative myometrial super enhancers are mostly colocalized with progesterone receptor-occupying sites and preferentially associated with highly expressing genes, suggesting a conserved role of PGR in regulating the myometrial transcriptome between species. In human myometrial specimens, inferred PGR activities are positively correlated with phospholipase C like 2 (PLCL2) mRNA levels, supporting that PGR may act through this genomic region to promote PLCL2 expression. PGR overexpression facilitated PLCL2 gene expression in myometrial cells. Using CRISPR activation, we assessed the functionality of a PGR putative enhancer 35 kilobases upstream of the contractile-restrictive gene PLCL2. In summary, the results of this study serve as a resource to study gene regulatory mechanisms in the human myometrium at the term pregnancy stage for further advancing women's health research.
Increased phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) gene expression has been observed in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), but its roles in AD remain unclear. This study aimed to explore the effects of PLCE1 expression in AD models. Rats were divided into 4 groups: sham+AAV-shNC (negative control), sham+AAV-shPLCE1, Aβ+AAV-shNC, and Aβ + AAV-shPLCE1. To investigate the effects of PLCE1 expression following β-amyloid administration, its expression was measured at both the mRNA and protein levels. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze. Immunofluorescence and Nissl staining of cerebral cortical tissues demonstrated that PLCE1 downregulation alleviated β-amyloid-induced brain injury. TUNEL, Western blot, and Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) assays also showed that PLCE1 downregulation inhibited pyroptosis and inflammatory markers in the rats and in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Using MTT, TUNEL, Western blot, and ELISA assays, we found that upregulation of the GTPase RAC1, which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins, reversed the neuroprotective effect of PLCE1 downregulation. Together, this study suggests that PLCE1 may worsen AD by activating the STAT3 pathway through RAC1 upregulation. Overall, PLCE1 may exacerbate β-amyloid-induced cognitive impairments and pyroptosis via the RAC1-STAT3 pathway in AD patients.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
TAK1 is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is a key regulator in a wide variety of cellular processes. However, the functions and mechanisms involved in cancer metastasis are still not well understood. Here, we found that TAK1 knockdown promoted esophageal squamous cancer carcinoma (ESCC) migration and invasion, whereas TAK1 overexpression resulted in the opposite outcome. These in vitro findings were recapitulated in vivo in a xenograft metastatic mouse model. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry demonstrated that TAK1 interacted with phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) and phosphorylated PLCE1 at serine 1060 (S1060). Functional studies revealed that phosphorylation at S1060 in PLCE1 resulted in decreased enzyme activity, leading to the repression of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) hydrolysis. As a result, the degradation products of PIP2 including diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol IP3 were reduced, which thereby suppressed signal transduction in the axis of PKC/GSK-3β/β-Catenin. Consequently, expression of cancer metastasis-related genes was impeded by TAK1. Overall, our data indicate that TAK1 plays a negative role in ESCC metastasis, which depends on the TAK1-induced phosphorylation of PLCE1 at S1060.© 2024, Ju et al.
The myometrium plays a critical role during pregnancy as it is responsible for both the structural integrity of the uterus and force generation at term. Emerging studies in mice indicate a dynamic change of the myometrial epigenome and transcriptome during pregnancy to ready the contractile machinery for parturition. However, the regulatory systems underlying myometrial gene expression patterns throughout gestation remain largely unknown. Here we investigated human term pregnant nonlabor myometrial biopsies for transcriptome, enhancer histone mark cistrome, and chromatin conformation pattern mapping. More than thirty-thousand putative enhancers with H3K27ac and H3K4me1 double positive marks were identified in the myometrium. Enriched transcription factor binding motifs include known myometrial regulators AP-1, STAT, NFkB, and PGR among others. Putative myometrial super enhancers are mostly colocalized with progesterone receptor occupying sites and preferentially associated with highly expressing genes, suggesting a conserved role of PGR in regulating the myometrial transcriptome between species. In human myometrial specimens, inferred PGR activities are positively correlated with phospholipase C like 2 (PLCL2) mRNA levels, supporting that PGR may act through this genomic region to promote PLCL2 expression. PGR overexpression facilitated PLCL2 gene expression in myometrial cells. Using CRISPR activation, we assessed the functionality of a PGR putative enhancer 35-kilobases upstream of the contractile-restrictive gene PLCL2. In summary, results of this study serve as a resource to study gene regulatory mechanisms in the human myometrium at the term pregnancy stage for further advancing women's health research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39855298 is a review article
The tyrosine protein kinase (TXK) gene, as a member of the non-receptor tyrosine kinase Tec family, plays a vital role in signal transduction mediation. Phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1), a membrane-associated enzyme, is of paramount importance for the differentiation of myoblasts and the normal functioning of muscle tissue. In recent years, both of these genes have been reported to be associated with the economic traits of animals. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TXK and PLCE1 genes and growth traits in Ashidan yaks and to search for potential molecular marker loci that can influence Ashidan yak breeding. A cGPS liquid microarray was utilized to genotype 232 Ashidan yaks and to analyze correlations between two SNP loci in the TXK and PLCE1 genes and yak body weight, body height, body length, and chest circumference at different periods. The results indicated that the g.55,999,531C>T locus of the TXK gene and the g.342,350T>G locus of the PLCE1 gene were significantly correlated with the growth traits of Ashidan yaks. Among these, individuals with the CC genotype at the g.55,999,531C>T locus showed a significantly higher body length at 6 months old compared to TT individuals, and those with the CT genotype at 12 months old had a significantly higher chest circumference than TT individuals. At the g.342,350T>G locus, the body height of GG genotype individuals at 18 months of age was significantly higher than that of TT genotype individuals and TG genotype individuals. The above findings can be used as theoretical support for the subsequent improvement of Ashidan yak breeding.
(-)-Epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate (EGCG), one of the green tea catechins, exhibits significant antioxidant properties that play an essential role in various diseases. However, the functional role and underlying mechanism of EGCG in stimulating of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) remain unexplored in transcriptomics sequencing studies. The present study suggests that oral administration of EGCG at a dosage of 200 mg/kg/day for a duration of four weeks exhibits significant therapeutic potential in a murine model of liver fibrosis induced by CCl4. The activation of HSCs in vitro was dose-dependently inhibited by EGCG. The sequencing analysis data reveled that EGCG exerted a regulatory effect on the calcium signal in mouse HSCs, resulting in a decrease in calcium ion concentration. Further analysis revealed that EGCG inhibited the expression of phospholipase C epsilon-1 (PLCE1) and inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate (IP3) in activated mouse HSCs. Additionally, EGCG contributes to the reduction the concentration of calcium ions by regulating PLCE1. After the knockdown of PLCE1, free calcium ion concentrations decreased, resulting in the inhibition of both cell proliferation and migration. Interestingly, the expression of PLCE1 and cytosolic calcium levels were regulated by reactive oxygen species(ROS). Furthermore, our findings suggest that ROS might inhibit the expression of PLCE1 by inhibiting TFEB, a transcription activator involved in the nuclear translocation process. Our study provided novel evidence regarding the regulatory effects of EGCG on activated HSCs (aHSCs) in mice by the calcium signaling pathway, emphasizing the crucial role of PLCE1 within the calcium signaling network of HSCs. The proposition was also made that PLCE1 holds promise as a novel therapeutic target for murine liver fibrosis.© 2024. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Awareness of estrogen's effects on health is broadening rapidly. The effects of long-term high levels of estrogen on the body involve multiple organs. Here, we used both single-cell chromatin accessibility and RNA sequencing data to analyze the potential effect of estrogen on major organs. The integrated cell map enabled in-depth dissection and comparison of molecular dynamics, cell-type compositions, and cellular heterogeneity across multiple tissues and organs under estrogen stimulation. We also inferred pseudotime cell trajectories and cell-cell communications to uncover key molecular signatures underlying their cellular processes in major organs in response to estrogen. For example, estrogen could induce the differentiation of IFIT3 + neutrophils into S100A9 + neutrophils involved in the function of endosome-to-lysosome transport and the multivesicular body sorting pathway in liver tissues. Furthermore, through integration with human genome-wide association study data, we further identified a subset of risk genes during disease development that were induced by estrogen, such as AKT1 (related to endometrial cancer), CCND1 (related to breast cancer), HSPH1 (related to colorectal cancer), and COVID-19 and asthma-related risk genes. Our work uncovers the impact of estrogen on the major organs, constitutes a useful resource, and reveals the contribution and mechanism of estrogen to related diseases.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Fusarium graminearum is an important plant pathogen that causes head blight in cereal crops such as wheat, barley, and rice worldwide. In this study, we identified and functionally characterized FgVAC1, an essential gene in F. graminearum that encodes a Rab5 effector involved in membrane tethering functions. The essentiality of FgVAC1 was confirmed through a conditional promoter replacement strategy using the zearalenone-inducible promoter (PZEAR). Cytological analyses revealed that FgVac1 colocalizes with FgRab51 on early endosomes and regulates the proper transport of the vacuolar hydrolase FgCpy1 to the vacuole. Suppression of FgVAC1 led to inhibited vegetative growth, reduced asexual and sexual reproduction, decreased deoxynivalenol (DON) biosynthesis, and diminished pathogenicity. Our findings highlight the significant role of FgVac1 in vacuolar protein sorting, fungal development, and plant infection in F. graminearum.© 2024. The Author(s).
MYBL1 is a strong transcriptional activator involved in the cell signaling. However, there is no systematic study on the role of MYBL1 in atherosclerosis. The aim of this study is to elucidate the role and mechanism of MYBL1 in atherosclerosis. GSE28829, GSE43292 and GSE41571 were downloaded from NCBI for differentially expressed analysis. The expression levels of MYBL1 in atherosclerotic plaque tissue and normal vessels were detected by qRT-PCR, Western blot and Immunohistochemistry. Transwell and CCK-8 were used to detect the migration and proliferation of HUVECs after silencing MYBL1. RNA-seq, Western blot, qRT-PCR, Luciferase reporter system, Immunofluorescence, Flow cytometry, ChIP and CO-IP were used to study the role and mechanism of MYBL1 in atherosclerosis. The microarray data of GSE28829, GSE43292, and GSE41571 were analyzed and intersected, and then MYBL1 were verified. MYBL1 was down-regulated in atherosclerotic plaque tissue. After silencing of MYBL1, HUVECs were damaged, and their migration and proliferation abilities were weakened. Overexpression of MYBL1 significantly enhanced the migration and proliferation of HUVECs. MYBL1 knockdown induced abnormal autophagy in HUVEC cells, suggesting that MYBL1 was involved in the regulation of HUVECs through autophagy. Mechanistic studies showed that MYBL1 knockdown inhibited autophagosome and lysosomal fusion in HUVECs by inhibiting PLEKHM1, thereby exacerbating atherosclerosis. Furthermore, MYBL1 was found to repress lipid accumulation in HUVECs after oxLDL treatment. MYBL1 knockdown in HUVECs was involved in atherosclerosis by inhibiting PLEKHM1-induced autophagy, which provided a novel target of therapy for atherosclerosis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is essential for the type I interferon response against a variety of DNA pathogens. Upon emergence of cytosolic DNA, STING translocates from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi where STING activates the downstream kinase TBK1, then to lysosome through recycling endosomes (REs) for its degradation. Although the molecular machinery of STING activation is extensively studied and defined, the one underlying STING degradation and inactivation has not yet been fully elucidated. Here we show that STING is degraded by the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT)-driven microautophagy. Airyscan super-resolution microscopy and correlative light/electron microscopy suggest that STING-positive vesicles of an RE origin are directly encapsulated into Lamp1-positive compartments. Screening of mammalian Vps genes, the yeast homologues of which regulate Golgi-to-vacuole transport, shows that ESCRT proteins are essential for the STING encapsulation into Lamp1-positive compartments. Knockdown of Tsg101 and Vps4, components of ESCRT, results in the accumulation of STING vesicles in the cytosol, leading to the sustained type I interferon response. Knockdown of Tsg101 in human primary T cells leads to an increase the expression of interferon-stimulated genes. STING undergoes K63-linked ubiquitination at lysine 288 during its transit through the Golgi/REs, and this ubiquitination is required for STING degradation. Our results reveal a molecular mechanism that prevents hyperactivation of innate immune signalling, which operates at REs.© 2023. The Author(s).
Eukaryotic stress granules (SGs) are highly dynamic assemblies of untranslated mRNAs and proteins that form through liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) under cellular stress. SG formation and elimination process is a conserved cellular strategy to promote cell survival, although the precise regulation of this process is poorly understood. Here, we screened six E3 ubiquitin ligases present in SGs and identified TRIM21 (tripartite motif containing 21) as a central regulator of SG homeostasis that is highly enriched in SGs of cells under arsenite-induced oxidative stress. Knockdown of TRIM21 promotes SG formation whereas overexpression of TRIM21 inhibits the formation of physiological and pathological SGs associated with neurodegenerative diseases. TRIM21 catalyzes K63-linked ubiquitination of the SG core protein, G3BP1 (G3BP stress granule assembly factor 1), and G3BP1 ubiquitination can effectively inhibit LLPS, in vitro. Recent reports suggested the involvement of macroautophagy/autophagy, as a stress response pathway, in the regulation of SG homeostasis. We systematically investigated well-defined autophagy receptors and identified SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1) and CALCOCO2/NDP52 (calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2) as the primary receptors that directly interact with G3BP1 during arsenite-induced stress. Endogenous SQSTM1 and CALCOCO2 localize to the periphery of SGs under oxidative stress and mediate SG elimination, as single knockout of each receptor causes accumulation of physiological and pathological SGs. Collectively, our study broadens the understanding in the regulation of SG homeostasis by showing that TRIM21 and autophagy receptors modulate SG formation and elimination respectively, suggesting the possibility of clinical targeting of these molecules in therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; ALS: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; C9orf72: C9orf72-SMCR8 complex subunit; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; FTD: frontotemporal dementia; FUS: FUS RNA binding protein; G3BP1: G3BP stress granule assembly factor 1; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LLPS: liquid-liquid phase separation; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NES: nuclear export signal; OPTN: optineurin; RFP: red fluorescent protein; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SG: stress granule; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; TRIM21: tripartite motif containing 21; TRIM56: tripartite motif containing 56; UB: ubiquitin; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild-type.
Forage plays critical roles in milk performance of dairy. However, domestic high-quality forage such as alfalfa hay is far from being sufficient in China. Thus, more than 1 million tons of alfalfa hay were imported in China annually in recent years. At the same time, more than 10 million tons of corn stover are generated annually in China. Thus, taking full advantage of corn stover to meet the demand of forage and reduce dependence on imported alfalfa hay has been a strategic policy for the Chinese dairy industry. Changes in liver metabolism under different forage resources are not well known. Thus, the objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of different forage resources on liver metabolism using RNAseq and bioinformatics analyses.The results of this study showed that the cows fed a diet with corn stover (CS) as the main forage had lower milk yield, DMI, milk protein content and yield, milk fat yield, and lactose yield than cows fed a mixed forage (MF) diet (P <  0.01). KEGG analysis for differently expressed genes (DEG) in liver (81 up-regulated and 423 down-DEG, Padj ≤0.05) showed that pathways associated with glycan biosynthesis and metabolism and amino acid metabolism was inhibited by the CS diet. In addition, results from DAVID and ClueGO indicated that biological processes related to cell-cell adhesion, multicellular organism growth, and amino acid and protein metabolism also were downregulated by feeding CS. Co-expression network analysis indicated that FAM210A, SLC26A6, FBXW5, EIF6, ZSCAN10, FPGS, and ARMCX2 played critical roles in the network. Bioinformatics analysis showed that genes within the co-expression network were enriched to "pyruvate metabolic process", "complement activation, classical pathway", and "retrograde transport, endosome to Golgi".Results of the present study indicated that feeding a low-quality forage diet inhibits important biological functions of the liver at least in part due to a reduction in DMI. In addition, the results of the present study provide an insight into the metabolic response in the liver to different-quality forage resources. As such, the data can help develop favorable strategies to improve the utilization of corn stover in China.
Skipped: PubMed ID 10873832 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16936697 is a review article
Co-localization of the elements calcium, potassium, sodium and magnesium with sequestering organelles has been achieved by application of two microscopy techniques on the same cell. Organelles were first localized by laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCFM) using fluorescent organelle stains. The same cells were then analyzed for elemental distribution with ion microscopy. This approach has identified a perinuclear region of prominent total calcium concentration with the Golgi apparatus. Live cells were fluorescently stained with C6-NBD-ceramide for labeling the Golgi apparatus prior to cryogenic preparation and freeze-drying, and imaged with LSCFM for Golgi localization; identical cells were then analyzed with ion microscopy to image subcellular distributions of total calcium, potassium, sodium and magnesium. In three cell lines, LLC-PK1 porcine kidney epithelial cells, Swiss 3T3 mouse fibroblast cells and L5 rat myoblast cells, the Golgi regions contained significantly higher total calcium concentrations than any other region of the cell (as measured at the spatial resolution of ion microscopy of about 0.5 micron). Intracellular potassium, sodium and magnesium were homogeneously distributed throughout the cell and did not show this pattern. Measurements of depletion of calcium by exposure to calcium-free medium showed that the Golgi apparatus was substantially more resistant to calcium depletion than all other regions of these cells, but sequestered Ca2+ could be released from the Golgi by exposing the cells to calcium ionophore A23187. The Golgi apparatus appears to sequester about 5% of the total cell calcium in LLC-PK1 cells, about 2.5% in 3T3 cells and L5 cells.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a gene that, upon mutation, causes autosomal-dominant familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Yeast two-hybrid screening revealed that Snapin, a SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein-25) interacting protein, interacts with LRRK2. An in vitro kinase assay exhibited that Snapin is phosphorylated by LRRK2. A glutathione-S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay showed that LRRK2 may interact with Snapin via its Ras-of-complex (ROC) and N-terminal domains, with no significant difference on interaction of Snapin with LRRK2 wild type (WT) or its pathogenic mutants. Further analysis by mutation study revealed that Threonine 117 of Snapin is one of the sites phosphorylated by LRRK2. Furthermore, a Snapin T117D phosphomimetic mutant decreased its interaction with SNAP-25 in the GST pull-down assay. SNAP-25 is a component of the SNARE (Soluble NSF Attachment protein REceptor) complex and is critical for the exocytosis of synaptic vesicles. Incubation of rat brain lysate with recombinant Snapin T117D, but not WT, protein caused decreased interaction of synaptotagmin with the SNARE complex based on a co-immunoprecipitation assay. We further found that LRRK2-dependent phosphorylation of Snapin in the hippocampal neurons resulted in a decrease in the number of readily releasable vesicles and the extent of exocytotic release. Combined, these data suggest that LRRK2 may regulate neurotransmitter release via control of Snapin function by inhibitory phosphorylation.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301347
